                                     Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR00002421



            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT




                                        ON A

                                       GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF USD 27.75 MILLION


                                       TO THE

                      ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                        FOR A

                        JUSTICE SECTOR REFORM PROJECT



                                     June 28, 2012




Governance and Public Sector Unit
Afghanistan
South Asia Region




                                            
 
                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS



                        (Exchange Rate Effective June 28, 2012)



                             Currency Unit = Afghani (Afn)

                                 US$ 1.00 = AFN 51.70

                          FISCAL YEAR: March 20-March 21

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGO     Attorney General’s Office                MTR    Mid-Term Review
ARTF    Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust         NJP    National Justice Program
        Fund
CBR     Capacity Building for Results            NJSS   National Justice Sector
        Facility                                        Strategy
CSMD    Civil Services Management                PAD    Project Appraisal Document
        Directorate
CSRP    Civil Service Reform Project             PAR    Public Administration Reform
FM      Financial Management                     PARD   Public Administration Reform
                                                        Department
GoA  Government of the Islamic
     Republic of Afghanistan
HRMD Human Resource Management                   P&G    Pay and Grading
     Directorate
I-   Interim Afghanistan National                PDOs   Project Development
ANDS Development Strategy                               Objectives

IARCS   Independent Administrative               PSU    Project Support Unit
C       Reform and Civil Service
        Commission
IAB     Independent Appointments Board           PU     Project Unit
ICR     Implementation Completion and            PRR    Priority Reform and
        Results Report                                  Restructuring
IDA     International Development
        Association
ITA     International Technical Assistants       RIMU   Reform Implementation and
                                                        Management Unit
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation                POC    Project Oversight Committee
MCP     Management Capacity Program              SC     Supreme Court
MoJ     Ministry of Justice                      TA     Technical Assistance
MoF     Ministry of Finance




                                              
 
    Vice President:        Isabel M. Guerrero
    Country Director:      Robert Saum
    Sector Manager:        Antonius Verheijen,
    Project Team Leader:   Lubomira Beardsley
    ICR Team Leader:       Satyendra Prasad




                             
 
                                                          Afghanistan



                                           Justice Sector Reform Program

                                                          CONTENTS



Data Sheet

        A. Basic Information

        B. Key Dates

        C. Ratings Summary

        D. Sector and Theme Codes

        E. Bank Staff

        F. Results Framework Analysis

        G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

        H. Restructuring

        I. Disbursement Graph

    MAP



Contents
     
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .......................................................... 1 
2. Key factors affecting implementation and outcomes............................................................. 6 
3. Assessment Outcomes ......................................................................................................... 14 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .................................................................... 23 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................................ 24 
6. Lessons Learned................................................................................................................... 26 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners...................... 28 
Annex 1 Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 31 
Annex 2. Detailed Component Description ............................................................................. 32 
Annex 3: Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .................. 38 
Annex 4. List of Individuals Interviewed during ICR ............................................................. 40 



 


                                                                     
 
 


 

 
     
        A. Basic Information
                                                                                     Afghanistan Judicial 
Country:                       Afghanistan                Project Name: 
                                                                                     Reform Project 

Project ID:                    P107372                    L/C/TF Number(s):          TF?92160 

ICR Date:                      06/28/2012                 ICR Type:                  Core ICR 

Lending Instrument:            TAL                        Grantee:                   MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

Original Total 
                               USD 27.75M                 Disbursed Amount:          USD 17.71M 
Commitment: 

Revised Amount:                USD 20.75M                                             

Environmental Category: C 

Implementing Agencies:  

 Ministry of Justice  

 MoJ, AGO and Supreme Court  

Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:  

 


B. Key Dates
                                                                                           Revised / Actual 
            Process              Date               Process            Original Date 
                                                                                               Date(s) 

 Concept Review:                              Effectiveness:                                           

 Appraisal:                01/30/2008         Restructuring(s):                                        

 Approval:                 05/19/2008         Mid?term Review:                                         

                                              Closing:                 06/01/2017                06/01/2017 

 


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR 

 Outcomes:                                                Moderately Satisfactory 



                                                          i 
 
 


 Risk to Development Outcome:                          High 

 Bank Performance:                                     Moderately Satisfactory 

 Grantee Performance:                                  Moderately Unsatisfactory 

 
 




C.2  Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR) 

          Bank                       Ratings                     Borrower                       Ratings 

                            Moderately 
Quality at Entry:                                      Government:                    Moderately Satisfactory
                            Unsatisfactory 

                                                       Implementing                   Moderately 
Quality of Supervision:  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                       Agency/Agencies:               Unsatisfactory 

Overall Bank                                           Overall Borrower               Moderately 
                            Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                           Performance:                   Unsatisfactory 

 

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators

     Implementation                                        QAG Assessments (if 
                                     Indicators                                                 Rating  
       Performance                                                any) 

 Potential Problem Project 
                            Yes                        Quality at Entry (QEA): None 
at any time (Yes/No): 

 Problem Project at any                                Quality of Supervision 
                              Yes                                              None 
time (Yes/No):                                         (QSA): 

 DO rating before             Moderately 
                                                                                   
Closing/Inactive status:      Satisfactory 

 


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                         Original                   Actual 

Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)                                                   

 Law and justice                                                         100                        100 
 




 




                                                      ii 
 
 


                                                                                                       

Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)                                                  

 Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms                          33                       33 

 Legal institutions for a market economy                                   67                       67 

 


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                          At ICR                                   At Approval 

 Vice President:           Isabel M. Guerrero                        Praful C. Patel 

 Country Director:         Robert J. Saum                            Alastair J. McKechnie 

 Sector Manager:           Antonius Verheijen                        Anthony G. Toft 

 Project Team Leader:      Satyendra Prasad                          Lubomira Zimanova Beardsley 

 ICR Team Leader:          Satyendra Prasad                           

 ICR Primary Author:       Satyendra Prasad                           

 

 


F. Results Framework Analysis
                                                                                          

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

In line with the Afghan National Development Strategy and the National Justice Sector
Strategy, the project's development objective is to strengthen a centralized state justice
system and to increase access to justice for the Afghan people. The project's immediate
objective is to enhance the capacity of the justice sector institutions to deliver legal services.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority) 

N/A




                                                      iii 
 
 


 (a) PDO Indicator(s) 

 

                                                 Original Target                        Actual Value 
                                                                    Formally 
                                                  Values (from                          Achieved at 
    Indicator             Baseline Value                          Revised Target 
                                                    approval                           Completion or 
                                                                      Values 
                                                  documents)                            Target Years 

Indicator 1 :     An independent Council responsible for judges operational

                                              A short, and mid?
                                              term HR strategy 
                                              navigating the 
                                              transformation of 
                                              the 
Value  
                                              Court workforce; 
quantitative or   None                        The HRM                               NA 

Qualitative)                                  institutional system 
                                              more independent 
                                              and capable 
                                              (Judicial Council); 
                                              the reward system 
                                              for judges. 

Date achieved  05/17/2008                     12/30/2011                            12/30/2011 

Comments  
                  A High Judicial Council supported by the HR department is responsible for HRM. 
(incl. %          The Council is composed by the judges of the SC only. The SC has resisted reforms 
                  targeting HJC or judges. 
achievement)  

Indicator 2 :     Skills of sitting judges and prosecutors reviewed and gaps partially filled 

Value                                          Skills of legal 
                                              professionals and 
quantitative or   N/A                                                               Partially Achieved 
                                              other staff 
Qualitative)                                  increased 

Date achieved  05/17/2008                     12/30/2011                            12/30/2011 

Comments  

(incl. %          MOJ training complete; AGO and SC training still at proposal stage 

achievement)  

Indicator 3 :     Training policies and management capacity improved.

Value             N/A                         HRM capacity to                       Partially completed 
                                              organize and/or 


                                                    iv 
 
 


quantitative or                                 provide training in 
                                                justice institutions 
Qualitative)                                    improved 

Date achieved  05/17/2008                       12/30/2011                            12/30/2011 

Comments       Training assessment for MOJ staff partially completed.Training management unit is 
               operational.SC has made progress in implementing this activity. The AGO has began 
(incl. %  
               the preparation of training map and developing a database of skill and training 
achievement)   needs. 

Indicator 4 :       Legal libraries in MoJ, SC and AGO and their regional offices are operational 

                                                                                      28 provincial 
                                                 Central library in 
Value                                                                                 libraries and 3 
                                                MoJ and SC and 
                                                                                      central libraries 
                                                local libraries in 
quantitative or   N/A                                                                 established 20 
                                                courts (6), MoJ 
                                                                                      librarians hired 
Qualitative)                                    offices (6) and AGO 
                                                                                      100,000 books 
                                                offices operational
                                                                                      purchased 

Date achieved  05/17/2008                       12/30/2011                            12/30/2011 

Comments  

(incl. %            Libraries will become operational after training of librarians takes place 

achievement)  

                    International conference and local gathering of judges and prosecutors are 
Indicator 5 :  
                    organized 

Value                                                                                 2 local gatherings of 
                                                                                      Judges and 
quantitative or   No Baseline                   N/A                                   prosecutors. 1 
                                                                                      International/nation
Qualitative)                                                                          al conference. 

Date achieved  05/17/2008                       12/30/2011                            12/30/2011 

Comments  

(incl. %            Partially successful. National gathering of 350 prosecutors organized. 

achievement)  

                    Review of design of 28 courts and/or judge’s residences; 6 MoJ regional offices and 
Indicator 6 :  
                    3 AGO regional offices completed 

                                                The designs of at 
Value                                                                                 24 designs of courts 
                                                least 15 
                    No Baseline                                                       and offices 
                                                construction 
quantitative or                                                                       completed. Water 
                                                projects in the 
                                                                                      and power utilities 
                                                provinces prepared 

                                                       v 
 
 


Qualitative)                                 for implementation                  built for AGD HQ. 

Date achieved  05/17/2008                    12/30/2011                          12/30/2011 

Comments  
                  Implementation successful though no new construction project has been 
(incl. %  
                  implemented. 
achievement)  

Indicator 7 :     Five courts, MoJ and AGO offices repaired. 

Value  

quantitative or   No Baseline                N/A                                 N/A 

Qualitative)  

Date achieved  05/17/2008                    12/30/2011                          12/30/2011 

Comments  

(incl. %            

achievement)  

Indicator 8 :     Investment funds for covering maintenance costs of facilities and cars operational 

Value  
                                              Improved 
quantitative or   N/A                        maintenance of                      N/A 
                                             current assets 
Qualitative)  

Date achieved  05/17/2008                    12/30/2011                          12/30/2011 

Comments  
                  23 court houses,offices refurbished.Investment funds for maintenance of facilities 
(incl. %          spent in the SC,AGO.Investment funds for cars were used to secure their 
                  titles;maintenance costs been financed by the regular budget 
achievement)  

Indicator 9 :     Vehicles delivered to users and used

Value                                        Mobility and safety 
                                                                                 About 200 vehicles 
                                             of legal 
quantitative or   N/A                                                            procured and 
                                             professionals and 
                                                                                 distributed 
Qualitative)                                 staff (168 vehicles).

Date achieved  05/17/2008                    12/30/2011                          12/30/2011 

Comments  
                  40 courts equipped and furnished 
(incl. %  



                                                    vi 
 
 


achievement)  

Indicator 10 :   40 courts equipped and furnished 

Value                                       About 40 
                                            offices/courts 
quantitative or   No Baseline                                                  Completed 
                                            equipped/furnish?
Qualitative)                                ed. 

Date achieved  05/17/2008                   12/30/2011                         12/30/2011 

Comments  

(incl. %           

achievement)  

Indicator 11 :   Asset management capacity in the SC, MoJ and AGO strengthened 

                                            Construction 
                                            priorities clear. 
Value                                       Construction 
                                            projects prioritized 
quantitative or   No Baseline               and coordinated.                   NA 
                                            Courts built in 
Qualitative)                                compliance with 
                                            security and other 
                                            standards. 

Date achieved  05/17/2008                   12/30/2011                         12/30/2011 

Comments  

(incl. %         Court Design Standards completed. Capital investment plan cancelled. 

achievement)  

Indicator 12 :   ICT assessments in the SC, MoJ and AGO completed. 

Value  
                                            Understanding of IT 
                  IT assessment reports 
quantitative or                             needs in the Justice               NA 
                  prepared by donors. 
                                            sector. 
Qualitative)  

Date achieved  05/17/2008                   12/30/2011                         12/30/2011 

Comments  

(incl. %         Partially successful. IT assessment for the AGO and MoJ under preparation. 

achievement)  

Indicator 13 :   Emergency hardware installed in HQs.


                                                 vii 
 
 


Value  
                                               HQs of all JIs meet 
                  IT assessment reports 
quantitative or                                their urgent IT                   NA 
                  prepared by donors. 
                                               needs 
Qualitative)  

Date achieved  05/17/2008                      12/30/2011                        12/30/2011 

Comments  
                    The AGO and MOJ emergency packages procured and delivered by July 2009; SC 
(incl. %  
                    package procured & delivered in October 2009. 
achievement)  

Indicator 14 :   Networks in MoJ and AGO installed 

Value                                                                            IT assessment 
                                               Networks in MoJ                   reports prepared by 
quantitative or   N/A                                               
                                               and AGO installed                 donors and Bank 
Qualitative)                                                                     consultant. 

Date achieved  05/17/2008                      12/30/2011                        12/30/2011 

Comments  

(incl. %            MoJ completed. AGO will install its network upon completion of the assessment. 

achievement)  

Indicator 15 :   Baseline assessment and methodology for M&E of legal aid developed. 

                                              A basic reporting 
                                              system for 
                                              measuring costs 
                                              and quality of legal 
Value                                         aid provided to 
                    NGO and donor reports on  prison 
quantitative or                                                                  N/A 
                    delivery of legal aid. 
                                               population 
Qualitative)                                   developed and 
                                               relevant 

                                               data collected and 
                                               made accessible 

Date achieved  05/17/2008                      12/30/2011                        12/30/2011 

Comments  
                    Under preparation ( M&E system will be introduced based on the evaluation report 
(incl. %  
                    in cooperation with ILF) 
achievement)  

Indicator 16 :   Legal aid offices operational in at least 5 provinces 


                                                    viii 
 
 


Value  
                                                5 legal aid                           6 legal aid offices 
quantitative or   No Baseline                   provincial offices                    operational; 20 
                                                operational                           lawyers hired. 
Qualitative)  

Date achieved  05/17/2008                       12/30/2011                            12/30/2011 

Comments  

(incl. %            Offices operational. MOJ subcontracting ILF’s 13 offices for delivery of legal aid. 

achievement)  

Indicator 17 :   Lawyers and paralegals trained 

Value                                           Public defenders' 
                                                and paralegals’ 
quantitative or   No Baseline                   legal skill and                       N/A 
                                                quality of service 
Qualitative)                                    improved 

Date achieved  05/17/2008                       12/30/2011                            12/30/2011 

Comments  

(incl. %            ILF to train legal aid providers and paralegals by November 2011. 

achievement)  

Indicator 18 :   Number of cases resolved with/by legal aid increased. 

Value  
                    MoJ survey of legal         Legal aid offices 
quantitative or                                                                       N/A 
                    needs/priorities            operational 
Qualitative)  

Date achieved  05/17/2008                       12/30/2011                            12/30/2011 

Comments  

(incl. %            Statistics unavailable. 

achievement)  

Indicator 19 :   Legal information disseminated and broadcasted

                                                Three provincial 
Value                                           legal outreach 
                  MOJ reports on legal 
                                                offices in Kunduz, 
                  outreach activities. MOJ 
quantitative or                                 Nangnhar and                          N/A 
                  survey of legal 
Qualitative)      needs/priorities.             Balkh and the MOJ 
                                                Media Support Unit 
                                                operational; About 

                                                      ix 
 
 


                                             40 materials 
                                             prepared and 

                                             disseminated; 5 
                                             TV/radio shows 

Date achieved  05/17/2008                    12/30/2011                          12/30/2011 

Comments  

(incl. %           Offices operational, materials developed and under review. 

achievement)  

                   Communities and their leaders educated in substance and in accessing legal 
Indicator 20 :  
                   information. 

Value  

quantitative or   N/A                        NA                                  N/A 

Qualitative)  

Date achieved  05/17/2008                    12/30/2011                          12/30/2011 

Comments  

(incl. %           Has not been implemented. 

achievement)  

Indicator 21 :   Central and provincial legal libraries operational

Value  

quantitative or   N/A                        N/A                                 N/A 

Qualitative)  

Date achieved  05/17/2008                    12/30/2011                          12/30/2011 

Comments  

(incl. %             

achievement)  

 
 




                                                    x 
 
 


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s) 

 

                                                    Original Target                           Actual Value 
                                                                       Formally 
                                                     Values (from                             Achieved at 
      Indicator            Baseline Value                            Revised Target 
                                                       approval                              Completion or 
                                                                         Values 
                                                     documents)                               Target Years 

                    Agreement on functions and composition for Council of Judges reached and action 
Indicator 1 :  
                    plan for its creation prepared. 

Value  

(quantitative       N/A                           NA                                      N/A 

or Qualitative)  

Date achieved  05/17/2008                         12/30/2011                              12/30/2011 

Comments  

(incl. %            Has not been achieved. 

achievement)  

 
 




G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
 

              Date ISR                                                                   Actual Disbursements
    No.                               DO                                IP 
              Archived                                                                      (USD millions) 

     1       12/31/2008           Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                         0.40 

     2       06/29/2009     Moderately Satisfactory                Satisfactory                         0.41 

     3       12/30/2009     Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                   1.35 

     4       11/23/2010  Moderately Unsatisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory                            6.16

     5       06/26/2011     Moderately Satisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                   9.71 

 

 


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable 


                                                        xi 
 
 


 

 

I. Disbursement Profile




                          xii 
 
 



1.            Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1.          Context at Appraisal

 By 2002, years of conflict had eroded Afghanistan’s public sector and its justice institutions.
Although an administrative structure still existed in many parts of the country, only few
senior staff remained in Kabul to manage relations with the provinces. Decades of neglect
meant that delivery of services had virtually collapsed by this time.

In the last decade, Afghanistan has been re-building the state, improving the overall
institutional infrastructure, and improving the functionality of the state and its bodies. The
international community has provided significant assistance during the process of recovery.

However, recovery in the justice sector has been critically lagging. Informal and formal
institutions have coexisted through numerous changes in regime and periods of conflict, with
varying levels of strength and stability. The impact on state justice sector institutions of the
Taliban Government was particularly adverse. The challenges in rebuilding the sector have
been particularly complex given the need to reconcile traditional and customary Afghan law,
Sharia law, and the state legal systems.

In addition, citizens themselves have little confidence in the formal justice institutions and
regard them as slow, ineffective and often corrupt1. Although access to courts and legal
assistance are rights enshrined in the Afghan constitution, for the majority of Afghans,
particularly women, these rights are hardly exercised. High illiteracy rate, particularly among
the 85% of the population living in rural areas means that public awareness of legal rights is
very low. Legal information is very difficult to access, and the majority of people cannot
afford court fees or the transportation costs for attending court.

Prevailing cultural practices also often prohibit women especially from seeking access to
formal legal institutions. Reports suggest that corruption remains rife, particularly in the
institutions associated with delivering security and justice2. While the Constitution guarantees
legal representation and legal aid, the majority of citizens are unaware of their rights, and the
state is ill-equipped to inform citizens of their rights and reach. Citizens, therefore, tend to
turn to informal and local institutions (shuras, jirgas, maliks) for legal matters, and the
legitimacy of state institutions remains low.

As with other public institutions in Afghanistan, the institutional structures lack the human,
financial and physical resources to perform at the desired level. Staff in the justice sector
often lack access to the basic facilities, transportation, legal texts and office space required to
fulfil their roles. Donor interest to support institution building and reforms in this complex
sector also lagged behind other areas.
                                                            
1
  Transparency International: http://www.transparency.org/policy_research/surveys_indices/cpi/2010. In 2005, Afghanistan
ranked 117 out of 159 countries covered in Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index; a ranking that
deteriorated further in subsequent years to 176 out of 178 countries.
2
  A 2010 UNODC survey shows that judicial and criminal justice officials were those most frequently reported to have taken
a bribe.

                                                               1 
 
 


1.2.   International Assistance and Government’s Justice Agenda

Various activities have been supported to strengthen the Justice Sector by the international
community. However, this has not always been delivered in a coherent and coordinated
manner. In the last few years a significant number of judges (at different levels), prosecutors,
Hoqooq officers and other officials have received legal training and been given opportunities
to improve their legal and general knowledge. Judicial facilities have been renovated and
built in many areas, and work has been undertaken to improve basic case management
systems and develop legal practices. The US Government through USAID has supported the
improvement and reform of the court administration and case management, as well as legal
drafting. Italy, Germany and again the US have supported legal education and training,
especially for judges and prosecutors, and other judicial officials. The UN Office on Drugs
and Crime (UNODC) has provided training on juvenile justice, and European Commission
has supported implementation of the Priority Reform and Restructuring Programme (PRR)
and other basic HRM reforms across the JI institutions. There were also a number of small
scale and largely ad hoc donor financed initiatives to support the office management,
computers and database management improvement. While these activities have contributed to
improving the quality and quantity of services delivered, the efforts have been undertaken on
a piecemeal basis, leading to additional burden upon the Justice Institutions (JI) to coordinate
these activities, and limited the degree to which synergies can be sought between these
numerous interventions. The NPP process is a mechanism to improve coordination across the
sector institutions and across donors through the development of an overall strategy and
action plan; however this process has been lagging and is yet to be finalised.

1.3.   Rationale for Bank Involvement in the Justice Sector

A well-functioning justice sector is necessary for the rebuilding of the state, and above all in
order to strengthen the trust of the population in state institutions, and the ability of the state
to provide justice and security. The central message of the 2011 World Development Report
on ‘Conflict, Security and Development’, “is that strengthening legitimate institutions and
governance to provide citizen security, justice and jobs is crucial to breaking the cycle of
violence? (2011, 2). The Bank had already supported programs in related areas, such as
public administration, and state reform through sector programs. An engagement in the
justice sector could be seen as complimentary to these efforts, and one that was critical to the
overall stability of the state.

Also significant was the overall reconstruction environment in Afghanistan. The project was
funded by the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF) which is managed by the
Bank. The Bank had been subject to sustained requests by ARTF donors to take the lead on
operational engagement in the justice sector because it was better placed to improve
coherence in external support to the sector and viewed as being more capable of
demonstrating quick impacts especially in the lead up to the first Presidential and
Parliamentary elections. The first justice sector intervention was clearly developed within this
reconstruction context.



                                                2 
 
 


1.4.   Original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Indicators

The PDO for the project was ‘to strengthen the centralised state justice system in Afghanistan
and increase access to justice for the Afghan people’.

The key indicators for progress in meeting the PDO included the following:

1) The number of improved justice facilities;

2) The number of people who receive legal services;

3) The number of qualified and properly trained justice professionals;

4) The number of legal professionals with increased access to adequate legal reference
   materials;

5) The extent of legal advice and representation provided by the state’s legal aid programme;

6) The number of community leaders and other Afghan people reached through the legal
   awareness initiative;

7) Improved capacity of legal institutions to manage their human resources and assets, and

8) Progress in human resource reforms to lay the foundation for increasing salaries.



1.5.    Project Revision/Restructuring

The project was extended in December 2009 when the Government of Afghanistan requested
an extension of the closing date by 1.5 years. Through a further extension in June 2011, the
project was extended for a further 6 month to December 2011. At that point, US $7 million of
the outstanding grant amount was also cancelled for the works that were assessed as unlikely
to be completed within the project timeframe, and a new implementation schedule was
developed in line with an Action Plan developed by the Government of Afghanistan. The
challenges of this period included a deteriorating security environment and the subsequent
difficulty in attracting the interest of international experts and firms for project activities, as
well as the withdrawal of assistance of some international partners.

However, the original project development objective as well as the results/indicators, the
components, safeguards, institutional arrangements, financial or procurement related aspects
of the project remained unchanged (Tier II Restructuring).

The initial extension of project had been expected from the time that the original project was
developed; the project closing date was scheduled to be extended in line with the closing date
of the ARTF. Although the project was designed as a two year program, it was initially
intended to be closed on December 30, 2009. This shortened timeframe for the project was
selected in order to align the project with the closing date of the parent ARTF (TF 50576) of
June 30, 2010. A 6 month extension was anticipated from the outset. When the extension was

                                                3 
 
 


eventually granted, however, it was extended for an additional 18 months, bringing the
project life to 3 years.

 The subsequent extension undertaken in June 2011 was intended to provide an additional 6
months to complete on-going activities. The June 2011 ISR recognised that three years was
too ambitious a timeframe for the execution of the project. It also allowed more time to the
team to bridge the gap between the current operation and the follow on project.

1.6.      Project Beneficiaries

The main beneficiary of the project was expected to be the Government of Afghanistan
through its three justice institutions (JIs): the Ministry of Justice (MoJ), Supreme Court (SC)
and the Attorney General’s Office (AGO).

These institutions were expected to benefit through increased capacity to deliver their
services. In particular, MoJ was concerned with achieving better court administration and
reducing the back-log of legal cases.

In addition, communities were expected to benefit from the project, most directly through its
second component, ‘Empowering the People’. Citizens and legal professionals in a few
targeted provinces were to benefit from legal libraries, easier and better access to legal
information, and better representation before the courts.

1.7. Original Components (as approved in the Original Proposal and Restructured
Project)

The Project was originally planned to focus on three components: Enhancing Capacity of the
Justice Sector; Empowering the People, and Strengthening Implementation Capacity.
(i)      Enhancing Capacity of Justice Sector (US$23.6 million)

The objective of the component was to strengthen the institutional operational capacity of the
justice institutions through targeting of judges, prosecutors and other justice officials in
Afghanistan focussing on (a) human capital; (b) physical infrastructure; and (c) information
and communication technology.

(a)      Human Capital.

         i) Creation of independent decision-making bodies responsible for personnel
              management
         ii) Review of the selection and appointment policies and regulations for judges and
              prosecutors.
         iii) Evaluation of the skills of “sitting? judges and prosecutors. The purpose of the
              evaluation is to design and implement a requalification program.
         iv) Implementation of the second phase of the Priority Reform and Restructuring
              (PRR) program which the SC and the AGO began in 2008.

      Strengthening training management capacity

                                               4 
 
 


        v) Providing training
        vi) Creating legal libraries
        vii) Dissemination of Laws

(b)    Physical Infrastructure. The Government of Afghanistan was expected to develop a
Capital Investment Plan (CIP), which would provide a comprehensive listing of all the
buildings that were to be renovated and/or built. This included court design standards;
designs for constructions projects (e.g HQ of MoJ and SC); and rehabilitation and
construction of offices and courts; procurement of cars and equipment

(c)    Information and Communication Technology. Under this sub-component the project
supported the development of ICT in the beneficiary institutions, including ICT assessments
in MOJ and AGO.

(ii)    Empowering People (US$2.4 million)

The objective of this sub-component was to empower the Afghan people through legal aid
and education. In order to be better managed the component was broken into two sub-
components: (a) Legal Aid and (b) Legal Awareness.

(a)    Legal Aid. Under this sub-component the creation and financing of Legal Aid offices
in the selected provinces took place. The network of Legal Aid Offices was not only to
provide legal advice and representation, if required, but also to collect data information on the
services provided to the public. This was planned as a pilot activity for Phase 1, which would
be continued and expanded in Phase 2 if successful.

(b)      Legal Awareness. Legal awareness was supposed to provide information to
communities regarding their legal rights and obligations under the civil, commercial and
criminal law. The focus here was three pilot provinces and a media office in Kabul. The
activities were (i) the creation and staffing of a small office of two to four people which will
be supported by local consultants (legal professionals); (ii) organizing initial consultations
with local community leaders and legal professionals to identify existing legal awareness
initiatives and to define the priority themes for the trust-building and training activities; and
(iii) developing trust-building and training materials (both material which had been
developed under existing projects, as well as new materials).

(iii)   Strengthening Implementation Capacity (US$1.75 mil.)

The objective of the third component was to build implementation capacity within the justice
institutions (MoJ, SC and AGO), so they would, in time, be able to implement reforms and
other activities without as much reliance on international support.

1.8.    Revised Components

The two extensions to the project life did not involve any change to either the PDO or project
components. The final extension also involved the cancellation of the some of the outstanding
grant amount (total USD 7 million). The grant cancellation affected a number of procurement

                                               5 
 
 


packages across the project components that were unlikely to be implemented within the
remaining timeframe, such as the HR reform for judges and Capital Investment Plan.


2. Key factors affecting implementation and outcomes


2.1. Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project identified reasonable goals and targets at the design stage, but the ambition
to disburse US$27.5 million within a short two-year time frame was unrealistic. It is
clear that the project design overestimated the available capacity in the implementing
agencies, as well as the time it would take to source capacity (and the availability of such
staff) from outside. Consequently, the design underestimated the time required to implement
the project. For example, the original project envisaged that the Project Support Unit (PSU)
would be established by November 2008 (within three months of implementation), whereas
in practice it took more than a year to reach a basic level of capacity.

The task team were under intense pressure to deliver this project on an emergency basis, and
to move forward without a project concept note (PCN). A concept note may have presented
the opportunity to evaluate the feasibility of the proposal and the timeframes, and gain
feedback from peers and others. The Bank was responding to the demands of donors for an
emergency intervention in this sector, and it was seen as imperative to begin the project well
in advance of the national elections. The political context placed the task team in a difficult
position. The trend of slow-starting implementation, however, was evident from the
experiences in other ARTF projects that engaged in new sectors. A longer time frame for
implementation than the initial two years should have been allowed for, especially given that
the project had a significant infrastructure component.

The project appraisal document (PAD) contained a brief but sound assessment of the social
context, with an appropriate recognition of the complexity of the Afghan legal sector. Given
the paucity of data in the sector and limited experience in the sector even by other donors, the
project had little to draw upon but demonstrated a strong understanding of the available
information. A major and complex challenge in the effort to build the Afghan legal system is
the need to reconcile state, customary and sharia law (and regulations), in order to create a
system that is compatible with the Islamic legal standards, respectful of human rights and
appreciative of Afghan legal traditions. The quality of analysis of the justice sector was high,
outlining the major constraints to service delivery in the sector. Due to the project’s focus on
the ‘centralised institutions’, the document does not discuss in detail informal justice service
delivery, such as through jirgas, shuras and maliks. While a brief comparative discussion on
the informal institutions that citizens turn to for justice services may have added depth to the
analysis, the particular focus of the project and the paucity of data available means this would
certainly have been a challenging task under the short preparation timeline. A brief factual
description of the three JI is followed by a general discussion of ‘Human Capital’, ‘Physical
Infrastructure and ICT’, and ‘Access to Justice and Legal Awareness’, demonstrating sound
research into the formal sector context and identifying relevant challenges. The project

                                               6 
 
 


document demonstrated clear recognition of and coherence with the broader National Justice
Sector Strategy, and the objectives selected for the project reinforce the Government’s stated
goals.

Bilateral donors have largely focused on legal education and improvement of the professional
competencies of judges, mainly in the narrow area of human rights. The Bank’s intervention
went beyond this, by supporting the improvement of infrastructure, legal awareness and
provision of assistance to the users of the justice system (sector) though the legal aid offices.
The project supported the Government’s obligation to provide appropriate legal
representation to those who could not afford professional legal assistance/representation, and
sought to connect both donors and the three JIs together. The project can therefore be
described as the first attempt to create a program of linked interventions across the justice
sector.

Employing the ARTF as the funding mechanism contributed to the coherence and
harmonisation that this approach could offer. The JIs themselves showed an appreciation
for this element of the project design, stating that it was valuable to have a project that linked
the JIs together. This approach ensured that key ARTF donors took a greater interest in the
project and undertook specific measures to coordinate their support. This element of
increased cooperation between donors reflected a step change in donor behaviour in this
sector.

Focusing on three clearly defined components: 1) Enhancing Capacity of Justice Sector
Institutions; 2) Empowering the People and 3) Strengthening Implementation Capacity
was an appropriate design in order to maintain a focussed approach. The first and
second components have three and two sub-components, respectively. The aim of structuring
the project in this manner was to facilitate more effective management of these complex
activities, and the simplicity of the component structure contributed to this.

The Project’s governance mechanism was well designed. Interactions between
counterparts and project team in the development stages of the project were frequent,
however it seems that certain elements of the project design, such as HR reform, were still
either poorly understood or weakly supported by the implementing agencies, as is often the
case in other sectors in Afghanistan. Counterparts to the project have indicated more
discussion could have been undertaken to ensure all parts of the project were understood and
agreed, which may be due to the highly concentrated timeline of the project preparation. As a
result certain elements, such as the joint Centre for Excellence that was planned under the
project, could not be implemented and were eventually cancelled.

The risk assessment undertaken through the ORAF at the preparation phase was
adequate. It is worth noting that the risk assessment framework rightly cited the risk to
implementation of the reforms, such as in HR, as high. There was little appetite to implement
this part of the project. The mitigating measures noted against this risk, however, were too
optimistic, by suggesting that packaging tangible activities such as infrastructure
development with these more complex reforms under the same project might incentivise


                                                7 
 
 


support for the whole package. Without any financial link between the implementation of one
set of activities and another, it is evident that the design allowed for more complex activities
such as HR reforms to be sidelined by the implementing agencies, in favour of the ‘quick
impact’ and ‘high visibility’ activities such as the procurement of vehicles and construction.

Noteworthy also is that the assessment of risk to the project due to Institutional Capacity was
only rated as substantial rather than high. It is clear in retrospect that this was an
underestimation of the risk, since capacity constraints meant that results were slower than
hoped for over the initial two year timeframe for the project. The related risk of weak
capacity in implementation of Bank procurement and FM processes, however, was
recognised as high. The project noted that the ARDS would be a source of assistance to the
PSU and PUs until capacity within the institutions was developed, and indeed, while there
were delays to these processes, the ARDS did provide a critical source of procurement
assistance for the initial years of the project.

The project was successful in linking the project and its outcomes to other related
projects at the design stage. The link to the now closed Civil Service Reform (IDA H-2970)
was especially relevant. Through the CSRP, human resources departments were established
and the implementation of pay and grading reforms was initiated in justice institutions. The
CSRP activities both reinforced and gained momentum from activities under JSRP, for
example through the establishment of Reform Implementation Management Units (RIMUs).

In addition the project sought complementary support via the Management Capacity Program
(MCP). The MCP program supported the recruitment of 2 senior staff at enhanced rates of
pay. The JI’s inability to utilize the MCP program to recruit larger numbers of qualified
Afghans into technical and managerial positions reflected continuing weaknesses in its HR
capabilities.

Therefore, the design stage would have benefitted from closer analysis of the stated risks to
the project, a clearer understanding of available implementation capacity, and accounted for
this through stronger mitigation measures and a longer timeframe over which to show results.

While the overall risk to the project was identified as Substantial, it is clear that the
risks to the project were in fact High, particularly given the relative inexperience of both
the Bank in this sector in Afghanistan, and the JIs in working with the Bank. Consequently,
the design could have requested stronger supervision arrangements especially on the
operational side, which may have enabled the obstacles to implementation to have been
addressed earlier in project execution.

2.2. Implementation

Despite difficulties of the context that have been noted, significant progress has been
made to improve the delivery of legal aid services, improve legal awareness, build
capacity of personnel, address some of the core infrastructure needs and establish a
coordinated engagement in the sector over the life of the project. The project
implementation was slower than anticipated at the outset, but did eventually lead to the

                                               8 
 
 


delivery of many tangible outputs in the sector. Given the recognised challenges of operating
in this sector, and the critical importance of the sector (WDR 2011), the incremental pace of
change was recognised as understandable and worthy of a continued engagement, both
through the extension of the implementation period to a total of 3.5 years, and through a
follow up engagement.

Financial disbursement was very low, particularly in the first year of implementation.
Between effectiveness and the MTR in October 2009, only US$0.26 million had been
disbursed, with an additional US$6 million committed to contracts and US$2 million under
negotiation. While actual disbursement was very low, the team had at this point developed
sufficient capacity to negotiate and finalise contracts and implement the project components.
By end June 2011, disbursement levels had risen to 48% of the original grant amount, and at
the close of the project (December 2011), over US$ 18.2 million was disbursed or committed.
It is clear that the low disbursement rates are partly due to the fairly ambitious timeframe for
the undertaking. Regular reviews have noted problems with the procurement capacity,
recruitment of PSU staff and lack of direct engagement of the JIs (MoJ, SC and AGO). The
project document’s capacity assessments noted that the JIs had experience only in
procurement of small items. The project team was also initially unfamiliar with Bank
procurement methods, but benefitted from training delivered by the Bank team in this regard.
The project implementation partners also benefitted from cooperation and assistance from the
MOE’s ARDS unit in completing larger contracts.

Over most of the lifetime of the project the overall rating of the project was ‘moderately
unsatisfactory’. The elections, held in August 2009, led to a slow-down in implementation as
counterparts shifted and a new Minister arrived in MoJ. This rating improved in 2010 after
the PSU became operational, and once counterparts became more familiar with the project
and Bank procedures.

Cooperation between JIs:

While bringing the JIs together under one project generated benefits in coordination,
cooperation between the JIs was often weak. The Project Units and JIs were slow
implementing the project activities initially due to the unfamiliarity of World Bank processes,
but subsequently also faced problems in generating the requisite commitment to operational
processes across all three institutions at the same time. Coordination was needed to finalise
TORs, set bid opening dates and establish review committees, which did result in some
delays to implementation. While the project team should be recognised for linking the three
institutions together in a cooperative and coordinated manner, this also created challenges.
However, supervision and support from the Bank team meant that the adverse impacts on the
project were limited. While there were issues at the operational level, the POC, comprising
the Chief Justice, Minister of Justice, and the Attorney General, also met regularly through
the life of the project, demonstrating a significant high level commitment to the project
objectives. After the second project extension, the decision to have the POC receive monthly
updates on progress against the specified Action Plan was a catalyst for JI-led activity on the
project. Technical, procurement and financial management capacity developed slowly across

                                               9 
 
 


the three institutions throughout the life of the project, but remained moderately
unsatisfactory in the final ISR of the project.

PSU Staffing and Capacity

Delays in the appointment of PSU/PU staff were a significant cause of the initial delays
to project implementation. It was more than 10 months into the project before the three
coordinators for the JIs were in place, and delays in finding appropriate management staff
and office space were noted in the ISR of late 2010: at this point, the project implementation
capacity component was rated highly unsatisfactory. The PSU Director that was hired early
on in the project did not perform satisfactorily, and the search for a replacement was not
effective, due in large part to the lack of strong candidates in the market. An existing
member of the team was selected to move into the role, and has been able to learn quickly
and provide good leadership to the team. Once in place, the heads of the PUs and PSU
Director coordinated well with the ARDS and POC to move the project forward, and in
subsequent reviews the rating for this component jumped to moderately satisfactory. It is
important to note that the Project Oversight Committee (POC) was established and became
operational quickly after project approval. It was charged with managing the project in the
absence of the PSU, but capacity to initiate recruitment processes compliant with Bank
policies was weak in the JIs, and both procurement and recruitment stalled in the first year of
the project. The AGO also underwent significant leadership changes in the early stages of the
project, resulting in a lack of clarity regarding the focal point and responsibilities of the
institution under the project.

Low capacity in the JIs has been a key constraint in the project, however there was some
flexibility in the design of the project and the outcome indicators were modest, demonstrating
an understanding of these limitations. The JI counterparts admit that their inexperience of
Bank processes and requirements initially slowed the implementation, but this has improved
significantly over the course of the project. As capacity has improved, so has the relationship
and the cooperation between the Bank team and the JIs, and the results that the project can
demonstrate. To this end, the project met its objectives of laying the foundation for a more
ambitious follow-on engagement, as these three years of mutual learning have developed a
strong working relationship and implementation capacity that did not previously exist.

TA and Supervision

The limited capacity of counterpart institutions added additional requirements for the Bank’s
implementation support. Given the complexity of the project, the inexperience of the
counterparts and the fragility of the context, Bank supported efforts could have been
strengthened at the initial stages of the project. While the team worked well with the available
resources, the presence of a broader team to engage on technical issues such as infrastructure
and IT could have further strengthened the supervision team. However, there are notable
constraints to the size of supervision teams in Afghanistan which must also be acknowledged,
including budget limitations, a lack of qualified, available consultants as well as limitations
on movement, security restrictions and housing space for visiting missions.


                                              10 
 
 


Exogenous and Security Constraints

Through the duration of the project the security situation in Afghanistan was deteriorating.
The MOJ itself was a target of some attacks (one of which resulted in over a dozen fatalities),
and the situation in the provinces was also deteriorating. However, despite these setbacks,
many of the targeted results have been achieved. The project was also successful in reaching
out to citizens in the provinces, through the establishment of legal libraries, improvements to
court buildings and the provision of professional legal aid.

Project implementation suffered again after the Mid-term Review (MTR) in October 2009, as
elections in Afghanistan (August 2009) led to changes in the leadership of the JIs. In this
period, disbursement remained slow and the project rating fell from Moderately Satisfactory
to Moderately Unsatisfactory. However, this rating rebounded again following the
completion of the elections.

2.3. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): Design, Implementation and Utilisation

The results framework given the short 2 year life of the project was appropriate and it
focused on specific outputs. However, the framework was weak in capturing progress of its
more qualitative components, such as access to justice. The target values for such indicators
were broadly defined. Insufficient capacity hindered the Project from identifying and
capturing more nuanced outcomes such as service improvements arising from training and
capacity building investments. Baseline data collection was meant to take place under the
project, but was not executed- due in part to the scope of the task and the low capacity to
source and manage such a large consultancy, and also due to the limited availability of
consultants for such work in Afghanistan.

Activities relating to infrastructure were monitored much better. It was less clear whether the
improvements to infrastructure had a subsequent impact on improving access to and the
delivery of services. However, improvements in physical and ICT infrastructure have
provided an important platform for improved legal outreach in Phase 2 of the project.

Moreover, the M&E framework was weak with respect to access to justice elements. The
indicators capturing access to justice such as “Number of cases resolved with/by legal aid?
and “Communities and their leaders educated in substance and in accessing legal
information? were not maintained over the project life. According to the last ISR from June
2011, progress on these indicators was not recorded.

Learning from this experience, the follow-on project has instituted clearer and smarter targets
that are in large part supported by baseline information. Critically, it also provides support to
the JIs to develop their monitoring and evaluation capabilities during the initial phase of the
project.

2.4. Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Despite poor public perceptions of corruption levels in JI noted above, no such
irregularities have been noted in the project. While capacity and internal audit

                                               11 
 
 


arrangements could have been strengthened, supervision and project management
arrangements have proven robust.

The project operated under the steadily improving Project Financial Management reforms
under implementation by the Government of Afghanistan with World Bank assistance. Under
these reforms, proper records of grants received and disbursements through the designated
account were maintained by the Ministry of Finance, Special Disbursement Unit (SDU)
which was initially manual, and later migrated to Afghanistan Financial Management
Information System (AFMIS). The funds flow to the project was timely.

Proper records of eligible expenditures for various components and activities were
maintained by the implementing agencies – Ministry of Justice, Supreme Court and the
Attorney General’s Office through a dedicated project support unit (PSU). The internal
controls were adequate; however the internal audit arrangements were not satisfactory under
the project. Regular IFRs (Interim Financial Reports) in the agreed format were submitted
during the life of the project.

Annual audited financial statements were submitted regularly though there was delay in the
first year of project audit. The audit opinion of the Control and Audit Office of Afghanistan
was unqualified (clean) for all the three years. The audit observations for prior years have
been resolved. There were unsubstantiated expenditures of US$37,961 reported in the
SY1389 audit report; responses to the audit observations are awaited.

The Project closed in December 2011 and there is a grace period up to June 30, 2012. The
status of project disbursements up to June 28, 2012 is detailed below. This includes all
payments under the grant and no further payments are envisaged.


       Components                                          Disbursements
                                                           (in eq USD)
       1 - Enhancing Capacity of Justice Sector
       Institutions                             13,822,311


       2 - Empowering People                               2,546,944


       3 - Strengthening Implementation Capacity           1,785,979


       SUB TOTAL                                           18,155,234


       Less: Return of funds from provinces                (116,256)


       TOTAL                                               18,038,977


                                             12 
 
 




2.5. Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The project has been successful in establishing an implementation structure and
generating the necessary government interest to prepare a second phase. The project
was designed from the outset with the intention of ‘preparing a foundation for a subsequent
more robust and longer term ARTF-supported project (Phase 2)’. The development of the
Phase 2 project has been undertaken in close collaboration with the JIs and the project was
approved by the Management Committee of the ARTF in May. The decision to design this as
two projects rather than to seek additional financing for Phase 1 was largely driven by the
step change in scale of ambition and objectives of the second phase. The implementation
structures of Phase 1 have been sustained through a Project Preparation Grant (PPG) in order
to avoid delays in making the project operational, and in order to retain the capacity and
knowledge built under the first project.

It is evident that the second phase project will benefit from the well staffed PSU and PUs as
well as the positive relationship with the JIs established during the first phase. The JIs have
also demonstrated increased capacity to engage with the Bank on project development, and
expressed a strong commitment to the improved implementation of a second phase. It is clear
that the lessons of the Phase 1 project (some of which are noted below) have been reflected
upon by the implementing agencies, and that there is now greater awareness of the actions
required to ensure proper implementation. The project will also benefit from an existing
network of legal outreach offices that can be built upon, and designs/ design standards for JI
buildings which can be taken forward to construction.

Additionally, the JIs now have a much clearer understanding of Bank’s requirements and of
the government’s procurement and financial management processes. Improving the JI’s
understanding of these processes and developing their capabilities to use Government
systems was an important achievement of phase1. In this way, the project successfully
helped to establish the foundations for a deeper and longer term engagement in the sector by
the World Bank.

The Phase 2 draws upon the increased capacity and commitment to implementation in
order to propose a more ambitious program of activities (US $85.5 million), over a
longer and more realistic timeframe of 5 years. The transition to a 5 year project life
overcomes an important constraint identified in this ICR to the successful implementation of
phase 1. The second phase goes a step further by preparing the key procurement packages
during project preparation. The project altogether targets more complex set of tasks such as
HR reform and the completion of a CIP, but links these to clear benchmarks and associated
financial incentives to meet these targets. Consequently, under the second phase, a failure to
execute these critical reform tasks will result in a reduction of the overall fund allocation for
the project, particularly for more tangible items such as infrastructure and vehicles.




                                               13 
 
 


3. Assessment Outcomes
3.1. Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objectives, while ambitious, were relevant and appropriate for the context. The
design and implementation, however, needed to be better planned given the complexity of the
context and wider capacity constraints.

In the context of fragmented and limited donor interventions in the Afghanistan justice sector,
the project approach of working through the ARTF, across the three JIs and in multiple areas
was appropriate. The objectives of increasing state capacity and access of citizens was also
relevant in a context where the Government suffers from a distinct lack of legitimacy in the
eyes of citizens, due to the lack of accessible legal services. Justice is a particularly critical
area in which raising the profile of state service delivery can have a substantial impact in the
way the state is perceived.

The overall objectives of this project were ‘to strengthen a centralised state justice system
and to increase access to justice for the Afghan people’. An immediate objective was to
enhance the capacity of the justice sector intuitions to deliver legal services. The project
intended to do so by better human capital management, development and better management
of physical infrastructure, and by increasing the skills of the justice sector employees.

The project document also stated that: The aim of this first project (Phase 1) is to implement
a set of quick impact sub-projects, visible to the Afghan people’.

Capacity building remains a critical obstacle to such service delivery. While judges,
prosecutors and other service delivery employees of the state are scarcely paid a living wage,
and have little investment in terms of training, donors and NGOs circumnavigate these
struggling establishments in order to provide legal services through parallel systems. The
rationale recognized the disconnect between state and citizen, as well as the low capacity
starting point for the project, in the goal of achieving quick impact and high visibility gains
through this initial engagement. This would also be critical to building the relationships and
experience needed to attempt a more ambitious Phase 2.

A focus on basic infrastructure and concrete, tangible outputs was also justified due to the
extremely poor working conditions of many justice sector employees, and the real
impediment to delivery of services that lack of access to vehicles, buildings and other basic
materials pose.

With regard to design, it is clear that the goals could not be achieved within the short
initial (2 year) time frame of the project, but stronger results were demonstrated over
the total project period. In terms of implementation, while access to justice may have
increased over the period of active project implementation it is unclear that such increased
access could have been sustained in the absence of costly project interventions, such as the
arrangement with the Non-Governmental Organization, International Legal Foundation-
Afghanistan, to help deliver legal aid services.

3.2. Achievement of the Project Development Objectives
                                               14 
 
 


The overarching project objectives were “to strengthen a centralised state justice system and
to increase access to justice for the Afghan people. The project’s immediate objective is to
enhance the capacity of the justice sector institutions to deliver legal services. This will be
achieved primarily through more strategic human capital and physical infrastructure
management, increasing skills of justice sector professionals and enhancing the physical
infrastructure used to deliver legal services.?

The overarching project objectives were broad in scope and the project resources appear
modest against them. However, the PDO level indicators for the project limited this scope
more clearly and were framed appropriately.

The project faced challenges to the achievement of capacity building elements of the
PDO. Implementation capacity was successfully built, and judges and prosecutors benefitted
from conferences and trainings that also built capacity. In this way, the project made
important progress in this area. However, some of the longer term activities for asset and HR
management could not be implemented. The Capital Investment Plan (CIP), HR reforms for
judges and prosecutors, among others, were cancelled. In each case, important external
factors such as the increase in judges pay before the reforms were begun, and the lack of
appropriate consultants for the CIP, contributed to the cancellation of these activities. In
addition, HR reforms enjoyed only weak support from implementing agencies. These would
have made the most critical contribution to improving human resource and asset management
systems in the JIs.

On the other hand, significant visible improvements were made to infrastructure, facilities
and outreach activities of the JIs. With 38 JI buildings being rehabilitated, legal aid offices
established, critically needed vehicles purchased enabling JI staff to undertake their work,
and legal documents and information being made more readily available to professionals and
citizens, the project did make significant progress towards its objectives despite the
difficulties of the context.

Furthermore, the Project was designed with the view that a follow-on Phase 2 engagement
would be required. Phase 1 therefore focussed on a set of high and quick impact sub-projects,
which would be visible to the Afghan people, and which would provide a basis for a deeper
follow-on engagement. Seen in this light, the project has made important headway in creating
the necessary space for reform in the sector, and a platform through which donors, agencies
and government can engage in a more coordinated manner. The Bank has approved a follow-
on engagement that deepens activities towards the objective of improving services and
access. The selected financing instrument of the ARTF allows for predictable medium term
donor financing. This takes account of the overall context in which reforms are going to be
slow and will require engagements over a longer term.

Component 1: Enhancing Capacity of Justice Sector Institutions

Given that the project focused on building the initial capacity of the Afghan judicial
institutions to absorb more assistance, the first component of the project was by far the largest


                                               15 
 
 


(85.5 per cent of the total). It comprised three sub-components: Human Capital, Physical
Infrastructure and Information and Communication Technology (ICT).

    (i)    Human Capital

The Capacity Building component has seen some success in achieving the planned outputs,
but a number of activities under the component were not undertaken, and eventually
cancelled under the restructuring in June 2011.

The government’s approach to developing capacity among civil servants across the JIs was
the implementation of the Priority Reform and Restructuring (PRR) Program that was
implemented across the Afghan Civil Service. This reform enabled some key departments in
the JI’s to recruit and retain staff through modest salary inducements. From 2007, the
Government began to implement the new civil service pay and grading framework. This
would define the structures of all institutions; confirm the new civil service staffing needs,
and set in place a procedure for recruitment of permanent staff into posts at the new salary
levels.

However, the application of PRR and P&G to prosecutors and judges has been an area of
wide debate, since they have been granted independent status under the current Civil
Servant’s Law.

While the project had hoped to forge a link between reforms in HRM for judges and pay
increases, the Government took the decision to increase Judge’s salary independent of any
reform program in 2008. Thus, the momentum for reform was to a large extent lost, and the
complexity of the task of how to manage judges and prosecutors was a further cause for
delays in addressing the matter. For the civil service staff within the SC, the P&G reform was
completed by the end of the (restructured) project. Progress in the AGO progress has been
slower, where only slightly over 50 per cent of P&G review was completed by the
completion of the (restructured) Phase 1 of the project.

Although the results of these HR reforms- the establishment of two Reform Implementation
Units (RIMUs), progress in P&G reform- have been modest and limited, some stability at the
lower levels of the civil service has been achieved. Individual posts and their responsibilities
are better defined but critical shortages of professional and technical staff remains.

Other investments in human capital development included a 6 week training program for 90
judges at the Judicial Training Academy in Egypt. 220 MoJ employees from across the
provinces received training in core areas such as English, IT and procurement. A National
Conference of Prosecutors was supported. These activities were described as very positive
and valuable outputs by the JIs. The conferences also attracted other stakeholders in the
justice sector and provided an important platform for dialogue on justice sector issues.

Through the Physical infrastructure sub-component (investment and reconstruction of
buildings), there have been significant tangible outputs. 35 JI buildings have been
rehabilitated both in the centre and the provinces. The Capital Investment Plan (CIP) was not
contracted under Phase 1 of the project, due to a lack of interest from appropriate
                                              16 
 
 


international consultants. This work will now be completed early in the follow on project.
After some apparent confusion about the concept and objectives of the activity, as well as
problems with the joint procurement of buildings, the work on the ‘Centres of Excellence’
was also cancelled from Phase 1 (US$ 0.2 million). The SC successfully prepared design
standards for court and administrative buildings. The design standards are a contribution that
may make a sustained impact, since the institution now has standard guidance with which to
ensure that buildings meet international safety and quality standards. The project has
provided critically needed transportation (vehicles) for the senior judiciary officials.

The designs for an MOJ HQ and an SC HQ were completed, and the MOJ building will be
constructed under the follow on project. The designs for 6 provincial MOJ buildings were
also drawn up. The designs for 5 provincial AGO buildings were drawn up, but no
construction was undertaken. However, a new AGO office was provided with utilities and
furnished, and this now also contains operational library facilities for all AGO staff. In total
28 libraries have been established across Afghanistan and thus improved access to legal texts.
The 6 legal aid offices and 3 legal awareness offices were established, and advice provided
has covered issues as diverse as adultery, theft and traffic cases.

In terms of outcomes, the project has improved the infrastructure for the provision of legal
services and helped to improve access to justice.

The Information and Communication Technology (ICT) sub-component financed the
development of the major ICT needs assessments for the JIs, including the requirements of
the provincial justice institutions and networking for both levels. Counterparts raised
concerns about insufficient attention being given to progress on IT systems and networking
facilities. However, it was also clear during implementation that, while the AGO made
repeated requests to donor projects for additional IT software and hardware, there was no
mechanism for maintenance and support for these products. Hence, many items remained
unused or unmaintained.

Component 2: Empowering People

This component was comprised of two sub-components, legal aid and legal awareness. The
target groups for this sub-component were community leaders and legal service providers.
The publication of legal texts helped to indirectly increase legal literacy.

The Legal Aid sub-component focused on the establishment of legal aid offices, through both
physical investments and staffing capacity. The project planned for 5 to 10 legal aid offices to
be established and 6 were eventually set up. At least 2000 applicants (out of which 1500 are
representations and 500 are advice cases) received legal aid. An additional 2600 cases were
processed under the subcontracting arrangement with ILF-A and private lawyers. Less was
achieved in terms of data collection than on the supply of legal aid, but the project has
nonetheless improved the information collection and flow in support of better decision-
making.



                                              17 
 
 


The project succeeded in mobilising the MoJ to produce and disseminate Afghan laws,
making them more accessible to the population. Although it was not the objective of the
project, legal advice has also improved the knowledge of those clients who may have decided
to represent themselves before court. MoJ has also contracted the International Legal
Foundation-Afghanistan (ILF-A), an NGO to provide legal aid and advisory services in 13
provinces, which has had an immediate impact on the level of citizen access to legal services.

The Legal Awareness sub-component focused on supporting public confidence in the state
justice system and on the promotion of knowledge and understanding of legal rights and
obligations under civil, commercial and criminal law. Particular attention was paid to the
family law, in support of women as a vulnerable section of the population. This sub-
component was primarily delivered in collaboration with MoJ, in the provinces of Nangahar,
Balkh and Kunduz as well as a media office in Kabul. This was a pilot project that has proven
successful. Three legal awareness centres have been established. In addition to development
of legal libraries this has proven to be an appropriate approach in promotion of trust in state
legal/judiciary system and strengthening of socio-legal aspects of legal system (legislation).

Component 3: Strengthening Implementation Capacity

The Strengthening Implementation Capacity component focused on building the
implementation capacity within the target justice institutions, so that they over time can
implement the reforms and further development without outside assistance. The component
supported further implementation of the National Justice Sector Strategy (NJSS), National
Justice Programme (NJP) and the Project itself. With the support of the project the
beneficiary institutions (i.e. the Government of Afghanistan) established NJP management
infrastructure, as well as the Project’s governance and management bodies. The links to the
NPP implementation structures could have been strengthened, however this process has
suffered due to the delays to the NPP process itself, and to decisions about how
implementation of the NPP can be undertaken. As noted above, there were considerable
delays in commencing work on this component because of delays in recruitment of key
project staff.

Training in international procurement and Bank project management was given to several
local consultants in order to support the project implementation. There was a large time lag
between the project approval and the recruitment of an international procurement advisor,
and the development of FM and procurement manuals was also severely delayed.

The table below summarizes the achievements against the PDO indicators.



Indicator                    Attainment


The number of improved       Overall, 38 courts and buildings rehabilitated
justice sector facilities    SC: 16 buildings


                                                18 
 
 



                               AGO: 17 provincial and 3 central offices

                               MOJ: HQ building and the Juvenile Detention Center
The number of people who
                         At least 2000 applicants (out of which 1500 are representations and 500 are
received legal services  advice cases) received legal aid. An additional 2600 cases were processed
                               under the subcontracting arrangement with ILF-A and private lawyers




                                                  19 
 
 



The number of qualified       SC: A training program (6 week intensive course) for 90 judges by the
and properly trained          Egyptian Judiciary was completed.
judges                        MOJ: 220 MOJ employees across the provinces were trained in FM,
                              Procurement, IT and English

                              AGO: 20 AGO employees received IT training

The number of legal           A network of 28 provincial and 3 central libraries have been created.
professionals with            SC: 10 new libraries established and functional. The Central Judicial Library
increased access to           is functional and more than twenty professionals visit this library daily.
adequate legal reference
materials                      AGO: 11 libraries are fully operational. The total number of users is
                              estimated at 1600 professionals annually.

                              MOJ: Central Library and 6 Provincial Libraries operational. 20-30 legal
                              professionals and MoJ staff utilize MoJ central library each day. Between 5
                              and 10 provincial staff utilize each of the MoJ’s 6 provincial libraries each
                              day.

The extent of legal advice     Legal representation & advice has involved broad range of cases e.g.
and representation            murder, terrorism, kidnapping, forgery and counterfeit, narcotics, theft,
                              drinking and intoxication, violence against women, and traffic cases. The
provided by the recipient's   most frequent cases are traffic cases, theft, and adultery. See also indicator 2
legal aid program             for quantitative summary.


The number of community       Nangarhar: Around 700 brochures and 5 different handouts distributed.
leaders and others reached    Kundoz: 1200 posters, 6000 brochures, 400 stickers, 1840 volumes of books,
through legal awareness       300 issues of legal bimonthly have been made available by the Huqooq
initiative                    Department of MoJ

                              Balkh: 57 radio conferences, 35 workshops with elders, university students,
                              youths in custody and others held; 700 brochures and 1221 posters
                              distributed. Meetings with around 230 village representatives and 260 tribal
                              elders held; training for 250 schools completed.



Improved capacity of legal        1. Infrastructure:
institutions to manage        3 engineers supporting the infrastructure departments in each of the JIs; their
                              responsibilities include: evaluation of offers; preparation of bid documents;
their human resources and     engineering designs & estimation of projects; developing a facilities
assets                        database; monitoring of construction projects

                              SC: developed standards for designs and prototypes for every type of
                              building such as urban court, appeal court, primary court, and residential
                              facilities etc for cold and warm climates.

                              AGO:A comprehensive IT assessment has been prepared

                                  2.   Human Capital:

                               AGO and SC’s RIMUs have assisted in capacity building for HRM; this
                              includes creation HR databases, management of HRM staff, and assistance
                              in P&G processes.

                              SC: Review of judges competencies conducted and HRM databases
                              developed

                                                  20 
 
 



                            MOJ: training needs assessment completed

                            SC and AGO: organized nationwide gathering of judges and prosecutors



Progress in HR reforms to   SC: HR reform for Judges: in 2008 the MOF increased salaries for judges.
                            In 2009 the SC reviewed performance of sitting judges and developed an HR
lay the foundations for     database.
increasing salaries
                            The HR reform process for civil servants is in progress. The RIMU was
                            established and began work. The eligibility review of SC departments was
                            completed. The HR department was staffed and trained; positions for the rest
                            of department were advertised. Critically, the P&G reform of the SC was
                            completed

                            AGO: now thatAGO HRD was staffed and trained, and an eligibility review
                            of AGO prosecutors has been conducted. 50% of P&G reform was
                            completed.


 

                             




                                               21 
 
 


 

3.3. Efficiency

Not applicable.

3.4. Justification of the Overall Rating

Overall Outcome Rating before Restructuring: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

Overall Outcome Rating after Restructuring: Satisfactory

Weighted Overall Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project’s development objectives are an important element of the overall state rebuilding
efforts underway in Afghanistan. The importance of the PDO is further enhanced within the
context of the transition to the new institutional arrangements post 2014. A strong and robust
justice system is necessary for the legitimacy of the state, and for economic development.
When JIs can resolve disputes, citizens are less likely to resort to informal sources of power
to help them resolve conflicts. Strong JIs therefore are important for conflict reduction and
prevention. In the case of Afghanistan, this is particularly critical, since anti-government
groups gain social capital through the establishment of parallel ‘insurgent justice’ systems,
which deliver quick justice to citizens. In fragile, post-conflict states the focus on
institutionalization of the justice system must be a priority. In the Afghanistan context,
rebuilding damaged infrastructure was clearly a necessary pre-condition for supporting the
strengthening of formal institutions and building capacity. The project itself also aimed for
output focused, visible achievements in Phase 1 of the engagement in this difficult sector: in
making an assessment about the pre and post restructuring weightings, the infrastructure
element of the project has been therefore given a greater weight than the softer HR and
capacity elements.

Although the project was designed to begin addressing these important issues, it was not clear
from the outset that the Afghan judicial institutions fully appreciated the relative importance
of the project with respect to this broader objective of state building. Elections, the Kabul
Conference and other high level political events, as well as changes in key personnel delayed
the implementation process. Critical elements of components in the original project were
eventually dropped due to both internal and external factors, leaving a project that focused
largely on quick-impact activities but with some important headway into service delivery
improvements.

The focus upon tangible outcomes in itself was appropriate for this initial engagement in the
sector, but greater analysis was needed of the JIs to ensure that more ambitious reforms were
welcome, and to develop timelines that were achievable. The problems in recruitment of key
project staff demonstrate the need for more pro-active measures, and for more realistic
planning for results. Relocation of the TTL to Kabul was an appropriate decision for the Bank
Management, however other decisions for management- such as how and when to undertake
a follow up engagement suffered some delays. The PDO indicators are considered balanced

                                              22 
 
 


and relevant according to this ICR. However, capacity limitations in the sector contributed to
a lack of focus on the qualitative aspects of results achieved.

The restructuring of the project corrected the excessive ambition of the design, and allowed
slightly more time for the completion of a more modest range of activities: that these
activities were only cancelled in June 2011 indicates that action to reduce the scope of the
project came rather late in the day, however, and this action could have been taken during the
extension of the project in 2009. While some of the larger and more complex activities were
cancelled once the capacity limitations were better understood, a number of basic activities to
build the physical and staffing capacity of the JIs were successfully undertaken through the
project. Libraries visited during the ICR are well functioning and staffed, and complementary
outreach work has been undertaken to raise awareness about the value of these resources to
increase demand. Cars and vehicles supplied through the project, and the rehabilitation of
many buildings also contribute to a highly visible and tangible improvement in the quality of
Justice facilities available to staff and accessible by citizens. Trainings for judges through
well designed partnerships with relevant legal systems have also added to the quality of
judgments. Although this is undoubtedly difficult to measure, it is a base that can be
developed further under the second phase to further increase the capacity of these critical
staff. Furthermore, it stands as evidence of a demand for such a project by all parties, above
all the Government, and their commitment to implement it despite evident constraints. Given
that tangible output based activities were the fundamental focus of the project, and the
progress that was demonstrated, the project was rated Moderately Satisfactory by the ICR.


4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
In a fragile context such as Afghanistan, the risks to development outcomes are substantial.
During project implementation, the rapidly deteriorating security situation affected access to
the communities, the willingness of lawyers to staff provincial offices, and the fees that were
sought by such staff also increased. It also reduced the availability and willingness of
international consultants to work on the project, and affects the sustainability of progress
made in capacity building of JI staff. As security conditions worsened, the ability of judges
and legal aid staff to access the population and function were affected, limiting the gains of
capacity increases. During the project preparation phase, such a rapid deterioration of the
security condition was not anticipated. The sustainability of contracting lawyers at higher
than government rates, or though arrangements with the relatively high cost NGO, ILF-A, is
also highly questionable in the absence of on-going and extensive donor funding. It is widely
anticipated that support for the social infrastructure reforms will decrease post the Transition
period (2014) and hence the issue of sustainability of the infrastructure results of this
project is a serious problem. A key issue that needed to be tackled early during project
implementation is progressively increasing the O&M budget for the justice sector institutions
for sustainability of the physical assets created through the program. Without an increase in
earmarking of funds for O&M expenditures, sustainability of the assets is at risk. In the short
term, this is mitigated by the successor project JSRP-II, but an improvement in planning and
asset management capacity must be a seen as a priority for this follow-on project.


                                              23 
 
 


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1. Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

(c) Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Quality at Entry

The project preparation team designed interventions to support clearly established sector
needs. The quality at entry was acceptable in terms of the selection of the component
structures. However, the design would have benefitted from a better assessment of the
institutional capacity to implement the project, and stronger mitigation measures for the
institutional weaknesses. While restructuring corrected for some of these elements, the
quality at entry could have been improved had the team been provided adequate opportunity
to assess the capacity and political support for some of the activities, and indeed for the scope
of activities in the proposed timeline. The absence of a PCN stage review is evidence that this
process was expedited to the detriment of the quality of the design. The framing of the PDOs
and the scope of ambition of the intervention overall was well constructed at entry and
responded to a clearly expressed need for a Bank engagement. Both the PDOs and the more
concrete output indicators remained unchanged throughout the project. The team rightly
steered clear of supporting complex policy reforms which would have been far more difficult
to achieve during the life of the project. The project selected quick impact outcomes and
through that laid the platform for deeper sector engagement in a more complex Phase 2.
However, implementation was far more difficult than anticipated and the expected results
seemed ambitious for the initial 2 year timeframe.

Quality of Supervision

The Bank task team was forthright in pointing out the problems that it faced in the
implementation and demonstrated flexibility in adjusting the management arrangements and
project life-span according to needs. Not having a continuous presence in Kabul may have
contributed to the slow start of the project, but the relocation of the TTL to Afghanistan
clearly led to improved relationships across JIs and a sharper focus on resolving problems
early. It is clear that projects in conflict affected countries may suffer from a range of similar
issues. Supervision costs are high and logistically wrought with difficulties; the security
environment often restricts movement to directly supervise activities and can limit the
numbers of missions possible by consultants. When available, consultant costs are high and
quality is hard to assure due to the limited number of candidates willing to work in the

                                               24 
 
 


country. Costs of transportation and housing are also often much higher, and therefore the
costs of increasing the supervision on a project can also be prohibitively high. The overall
supervision arrangements may have been strengthened with additional staff at the analyst
and/or specialist level given the complexity of the project and sector, particularly at the initial
stages.

Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Overall the Bank performance was rated Moderately Satisfactory, given that more time
should have been allowed to the project team to assess the context and develop the project,
and due to the lack of data available to work with at the time of project development. Due to
external pressures, the project was developed on a contracted timescale. The unrealistic
timeframe for the project at the outset necessitated two extensions and a cancellation of a
large portion of the allocated grant, but the team demonstrated a willingness to adapt to the
realities of the sector. Performance during supervision was Moderately Satisfactory, with
support being provided to the JIs and PSU team throughout.

5.2. Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

(b) Implementing Agency Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

(c) Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Government Performance

The Project was to support NJP and NJSS, which articulated a strong vision for reform and
better service delivery in the Justice Sector. The preparation team was encouraged by the
clear expression of Government commitment to justice sector reforms that were articulated in
the NJSS. The Government’s Independent Administrative Reform and Civil Service
Commission supported the project and the JIs through the civil service reform agenda. In
the first year of implementation, as implementation stalled and wider political developments
such as the elections came to the fore, the interest of heads of JIs dwindled concurrently.
During the Presidential and Parliamentary elections, the focus of JI senior leadership and the
Government shifted away from technical and reform related issues. This period also saw
numerous personnel changes.

Although this was the first Bank project in the justice sector, a number of bilateral support
programmes/projects had already been operational in the sector. JI institutions had relied
heavily on donor executed programs to finance investments. As a result, it has little
experience of using Government systems except for salaries and minor operational

                                                25 
 
  


 costs. As the JIs became familiar with Government’s own FM and procurement systems,
 project implementation improved speedily and with it the interest of the political leadership.

 Implementing Agency Performance

 The three justice institutions (MoJ, SC and AGO) were the Implementing Agencies,
 undertaken through the central PSU (based in MoJ) and PUs based in each of the JIs.
 However, the Implementation Agency performance appeared to be affected by coordination
 problems between the JIs, a disconnect between heads of JI and the implementing units at
 least initially, and varying levels of commitment to project implementation over the life of
 the project. There were major problems with PSU staffing. By the end of the initial two year
 period, however, once the core implementation support team comprised of the PSU Director
 and PU heads was settled in place, their competence and project management skills grew
 quickly and the commitment to results increased correspondingly. Implementation
 performance was also uneven across the three institutions, and while the project had split
 funds between the three institutions, implementation was slower in the AGO than the SC and
 MoJ (see MTR p3). Personnel changes in the lead assigned to manage the project, the shifting
 political context and sometimes weak levels of commitment to project activities contributed
 to this. The management of national and international consultants was appropriate and no
 major shortcoming was reported. However, there were difficulties in sourcing these
 consultants both due to inexperience in Bank processes, and the paucity of credible/interested
 candidates in Afghanistan.

 Justification of Rating for Overall Recipient Performance

 A greater weight is given to the performance of the JIs in arriving at a rating for the overall
 recipient performance. The overall Recipient performance has been rated as moderately
 unsatisfactory, given the slow pace of engagement, fluctuations in the degree of political
 commitment to the project, and the slow pace at which additional capacity was brought to the
 PSU.


 6. Lessons Learned
  

 i.   The project reaffirmed the advantage of the ARTF as a funding mechanism that
      encourages programmatic, cross-sector approaches to reform and promotes cooperation
      among institutions. Channelling resources through the budget was a critical factor in
      increasing Government ownership of reforms and increasing Government’s appetite for
      seeking on-budget development resources.

ii.   Client engagement in preparation of project, and adequate time and resources for project
      design, are critical. The extent of client engagement in project preparation was also an
      important indicator of future success of the operation. In post-conflict and fragile states,
      with typically very low internal capacity, the consultation on the project development is
      a strenuous exercise; however the political and symbolic elements in consultation and

                                                26 
  
   


       design process do pay off, in the end. Political economy analysis may help improve the
       design by providing tactical insights into client commitment. Even under emergency
       preparation context, a PCN is highly useful in helping to test the underlying assumptions
       about client commitment and realism of quick impact interventions.

iii.   A functioning implementation structure was critical to the success of the project.
       Without an operational PSU and PU, the project was not able to perform, as the
       experience of the initial period of implementation under Phase 1 clearly showed. A
       further lesson is on the role of the central PSU, which needs to maintain an oversight and
       coordinating role, with greater authority over FM and procurement handed to the JI PUs,
       in order to encourage ownership and improve disbursement rates. Under the JSRP, it
       took many months to establish the implementation structure, which resulted in
       substantial delays to project disbursement even though this had improved towards the
       end of the project lifetime.

iv.    Also important in the Afghanistan context is the need to recognize that it takes time to
       recruit professionals with appropriate procurement, financial management and other
       project implementation related technical skills. Even when staffs are recruited, it takes a
       period of dedicated training and development before they are able to function effectively
       and become capable of servicing the project. Teams need to make realistic assessments
       of the pace at which professionals are recruited and brought up to speed in such a
       challenging and competitive market environment.

 v.    The performance of the three JIs has been uneven with the MoJ being the strongest
       performer in a variety of project execution functions. The main factors defining
       performance are the degree of “political capture? and implementation capacity. The
       uneven performance of the JIs suggests there is therefore a requirement for a “custom
       designed approach? to future reforms. This approach should consider the institutions’
       individual absorptive capacity, while also ensuring that no institution is excluded, as this
       would be sure to undermine progress in the sector overall. An important lesson therefore
       is the need to assess carefully interest of the individual counterparts to specific project
       results and to the project outcomes as a whole and assess the quality of Government
       leadership of the project. The commitment of actors across JI institutions to the project
       outcomes was over-estimated. Project outcomes are a useful way of bringing the
       attention of counterparts to the actions needed to achieve them. The analysis should
       encompass the sources of support for the proposed course of action, those who will
       oppose it, strategies to support the implementation over time, ownership of proposed
       changes and champions of change, quick wins, political considerations of success and
       failures. Mechanisms that help to increase understanding and commitment of different
       institutions need to be creatively crafted as part of project design.

vi.    The project suffered also as a result of the slow implementation of the HR component in
       particular, due to a combination of factors such as the lack of an overall approach to HR
       reform in Afghanistan; an uncoordinated approach by the donors involved; and a lack of

                                                 27 
   
   


       perceived incentives to implement reforms. A key lesson is the need for project teams to
       understand the institutional context and the existing HR environment in which sector
       interventions are located. Sector interventions that have an HR element need to work
       with and be integrated into Government’s on-going civil service reform programs.

vii. Effective Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) has been a challenge in the justice sector.
     M&E in the sector has suffered from a lack of technical capacity at the implementation
     level and weak conceptual capacity at the policy-making level. A lack of M&E strategy,
     including baseline data, to provide information has made it difficult for the GoA to assess
     properly the achievements and changes. A key lesson therefore was the need for
     substantive frontloaded support to develop qualitative data collection tools and methods
     to ensure that project results are properly assessed.

viii. The JIs were initially reluctant to engage international consultants in the implementation
      of project activities. The high costs of foreign assistance, the presence of ‘free’
      international advisors in the JIs (funded by bilateral programs), and concerns related to
      communication and cultural barriers were the likely reasons for this. While greater
      reliance on local capacity (in and outside of the JIs) increases ownership of the reforms, it
      requires that the Bank helps fill capacity gaps by providing advisory support,
      necessitating intensive supervision by the Bank team (including continuity of input).
      Creating a more positive institutional environment for advisors to work in does take time.
      Over the course of the Phase 1 implementation period, JIs only slowly realized the value
      of international assistance. It is, however, important that the international assistance is of
      reasonable quality, is used selectively, and in combination with local expertise.


  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
  (a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies Comments on the Implementation Completion
  Report (ICR) on Afghanistan Justice Sector Reform Project (AJSRP):

  These comments were compiled by Program Support Unit (PSU) of AJSRP with inputs from
  the Ministry of Justice (MOJ), Attorney General’s Office (AGO) and Supreme Court (SC).

  1. Assessment of the operation’s objective, design, implementation and operational
     experiences

             Operation’s objective:

      The project implementation was delayed given a number of uncertainties in the
      implementing environment. The PSU was established and made operational only towards
      the end of the project whereby only one year’s time was available to PSU for
      implementation. Under these constraints, the goals of the project have been achieved to a
      significant extent.
      The agreed objectives were important and vital ones for the state justice system.
      Activities like “Strategic Management for HR & Infrastructure? helped to improve the


                                                 28 
   
 


    skills of Justice sector professionals. The project aimed to strengthen the centralized state
    justice system in Afghanistan and increase access to justice for the Afghan people.

    The project responded to the requirements of the Justice Sector and enhanced the capacity
    of the justice institutions to deliver legal services.


        Design:
    The project design was framed carefully and was realistic but the operational experiences
    showed that implementation was affected by poor planning and lack of expert personnel.
    In spite of these, the project design enhanced the capacity of the justice institutions.

    Indeed the Phase 1 project was designed in a way to establish an implementation structure
    and to build institutional capacity within justice institutions so that JIs could get ready for
    a follow on project with a much broader scope. Considering this objective, this first
    project was fairly successful.

       Implementation and operational experiences:
    Implementation and operational experiences involved learning about financial
    management, procurement, contract management, monitoring and evaluation and project
    management procedures and processes. Moreover, implementation and operational
    experiences of the Phase 1 project served as an effective learning platform for the JIs to
    improve their internal and external coordination.

    As it was the first ARTF project implemented by JIs, and there was an obvious lack of
    experience in implementing such projects. The Justice Sector faced a lot of problems in
    the first two years of the project. Gradually by “learning by doing?, JI personnel
    increased their capacity and by the end of the project became familiar with World Bank
    processes that needed to be followed during implementation.

2. Assessment of the Outcomes of the Operation against the Agreed Objectives:
    The immediate objectives of the project were to enhance the capacity of the JIs to deliver
   legal services. This was achieved to a large extent:
 The skills of justice sector professionals were improved;
 Justice sector facilities such as transportation and infrastructure were improved;
 Reforms in HR were initiated; and
 Legal professionals have increased access to adequate legal reference materials.

3. Borrower’s own performance evaluation during preparation and implementation of
   the project:
   Initially the World Bank was provided with an optimistic picture of the borrower’s
   implementation capacity. During later evaluations, it was found that the government
   lacked core FM, procurement and project management, contract management, monitoring
   and evaluation capacities. The JIs initially started operation of the project without a clear
   understanding of WB guidelines and procedures, but gradually gained a better
   understanding about WB guidelines and procedures.




                                                29 
 
 


4. Evaluation of the role of the World Bank displayed so far during implementation of
   the project:
   It could be considered as assisting the JI to improve implementation of the project. For
   instance, the Bank requested the Government to take urgent actions to make the PSU’s
   operational. The training programs that were facilitated by the Bank helped to increase
   the pace of implementation especially during last year. On the other hand, the project
   implementation also faced some problems due to unrealistic expectations of the Bank.

5. Description of the proposed arrangements for future operation of the project:
   The proposed arrangements include strengthening of the implementation structure both
   quantitatively and qualitatively. During the first phase two important manuals were
   prepared for the project:

a. The Procurement Manual
b. The Financial Management Manual
    The “Operation Manual? is under preparation. It is expected that with these manuals in
    place the qualitative aspect of the implementation of the new project will be strengthened.
    It has also been agreed between the Government and the World Bank that implementation
    units in the JIs will be strengthened and necessary provisions have been included in the
    Phase 2 procurement plan.
    A detailed project procurement plan has been approved by the World Bank which covers
    the initial 18 months of the new.
    (c) Bank Response on Borrower Comments

    The Borrower presents a realistic assessment of the problems faced during project
    implementation. The borrower’s frank assessment that developing financial management,
    procurement, contract management capacities occurs slowly is helpful especially in
    framing some of the start up capacity investments in the follow on project. What is
    missing from this assessment however is a recognition that such capacities are likely to
    develop in an uneven manner across different institutions within the justice sector. The
    borrower presents a clear understanding of the need to complete procurement packages in
    early phases of project cycle especially with regard to infrastructure components. This
    lesson has been reflected during the preparation of the follow on project. The most
    significant observation however was the confirmation by borrower that the initial project
    has laid a strong foundation for a follow on engagement. This indicates that the original
    rationale for a two phase approach was a sound one.




                                              30 
 
 


Annex 1 Project Costs and Financing
 

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                  USD Thousands (including
                               No. of staff weeks
                                                        travel and consultant costs)

Lending

    FY08                       51.84                    383.13

Total:                         51.84                    383.13

Supervision/ICR

FY09                           30.17                    320.75

FY10                           42.44                    374.21

FY11                           9.84                     87.15

FY12                           6.79                     117.99

Total:                         89.23                    900.12

 




 

 

 

 




 



                                         31 
 
 


Annex 2. Detailed Component Description


1.       The project has two main components. First, “Enhancing Capacity of Legal
Institutions? and second, “Empowering the People?. The project also has a third
Implementation Capacity component, which is designed to ensure smooth implementation of
the project.

(i) Enhancing Capacity of Justice Institutions ($23.6 million)

2.       The objective of this component is to enhance and/or enable the basic operations of
justice institutions by investing in the skills of justice sector professionals and officials, and
improving their working conditions. The component has three subcomponents: (a) human
capital; (b) physical infrastructure; and (c) information and communication technology.
These will, to a large extent, build on, complement and/or expand on ongoing GoA and donor
activities.

(a) Human Capital ($5.25 million)

3.      The reforms under this subcomponent seek to: (i) increase strategic alignment of
human resource management (HRM) functions, capacity, and processes with justice sector
business needs; (ii) intensify learning and training of the workforce; (iii) encourage
professional affiliations; and (iv) provide the decision-makers (legal professionals) with
opportunities to exchange experiences and views on subjects relevant to the development of a
legal system in Afghanistan. These reforms will also seek to increase the employment of,
and/or the equal treatment of, women and those with physical disabilities.

Human Resource Management Reform ($1.75 million)

4.     This subcomponent will finance technical assistance (TA) in the form of consultant
services; study tours; and training to the SC and AGO to carry out HRM reforms for judges,
prosecutors and civil servants.3 Specific project activities include:

             Creation of independent decision-making bodies responsible for personnel
              management in the Supreme Court (SC) and Attorney General Office (AGO).
              (Judicial and Prosecutorial Councils).4
             Review of the selection and appointment policies and regulations for judges and
              prosecutors. The objective of the review is to develop recommendations for:
              strengthening competitive and merit-based elements of the process; improve quality
              of the induction training and learning for the candidates for judgeship and prosecutor
              ship; and to improve transparency of the allocation of judges and prosecutors to the
              courts and prosecutors’ offices.

                                                            
3
  This project activity does not include the MOJ which implements its civil service reform under the umbrella of
PRR.
4
  This model is common in many countries in Europe, Latin America; but also in countries with Islamic Law
such as Algeria; Egypt; Jordan; and Morocco.



                                                               32 
 
 


             Evaluation of the skills of “sitting? judges and prosecutors. The purpose of the
              evaluation is to design and implement a requalification program.
             Implementation of the second phase of the Priority Reform and Restructuring (PRR)
              program which the SC and the AGO began in 2008. Support will be provided for two
              activities: (i) completion of the functional reviews and job descriptions for civil
              servants in the SC and AGO and pilot regional offices; and (ii) rolling out the
              program to around ten regional courts and offices. The pilot offices will be selected
              by the SC and AGO at the commencement of project implementation.


Learning and Training ($3.5 million)

5.       This subcomponent will finance TA in the form of consultant services, training, and
goods to enhance the skills of the justice sector workforce, with a particular focus on female
staff, and to improve their access to legal information. Specific project activities include:

             Strengthening training management capacity in the SC, Ministry of Justice (MoJ) and
              AGO. The activity aims to build the capacity of the training units in the Human
              Resources (HR) departments at the SC, MoJ, and AGO to develop, organize and
              coordinate education, learning and training programs for their staff. A stock-taking
              study of previous and ongoing training programs will form part of this activity.
             Providing training to judges, prosecutors, their support staff and MoJ officials and its
              regional staff. Under this activity, some 1,000 judges, prosecutors, and their support
              staff and MoJ officials will receive training. Whenever possible the project will
              continue with training programs which have been developed and implemented by the
              justice sector and involved donors. Programs to enhance new skills such as legal
              analysis, computer proficiency, library management, court administration, and
              financial management will also be added. When project implementation begins the
              SC, MoJ, and AGO will prepare the precise portfolio and timetable of training
              activities per each justice sub-sector (2 year-training plan).
             Creating legal libraries. Three types of libraries will be supported through this
              activity. First, the project will finance the completion of the Central Legal Library in
              the MoJ, which the Taqnin has started to assemble.5 In addition, mid-sized libraries
              will be created in four provincial MoJ offices. These libraries will be accessible to the
              staff of the provincial MoJ office of the MoJ, and to the regional and local
              administration, and if feasible, to the general public. The project will also finance the
              creation of a number of small libraries containing core legal materials in courts and
              prosecutor’s offices. The list of courts and offices where the libraries will be
              established will be prepared by the SC, MoJ, and AGO (against specific criteria) at
              the commencement of project implementation.
             Dissemination of Laws. This activity will support continued publication of the State
              Gazette and a collection of statutes, and their distribution to all state agencies,
              including all courts, all prosecution agencies, all state university law schools, all law
              schools in Afghanistan and the Wolesi Jirga. It will also support development of an
              index to the legislation published in the State Gazette, and distribution thereof to the
              same agencies. Finally the MOJ, under this component, will carry out a feasibility
              study for the creation of an internal print-shop to be used for the publication of laws
                                                            
5
 This will be coordinated with the INLTC law library management system. Possible additional support for the
MoJ Translation and Publication Unit will also be considered.

                                                               33 
 
 


        and regulations. USAID is has been undertaking important work in this area for some
        time and the precise specifications of this project activity will be developed in close
        coordination with ongoing initiatives.

(b) Physical Infrastructure ($16.9 million)

6.       With the investment and technical assistance provided under the subcomponent, the
GoA will prepare and partially implement construction and repair of court and office
facilities and judges’ residences; equip new and existing courts and offices; and provide
transportation for justice sector officials. Capacity to manage physical assets will also be
supported to sustain the progress achieved under this subcomponent. Specific activities to be
implemented under this component include:

       Design (or design review) of about 28 court and rehabilitation of about five buildings;
        design of about six regional offices of the MOJ; and design of and rehabilitation of
        three AGO offices. The specific (regional) facilities will be selected by the SC, MoJ,
        and AGO at the commencement of project implementation based on a set of
        indicators such as workload, size of population served, security, potential as a center
        of excellence and other factors which determine the ability to complete construction
        in the given timeframe. Design (or design review) will take account of the needs of
        female and disabled staff and clients. In most of these cases the actual construction of
        the new facilities will take place during the second phase of the reform. However, the
        implementation process will be organized such that (re)construction work on courts
        and other facilities can proceed as soon as appropriate conditions exist.
       Design and extension of training facilities, administrative offices, and housing (dorm
        space) for trainees in the Independent National Legal Training Center.
       Design of a new headquarters facility for the SC, the MoJ, and the AGO (in case of
        AGO the project will also finance (re)construction work).
       Creation of operating investment funds in the SC, MoJ, and AGO to finance
        maintenance costs associated with the existing facilities.
       Preparation of an Investment Plan and Facility Standards. The Capital Investment
        Plan will be based on a assessment of the current condition of the facilities (part of
        which is being conducted by another donor), and will produce an inventory of
        necessary new construction and rehabilitation works; criteria for prioritizing the
        necessary works taking into account building conditions and staffing and workload
        estimates; and an estimate of costs for the necessary works, including maintenance
        and operations. The activity also includes funding to develop standards for model
        justice facilities, incorporating best international practices, lessons learned from
        bilateral work already undertaken by donors, and designs for new model provincial
        centers, to be built in the next phase of the ARTF project.
       Purchase of 220 vehicles and their operating and maintenance costs for use by judges,
        prosecutors and their staff, and MoJ officials, throughout the country on a prioritized
        basis. In addition to permitting staff to travel outside provincial cities, new vehicles
        will contribute to the security of the staff. Selection criteria will be agreed upon
        commencement of the project.
       Purchase of office equipment (including copiers, fax machines) and furniture for
        current and to-be-constructed facilities. The lack of such equipment, even in current
        facilities, is repeated cited as a major detriment to the functioning of staff of the


                                              34 
 
 


              Justice institutions throughout the country. It is anticipated that additional furniture
              and equipment will be purchased in the future phase of the ARTF project.


(iv) Information and Communication Technology ($1.45 million)

7.      The subcomponent will finance an evaluation of the ICT needs and limited
implementation of the ICT reform. The project focus will be on case management, HRM, and
performance monitoring and evaluation system. First, an overall ICT plan for the justice
sector and/or its sub-sectors (e.g. courts) with the basic data will be prepared by MoJ, and
AGO with help from international experts.6 The plan will be the road map for the overall
design. Second, a software solution will be modularized and implemented in a sequenced
manner. For each subsequent module it will be ensured that it will be compatible with
previously developed modules. To reduce operation and maintenance costs, any systems
should be prepared as web-based systems which initially “run? locally without a network
connection. With progress in the country and a more stable and affordable ICT
infrastructure, such a system could be operated from a central server. This will help to reduce
the overall operation and maintenance costs.



8. The specific interventions include:

             Purchasing a minimal amount of hardware to meet emergency needs of the SC, MoJ
              and AGO
             “Rapid Assessment? for the offices of the MoJ, and the AGO will be prepared. This
              rapid assessment will provide information on the current situation on the ground,
              possible interventions for the institutions and most of all an outline of the recurrent
              cost to make any intervention in the long run sustainable
             Under the project, MOJ and AGO will prepare a detailed network design for their
              respective buildings. These designs will be implemented during the 24-month project
              period. Hardware for the network will be purchased through the project.


(ii) Empowering the People ($2.4 million)



9.     The objective of this component is to empower the Afghan people through legal aid
and legal education. There will be two subcomponents: (i) legal aid and (ii) legal awareness.

(a) Legal Aid ($1.80 million)

10.     This subcomponent will provide TA assistance in the form of consultant services, and
training, and investment (under the physical infrastructure subcomponent) to implement the
first phase of a national legal aid program. The MoJ has been working with international
donors to draft a comprehensive set of policies for the legal aid system. The proposed system
                                                            
6
    The SC will prepare its ICT plan under the USAID funded bilateral project

                                                               35 
 
 


includes a Legal Aid Department in the MoJ, the National Legal Aid Council, liaison officers
and legal aid offices, and identified service providers, in the regions. The proposed system of
service providers includes employed lawyers and paralegals in legal aid offices, NGOs and
legal clinics in law schools. The legal aid system will require the cooperation of these
institutions with the police, prosecutors, and judges.

11.     This subcomponent will finance the creation and operation of five to ten legal aid
offices in the regions selected by the MOJ against criteria such as size of population served;
specific problems posed; security; potential as a center of excellence; and presence of related
projects. The support will include hiring and training staff, drafting operational manuals, and
covering the operating costs of the offices. In addition to day-to-day service provision, with a
focus on services related to women and children, and coordinating service provision with
other service providers, the office will be responsible for close monitoring and evaluation of
demand for and supply of services. This will include not only service provided by the
offices, but also service provided by other service providers. The data collected through the
project will be used to prepare a report on legal aid provision which will serve to make
recommendations for modifications of the system design and to prepare a plan for its roll out
into other provinces and districts.

(b) Legal Awareness ($0.60 million)

12.      This subcomponent will finance technical assistance in the form of consultant services
and training to pilot a trust-building and legal awareness campaign in the Nanganhar province
and its 21 districts. The MOJ will supervise the project. The specific activities to be financed
include: (i) creation and staffing of a small office of two to four people which will be
supported by local consultants (legal professionals); (ii) organizing initial consultations with
the local community leaders and legal professionals to identify existing legal awareness
initiatives and accordingly, define the priority themes for the trust-building and training
activities; (iii) developing trust-building and training materials (the package will contain
material which has been developed under existing projects, as well as new materials); (iv)
conducting training sessions with male and female community and civil society leaders
(about 500 people); and (iv) reaching out, to the population in close cooperation with the
community leaders. The office will work in close cooperation with legal aid office and its
experience will feed into the assessment of legal demand. The MOJ will, to the extent
possible and appropriate, coordinate with related programs, such as the Ministry of Interior’s
Focused District Development program, the National Solidarity Program and the Provincial
Justice Coordination Mechanism.


(iii) Strengthening Implementation Capacity ($1.75 million)

13.      The objective of this component is to ensure efficient implementation of the project.
The component focused on building the implementation capacity within the target justice
institutions, so that they over time can implement the reforms and further development
without outside assistance. The component supported further implementation of the National

                                              36 
 
 


Justice Sector Strategy (NJSS), National Justice Programme (NJP) and the Project itself.
With the support of the project the beneficiary institutions (i.e. the Government of
Afghanistan) established NJP management infrastructure, as well as the Project’s governance
and management bodies.




                                            37 
 
 




Annex 3: Grant Preparation and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
                                                                Responsibility/
 Names                   Title                         Unit
                                                                Specialty

    Lending/Grant Preparation

    Martin Endicott         Consultant                      SBU   Team Member

    Branka Farquharson      Temporary                       SASFP Team Member

    Deepal Fernando         Senior Procurement Specialist   ECSO2 Team Member

    Beth Anne Hoffman       Operations Analyst              LEGEN Team Member

    Arun Kumar Kolsur       Senior Procurement Specialist   SARPS Team Member

    Hossai Mahak Aliffi     Team Assistant                  SASEP Team Member

    Brenda Morata           Paralegal                       LEGEM Team Member

    Andrea Maria Muto       Consultant                      SASGP Team Member

    Asha Narayan            FM Specialist                   SARFM Team Member

    Kenneth O. Okpara       Sr FM Specialist                SARFM Team Member

    John C. Sherman         Consultant                      MNC05 Team Member

    Sylvana Q. Sinha        Consultant                      OPCRS Team Member

    Philip Gerald Thacker   Consultant                      ECSPE Team Member

    Supervision/ICR

    Lubomira Zimanova
                            Senior Counsel, TTL             LEGJR TTL
    Beardsley

    Richard Nash            Counsel                         LEGJR Team Member

    Deepal Fernando         Senior Procurement Specialist   ECSO2 Team Member

    Brenda Morata           Paralegal                       LEGEM Team Member




                                             38 
 
 


    Philip Gerald Thacker   Consultant                      ECSPE Team Member

    Sylvana Q. Sinha        Consultant                      OPCRS Team Member

    Satyendra Prasad        Senior Governance Specialist    SASGP TTL, ICR

    Samina Bhatia           Consultant                      SASGP Team Member

    Asha Narayan            Financial Management Specialist SARFM Team Member

    Zohra Farooq            Financial Management Specialist SARFM Team Member

    Asif Ali                Senior Procurement Specialist   SARPS Team Member

                                                                    ICR Team
    Zeljko Sevic            Consultant                      SASGP
                                                                    Member

                                                                    Program
    Mohammed Edreess Sahak Team Assistant                   SASEP
                                                                    Assistance




                                            39 
 
 




Annex 4. List of Individuals Interviewed during ICR

    1. Mr. Hashemi, Acting Admin/Finance Deputy Minister – MOJ

    2. Mr. Masood Sadaat, Project Unit Coordinator – MOJ

    3. Mr. Hafizullah Aziz, Admin/Finance Director – AGO

    4. Mr. Wasil Salarzai, Project Unit Coordinator – AGO

    5. Mr. A. Khalid Azizi, JSRP Project Director

    6. Mr. Naqibullah, Project Unit Coordinator – SC

    7. Ms. Asha Narayan- FM Specialist, World Bank

    8. Mr. Toufiq Ahmed- Procurement Specialist, World Bank

    9. Ms. Lubomira Beardsley, TTL, World Bank

    10. Mr. Richard Nash, World Bank




                                            40 
 
                       60°E                                                                                       65°E                                                                                                                 70°E                                                                               75°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                                         U Z B E K I STA N                                                                                  Dushanbe                                                   hob




                                                                                                    Am
                                                                                                     uD
                                                                                                          ar y                                                                                                                                                                                    Murg
                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                                                                                                         TA J I K I S TA N
                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                          Chardzhev                                                                                        To                                                               TAJ IK IS TA N
                                                                                                                                                                    To                                                     ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Kulob                                                       To Shazud
                                                                                                                                                                 Dushanbe                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                            ˘
                                                                                                                                                                                           Qurghonteppa
                              AFGHANISTAN                                 TUR KM E N I S TA N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Faisabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                h
                                                                                                                                    ¯
                                                                                                                                    ¯
                                                                                                                               JAWZJAN                                                                     ndz
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pya
                                                                                                                                                             BALKH                                     ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                   KUNDUZ                                                                          mi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Taloqan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¯ ¯                                              Pa
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kunduz
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Kondoz
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ¯                                                                                             h
                                                                                                                                     Sheberghan
                                                                                                                                             ¯                      Mazar-e
                                                                                                                                                                      ¯
                                                                                                                                                                    Sharıf
                                                                                                                                                                        ¯                                                     TAKHAR                      ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  BADAKHSHAN
                                                                                                                                        Saripul                                                                                                                                         u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tirich Mir
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (7690 m)
                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                          Samangan
                                                                                                                                                                                ¯                                   Baghlan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ¯                                                  K
                                                                                                                  Meymaneh
                                                             Mary                                                                                                          ¯
                                                                                                                                                                     SAMANGAN                                         ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 BAGHLAN
                                                                                                      ¯ YA ¯
                                                                                                    F A R YA B                                                                                                                                                u
                                                                                                                                                                                                        ndu
                                                                                                                                                                                                            z
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            I R      d                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SH
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ¯o
                                                                                                                                                                                                 eQ                                    J                                         Chitral
                            To
                                                                                                                                 SARIP UL
                                                                                                                                 SARIPUL                                                     y                                              n
               35°N
                        Mashad
                                                                                                            Mor
                                                                                                                  gh¯                                                              Da
                                                                                                                                                                                    ¯   ry
                                                                                                                                                                                           a-                         Bazarak
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         H        PAiN             ¯    ¯¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NURISTAN
                                                                                                                    ab
                                     P
                                                                                      ¯
                                                                                    B A D G H ¯S
                                                                                              I                                                                                                           ¸ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mahmud-e Raqı
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ¯¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ¯ ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KAPISA Nuristan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ¯ ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          35°N
                                          a                                                                                                                                Bamyan
                                                                                                                                                                            ¯ ¯¯                      ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                 PARWAN                                        Asadabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ¯ ¯
                                               r o             Qal‘eh-ye Now                                                                                                                         ¯                Charıkar LAGHMAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ¯¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KUNAR      To
                                                   p a                          e                                                                                                                                      ¯
                                                                        R a n g                                                                               ¯    ¯
                                                        m i s u s                                                                                                                                                                  Mehtarlam           Mardan
                                                                                                                        Chaghcharan
                                                                                                                                 ¯                          B A M YA N                                          KABUL KABUL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ¯                        ¯
                                                      Herat
                                                         ¯
                                                                             ır¯d
                                                                          Har¯
                                                                               u
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Jalalabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ¯¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PAK IS TAN
                                                                                                                                                                                 WA R D A K                         Meydan Shahr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        INDIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ¯                       Khyber Pass
                                       ¯                                                                                                                                                                            LOGAR                NANGARHAR
                                 H E R AT                                                           GHOR                                                                                                                                                                   To Peshawar
                                                                                                                             DAY KUNDI                                                                                  Pol-e ‘Alam
                                                                                                                                 Nili                                                                                         PAKTIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ghaznı
                                                                                                                                                                                                               ¯              Gardız
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      us
                                                                                                                                                        d
                                                                                                                                                      an
                                                                                                                                                                   G H A Z N¯




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ind
               ISLAMIC                                                                                                                        He
                                                                                                                                                 lm                         I                                                       KOWST                  To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kowst          Kohat 0          50              100     150 Kilometers
               REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                                          Sharan
                                                                    rah
                                                                     ¯
                                                                                                                           ¯
               OF IRAN                                            Fa
                                                                            ¯                                            URUZGAN                                                                                                                                    0                  50             100 Miles
                                                                       FA R A H                                         Tarın Kowt
                                                                                                                           ¯
                                         ut
                                      ¯r
                                     Ha
                                         ¯
                                                          Farah
                                                             ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                   I ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                            P A K T¯K A
                                                                                                                                                   ¯
                                                                                                                                                  ZABUL
                                                                                                                                                      Qalat
                                                                                                                                                         ¯
                                                                              h
                                                                            Kh¯ s
                                                                              a




                                                                                                                                               n¯ k
                                                                                                                                                a
                                                                                                                                           Tar

                          Hamun-e
                           ¯ ¯
                            Saberı
                            ˛¯ ¯
                                                                                      Lashkar Gah
                                                                                               ¯           Arghandab
                                                                                                                    Kandahar
                                                                                                                          ¯

                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AFG H ANISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Zhob

                                                          Dasht-I Margo                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                 Zaranj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                               N ¯M R O Z
                                                 I    ¯                      HILMAND                       ¯
                                                                                                     KANDAHAR                                                                                                                                                                                RIVERS
                                                  Helm                                                                                                  To
                                                       and                                                                                              Quetta                                                                                                                               MAIN ROADS
               30°N
                                              Gowd-e                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RAILROADS
                                               Zereh




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 33358R1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  30°N
OCTOBER 2011




                                                                                                                                                           This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                           The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                           shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                60°E                                         PA KI S TA N                                65°E
                                                                                                                                                           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70°E
