                                                            OFFICIAL
                                                                                      TF o ~ ~ 3 3
                                                                                            1
                                                           DOCUMENTS


The World Bank                                               1818 H Street N.W.             (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT        Washington, D.C. 20433         Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                        U.S.A.                         Cable Address: INDEVAS




        H.E. Eklil Ahmad Hakimi
        Minister of Finance
        Ministry of Finance
        Kabul
        Afghanistan

                           AFGHANISTAN: Justice Service Delivery Project
                                     (ARTF Grant No.TF012533)
                Amendment to the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund Grant Agreement

        Excellency:

               We refer to the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF) Grant Agreement, dated May
        31, 2012, between the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (the Recipient) and the International
        Development Association, acting as Administrator of the ARTF (the World Bank) for the above-
        referenced project (the Project) (the Agreement).

               We also refer to your letter, dated February 23, 2016, requesting a restructuring of the Project
        requiring certain amendments to the Agreement.

             We are pleased to inform you that the World Bank concurs with the request, and the
        Agreement is amended as set forth below subsequent to the above mentioned request.

        1.      Schedule 1 is deleted and replaced by the text set forth in the Attachment to this amendment
                letter.

        2.      Section l.A.2 of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows:

                "2.     The Recipient shall maintain throughout the implementation of the Project, a Project
                        Support Unit, staffed in a manner satisfactory to the Administrator, with staff in
                        adequate numbers under terms ofreference and with qualifications acceptable to the
                        Administrator, and adequate resources, to act as its secretariat and be responsible
                        for the day-to-day management and implementation of the Project, including
                        financial management, procurement, progress reporting and monitoring, and
                        technical oversight of the implementation of the Project, facilitate the coordination
                        of activities under the Project, including preparation of annual work plans and
                        annual budgets and submitting them to POC for review and approval, as well as the
                        establishment and maintenance of a Project website. The PSU shall act as secretariat
                        to the POC."

        3.      Sections l.A.3 and l.A.4 of Schedule 2 are hereby deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
                sections are renumbered accordingly.

        4.      Section l.A.5 (now Section l.A.3 pursuant to the deletion above in paragraph 3) of Schedule
                2 is amended to read as follows:

                'The Recipient shall cause each of the POC to convene, on an annual basis and semi-annual
                basis, respectively, a stakeholders' forum comprised of individuals representing the legal
                                                 -2-



       professions, academia, civil society, non-governmental organizations, the business
       community, religious leaders, local government and other interest groups, including women,
       to seek feedback on Project implementation."

5.     Section l.C.l(b) of Schedule 2 is hereby amended to read as follows (emphasis added):

       "(b)     within four (4) months of the Effective Date prepare and adopt the Operations
       Manual (including a procurement sub-manual, the Financial Management Sub-Manual, and
       a results framework) in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, and
       thereafter implement the Project in accordance with such manual."

6.     Section l.C.4 of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows:

       "4.       The Recipient shall ensure that the relevant portions of the Financial Management
                 Manual and Operations Manual shall be made available, at all times until
                 completion of the Project, to each person or entity which receives, is responsible for
                 deposit or transfer of, or takes or influences decisions regarding the use of the
                 proceeds of the Grant, including the PSU, and all consultants and contractors."

7.     Section l.E of Schedule 2 is hereby deleted in its entirety and the remaining section is
       renumbered accordingly.

8.     Section II.A. I of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows (emphasis added):

       "I.      The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
       Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions
       and on the basis of the indicators set forth in the Operations Manual. Each Project Report
       shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Administrator
       not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report."

9.     The table in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows:

                        Category                   Amount of the                Percentage of
                                                   Grant Allocated           Expenditures to be
                                                 (expressed in USO)                Financed
                                                                             (inclusive of Taxes)
             (I ) Goods, works, non-                   40,000,000                    100%
             consulting services, and
             consultants' services, Training
             and Incremental Operating Cost
             under the Project

             (2) Amount Cancelled as of                15,000,000                    100%
             February 23, 2016

             TOT AL AMOUNT                             25,000,000


I 0.   Schedule 3 (Results Framework and Monitoring) is deleted in its entirety.

11.    The definitions of "Community Justice Partnership'', "Pilot Province", "Project Unit",
       "Provincial Justice Reform Strategy", and "Provincial Project Oversight Committee" in the
       Appendix are hereby deleted.
                                                                     ,.,
                                                                    -.)-




12.       The definition of "Operations Manual" in the Appendix is amended to read as follows
          (emphasis added):

                      "'Operations Manual" means the manual for the implementation of the Project,
                      prepared by the Recipient in accordance with Section l.C.1 (b) of Schedule 2 to this
                      Agreement and satisfactory to the Administrator, which includes: (i) details of
                      procurement procedures and standard procurement documentation, reporting
                      requirements guidelines for the preparation of the Annual Work Plans and budgets;
                      decision making procedures, and description of roles and responsibilities; models
                      and templates, all in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, as the same
                      may be amended from time to time with the prior written approval of the
                      Administrator; (ii) the Financial Management Manual; and (iii) a results
                      framework setting forth the indicators and targets for purposes of monitoring
                      and evaluation of the progress of the Project.'

           All other provisions of the Agreement, except as amended herein, remain unchanged.

        Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing the form of confirmation set
forth below and returning one fully executed original of this amendment letter to us and retaining
one original for your records. This amendment letter shall become effective as of the date of
countersignature.

                                                 Sincerely,
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   acting as Administrator of the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund




                                             Country Directo for Afghanistan
                                                   South Asia Region


AGREED
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN




Name:    ---Bt~l~t._i~/64'-"F'~'-=-I'-<•'), _. ___/_ __
                     JIA •       •
Title: ---rf4,__.~/.~'f~''SH/c,__~"""------
                        ...

Date: ---.,,,_h._.._{_t.--__,(r---1-1;cf;;~2-1.>....,/---11€...--


cc:
                                         -4-




                                                                                  Attachment

                                   SCHEDULE 1

                                Project Description

The objective of the Project is to increase the access to and use of legal services.

The Project consists of the following parts:

Part I. !Deleted and intentionally left blank I

Part 2. Legal Empowerment

(a)       Legal Aid: Strengthening and expanding the legal aid system through (i) the
creation, staffing and equipping of legal aid offices and legal information call centers; (ii)
development and/or revision of a Legal Aid Strategy and current policies and regulations;
(iii) design and implementation of a detailed business plan for the consolidation of the state
legal aid system; (iv) strengthening the management capacity of the MoJ to plan, finance
and manage legal aid with enhanced automation and information systems; (v) developing
and implementing models of cooperation with enforcement agencies; (vi) testing and rolling
out low cost culturally sensitive alternatives for delivering legal aid.

Part 3. Organization and Capacity of Justice Institutions

(a)     Strengthening Capacity ofJls:

        (i)      Human Capital: (A) preparation and implementation of human resource
                 strategies, including process and information management and performance
                 management for Jls; (B) training needs assessment for the Supreme Court
                 and AGO; (C) justice and judiciary mapping of the courts and prosecutor's
                 offices; and (D) training courses and programs, and professional gatherings
                 of judges, prosecutors, and their staff in the justice sector.

        (ii)     Physical Infrastructure: (A) development of a Capital Investment Plan and
                 infrastructure design standards for the Supreme Court, MoJ, and AGO
                 offices; (B) rehabilitating, constructing and furnishing courts and office
                 buildings; and (C) improvement of information management systems in the
                 Jls.

Part 4. Implementation Capacity

        Strengthening the institutional capacity of the PSU secretariat for the carrying out
        of the Project.
