Document of
The World Bank                       FILE COPY
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rewpt No. P-2866-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
July 17, 1980
This document has a restlited distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornce of
their official die. Its contents may not oterwise be disclosed witht World Bank authierzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =     Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
TSh 1.0             -     US$0.1205
US$1.00             =     TSh 8.30
US$1.00             =     SDR 0.762576
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued in relation
to a basket of currencies, the US Dollar/Tanzania Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this
report were made at US$1.00 to TSh 8.30 which is close to
the 1979 average exchange rate. The US$/SDR exchange rate
used in this report is that of May 31, 1980).
ABBREVATIONS AND ACRONYMS
FAO      -   Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.
TAC      -   Tanzania Audit Corporation
TAU      -   Technical Assistance Unit
TIB      -   Tanzania Investment Banik
UNIDO    -   United Nations Industrial Development Organization
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
TIB       : July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         'United Republic of Tanzania
Beneficiary:       Tanzania Investment Bank
Amount:            SDR 8.4 million (US$11 million) equivalent
Terms:              Standard
Relending Terms:   The proceeds of the credit would be provided to the
Tanzania Investment Bank as a grant.
Project            The proposed credit would increase the Government of
Description:      Tanzania's capacity to prepare and implement development
projects through the provision of consulting services and
training in support of preinvestment activities, capacity
utilization, export promotion, auditing and other such
studies or work. The project would be implemented by the
Tanzania Investment Bank, which would acquire additional
professional staff and a limited amount of vehicles and
equipment for this purpose under the credit. There is a
risk that some studies to be financed under the project
will prove unproductive; however, this risk will be
minimized through experience gained at TIB under the First
Technical Assistance Project.
Estimated Cost:
(US$ Million)
Local     Foreign     Total I/
Consulting Services                    2.0          7.5        9.5
Training                               0.4          2.0        2.4
Project Unit (including professional
staff, vehicles and equipment)       0.6         0.7         1.3
Unallocated                             -           0.         0.8
TOTAL                    3.0        11.0        14.0
Firancing Plan:
(US$ Million)
Local     Foreign     Total
IDA Credit                           -           11.0      11.0
Government of Tanzania               3.0         -          3.0
and its agencies
1/  Except for US$100,000 assigned to vehicles and equipment, the project
would be exempted from identifiable taxes and duties.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated
Disbursements:                                    (US$ Million)
IDA Fiscal Year
1981     1982      1983    1984    1985
Annual                                .4       1.0      3.2      3.7     2.7
Cumulative                            .4       1.4      4.6      8.3    11.0
Appraisal Report:  No separate Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared
for this project.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMM(ENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR A SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the United Republic of Tanzania for the equivalent
of SDR 8.4 million ( US$11 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance
preinvestment, capacity utilization and export promotion studies, project
preparation and implementation work and training for Tanzanian nationals in
related fields. The proceeds of the Credit would be made available to the
Tanzania Investment Bank as a grant, but the costs of studies leading to
productive investments would be recovered from the Bank's client agencies.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        A Basic Economic Mission visited Tanzania in August 1976 and the
Basic Economic Report was distributed in December 1977 (Report No. 1616-TA).
A new-Country Economic Memorandum is expected to be issued later this year.
A summary of social and economic data is in Annex I.
Profile of the Economy
3.        Tanzania is one of the 30 least developed countries in the world
with a per capita income in 1978 of US$230. The economy is still heavily
dependent on agriculture: 90% of the labor force is engaged in agriculture
and approximately 50% of GDP and about 70% of total exports are derived from
agricultural production. The industrial sector is still small, producing
about 10% of GD", approximately the same percentage as 11 years ago. The
2,ertvi.cs_ oc_cor ,:oduces about 40% of GDP.  Overall population density is
-Low, though a few areas are considered overpopulated. Population growth is
estimated at 3.0% per annum with both fertility and mortality at relatively
'iigh levels.
4.        Since the Arusha Declaration in 1967 Tanzania has pursued a socialist
development strategy. Banking, insurance, and most large-scale enterprises
in manufacturing, plantation agriculture, transportation, and wholesale trade
ar, under state control. There is extensive state intervention in economic
activity, including import licensing, foreign exchange controls, price control,
the reservation of some activities to the state or cooperative sector, and
detailed Government investment planning. The second major feature of
I/   This 3ection is essentially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration project dated May 21, 1980.



Tanzania's development strategy is its strong emphasis on rural development
and social programs to benefit the poor and reduce inequalities in income
distribution. This is reflected in ambitious Government programs for the
provision of rural water supplies, health services and universal primary
education.
Long Term Economic Trends
5.        In the decade 1968-78 real GDP at factor cost grew at an annual
average rate of 4.8%, or about 1.8% per annum per capita. While economic
growth was severely disrupted by the economic crisis following the failure
of rains and large increases in import prices in 1973 and 1974, the economy
recovered with annual growth of 5 to 6% for 1976 through 1978. During the
seventies the service sector was the fastest growing sector - 6.3% per year.
6.        The Government has a good record of domestic resource mobilization.
Between 1967-68 and 1977-78 the share of recurrent revenues rose from 15.1%
to 19.3% of GDP. However, most of this increase occurred before 1975-1976;
in 1974/75 revenue peaked at 22% of GDP. The increase was achieved through a
combination of highly progressive direct taxes and proportional or moderately
progressive indirect taxes. Except during the economic crisis in 1974-75, the
rate of national savings has also been high; gross national savings fluctuated
at around 16-17% of GNP from the mid-1960s through 1973, fell to half that
level during the crisis years and recovered to the pre-crisis level in 1976
and 1977. These are high levels of savings for a country at Tanzania's income
level.
7.        Some progress has also been made in achieving the Government's
objective of more equitable income distribution. Between 1969 and 1975 the
average urban rural gap remained approximately constant, halting the trend
towards an increasing gap in the early 1960s. Moreover, it is likely that
this gap has been slightly reduced since 1976 due to continued recovery of
agricultural production and higher producer prices. However, regional income
differentials in rural areas have tended to widen slightly. Within the formal
urban sector there has been a dramatic narrowing of the post-tax income
differential between the highest-paid government officials and minimum wage
earners, from 50 to 1 in 1961 to 8 to 1 in 1975. However, a large informal
sector has emerged comprising large numbers of unemployed and underemployed
workers with earnings significantly below the official urban minimum wage.
The policies of wage restraint and higher producer prices pursued since 1975
should have a beneficial impact on almost all dimensions of income distribu-
tion, and the basic needs oriented programs in rural water, health and primary
education (para. 4 above) are resulting in a significant redirection in public
expenditures toward the rural poor.
8.        Despite this impressive overall record of development, some pro-
blems have begun to manifest themselves in recent years. Exports have failed
to keep pace with the growth of the rest of the economy; the overall export
index is down almost one-third since 1966. This poor performance in exports
is due to the poor growth rate of agricultural cash crops. While agricul-
tural output has increased impressively in recent years (10.9% in 1976 and



- 3 -
8.2% in 1977), most of this growth has been in the hard-to-measure subsistence
sector; the monetary sector has lagged well behind. This failure of export
growth has led to increasing dependency on foreign loans and grants to pay
for imports.
9.        A second increasingly serious problem is the deceleration of the
growth of domestic revenues. While still at a high ratio to GDP compared to
most other developing countries, government revenues have been growing more
slowly than GDP in recent years. At the same time recurrent expenditures have
been higher than budgeted. As a result, public sector savings have been well
below expectations and the Government has had to rely more upon borrowing
(both foreign and local) and external aid for financing development than was
planned.
Recent Economic Developments
10.       During 1975-77 the Government adhered to the program agreed to
at the time of the Program Loan (No. 1063-TA) in late 1974. This program
included redirecting investment to the directly productive sectors of industry
and agriculture, higher agricultural producer prices, constraints on wages and
salaries, price and tax increases to restrain consumption and tight control
of imports. These policies, aided by the boom in coffee prices, succeeded in
keeping government spending under control with low levels of borrowing from
the banking system and led to a balance of payments surplus of almost US$150
million in 1977. Food production increased and government stocks of most
foodgrains reached record levels. In 1978 the Government was able to ease
import restrictions and begin to import the spares and raw materials needed
by all the major sectors in the economy.
11.       Unfortunately, the price of coffee, Tanzania's major export, began
to fall at the same time that imports were liberalized. Also, in October,
1978 war broke out with Uganda and the resulting imports of military equipment
and mobilization of resources required for the war effort put an increasing
strain on the balance of payments and the domestic budget. Consequently, the
current account showed a deficit of more than US$450 million in 1978 and the
overall balance of payments was almost US$300 million in deficit. The Govern-
ment's foreign reserves were rapidly drawn down and the country was forced to
delay payment of about US$60 million in import bills.
12.       The situation deteriorated further in 1979.  The overall balance
of payments for 1979 is expected to be almost US$200 million in deficit, and
arrears on import payment were estimated at about US$200 million by the end
of the year. At the same time the domestic budget deficit has increased
substantially. A recurrent budget deficit of almost TSh 1 billion (US$120
million), was estimated for FY1978/79 and government borrowing from the
banking system is estimated at TSh 3 billion (US$360 million), a major
component in the increase in the money supply of about 35%. In an effort to
deal with the increasing balance of payments deficit, import licenses were
reduced by almost 40% in real terms from the 1978 level and the Government



- 4-
announced a 10% devaluation in January of 1979. In addition the FY1979/80
budget called for a reduction in the level of recurrent expenditure and
borrowing from the banking system of TSh 1.67 billion; however, through the
first quarter of this fiscal year borrowing was already TSh 1.4 billion as
spending agencies, due to lack of budgetary discipline, were able to exceed
their budgetary allocations. In early 1979 the Government arranged for almost
US$75 million in funds from the IMF from a First Credit Tranche, the Trust
Fund and the Export Compensatory Fund, but negotiations for further assistance
from the DMF have so far been unsuccessful.  To deal with the increasing
economic problems as well as provide a framework for IMF assistance, the
Government urgently needs to develop a comprehensive program to overcome
the emerging crisis, as it did in 1974; the Bank has offered to help the
Government in developing such a program.
13.       Tanzania continues to attract large amounts of foreign assistance on
-concessional terms. Because of the very concessional terms on which aid has
been given to Tanzania and the Government's reluctance in the past to use
higher cost commercial loans and supplier's credits, the overall debt service
ratio has historically been less than 10%. However, the recent balance
of payments crisis has forced the Government to utilize commercial loans and
suppliers credits and as a result the debt service ratio is estimated at 12%
in 1979 and projected at 15% in 1980. We expect it will remain in the range
of 15-20% throughout the 1980's. In 1978 the Bank held 12% of Tanzania's
external debt (for the Bank Group, it was 28%) and received 37% of Tanzania's
debt service (40% for the Bank Group). We are projecting this debt service
share to fall to about 21% in 1980 and to remain around 25% for the coming
decade.
14.       Tanzania's development program will require resources in excess of
domestic savings and external capital made available to finance the foreign
exchange costs of projects. Given the Government's efforts to mobilize
domestic resources and in view of our support for its increased emphasis
on local cost intensive rural investments, the Bank Group will continue to
finance a high proportion of total costs including, in appropriate cases, a
portion of local costs.
East African Community (EAC)
15.       The recent developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 19, 1977 (R77-312).
Dr. Victor Umbricht, the independent mediator appointed by the Partner States,
has visited East Africa on numerous occasions and has now prepared reports on
the results of his fact-finding work on the EAC Corporations and the General
Services, and the methodology adopted in appraising the assets and liabilities.
In late March 1980, the mediator presented to the three Governments
his proposals for the allocation of these assets and liabilities, for their
consideration. The next step would be the start of negotiations among
the three Governments based on the mediator's proposals. According
to his terms of reference, the mediator would be available to assist in



-5-
arriving at a definitive settlement. The mediatorts report and recommendations
on the future structure of the East African Development Bank kEADB) have
been accepted by the Partner States. The revised EADB Charter along with the
Treaty amending and re-enacting the new Charter have been submitted to the
three Governments for signature as soon as they are constitutionally ready;
this is expected shortly.
16.       The de facto breakup of the Community has had some impact on
Tanzania's budget as new national entities take over the services formerly
provided by the EAC Corporations. A major development related to the EAC
difficulties was the closure of the border with Kenya. Kenya was a major
trading partner of Tanzania and considerable adjustments have had to be made
in locating new suppliers for some items and developing alternative outlets
for some manufactured goods and agricultural products.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
17.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1962, 44 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, of
which two on Third Window terms, amounting to US$856.5 million have so
far been approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
development of the common services and development bank operated regionally
by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African
Community. IFC investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were made
to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered
financial difficulties and in 1969, IFC and other investors sold their interest
in the Company to the Government. A new IFC investment of US$1.7 million in
soap manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the Executive Directors on June
8, 1978 and an investment of US$1.5 million in metal product manufacturing was
approved on May 10, 1979. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments to Tanzania and the East African Community
organizations and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       To support Tanzania-s overall development strategy Bank Group
lending operations have assisted a wide spectrum of activities. Nearly every
sector in which the Bank Group has operational capacity has received some
attention. While this broad involvement in Tanzania's development efforts
will be continued, future work is expected to concentrate on three general
areas: (i) agriculture; (ii) transport and communications; and (iii) education.
As agriculture and related activities constitute the largest single sector in
the economy, it has received 30% of the Bank Group's direct lending to Tanzania.
The lending program in agriculture features two main types of projects. A
series of regional rural development projects are focusing on production but
also supporting the development of the regional infrastructure needed to
remove production constraints. The Kigoma Project (Credit No. 508-TA) was the
first of these, and similar projects have recently been approved for Tabora
(Credit No. 703-TA) and Mwanza/Shinyanga (Credit No. 803-TA) regions. Other



- 6 -
projects in agriculture are the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture,
either directly or under one of its parastatals, and are intended to improve
the provision of support services for the sector. An example of this is the
recently-approved Tanzania Rural Development Bank Project (Credit No. 987-TA).
19.       Alongside agriculture, there has been a major focus in Bank Group
work on transport and communications and education. Transportation diffi-
culties are continuously cited as critical constraints to development in
Tanzania. Indeed, the Government's inability to ensure the timely avail-
ability of inputs or the regular collection of crops has been a major bottle-
neck to increased production in the agriculture sector. Furthermore, during
the seventies transport investments were primarily concentrated around the
Tanzania-Zambia Corridor and since 1977 no systematic investment program has
been prepared for the subsectors which were overseen by EAC Corporations.
The major objectives of proposed Bank Group activities are therefore to
develop a more balanced investment program in transport and communications and
to provide institution-building assistance to the ministries and newly estab-
lished national corporations responsible for railways, ports and telecommuni-
cations. Shortages in skilled manpower are also a worsening bottleneck to
development. Bank Group involvement in education has supported both spe-
cialized training and the development of the secondary education sector to
assist the Government in meeting its manpower needs.
20.       Projects which have been recently approved or appraised reflect
the above outlined priorities. Those approved include a Sixth Education
Project (Credit No. 861-TA) and a Fifth Highway Project (Credit No. 876-TA), a
Dar es Salaam Port Engineering Project (Credit No. S-24-TA), a line of credit
to the Tanzania Rural Development Bank (Credit No. 987-TA), a Pyrethrum
Project (Credit No. 1007-TA), a Foodgrain Storage and Milling Project (Credit
No. 1015-TA), and a Tea Processing Project (Credit No. 1037-TA). Projects
which have been appraised include a Seventh Education Project, a Coconut Pilot
Project and a rural development project in Mara region. A small scale
industries project, a telecommunications project and an urban project are also
under preparation.
21.       Although the comparatively high undisbursed proportion of loans
and credits, detailed in Annex II, is largely a result of the recent approval
of many of these projects, it also reflects the fact that overall project
implementation has been slower than was projected. It is clear in retrospect
that both the Bank Group and Tanzania have been optimistic regarding Tanzania's
absorptive capacity. The causes of the difficulties in implementation are
varied. Some stem from the scarcity of suitably trained and experienced
manpower, which has triggered the Bank Group's expanded efforts in education
and training over the past five years. Other implementation problems reflect
the difficulty of identifying agronomic input packages appropriate to the
needs of smallholder farmers or result from the strains associated with
attempting a "frontal attack" on poverty. These problems have been compounded
by frequent and drastic administrative changes, which -- though potentially
the source of long-term benefits -- have certainly disrupted orderly execution



of projects and made parts of earlier project concepts obsolete. In addition,
the Uganda war (para. 11) has had some impact on project implementation. In
the early stages of the war, there was some diversion of equipment and man-
power; however these problems have largely been solved. The more serious
problem over the medium term is the financial implications of the war. If
general economic problems resulting from the war are not resolved, the avail-
ability of adequate local funds could become a major constraint to implementa-
tion. In general, difficulties have been most severe in agriculture, parti-
cularly in the smallholder rural sector. As our lending program has been
increasingly concentrated on this sector, these problems have become corre-
spondingly more apparent and severe. By contrast, the "modern" sector projects
have tended to fare better: the Tanzania Investment Bank, Mwanza Textile and
Morogoro Industrial Estate Projects, for example, are proceeding well.
22.       As the Bank Group's lending program has expanded, increasing
attention has been given to measures designed to improve project implementa-
tion. A course was conducted in Dar es Salaam in 1973 and again in 1978
on Bank Group procurement with the relevant Government officials. A special
project implementation unit was set up in the Ministry of Agriculture and
11 Agricultural Development Services staff have been assigned to Bank Group
financed projects in agriculture and rural development. The need to establish
a close and continuous working level dialogue between responsible Tanzanian
officials and Bank Group staff on implementation problems was one of the prime
reasons for the expansion of the Resident Mission to two professionals in
October 1976. In February 1977 a regular Government/Bank Group review of
project implementation was established. Discussions on Bank Group financed
projects chaired by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and attended by Bank Group
staff and officials from implementing agencies deal in detail with individual
problem projects and problems which are affecting project implementation
across a number of sectors. As a result of these efforts, there has been some
improvement in project implementation. Actions agreed to during the reviews
have been completed relatively quickly and coordination and communication
between the MOF and the various ministries and agencies responsible for
project implementation have also improved.
23.       The Government has become increasingly conscious of the importance
of effective implementation. In addition to supporting the project imple-
mentation review system, MOF has set up a unit to oversee project performance.
Furthermore, there have been more consistent responses to Bank suggestions and
a willingness to openly discuss project problems raised by Bank staff. As a
consequence, the disbursement records of Bank Group financed projects have
improved somewhat over the last two years, and a recent analysis indicated
that the Tanzanian disbursement performance is about equal to the Bank-wide
average. While there is still a potential for further significant improve-
ments, the Government is implementing its investment program, including
Bank Group and other foreign aided projects, more effectively than in the
past.



-8-
PART III - THE CONTINUED NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
22.       Much of the rationale for IDA's First Technical Assistance Credit
to Tanzania 1/ remains valid. The country's scarce human resources continue
to be spread very thinly across a wide spectrum of development activities.
The shortage of people trained to formulate and supervise the implementation
of productive projects, particularly in the highly specialized areas of
industry, mining and energy development, is still acute. Where Tanzanian
personnel are available in such critical disciplines, they have usually had
insufficient practical experience since completing their studies and require
sustained exposure to long-standing professionals in their own fields. The
reorientation of the Government-s development priorities from infrastructure
and social services to directly productive activities has stretched this
already limited human establishment even further, and it has been slow to
expand in key areas. (The first graduating class in engineering at the
University of Dar es Salaam in 1977 comprised only 27 people.)
23.       Tanzania continues to benefit from a high level of externally-
financed technical assistance, both in the form of specialists serving on
long-term assignments in the public sector and studies undertaken by individual
consultants or consulting firms, based largely in the industrialized countries.
In 1979, at least US$70 million of a total US$500 million in external
assistance was received in the form of technical cooperation personnel,
studies, research and training awards. 2/ Since 1975, bilateral donors have
financed water resource surveys and the preparation of rural development
projects in most of the country-s twenty mainland regions, the preparation of
a Power Sector Study outlining national options in the electrical energy field
up to the year 2000, and a study of possible uses of the important Rufiji
River Basin. Most of these studies have been large enough to be treated as
projects unto themselves by various financing agencies, and hence have been
the subjects of special attention and effort. However, not all studies have
resulted in the preparation of specific investments or in concrete proposals
for the more efficient use of existing capital facilities. Furthermore, where
investments have been undertaken, they have often been tied to the technology
and industrial capacities of the country which financed the study. Some
requirements for studies are too small to be of interest to bilateral
assistance agencies, as the processing of requests for such studies is likely
to delay the preparation of larger development undertakings. The lead time
required for submitting and obtaining approval for such studies can also be
daunting. Sweden and the Netherlands have introduced lines of credit for
1/   See Report No. P-1692a-TA, dated November 12, 1975.
2/   These are preliminary estimates based on the findings of an economic
mission to Tanzania in March 1980, and they include a small amount
of support equipment (e.g. teaching aids for instructors). As so-
called financial assistance budgets often include provision for project
personnel and studies, total technical assistance was probably even higher.



- 9 -
general consulting services, which have been flexibly administered and well-
used, but such an approach to technical assistance is more often the exception
than the rule. Bilateral resources also tend to be devoted to resolving
questions arising in current development programs rather than assigned to
purposes lying beyond the donor's immediate sectors of concentration.
24.       Much of available bilateral and UNDP assistance is also being used
for broad based institutional support rather than for the preparation of new
investments and studies designed to improve productivity or to identify new
opportunities for export earnings. Even in the directly productive sectors of
agriculture and industry, a large proportion of outside assistance is still
devoted to supporting day-to-day management, rather than to the systematic
assessment of institutions and facilities in those sectors. With the subject
of capacity utilization likely to become more pressing during the next few
years because of chronic underproduction in the industrial sector and a
growing desire to ensure maximum returns from the existing capital facilities
in the country, Tanzania will require continued access to discretionary
resources in economic planning and management.
25.       To a large but perhaps diminishing extent, such resources will
continue to be sought from abroad. There is only a small number of consulting
firms operating in Tanzania, many of which are foreign-owned and fully-
occupied. Some parastatal organizations have entered the consulting field or
expanded their operations since the First Credit was approved, but most of
these are still fledgling or to some degree already overburdened. The Tanzania
Industrial Studies and Consulting Organization (TISCO) was established in 1976
and has been awarded some work under the existing Credit. The National
Institute for Productivity (NIP) is very active in providing advice to Govern-
ment Ministries and public sector enterprises on the streamlining of their
operations, but it has so far not been able to form a permanent corps of
specialists equipped to mount elaborate engineering and economic studies. The
National Estates and Designing Company (NEDCO) has expressed interest in
offering consulting services outside its traditional sphere of activities
(architecture and engineering design) but its capacities for preparing pre-
investment or project preparation studies are essentially untested. The
Institute of Finance Management (IFM) in Dar es Salaam had intended to under-
take general consulting assignments, in addition to its main work of training
Tanzanians in accountancy, banking, insurance and taxation; however, it has
had to drop such plans for want of appropriate expatriate staff. As a result,
foreign-based firms can be expected to provide a large portion of the consult-
ing services to be financed under the proposed credit; nonetheless, efforts
will continue to be made to use local firms to the greatest extent possible.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
26.       Project Background:  The proposed credit would be IDA's second
line of credit for technical assistance purposes to Tanzania. The first
credit for US$6.0 million was approved in 1975 to finance (a) feasibility and



- 10 -
other preinvestment studies for projects in the productive sectors; (b)
special studies for improving efficiency and capacity utilization under
existing investments; and (c) training of Tanzanians in project preparation,
implementation, evaluation and related techniques. The Tanzanir- Investment
Bank (TIB) assumed responsibility for implementing this project.
27.       As of April 15, 1980 TIB had committed US$4.74 million (net of
cancellations) under the credit for twenty-five feasibility and project
preparation studies, eight efficiency and capacity utilization studies, four
local training courses and twenty-six overseas scholarships. As a large
number of studies are still underway, it is still too early to evaluate the
first credit fully. However, five of the six completed feasibility and
project preparation studies have already led or are likely to lead to pro-
ductive investments in key industries: tea processing, irrigated rice produc-
tion, petroleum refining, pulp and paper and tourism. Efficiency-improvement
studies have also assisted TIB and its client firms in analyzing management
and technical problems and defining measures for overcoming them. One study
alone produced recommendations for rationalizing the operations of six major
textile mills in in the country, with already perceptible effects in recent
production. TIB has also been able to study inventory management among key
parastatals and to complete the first phase of a productivity improvement
program for major industrial enterprises.
28.       The training component of the first credit was also well-used.  Its
most effective application was in organizing two project preparation and
evaluation courses in Arusha in collaboration with the East African Management
Institute and EDI, and in holding two seminars in Dar es Salaam in project
implementation for public sector managers.
29.       TIB currently has a pipeline of about forty possible studies, which
are in various stages of processing. As a result, TIB expects to have fully
committed the first credit by December 31, 1980. TIB, the Government and
client parastatals all agree that the first credit has been useful in helping
Tanzania identify, formulate and evaluate projects as well as to build up its
project appraisal and implementation capabilities.
Project Description
30.       The project was prepared by the Government with the assistance of
Bank Group staff and was appraised in November 1979. Negotiations were
held in Washington in June 1980; the Tanzanian Delegation was headed by Mr. G.
Mbowe, Chairman and Managing Director of the Tanzania Investment Bank. A
Credit and Project Summary is at the front of this Report, and Annex III
contains supplemental project data.
31.       The project would involve an IDA Credit of SDR 8.4 million
(US$11 million) equivalent over a 4-year period and would finance the
following:
(a) about seventy-five man-years of consultancy services to
prepare preinvestment, capacity utilization, and export



- 11 -
marketing studies, as well as detailed engineering work for
high priority projects in the industrial, agricultural,
energy and other sectors of the economy; project preparation
and implementation services; and some sectoral studies;
(b) training for Tanzanians in project preparation, implementation
and evaluation and in accounting and auditing;
(c) six man-years of specialized staff and US$100,000 equivalent in
vehicles and equipment for the Technical Assistance Unit of
TIB; and
(d) US$0.8 million equivalent in unallocated funds.
32.       Consultancy Services and Studies:  As under the first credit the
studies are expected to cover most productive sectors of the economy. While
perhaps the most pressing needs remain in the production of consumer goods,
such as clothing, cooking oil, sugar, salt, etc., other intermediate industries
such as tanning, wood processing, cement, electrical products, plastics and
chemicals will also be supported under this project. The expansion of the
mining sector will require heavy reliance on technical assistance, as
will the energy exploration and development field. Other sectors which will
benefit from this credit include agriculture and food production, tourism,
communications, power generation and transmission and energy conservation.
While a substantial portion of the funds would be used to prepare new invest-
ments, studies aimed at maximizing the use of existing productive capacity
would be given a high priority. TIB also hopes to identify products and
sectors with significant export potential, as well as to help develop new
foreign markets for Tanzanian goods and services.
33.       Training.  Owing to the success and cost-effectiveness of locally
organized training courses financed under the first credit it is expected that
a major portion of the training component would be used to finance similar
courses. They will train suitably qualified Tanzanian candidates in project
design, evaluation and implementation, mainly in the industrial and agro-
industrial sectors.  It is also expected that about half of this component
will be used to help upgrade the accounting and auditing capabilities of the
Tanzania Audit Corporation, which has been hoping to recruit experts to
prepare training manuals and to equip some of its staff for financial
consultancy through accelerated training programs abroad. As under the first
credit, some fellowships for short overseas courses would also be available in
specialized fields. Detailed proposals for training under the project are to
be submitted to the Association by October 31, 1980.
Project Organization
34.       The Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB), with which the Bank Group has
been involved since 1974, would assume overall responsibility for supervising
and implementing the project, as was the case with the First Technical Assis-
tance Credit. TIB has so far received one IDA credit, three Bank loans and an



- 12 -
EEC Special Action Credit (administered by IDA) for a total of US$76 million.
Progress on all these operations has been satisfactory and TIB has rapidly
developed into a well organized and effective financial intermediary. As a
result, it has earned considerable respect within Tanzania and with bilateral
and multilateral agencies for its effectiveness in assisting Tanzania's
industrial development and for its independent and capable management.
35.       TIB is wholly owned by the Tanzanian Government.  Within the banking
and financial system in Tanzania, TIB's main role has been to provide term
financing to the directly productive sectors of the economy. TIB's Board is
headed by the Chairman and Managing Director, who is appointed by the
President, and has seven other members, among whom are the Personal Assistant
to the President (Economic Affairs), the Director of Planning at the Ministry
of Industries, the Director of Domestic Banking at the National Bank of
Commerce, a business consultant representing the private sector and a repre-
sentative of the national workers' organization (JUWATA). TIB's Board is
actively involved in TIB's operations and has the sole power of approving
loans and equity investments. A General Manager assists the Managing Director
in overseeing TIB, whose organization consists of four departments: Operations,
Planning and Development, Finance, and Secretary's and Administration.
Tanzanians head all these departments.
36.       Direct responsibility for implementation of the credit would remain
with the Technical Assistance Unit (TAU) in TIR's Planning and Development Depart-
ment. This unit has gained considerable experience in administering the
first line of credit without outside technical assistance since 1978. (At
that time the contract of the consultants who had been in charge of the
TAU since its inception, was allowed to lapse.) In addition to the services
of the Director of the Department, the TAU includes two local professionals (a
food technologist and an economist) and an expatriate engineer, and draws on
the services of other TIB personnel, including two chemical engineers, two
agriculturalists and two economists. The TAU obtains legal services from the
Tanzania Legal Corporation.
37.       With the recent increase in the number, scope and diversity of
studies, and the involvement of the TAU in organizing training, the TAU's
administrative capacity is now under pressure. As a result, the Unit has not
been able to devote as much time as it would like to generating project and study
proposals from client parastatals, or to following up on the recommendations
of completed studies. As a result, TIB intends to strengthen the professional
staff at the Unit's disposal by recruiting four additional permanent staff:
two industrial engineers and two agricultural economists. TIB has already
secured bilateral financing and begun recruitment for two of these positions
and it proposes to finance the two other specialists from the proposed credit
during the next twelve months.
38.       TIB has relied on its own in-house capabilities and limited assis-
tance from Bank Group and bilateral donors to identify and recruit consultants
for studies. While this system has worked satisfactorily so far, it needs to
be strengthened in view of the anticipated increase in demand for studies in



- 13 -
some specialized fields. As a result, TIB has decided to collaborate closely
with the Tanzania Industrial Studies and Consulting Organization (TISCO) in
identifying future consultants as well as to further supplement its own index
of firms and individuals through stepped-up exchanges of information with
potential commissioning agencies and the appropriate technical divisions of
UNIDO and FAO.
39.       Because of the urgent need for Tanzania to increase capacity utiliza-
tion in its industrial and agricultural sectors and to develop a more export-
oriented industrial sector, TIB intends to promote more efficiency improvement
and export promotion studies under the new IDA credit.
40.       Procedures for Approval of Studies.  Applications for project studies
would be submitted by the parastatals and Government ministries to TIB. The
TAU would review each proposal and submit it, along with the Unit's recommen-
dations, to TIB's Loans Committee for consideration. (The Loans Committee is
presided over by the Managing Director and comprises the General Manager and
the heads of TIB's departments.) In conducting its review the TAU would assure
itself that suitable and timely finance could not be secured from other multi-
lateral and bilateral agencies, including UNDP, for the studies. Furthermore,
for relatively large projects, TIB would suggest to the sponsoring parastatal
that an initial prefeasibility study be undertaken prior to funding a full-
scale feasibility study. In support of studies on large-scale undertakings,
the TAU would include in its written submission to the Loans Committee some
evidence of the likelihood that the project would be implemented, if viable.
To ensure coordination in project identification and preparation, TIB would
seek the opinions of the planning sections of interested Ministries on the
relative priority of a prospective study and ensure its consistency with long
term strategy in the sector. In view of TIB's satisfactory handling of pre-
vious consulting services, the maximum value of study proposals and contracts
which it could approve under the Credit without prior IDA agreement would be
raised from US$50,000 to US$100,000 per proposal. However, aggregate approvals
of this kind (including training sub-projects) are not to exceed US$4 million
equivalent (Section 2.09(b) of the draft Project Agreement). In respect of
training for the Tanzania Audit Corporation, no disbursements would be made
from the Credit until a revised training program had been submitted to, and
approved by, the Association (paragraph 4(c) of Schedule 1 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
41.       Channeling of Funds.  The proceeds of the credit would be channelled
as a grant by the Government to TIB under a subsidiary agreement whose terms
and conditions would be acceptable to the Association (Section 3.01(b) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). Funds for studies would be passed on
as grants by TIB to the individual parastatals and Government agencies, who
would actually commission the studies and employ the consultants. It is
expected that if bankable projects emerged, TIB would convert these grants
into loans, where possible. TIB would have the discretion to charge a fee for
the capacity utilization and export marketing studies.



- 14 -
Project Costs and Financing
42.       The total project cost would be US$14.0 million equivalent, 1/ and
would include US$11.0 million or nearly 80% in foreign exchange costs. The
approximate project budget is provided in the Project and Credit %ammary
at the front of this Report. The proposed credit would finance US$11 million
or 80% of total project costs; the Government, commissioning agencies and TIB
would contribute the remaining US$3 million or 20% of total project costs.
Part of this local contribution is expected to be in kind (e.g., counterpart
staff, office space and secretarial services), and would ensure the full
commitment of the commissioning agencies to the studies supported under the
project. The estimated average cost per man-month for consulting services and
professional staff for TIB (including salary, international travel and subsis-
tence) would be US$8,000.
Procurement and Disbursement
43.       In the case of any consultants- contract expected to cost more than
US$100,000 equivalent, the short list of consultants and their proposed terms
of reference would be subject to prior approval by the Association (Paragraph
4 of Schedule 1 of the draft Project Agreement). TIB has standardized a
format for consultancy contracts, in consultation with the Association, but in
cases where major deviations from the standard text were contemplated, even
contracts expected to cost less than US$100,000 would be subject to IDA
approval. Contracts for vehicles and equipment (expected to cost less than
US$100,000 for the entire project) are not likely to attract international
interest and would be arranged in accordance with the Government's own
competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory to the Association.
44.       The credit would be disbursed against 100% of the foreign exchange
costs and 80% of the local costs of consultancy contracts (including contracts
with professional staff for TIB), vehicles and equipment, and training.
Project Justification and Risk
45.       Technical services financed under the credit would provide special-
ized skills and assistance in identifying, planning and implementing projects
in areas where Tanzania has little or no expertise. Special studies designed
to improve the utilization of existing production facilities could result
in significant increases in output, while the export marketing studies could
result in identifying potential export products and markets in the short
term and developing a more export oriented industrial sector in the longer
term. The training to be provided under the credit should help to upgrade
general project identification, evaluation and implementation skills in
Tanzania, as well as increase the country's level of technical expertise
in selected areas such as accounting and auditing.
1/   Except for US$100,000 for vehicles and equipment, the project would be
exempted from identifiable taxes and duties.



- 15 -
46.       However, the project is not without risks.  The rate of commitment
of the credit could be slow; some inappropriate sub-projects could be selected,
while others could be poorly executed; and viable investments emerging from
the studies could go unfinanced. These risks will be minimized, however, by
the expertise acquired by TIB during the successful administration of the
First Technical Assistance Credit, and by the increasing awareness among
parastatals and Government Ministries of the potential benefits of proper
monitoring and follow-up of studies. Furthermore, in order to oversee imple-
mentation, all studies expected to cost over US$100,000 would be subject to
approval by the Association.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
47.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United Republic
of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Tanzania Investment Bank and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
48.       Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement and draft
Project Agreement are listed in Section III of Annex III of this Report. An
additional condition of credit effectiveness would be that a subsidiary
agreement between the Government and TIB, acceptable to the Association, had
been executed (Section 5.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
49.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
50.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
July 17, 1980



-16 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TANZANIA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGITED AV5AGES
LAND ARE. (THOUSAND SQ. KM-)                                                            - MDST RECENT ESTIHATE)-
TOTAL             945.1
AGRICUITURAL     498.0                                   MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     70.0        120.0      230.0                  228.9                    726.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         41.0         62.0      65.0                   80.0                    699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULA'ION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        10.2         13.3       16.9
URBAN IVPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  4.8             6.9       10.8                   17.3                     28.9
POPULA1'ION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          32.0
STATIONARY POPULATION  (MILLIONS)                            92.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2145
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. FM.                          11.0         14.0      18.0                   27.4                     61.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        21.0         26.0      34.0                   82.6                    126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           42.7          44.4      45.7                   44.9                     45.5
15-64 YRS.                           54.3         52.5       51.2                   52.2                     51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      3.0          3.1        3.1                    2.8                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.2          2.7       3.0                    2.7                      2.7
URBAN'                                5.0          6.3       8.9                    6.8                      4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        47.0         47.0       48.0                  47.4                     46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        22.0         19.0       16.0                  19.6                      16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION BATE                  ..          3.2        3.2                   3.2                       3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..           ..      93.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            95.0        104.0       91.0                   91.8                     94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     85.0         91.0       89.0                   90.2                     92. 7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            44.0          49.0      49.0                   53.0                     53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         17.0          21.0      21.0                   18.4                     15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        32.0         25.0       20.0                  27.7                     21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.0            47.0      51.0                   45.3                     50.1
INFANT MORTALITY BATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..        155.0/c       .
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAI                                  ..         13.0      39.0                   23.2                     31.0
URBAN                                  ..         61.0      88.0                   58.0                     66.8
RURAI                                  ..          9.0      36.0                   16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPbLATION)
TOTAI                                  ..           ..      17.0                   28.9
URBAN                                  ..           ..      88.0                   67.0
RURAI                                  ..           ..      14.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           21020.0/d   24770.0   15450.0                  30910.4                  14508.2
POPULA9ION PER NURSING PERSON    10440.0/d.e  3830.0    2760.0                     5793.2                   3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAI                              570.0/d          ..      440.0                1198.9                   1141.5
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAI                                  ..          4.4/c
URBAN                                  ..          3.2/ 
RURAI                                              4.'SI     5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  .            .          ..                    . -
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..



- 17 -
ANNX I
TABLE 3A                                          Page  2  of  6
TANZANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TANZANIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTI ETE
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 25.0         38.0       70.0                  57.7                     61.7
MALE                  33.0        46.0       79.0                  74.2                     69.2
FEIALE                18.0        30.0       60.0                  54.1                     51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0          3.0        3.0                  10.0                     20.6
MALE                   2.0         4.0        5.0                  13.7                     29.2
FEMALE                 1.0         2.0        2.0                   7.1                     14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY)  23.0            ..         ..                   6.8                      7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            45.0         46.0      50.0                   45.0                     36.6
SECONDARY                          20.0         19.0      20.0                   25.2                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          9.5jd      28.1/c    66.0                   25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          2.5       2.7                    3.6                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0         11.0       19.0                 31.5                      83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           *-          0.3         *-                   1.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
ThOUSAND POPULATION                   3.0          5.0        4.5                   4.6                     24.2
CINEhA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5            ..        0.2                    ..                      0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      4734.5       5841.7    7035.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   37.1         36.6      34.0                  33.5                      38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              89.3         86.0      83.0                   80.7                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.8          5.0       6.0                   8.1                      17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                44.7         43.5       42.2                  42.2                     38.8
MALE                                  56.9        55.7       54.3                  55.1                     48.4
FEMALE                               32.8         31.5       30.3                  29.5                     29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0         1.1        1.2                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        33.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          63.3
LUWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         2.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         7.8
POVERTY TARGET CROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     147.0                  138.2
RURAL                                 ..          ..     109.0                   86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     125.0                  107.0
RURAL                                ..           ..       74.0                  65.0
ESTIMATED PUPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       10.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      60.0                  66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
Ic   1967;  /d 1962; /e Registered, not all practicing in the country.
April, 1980



- 18-                                                                               ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Altho-gh the data are doomDoom noro                enral  judged the moot autherittive and relisbim, it should sleo be noted that they nay not be inter-
nainll    opaal  heoius  a  the lakofsadardisd deietti-e  and  -on-pte aced bY differeot oareeioletngthe data.  The data one-,no-
theists,.. usful  to deoie rdero Of eaaOitode, indi-tnetrnndm,..ad oh-nt.ti-ln   nertein stjor d iffeen..a  ht..eeO..n.etes..
The referen ..tgrutn   re(I  the same ooetYry grony o"fithe aujet  eatry  end  (2) eean..try greup with mosewbat higee aveag   ioon  thee  the natry geoup
ofteslen    onr   (enp    oe"aia  Oupo Ol  aotes   grou  where "Middle  nom   North Aftrin  and Middle teen" is ohesen  b..aaae ef etenbger
senio-naltral afftntina) .  In the referenoe  groop data the  . avragesare pouaInasetdaiebet    en   o   abidotredsonol   hea
leas t half Of theIInrs   i             ru    aadt   o   hatidi_etoe.    .an  the noeag    f noon trie   a-n   the tedioators dependa on the analbilityo
dat  an.d it non unifor,o tnsethaenedi  relag avereg- of one tedon ert toaP                                     te   These s              -res    r  only  _efal no o...y.riogthe  -at-
ofon  ldinater an aties among the nonotry and refarenne groPs.
LAND AREA (thouseod sq.ke.)                                                                          'elto eo    yn ta-ryaoanAneAbvsernpating n-
Total - Total erfana area nonpiniag laad ure:ad in1lalnd ognern.                          a toLav    qutfo        o       edolnho   tunuriylyl
AuTnutrl-Oest   fernlua    reae.eprnl   rpreetly                                                 yeuaioo -      e q urinaPerfe   P11iopulaton d divde   by  uebr. of yroiniepe
fnr orys, pstueeo  sarhe  and hinhn gardeno or no lie follow; 1977 dan.t               elsan   ftsal  gIduatenu.reoI,  PortInaInrses  adaaliv nroeI.
GNP PER CA-PITA (US$) - GNP P- ..pi,.PoplatIon  eri-to Ital tdkettotl,..rha.-a   rual -                                                           lPoa ianioe(total
0fl FEd  b CAIIIA (alol     - tihfdpe  Papit   oa t  ..ke Ati narn 9na e78e  pr.ine196, nalrvhn, andicral) dinidad by theim .. rep-tifs..n.shr Of honpital hede
n1late  byIn        onrin    ehdo od 1Oah7tls 1d6-8 bni);191,                                       avilable  In publin aad private  general and npeoialierd hospital  Indr-
1910, and 1978 dane.                                                       ba~hbilitationenes    fePtnaunetabliamente Permanetly staffed
byatleat one pbyeiien.   faI IbIaheIapodn plnplyoutia
ENlPIT CONSUOMPTIONf PElt CAPITA - An...al .nuouptino of nomee-ia1 energy fo-l                        taeaent inoldd    Piral boeitt. oh                     nr,Ild   beapleban  sdya
end lignint, psaroleom, neaaral gao andydro-   na...ear sod geotherma9l dn-                         rentr  no     -era tly staffed byia phyatinis   fbo  by a  ,dfo    ssstnt
trOint) in hllogrem   of no.. qalvlen   Pee napia.; 1960, 1970, and 198                             nterso.ieie   i. tbtbpffr i-a  etaondno    n    end
deta.    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~~Ilimted esnee of sedinl1 fen1ittien.  Par enetietina1 parpemee nrba  bhapi-
POPOULAION ANO VITAL STATISTICSOI   _                                                                              d  H         l.i.    .r1-            .il.dh.i.                Idrr
T-El Population  nod-veer (milliona) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970. and 1978                          hidaaitene  Jpee Heota  ned. h-pitoEl numbe   ofi- adoii-  tourt  durharees.
date,     ,t                                                                                      iron beaPitola divided by the ..mh.   of bde
UOrhan' Pouato ("I      on   ofttl)-Pto            bfu n totoa  papulatine;OfbI
difonidefnnoeo_ubnaessy effete _Parobility Of data                                        HOUSING
aengnunls   19ff, 1970, and 1978 dan.tAeerOe   fOoeed .rosorbaeed.-ttl   ra,adrrl
Population PrAof..an.tfiona                                                                                                     ( ..                                     b.,In   nr1
00 - C-P.-  P.Pnl.ti.n   -  b ... d                   A lease hold tnoniots of aNgru   of  dindIiduals who ahar  living qoertsra
Porlaio  i  yar200    Crrntpoultin   roeoios  rebaedon190                Ind  hI  mana           -s   A beerde,,r or  lode o   or osy not be ioloIdadi
Projennton parasnera for sorteliy rasnpieofbtnlannu--                             Average n,mbr Of PIernone per room- tonl.              ra,tn.ua      Ieaewn
lovel  and  emal   lif   upnnen d ni`blen art 77..yarh hepar-                                helig      1 repe:fnely    nwtitnnutnnprannPnvotrI                               n
seet     o  foiln  rasds aetra    seoa ao  dentliny iednnnpitd    rte
i lirhooro Pryte ocy  asiguod oar of. ibng  nine POntmrynatPuo   oft mortly                    Cunninldelig    ihaeoron    olvng qI artveprne g
and fentiltay  trends for proirraine  purposen.                                o Th  p.rO  b.rf tonal, arba, aod ' ruraldel-b.iee In reaprie.1  ..id'-t
lialonar  fooouitioe-IoaP-ainn-y   populationter   a  0grwhlt
ma _arane.Tis In ilchinved,  Inod plar fertiliy   rute..    deJ.           O          Adotdftlenfto
terpanethlve  o  an har       -epouniuo         ..i.t rate ohe   e .. getrati      A... Priar  soboo "i total, male en fsme.lleIro-  total,  mal  and female-
Ind oh   erlol-       n  tert  o           lnto   etlity  rantIno replare-Pyears- hat  adusedfu Idff ren   egihy  of primary P                                  dnIioe   forrt
Tsa  sttioaryroplaion Iarehd-  h   ereenouirr pIpulatontiine ths  papia are egewtoheio-  the lin                                               ffinPi_l   ehnlas
thie brhas It bee   roabe.l Psoohdud-thbo-t-etota,dmale  ndtfenae - Comuted.us...o; eCondar
to.n   . orinP                                                  .   ..d..   ..                d.talard.usalyof 11 ir.1teri         fag;ore  od neruss  r   eeal
Perso,ha.agroulura  ledf            Th'one  asi abov  fry  agrtnultaea  lan                  ennudndd,
-orl ttorAg Onruhobnuoe      o ( threPO)   - Chl-dre 0l  yeas)  colig-g   (11l                      legodetehnia                t iutriol PP-rr   oner ergrm      whil oper-a tdpe-t
lar; 290,090, and 1978      l  1dli.O  ftlty.. dae.Pooltanerrai  -orsay_ad ePIdr -Oof                                                                      uetnerildi
ouaion    rohRae(rra)-onl-Anagotbreaottlod-                                                         Primary adsneaylvl   tin    ynmesp   eneai   h
lanionn  fur 1950-60, 1960-TO,h aadI 1970-n78.1' -                                                                                  -.d 10 pl-n
It   i- --h.d - Th. y-   h.O  t.,i ..s.penennas oftotaladul  popuatio   age  10bI'ti   yehe1 enSoe.
populealen; 1960, 1970, and 1978 data.                             _C_10ntl7Indf8PT-Illpf!d  .  b-;  .P.d.r
Pnpulairn   190,190  uody 197f.l.i.  pnta                                                         oar  sea..-r  . ting  lees.  Itha  eIgh.t parsons;   O   ppenuea dam planoe y ieare -tiand
betnrml  reod.i.yra.I hepren                             reo    g-pn    nfr                   ai   Ieelnyr  (per2 thousand. O   goelatr P-   Al  typao               It 0g  ...er   fr. rld
nltoyaa;   eal  finnd-p ear  pertgd enIn  in-  1961  1970,tt and 1977.                            ro d det,ngnrlpbi   e   huan    fppltO;snoe                                  ni
Pamly PlVoo_a-llrs.(Ren11_.ftearedrcumn) -fern..tge ofmarrid                                      noanrietIbolishditttisi.g
Ponen  of..AR  Stil-hearia   g (11-94.  Chnlrs)ol  u0ee yhiril-noanr    d...ne  toI R                    inrs(rtoan    orialete)-T    PRe nr   fo ~hroadpneai todp
all marrie  cnde  io ir. n age.r.Id-r    .P.  . troop.                                            generel.n- i   .d pobhlinper tiodsat ppathon    euldsalnardT   eevr
1.ti.n; 1960, 1970, Ind 1978 d.tewnare  Cirulslenfee  nbu Iad oeeinon);  -T.tne  thedavrge nirrula-i
nainl  v e  prdnr   prim60  196nhaD; I9n-d    17,  n 1          97M_dis,                    nd moile ndit.
PPer  arta2 ,,,oih  of1 (paon... (ternetbo-A.lg.t    . of rebareenn)    pCopued  ro
Ineergy equivalent         _ of9net7fendIsuppliesPyevaileple-in                                                                   -Litntry.per(na. pine.LAt.RdP-it.
pet  a.Ai       ial  sple   nsnn   dnai    roaio,  mot  ls                                    oelLbrPonp            tosad)-rn.m..l   rie   esn,  nldo
qadaBirth Rin used  in  ....nd preteni.g AI  Iowan binth   distrie.u.. nd       nqf ird-          Dfiiton   i  various tnuot ie d       aI e notp nonperab; 19hy     , 1970 and
noonsroteh,   960 teared   Ind PA97hewd  onpCsONgSUMPTdIornrmlOni-N90daa
vrd.DIny       .(.rt  ...d AdhlinaidrgevrAne.nd.thal  P eprtha.... body wight,y ge             Poar     (Cernet  -Prt Female lao  fnrns on.   perenng- efona  lu..            fote
and sea distrihatio   of popultion   an    loig10pretfr  sn    n                    Aritla    (perineor(  -h.  ishn form  ie farming od            ey    unig  n
household 1ea;16-5,07,ad197dt.f60n   nprenaeo   oallbrfre;  1960.1970 and 1978 danad
ten. nupply nffo e  ay.  Net suppl of dOnodtin deIe    aaan1                         s            andrl      -nti :iy    a    n   e   spretg    fttllbrfre    90
vutreenuto  for all       r ...ntngen   eaaltdiby OiA  provid  foe0 nioou                1971 nod 1970 data... i
alownn   of  0  ram   o           tota   hroel .proda  adi    0 n...f  nia  and"P              Rndinipanrio-n Rate   ther.e.a. d  top.tal, ml.edCsiP                   teiuo
puine   onvei, of d 1  10  rams  hould  e onial yrtrtn.    b onestand
ard   ar   bee  o tos  of 75 h grum      . of) toa  protei  and 0l ofre y.e...yeae    rnnrtda  tonal  male  an   fsae  abr  nona
,:   inrid  Pond OrIo;  91-1  197 ad  1977 data.   p-lyP-i.    rgr-.1960  1970,  and1975 dte,ihes  are in LI'  h. yrn,inipaniurenneflenid
Chl _ags1h)ri        attlae  yrrhuad   - annalidnd-aper tousad  In                             TV  the. total labso fth   ne,,,   ,,,i,       V        ir   .   r.
age group 1-h yoare, no rhiodreng... in iblilopagehg...ap; for, soan developing  noun-                                                                      r
FOODlAN   daTRTa eIveOvN       lf       e;16.170ad17    aa                                     I8COO   DOTIIT diOhS!i,t.   f  V.t._                                                t
lif  tnenaocanOlth  yern   -neagnohe   ofprm    f  ifreta1i969peneidribet1 patrnennponrsn0p nrtod,ndJ.Ipntie di 00  peten
P1Idt11  OfI~  ..dPrd.ti. ..In..  ..dIndf..   In                         li.ti. d t.dpriPil   t.rof rbe-eseP..oiddtaI
Infat..MOntAiim r   hie perI thuad)bl- Annual..i deetb ioftotat  under ownf.    yea                .       -.lAt.d..P                 CPtr       Y-o-oon..TAROnI CR0b170
of ag  pr.  -1ouaad   liv bgg  othe pEs111I~111,lllyi                         ntisake   Abslaa  Poery  nrm  Len.   IS   Dr apne  r--ubnad  ua 
Atones to late   bner ( rros  of  _ooaieht ;   - tonl,7uha,  ad  rural.  -                     bouepnea.os   eeli   htimmeiolblwabri                                        Iia
tune  noh a  thn fom   ratnte   heehots,epnogs  en  saitay  alls  as               feniare  Reanie Pveri  lone   Leel RI-RerCa ite-d  nde  an  rualt
do.no  htetl in sed an fodtproyott.ionn   pn   f  h  dyi fnrinbing  the                   ~              i    isimaedPerlai .  -ro nAsltei.  Itnrt  tatem  Level  freopen19  -arInd
P--d by FAU b... d I. ph                                    adIine   -  erentofpoplaianfobeIandrual)wh_ar  "bsout  por"
rura  -, numbrrbt pe.Ople  (totl, rise,  and  roru            p..served fhyItoren
diyoalinpeoetaeno  their61    r1970     lo Ind  pulonloon.fi foorIetpId..it.                                                 Enfnt- nieb,  andr.  19nial late ilvi9vion
pocal natrld    horlet               aiddbnnIa,titr t:il.ftdol f pereant                                                    intnnnmty(Ir      L rf.rio fialyisg  and Pr-jtiors o lep risn
"t   d P.r d.y.   M.t  npply of f  d ..e   I    b.-    R.-                                                                        f.r..;  960,Ipil, 198
ofhumarrprrtaanOff      ne-na tobyaaerhnrneynUI            vAp.1. foriheaseof-tiiy   -o   ndg...p-tg~o   .t1I
ti   prir   odnriu  'TnttaIn2lSanuooia                                                       17   -    178d..



TANEAN 1A                                                                               Page 4 of 6
Sc8tc  Oeuais0p0 t Data Sheet
1972        1973         194Actual                 1eo976na 17              1_            _Projected                                        19iO72           ;A Tilt 3$ss    itts        Sacs. of
1972        193           97          19)5         1976        1977       17979          1979         1980         1985        1990         ____             17            9-GDP
A.  NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(Millon 00 S at 1977 Prices)
1. GDP                                               2773.9       2662.2       3004.7       3119.4       3364.1      3542.4       3734.1       3890.2      4069.7       5105.8       6502.3           5 0            4 7         4.9             100.0
2. Gates fre= Te-s of Trade (TT)                      -161.0      -207.5       -348.9       -345.7        -69.9       -116.1      -135.2       -174 5       -223.4       -251.8      -27. 4                                                       -3.3
3. Groos Destic [scene                               2612.9       2454.7       2655.8       2773.7       3294.2      3426.3       3598.9       3715.6       3846.2      4854.1       6223.9           5.6             4.4         5.1             96.7
4.  Imports                                           1084.7      1010.8        895.4        839.4        751.0       802.4       1063.9        904.8        924.7       1102.8       1330.4         -5.9             4.1         3.8             22.7
5.  Osparta - Voles                                  1054.7       1004.5        741.3        734.5        824.5       686.3        674.7        700.8        746.4        907.0       1164.7         -8.2             3.5         5.1             19.4
6.  Exports- T  adjusted                               893.7       803.3        546.5        493.7        681.1       884.3        539.5        526.3        522.9        655.2       886.3          -5.2            -0.6         6.2             19.4
7.  lesorco Cap - TT adjusted                          191.0       207.5        348.9        345.7         69.9       116.1        524.4        378.5        401.8        447.6       444.2            .               .           .               3.3
8.  Total C.ns.wptin                                 2163.0      1986.3       240 .1       2555.0       2654.9      2986.6       3404.5       3421.1       3540.6       4371.5       544b.3          6.6             4.9         4.5             84.3
9.  Ievesc,sent                                        640.9       692.2        755.7        669.3        635.7        671.9       718.9        673.1        707.4        930.0       1319.8          1.0             4.2         5.6             19.0
10.  Natienal SavIngs                                   430.4       464.5        304.1        314.2        476.4        537.1       325.0        412.0        416.6        617.9       951.7           1.1             1.9         9.0             15.2
11.  Oanestle Savings                                  449.9        468.4        252.7        218.7        639.3       439.7        194.4        294.6        305.6       482.5         775.6         -0.4             1.2        10.0             12.4
12. GDP at current US $                                1564.1      1866.2       2239.1       2564.4       2761.4      3542.4       4335.        4686.5       5393.1       9941.7     16603.0          17.8            13.8        13.3
B.  SECTOR OUTTUT
(Sh-rs of GDP at 1977 Price-l-
1.  ladustry                                            16.3        17.5         16.0         15.1         14.4         13.8        13.0         12.7         12.3         12.3         13.2          1.3             3.1         6.4
2. Agrioulture                                          51.1        54 0         46.8         49.6         50.4         51.0        50.8         50.4         50.1         48.3         47.1          4.7             3.8         4.4
3.  S-rvlce.                                            32.7        28.5         37.2         j6.4       . 35.3         35.2        36.2         36.8         37.6         39.3         39.6          6.3             6.0         5.1
C. PRICES
1.  Ripen  Price Index                                  36.4        43.3         64.2         63.6         76.7        100.0        91.0         95.9        102.5        142.2        190.8         22.4             4.5         6.0
2.  Impact Price Index                                  43.0        54.1         87.1         94.6         92.8        100.U       113.8        127.7        146.3        196.8        250.7         18.4             8.8         5.0
3.  Tenfs of frde                                      84.7         80.0         73.7         67.2         82.7        100.0        80.0         75.1         70.1         72.2         76.1
4.  01Df Deflator (US 5)                                56.4        70.1         74.5         82.2         82.1        100.0       116.1        120.5        132.5        194.7        286.1         12.1             8.7         8.7
5. Average  sexhange Rate (TSh/US3)                    7.143       7.021        7.143        7.414        8.379        8.274       7.689
D.  SELECTED INDICATORS                                               1972-77      1978-85      1985-90
1.  ICOR                                                            4.40          3.91        3.72
2.  Import El.s icity                                              -0.22          0.11        0.77
3. Average Doe-tic Savings Rate                                    17.2           7.3        11.4
4. Average Nntion-l Savi.     Sl Rats                              19.0          10.9        13.8
5. Marginal Nstieal SuringN Rate                                  -.24           0.27        0.25
6.  Inport/GDP                                                     29.8          23.2        20.9
7.  Inveat-ent/GDP                                                  2.40         18.9        19.4
8.  R.seuree Gap/GDY                                                7.8           9.4         8.0                                                                                                                                                             -
PU/LPrrv                                                                                                                    Prey.
E.  PUBLIC FINANCE-                                                                                                       Actul,      Actoul         Est.
(Million  OS.tllngs)                                 1965/66      1972/73      1973/74      1974/75      1975/76     1976/77      1977/70      1978/79
1.  Current Revenue                                     716        2357          3023        3946         3919         5250        6082         6702
1.1 Tas  -e.eno.                                       602         1927          2510        3161         3302        4644         5317         5721
2.  Cvrreot Expenditure                                 707        2223          2785        3961         3716         5022        5847         7670
3.  Government S-aings                                    9          134          238         .15          203          228         235         -969
4.  Forsign GOnsts                                                   62           214         377          469          626         709         1250
5.  Surplus Av-ilable for Fin-neiog
Develeasent Espe-ditre                                       196           452         362          672         894          944          281
6.  Develop-ent Expenditure                             238         956          1642        2225         2253         2763        3585         5057
7. Ov-rall Deficit                                       -         -760         -1190       -1863        -1581       -1869        -2641        -4776
8.  Fitn.cing of the Deficit
EXter-nI Le ns                                   83          456           467         661          564         777          660         1200
Dens-ttc Berrosings;
Basking S'stn-                                 ..         269           521         834          570          .           464         3195
Other                                         ..           25           202         368         447          ..          1517          581
17  IS 1966 prices and 1977 Itdex bass year.                                                                                           EAlDA
2/  CGetrul Gareenment.                                                                                                                JIou.ry 3, 1980



Annex I
TANZANIA                                                                Page 5 of 6
Balance of Payments and External Assistance
(Million 'OS)
A,tua1.                                      Preliminary            Projection
1972       1973        1974        1975       1976        1977        1978        1979        1980       1985        1990
A.  Summary of Balance of Payments
1.  Exports (incl. NFS)                                     384.3       434.6      476.0       467.0       632.1      686.3       613.9       672.0       765.2      1289.4      2222.0
2.  Imports (incl. NFS)                                     466.1       546.8       779.8      793.8       697.1      802.4      1210.7      1155.3      1353.2      2170.2      3335.5
3.  Resource Balance                                        -81.1      -112.2     -303.8      -326.8       -65.0     -116.1      -596.8      -483.3      -588.0      -880.8    -1113.6
4.  Net Factor Service Income                                -5.9         7.4        -5.2       -7.3        21.5       -18.7      -24.6       -47.5       -66.5      -137.0      -266.8
1.  Net Interest Payments of which:                       3.2        11.2        8.9        -3.1       -17.9      -16.4       -15.8       -37.8       -55.9      -119.8     -239.2
(Interest on Public M & LT Loans)                 (-11.1      (-12.5)    (-13.6)    (-16.2)    (-19.5)    (-22.1)    (-24.7)    (-27.8)    (-35.0)   (-121.8)   (-250.2)
2.  Direct Investment Income
3.  Workers Remittance (Net)            )                -9.1       -18.6      -14.1        -4.2        -3.6       -2.3        -8.8        -9.7       -10.6       -17.1      -27.6
4.  Other Factor Service Income (Net)
5.  Current Transfers (Net)                                 --4.2         5.0        45.2       92.9        55.4       116.1      175.0       195.0       218.4       384.9       678.3
6.  Balance on Current Account                              -91.9      -114.6      -263.8     -241.2       -31.1       -18.7     -446.4      -335.8      -436.1      -632.8      -702.0
7.  Private Direct Investment                                 0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         5.0         5.4        5.7         6.1         8.6        12.0
8.  Capital Grants                                           14.0        18.6         6.5       34.9         2.9        13.9         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
Public M & LT Loans
9.  Disbursements 1/                                        109.5       113.6       161.3      249.5       122.4       177.8      173.2       210.5
10. Amortization 17                                          -34.2       -23.7        18.8      -18.0       -21.9       -26.4       -26.8      -54.8
11. Net Disbursements 1/                                      75.3        89.9       142.5      231.5       100.5       151.4       146.4      155.8
12. Use of IMF Resources                                       0.0         0.0        60.3       25.2        23.7         8.8        17.0       30.0
13.  Short-term Capital Transactions                           7.2       -17.9         7.5       -5.1       -38.3        35.1        60.0      120.0
14.  Capital Transactions, n.e.i.                             54.8        49.0       -47.4       -30.1      -10.8       -26.0         0.0        0.0
15.  Change in Reserves (- = increase)                       -59.4       -25.0        94.4      -15.2       -46.9      -169.5      229.0        24.3
B. Grants and Loans Commitment
1. Official Grants 2/                                         9.8        23.6        51.1      127.8       119.0       130.0      200.0       216.0
2.  Public M & LT Loans                                      65.4       107.1       260.4      151.8       194.1       197.3       225.3      269.9
2.1  IBRD                                                 -           -          65.0       30.0        37.0        53.0       25.0        66.0
2.2  IDA                                                 10.8        22.6       61.2        10.0        52.0        49.2       73.5        63.0
2.3  Other Multilateral                                   3.3         1.8         7.1       18.0        10.8        33.5       27.6        18.2
2.4  Goverments, of which:                               47.1        82.8      127.1        93.7        82.7        61.3       98.3        30.0
Centrally planned economies                        4.9        3.0        76.5         5.4        -           -           2.6         -
2.5  Suppliers                                            -           -           -          -           -           -          -          80.0
2.6  Financial Institutions                               4.2         -           -          -          11.7         0.3         -         10.0
2.7  Bonds
2.8  Public Loans, n.e.i. 3/                              -           -           -          -           -           -          -           2.8
3.  Other M & LT Loans (where available)                     26.4        18.6         5.6         2.9        6.0         -           -
C. Memorandum Items
1.  Grant Element of Total Commitments                       49.2        83.4        63.1       56.4        66.6        56.8        45.5       32.8
Average Interest                                          3.6         0.6         2.3        3.0         2.2         3.2         4.5        5.4
3.  Average Maturity (Years)                                 28.1        47.8        32.2       31.9        38.8        35.1        32.8        25.5
1/ Includes financing of projected balance of payments deficit (1979-1990) on blend Bank/IDA terms.
2/ Excludes technical assistance grants.                                                                                                         EAlDA
3/ Represents commitments to cover projected balance of payments deficit.                                                                       January 2, 1980



Annex I
TANZANIA                           Page 6 of 6
DebtI and Creditworthiness
Actual
1972        1973        1974        1975       1976        1977        1978
A. Medium and Long-Term Debt (Disbursed only)
(US $ Million)
1.  Total Debt Outstanding (DOD: End of Period)              441.7       557.1       728.3       917.1      1029.2      1123.4      1213.1
2.  Including Undisbursed                                    835.5       987.3      1280.5      1359.0      1555.9      1649.3      1806.4
3.  Public Debt Service                                       43.3         39.3        32.4        34.1       41.6        48.4        49.6
3.1 Interest                                                   11.1        12.3        13.6        16.2       19.5        22.1        24.7
4.  Other M & LT Debt Service                                   ..          ..          ..          ..
B. Debt Burden
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                         11.3         9.3         6.8         7.3        6.6         7.1         7.8
2.  Debt Service/GDP                                            2.8         2.1         1.4         1.3         1.5         1.4        1.1
3.  Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                     14.7        10.3        6.6          6.4         7.6        7.0         5.8
C. Terms
1.  interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                             2.5         2.2         1.9         1.8         1.9        2.0         2.0
2.  Total Debt Service/Total DOD                               9.8          7.1         4.4         3.7        4.0         4.3         4.1
D. Dependency Ratios for M & LT Debt
1.  Gross Disbursements/Imports (incl. NFS)                   23.5         20.8       20.7         31.4       17.6        22.2        14.5
2.  Not Transfer/Imports (incl. NFS)                           16.2          .         1           29.2        1
3.  Net Trans{er/Gross Disbursements                           68.8        7.          HA          92.8       82.         85 25
E. Exposure
1.  IBRD Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements              16.9         19.1        10.4        21.0       14.0        17.2         17.8
2.  Bank Group Disbursements/Gross Total Disbursements    19.4             21.8        14.0        28.2        37.2       37.8         31.6
3.  IBRD DOD/Total DOD                                         12.2        13.4        12.4        15.4       15.1         16.3        17.3
4.  Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                                   23.1        23.8        21.1        24.2        25.7        29.3        31.3
5.  IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                       10.2        15.3        20.4        26.4        34.1        33.1        40.5
6.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                 11.1        16.3        22.5        28.4        36.5        35.5        43.5
Outstanding December 31.I1178
Amount             Percent
(US $ Million)
F. External Debt (Disbursed Only)
1.  IBRD                                                                   209.9                    17.3
2.  Bank Group                                                             379.2                    31.3
3.  Other Multilateral                                                      61.2                     5.0
4.  Governments                                                            714.1                    58:9
of which Centrally Planned Economies                               317.3                    26.2
5.  Suppliers                                                               16.5                     1.4
6.  Financial Institutions                                                  18.8                     1.5
7.  Bonds                                                                   20.3                     1.7
8.  Public Debt, n.e.i.       1/                                             3.1                     6.3
9.  Total Public M & LT Debt-               1/                            1213.1                   100.0
10.  Total Public Debt (iml. undisbursed)-                                 1806.4                   148.9
G. Debt Profile
1.  Total Debt Service 1979-83/Total DOD Znd of 1978                        60.5%
1/  Includes Tanzania's notional share of 40I of EAC debt.                                                                                                   EAIDA
2/  Represents DOD on loans to cover projected balance of payments deficit.                                                                                  January 2, 1980



- 22 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF MAY 31, 1980
(US$ million)
Amount leRe zancellation
No.          Year  Borrower            Purpose                Bank 1/  TW   IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Five loans and thirteen credits fully disbursed                 77.2          91.2
287-TA    1972  Tanzania  Smallholder Tea                                   10.8      1.0
371-TA    1973  Tanzania  Fourth Education                                  10.3      1.6
382-TA 2/ 1973  Tanzania  Livestock                                         18.5      1.8
454-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cotton                                            17.5      8.3
460-TA    1974  Tanzania  Tanzania Investment Bank                           6.0      0.1
1014-TA    1974  Tanzania  Cashewnut                          21.0                     1.7
495-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sites and Services                                 8.5      1.8
507-TA    1974  Tanzania  Highway Maintenance                               10.2      2.4
508-TA    1974  Tanzania  Rural Development                                 10.0      4.8
1041-TA    1974  Tanzania  Sugar                               9.0                     0.9
580-TA    1975  Tanzania  Dairy                                             10.0      5.8
1128-TA    1975  Tanzania  Textile                            15.0                     2.1
1172-TA    1975  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank         15.0                     1.5
601-TA    1976  Tanzania  Technical Assistance                               6.0      2.4
606-TA    1976  Tanzania  National Maize Program                            18.0     11.0
607-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fifth Education                                   11.0      6.4
1306T-TA    1976  Tanzania  Power                                     30.0              7.8
1307-TA    1976  Tanzania  Forestry                             7.0                    3.6
652-TA    1976  Tanzania  Fisheries                                          9.0      7.7
658-TA    1976  Tanzania  Tobacco Processing                                 8.0      1.3
1354-TA    1977  Tanzania  Urban Water Supply                 15.0                     9.4
1385T-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex               11.5              3.6
1386-TA    1977  Tanzania  Morogoro Industrial Complex    11.5                         3.3
703-TA 3/ 1977  Tanzania  Rural Development (Tabora)                         7.2      5.6
732-TA    1977  Tanzania  Second Sites and Services                        12.0      11.3
743-TA    1977  Tanzania  Trucking                                         15.0      10.7
1498-TA    1977  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank          15.0                     5.4
801-TA    1978  Tanzania  Second Cashewnut                                 27.5      10.4
802-TA    1978  Tanzania  Tobacco Handling                                  14.0     13.7
803-TA    1978  Tanzania  Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                     12.0     10.9
1607-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                   25.0                    24.9
833-TA    1978  Tanzania  Morogoro Textile                                 20.0      18.5
860-TA    1979  Tanzania  Tourism Rehabilitation                            14.0     14.0
861-TA    1979  Tanzania  Sixth Education                                   12.0     12.0
875-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper                            30.0     28.7
1650-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Mufindi Pulp and Paper             30.0                    30.0
876-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Fifth Highway                                    20.5      20.5
1745-TA    1979  TDFL        Tanganyika Development
Finance Co., Ltd.              11.05                   10.3
1750-TA    1979  TIB        Tanzania Investment Bank          25.0-/                  24.6
S-24-TA 4/ 1979  Tanzania  Dar es Salaam Port Engineering                     2.5      2.5
987-TA    1980  Tanzania Tanzania Rural Development Bank                    10,0    10.0
1007--TA    1980  Tanzania  Pyrethrum                                        10.0    10.0
1015-TA    1980  Tanzania  Grain Storage and Milling                         43.0    43.0
Total                                               276.7  41.5  494.3   407.3
of which has been repaid                            9.8    -      7.9
Total now outstanding                             266.9  41.5  486.4
Amount sold                           0.1
of which has been repaid           0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                   266.9  41.5  486.4
Total undisbursed                                   117.7  11.4  278.2   407.3
1/ Net of exchange adjustments.
2/ Includes Norwegian participation of $6.2 million of which $5.6 million
has been disbursed.
3/ Amount excludes Canadian participation of $4.8 million.
4/ Not yet effective
5/ Excludes $15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit being administered by IDA.



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF MAY 31, 1980
(US$ million)
Loan                                                Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year   Borrower         Purpose            Bank 1/          Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                           93.4
638-EA  1969    EAHC          Harbours              35.0               0.5
674-EA  1970    EARC          Railways              42.4               0.1
865-EA  1972    EAHC          Harbours              26.5               0.9
914-EA  1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications  32.5                O09
1204-EA  1976    EADB          Development Finance 15.0                 5.4
Total                                           244.8               7.8
of which has been repaid                     56.4
Total now outstanding                           188.4
Amount sold                      24.4
of which has been repaid      24.4             0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                       188.4
Total undisbursed                                7.8                7.8
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(AS OF MAY 31, 1980)
There are currently 37 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: US$10.8 million
Credit of March 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - July 26,
1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
After initial serious management problems, the Tanzania Tea
Authority (TTA) has finally reached a satisfactory level of senior staffing
and this has had a clear impact on the working of TTA and resulted in improved
control over field activities. Factory engineers have been appointed for all
factories. Because of weak extension and poor farm practices in the past,
about 1,600 ha of the 9,671 ha planted since 1971 must be infilled or rehabil-
itated, and yields have been lower than anticipated. In line with the 1976
survey of the tea industry, additional planting has been carried out and
effective rehabilitation and infilling has been achieved except in the Bukoba
area. Recommendations of the survey regarding crop yields, husbandry tech-
niques, field organization, TTA structure and extension activities are also
being implemented. Furthermore, market trends in tea have taken a favorable
turn. In general, progress on the project is improving. The closing date
has been postponed to allow sufficient time for completion of the Mwakaleli
factory.
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project:
US$18.5 million Credit of May 23, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 28, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This project was the subject of an in-depth review in November
1976 and again in January 1979. Although progress has been made in alleviating
the financial problems of the meat processing parastatal (TPL), in correcting
some of the deficiencies in the livestock marketing parastatal (TLMC), and in
adopting some of the decentralized management recommendations in the ranching
parastatal (NARCO), TPL will still need to improve its overall efficiency, and
NARCO its unsatisfactory financial situation. In the meat processing component,
the settlement of a dispute between the Livestock Development Authority (LIDA)
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
and the contractor should permit the completion of three meat plants in
Kawe, Shinyanga and Mbeya by the end of 1980. There is little change in
other project components, where major difficulties remain to be resolved.
The Credit should be fully disbursed by the new Closing Date, December 31,
1980.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project continued to show good progress since the appointment
in October 1977 of a new Project Manager. However, in view of the failure
of the crop technical packages to give economic responses, the project must
now be considered to be an infrastructure and adaptive research project rather
than an agricultural production project. A major objective is now to develop
a more soundly based and productive agricultural strategy. The most signifi-
cant progress has been in the trial program with about 50 well distributed
and supervised trial sites and improved credit recovery. Recruitment of
staff has been more vigorously pursued since the Project Implementation
Reviews began. Project problems remaining are the lack of senior staff,
the shortage of extension staff, delay in deliveries of some equipment and
financing of road construction. The project will continue to be kept under
close review.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: US$21.0
million Loan of June 24, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
September 26, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Construction of the five factories and ancillary facilities is pro-
ceeding well in accordance with the revised completion schedule. Processing
plant and machinery has been delivered to two factories, and is under shipment
for the remaining three. However, the project continues to face problems
arising from a sharp decline in the marketed production of raw nuts. The
producer price has been recently increased and the Cashewnut Authority (CATA)
is considering the introduction of additional incentive and tree-planting
schemes for farmers, but these measures are not likely to have a significant
impact for several years. As a result, the completed cashewnut factories are
expected to operate well below capacity through 1980/81.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Despite senior staff changes in the Region and continuing procure-
ment constraints, construction of agricultural and other training facilities,
as well as water supply and feeder roads, is proceeding satisfactorily. The
coffee rehabilitation and expansion program, and the land-use surveying and
mapping, are also making reasonable progress. While the keeping of crop
records is not yet regular or systematic, there has been a substantial increase



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
in maize, bean and cotton production in the Project area. However, the
village fertilizer trials have yet to produce conclusive results, and
recommendations for recasting the trials are under review. The Project is not
likely to be completed before June 30, 1982.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar
Development Project: US$9.0 million Credit and US$9.0 million
Loan of September 27, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
February 14, 1975; Closing Date - December 31. 1980
Project work is virtually completed except for purchase of some
vehicles and completion of the sugar survey and the training program. In view
of this, the closing date has been postponed by 12 months. Kilombero Sugar
Company's (KSC) land development on behalf of outgrowers continues and
is expected to exceed appraisal estimates due to lower than expected cane
yields. A new management advisory agreement for a further two years with
emphasis on agriculture will be financed by the Netherlands. Phase III of
the Sugar Study has been started and should be completed shortly. With regard
to the Sugar Development Corporation's request to Treasury to consider KSC's
proposals as to its debt-equity ratio, the Treasury has decided to provide
KSC TSh. 100 million as equity and TSh. 100 million as loan from Dutch/Danish
sources. The loan will be at an interest rate of 7% p.a. with 30 years
repayment including 5 years of grace. The Subsidiary Loan Agreement is under
preparation and is expected to be signed by the Treasury shortly.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Project continues to progress on all fronts at a very slow pace.
There has been a delay in the procurement of boats for the Kigoma Commercial
Center, a major shortfall in the purchase of boats for the coastal centers and
a postponement of procurement of lake transport facilities (pending adequate
fish catches on Lake Tanganyika). However, engines for the coastal vessels
have been received and are being assembled for installation and the first
fully equipped boat should be operational by June 1980. Loans to five villages
have already been approved by TRDB under the Ujamaa Village Program. Nego-
tiations are also in progress with the Crown Agents of the U.K. for the pro-
vision of technical assistance staff.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Although the project has made some satisfactory progress with regard
to village participation, delivery of inputs and concentration of high poten-
tial maize regions, it is beset by a number of problems which must be overcome
if the project is to achieve its primary objective. Following a midterm



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
review of the project, the Government submitted in September 1978 draft pro-
posal for a three year Intensification Phase in six regions where potential
for increasing production exists, extending the project period from July 1979
to June 1982. The project has therefore been redesigned in order to intensify
the project activities during the remaining period. The redesign of the
project has been agreed upon by the Government, BADEA (the co-financier) and
the Association.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$10.0
million Credit of August 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - April 30, 1981
There was some improvement in project implementation during 1979
as a result of stricter budget and cost control by the Livestock Development
Authority (LIDA) and the Dairy Farming Company (DAFCO). Farm management is
also improving and production costs per litre of milk are somewhat lower than
in 1978. However, the financial prospects for the parastatal farms remain
poor and Ujamaa village development is negligible. The Government is consider-
ing alternative approaches to re-capitalization of the dairy farms and has
also requested a reallocation of credit funds from Ujamaa village production
to smallholder dairying. The project will continue to be kept under close
review.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project: US$7.0
million Loan of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30. 1982
After a slow start and serious management problems during the
first year, project implementation has improved considerably and is now
ahead of schedule. Plantation targets have been exceeded in spite of labor
shortages, a lack of equipment and a prolonged drought during the last
planting season. All key staff have been appointed and there are no serious
procurement or disbursement problems.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0 million
Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - February 15,
1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Improvements to the existing line were completed except for instal-
lation of the main circuit breaker equipment. Building work at Morogoro is
proceeding satisfactorily. TAT/TTPC are preparing a properly coordinated
building program to cover the balance of the project, and proposals are
awaited from the Treasury rationalizing the financial and functional responsi-
bilities of these entities. TAT's financial position is critical due to high
bank overdrafts. The Treasury has agreed to reimburse TAT TSh. 29 million
representing the local contribution it has spent on the project. In addition,
TAT has also claimed TSh. 13 million from the Treasury to meet the cost
incurred by them during 1977-78. TTPC's accounts for 1976/77 have been
audited and the report is expected shortly.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Credit No. 703-TA and Credit No. 703-TA-5 - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$12.0 million Credits 1/ of May 11,
1977- Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Project implementation has slowed down considerably as a result of
severe and continuing shortages of construction materials and diesel fuel.
These shortages have affected all conponents, except land-use planning which
is proceeding satisfactorily. The roads and water supply programs have been
the worst affected and are also suffering from shortages of technical staff.
The agricultural trials and production program, too, appears to have been
disrupted by the recent drought. Project management is attempting to resolve
the materials shortages by increasing the use of local substitutes. However,
overall progress in institution-building is likely to remain slow.
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development Project;
US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
October 2, 1978; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Factory con-
struction is ahead of schedule despite a shortage of cement. However, the
appointment of key staff and the maintenance of up-to-date accounts at exist-
ing cashewnut factories continue to pose difficulties. As with the First
Project, the prospects for operation of the new facilities at full capacity
are rather poor.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness - January 5, 1979;
Closing Date - April 30, 1983
The project has made a slow start. Procurement of vehicles and
equipment is also lagging. However, progress on recruitment of technical
assistance has been good. The Building Engineer, Financial Systems Develop-
ment Assistant and Transport Officer are all in post. Three suitable can-
didates have been identified for the five posts of Regional Accountant and
advertisement of the other two have been done.
Credit No. 803-TA - Rural Development Project (Mwanza/
Shinyanga): US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness - March 5, 1979;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984
While some of the senior support staff have been recruited, most key
posts remain to be filled, and although good progress has been made in the
livestock, water resource and forestry components, the expected implementation
of an experimental program of agricultural extension has not been initiated.
1/   Credit No. 703-TA-5 (US$4.8 million) is financed under the special CIDA
arrangement; Credit No. 703-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Future supervision missions will pay particular attention to progress made by
the agricultural extension staff towards improving the extension system. The
effects of the Uganda war are still being felt in the project's area causing
problems for the supplies situation.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: US$10.3
million Credit of April 13, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
July 2, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
All facilities have been completed with the exception of three
Community Education Centers. The project is expected to be completed by the
revised Closing Date of December 31, 1980. All completed facilities are in
operation with the exception of the Bagamoyo College of National Education
which will be used for the in-service training of primary school science
teachers.
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress in physical implementation is satisfactory. The Village
Management Technicians training program is on schedule and will meet the
target of 1500 trained technicians in July 1980. The primary education sub-
sector review and the secondary education facilities survey are in progress.
Preparation of diversified curricula for general secondary education and
staffing plans for the project secondary schools are also in preparation.
There are reasonable prospects that the project will be completed by its
Closing Date.
Credit 861-TA - Sixth Education Project - US$12.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - June 25, 1979;
Closing Date - June 30, 1985
This credit became effective on June 25, 1979. The Ministry of
Labor has appointed a representative to the Project Unit and is working with
the Ministry of Education on a plan for coordinating project implementation.
TOURISM SECTOR
Credit No. 860-TA - Tourism Rehabilitation Project
US$14.0 million Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - August 24, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This credit became effective on August 24, 1979. Project implemen-
tation is progressing satisfactorily. Recruitment of project coordinator is
being finalized and the consultants for the rehabilitation of project lodges
and hotels, have been appointed.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project:  US$1U.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
After a 81ow start, project implementation improved and all equip-
ment procured through ICB has been delivered. However, rehabilitation,
regravelling and routine maintenance activities have been seriously affected
by the war in Uganda and by the termination of some expatriate technical
assistance. However, it is necessary to recast the project by amending its
scope to address the problems which have been encountered in its implementa-
tion; these changes will bring the project in line with the Fifth Highway
Project. The Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1980 to allow
for completion of the project and the disbursement. The technical assistance
contract with the consulting firm "ORT" expired in November 1979, and the
Government is now recruiting individual experts to complete the project.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978;
Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Implementation planning is progressing well. Initial progress in
the recruitment of technical assistance has been good, with 24 people in post
or approved out of a total of 29. The project is experiencing some problem
with equity contribution for the proposed project transport companies. The
Treasury proposed to provide the balance of the equity contribution for
1979/80. The National Transport Coordination (NTC) has submitted a report
to the Treasury regarding the availability and distribution of vehicle spare
parts in recent years. NTC has also commissioned a study of the role and
objective of the National Institute of Transport. The design of the transport
data collection system is progressing well.
Credit No. 876-TA - Fifth Highway Project; US$20.5 million
Credit of March 2, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective. It is a continuation of the
Highway Maintenance Project (Credit No. 507-TA) aimed at maintaining the
national trunk road system and will draw upon experience gained during the
previous project.
PORTS SECTOR
Credit No. S-24-TA - Dar es Salaam Ports Engineering Project:
US$2.5 million Credit of February 27, 1980; Closing Date -
June 30, 1980
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - National Sites and Services Project;
US$8.5 million Credit of July 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
October 3, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
Infrastructure construction has been completed satisfactorily on
all project sites. Construction of health facilities in Dar es Salaam is
completed and ready of occupation. Education facilities for the Dar es
Salaam sites have been completed; the rest of the community facilities in the
project are nearing completion. Progress on the lending program administered
by the Tanzania Housing Bank is slow although satisfactory progress is being
made in the implementation of the action program to improve it. Total project
cost is estimated (at current exchange rates) at US$15.9 million, compared to
the appraisal estimate of US$16.7 million. The closing date has been postponed
by six months to allow for completion of the remaining construction activities.
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services
Project:  US$12.0 million Credit of November 3, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
Progress on implementation is satisfactory for the residential com-
ponents although overall implementation progress is slow. Preparation of the
small scale industry component is also making satisfactory progress. All
project staff have now been appointed. The Consultants' report on the Land
Rent and Service Charge Study was approved by the Government in January 1978
and a pilot test of the new Urban Charge System for cost recovery proposed in
the study was carried out in Morogoro. However, progress in the implementa-
tion of this system in other areas is slow. Disbursements are substantially
behind appraisal estimates. These issues will be reviewed during the next
supervision mission.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of January 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - June 30, 1981
Of the five main contracts for water supply works in Morogoro, con-
tract for exploratory drilling at Mindu Dam site is completed, two contracts
for plant (pumping and treatment) are in the stage of final inspection of
goods prior to shipment to Tanzania, and two construction contracts were
awarded in December 1978 and March 1979. Completion of the water works
expansion is expected in February 1981, 21 months behind schedule, but a
pilot operation is scheduled to commence in November 1980. Project cost is
now estimated at US$27.6 million, 43% over the appraisal estimate of US$19.2
million. In December 1978, the Government approved an increase in its contri-
bution to the project to cover the financing gap. Some progress has been made



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
towards creation of a parastatal national urban water supply authority and
increase in tariff to maintain their levels in real terms at the level exist-
ing in July 1976. Progress in project implementation and the expected large
increase in project costs will have to be closely monitored.
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1306-T-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project Phase II;
US$30 million Loan on Third Window Terms of August 12, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness - March 1, 1977; Closing Date -
December 31, 1981
The project is financed by IBRD, SIDA and KfW. All contracts have
been awarded. Project construction is on schedule at all sites. TANESCO has
obtained approval on its tariff increase. Current estimated project cost is
US$97.8 million compared to appraisal estimate of US$89 million, a cost over-
run of 28%. This is mainly due to underestimation of the project costs by
the engineering consultants. KfW has already increased its contribution to
the project and SIDA has indicated that it would be prepared to increase its
allocation to cover its proportionate share of the cost overruns. Plans to
make any additional contribution by the Bank to bridge the gap is being
reviewed. An EEC Special Action Credit (No. 55-7A) in the amount of US$7.0
million, to be administered by IDA, has been allocated to this project.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project:
US$6.0 million Credit of February 13, 1974; Date of Effective-
ness - April 18, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
This Credit has been fully committed. Because of a reallocation
of funds from a subproject previously approved to a new one still under
implementation, the credit is still not fully disbursed and the closing
date has been postponed to June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1171-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of November 12, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - February 20,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1980
This loan is fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This loan is now fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 17
Loan No. 1750-TA 1/ - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$25.0 million
Loan of August 20, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - February 5, 1980;
Closing Date - June 30, 1984
This loan became effective on February 5, 1980.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - July 1, 1980
The project provides for expansion of an existing textile mill and
is designed to increase annual fabric production capacity by 20 million linear
meters. Project implementation performance has been acceptable and all tech-
nical installations are now operating satisfactorily. The National Textile
Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile mills, has
agreed to institute an immediate action program to improve the operating
performance of existing mills. The project was technically completed in
October 1978 with a savings of about US$1.7 million. In order to utilize this
amount for rehabilitation of the existing facilities, which are essential parts
of the project, the Closing Date was postponed by one year to July 1, 1980.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1980
Total commitments as of March 31, 1980 were US$4.74 million (net of
cancellations) for consultancy services, training and project unit services.
The procedures for processing proposals have been streamlined and are working
well. The credit will be fully committed by December 1980. The Government
has requested a postponement of the Closing Date to June 30, 1981.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro Industrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and
US$11.5 million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness - July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of
some initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of pro-
curement. Although there will be some delays in the start-up of individual
components of the Industrial Complex, completion of the project is still
scheduled for July 1982. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly
higher than those contained in the Appraisal Report.
1/   In addition, a US$15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit in support of
this project is being administered by IDA.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 17
Credit No. 833-TA/Loan No. 1607-TA - Morogoro Textile Project:
US$20.0 million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan of June 29,
1978; Date of Effectiveness - May 7, 1979; Closing Date -
June 30, 1985
This loan and this credit became effective on May 7, 1979. Prep-
aration of tender documents are progressing satisfactorily and no delay in
project completion is anticipated.
Credit No. 875-TA/Loan No. 1650-TA - Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project: US$30.0 million Credit and US$30.0 million Loan
of April 6, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This loan and this credit became effective on April 15, 1980.
Loan No. 1745-TA - Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
(TDFL) Project: US$11.0 million Loan of July 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness - November 1, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
This loan became effective on November 1, 1979. About 70% of the
loan amount has been committed.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
1/   Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Direc-
tors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978,
is given in this Annex. The closing date for Loans 638-EA, 674-EA and
865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated to and guaran-
teed by each Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the
Agreement signed on January 25, 1978 as proposed in the above report
(R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school build-
ing and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths
and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities
and a training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in
Tanga. Construction of all major project elements has been completed and
a joint project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of
shortage of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have
not been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of
the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Author-
ity and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of Ports in
both countries is competent. Some US$34.5 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.6
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                     (US$ million)
Kenya                                  0.7
Tanzania                               0.6
Total                              1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                                  1.7
Tanzania                               0.3
Total                              2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project:  US$42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30. 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to
be used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material.
All three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Rail-
ways Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1,
1977 among the various countries concerned is given below:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.0
Tanzania                3.8
Uganda                  1.9
Total                   7.7
On January 12, 1978, the Executive Director approved the utilization
of US$1.2 million equivalent to finance the East African Mediation effort.
This amount, in addition to US$0.5 million provided by UNDP for this purpose,
is expected to cover the total estimated cost of the mediation service.
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items except the microwave radio system have been
completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The slippage
of the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement caused
by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of headquarters.
About US$30.7 million of the loan had been disbursed to date. The agreed
allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1, 1977 among the countries
concerned is as follows:
$ Million
Kenya                   2.4
Tanzania                3.5
Uganda                  0.1
Total                   6.0



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 17
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a nega-
tive impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal and
supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in the
state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from 50%
as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1979. Some US$9.1 million of the
loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$3.0 million.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 17
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF MAY 31, 1980
Fiscal Year           Obligor            Type of Business     Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1960 and 1964   Kilombero Sugar Company  Food Processing      3.96    0.70    4.66
1978            Highland Soap and        Soap Manufacture    1.38    0.36    1.74
Allied Products Limited
1979            Metal Products Limited   Household Utensils  1.33    0.18    1.51
Total gross commitments                     6.67    1.24    7.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   3.96    0.70    4.66
Total commitments now held by IFC           2.71    0.54    3.25
Total Undisbursed                           2.71    0.54    3.25



- 39 -
ANNEX III
TANZANIA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I. Timetable of Key Events
a)  First presentation to the Association            December 1978
and first Association mission
b)  Appraisal mission                                November 1979
c)  Completion of negotiations                       June 1980
d)  Planned date of effectiveness                    November 1980
Section II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III. Special Conditions
The Government and TIB will execute a Subsidiary Agreement
acceptable to the Association (paragraph 41).



