DL CMENTS       CREDIT NUMBER 1060 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Technical Assistance Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1060 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     , 1980, between UNITED
REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Tanzania Investment
Bank (hereinafter called TIB) with the Borrower's assistance and,
as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
TIB the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
TIB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and TIB of even date herewith, as the same may be


﻿- 2 -
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and TIB pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Agreement;
(c) "TAU" means the Technical Assistance Unit in TIB's
Planning and Development Department;
(d) "Sub-Project" means any of the studies or training
activities included in the Project; and
(e) "Tanzania Audit Corporation" means the Tanzania Audit
Corporation established and operating in accordance with the
provisions of the Tanzania Audit Corporation Act No. 1 of 1968.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to eight million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights.
(SDR 8,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and services (other than consul-
tants' services) to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be governed by the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associ-
ation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1990, and ending April 15,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 15, 2000,to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency, of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. TIB is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permit-
ted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement aid Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause TIB to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable TIB to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to -be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to TIB under a subsidiary agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TIB under terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association.


﻿-4-
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) TIB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement; and
(b) the organization, powers or responsibilities of TIB
shall have been terminated or altered so as to affect materially
and adversely the performance by TIB of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof; namely, that any event specified in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of :his Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower
and TIB.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of TIB have been duly authorized or ratified by all neces-
sary corporate and governmental action; and
(b) the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and TIB.


﻿-5-
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning 3f Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by TIB, and is legally binding upon TIB in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and TIB and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and TIB in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date                     ni) is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 42.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date ten years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
The Treasury
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania
Cable address:
TREASURY
Dar es Salaam


﻿-6-
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
By                   \    oJit    Ve  Vt  J
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                  IFlvAj, (      R A   j
Regional Vice President
.          Eastern Africa


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                    SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Consultants'                   5,720,000         100% of for-
services, equip-                                eign expendi-
ment and materials                              tures and 80%
for Sub-projects                                of local ex-
under Part A of                                 penditures
the Project
(2) Training Sub-                                    100% of for-
projects under                                  eign expendi-
Part B of the                                   tures and 80%
Project:                                        of local ex-
penditures
(a) Tanzania Audit             765,000
Corporation
(b) Other                       765,000
(3) Professional                     460,000         100% of for-
staff for TAU                                   eign expendi-
under Part C of                                 tures,and 80%
the Project                                     of local
expenditures
(4) Vehicles and                      80,000         100% of for-
equipment under                                 eign expendi-
Part C of the                                   tures and 80%
Project                                         of local ex-
penditures
(5) Unallocated                     610,000
TOTAL              8,400,000


﻿-8-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures:
(a) prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b) on a Sub-project under Categories (1) and (2) unless
approval or withdrawal authorization for such Sub-project has been
given by the Association in accordance with Section 2.09 of the
Project Agreement; and
(c) on a Sub-project under Category (2) (a) until a revised
Tanzania Audit Corporation training program shall have been
submitted to the Association for its review and approved by
it.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to


﻿-9-
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to assist the Borrower in the plan-
ning and implementation of its economic development programs
and consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
Provision of funds to productive enterprises and governmental
agencies to assist them in carrying out pre-investment, capacity
utilization and export marketing studies, as well as detailed
engineering work for high priority projects in the industrial,
agricultural, energy and other sectors of the Borrower's economy,
project preparation and implementation services and sectoral
studies; and supervision of the carrying out of such studies,
services and work.
Part B:
Provision of funds to productive enterprises and governmental
agencies to assist them in carrying out training programs in
Tanzania for management and technical staff from the various
sectors, and a limited amount of job-related overseas training;
and supervision of the carrying out of such training.
Part C:
Improvement of TAU's capacity to carry out Parts A and
B above.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1984.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198 0U.
FOR SECRETARY


