Docunmut or
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rqpet No. P-3682-BA
;
RlPORI ND A ECDA ON
OF THE
PRESIDET OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 28.2 MLION
TO TE
SOCIALIST RPMUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
TEXTIL  FINISHING PLANT PROEECT
November 22, 1983
Th do_-Ost _uamted _d"     dm  be u" by  _8   b  11 I  w Ped_   e of
:16 ffd  dli  ift=ym  SUM                  be dhe _ i  Wo    _mk xemw_fon



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00   - Kyat 7.7
Kyat 1.00 - US$0.013
WEIGRTS AND MEASURES
1 Kilogram (kg)            2.2046 Pounds
1 Centimeter (cm)          0 ,039 inches
1 Meter (m)             = 1.0936 Yards          - 39.37 Inches
I Square meter  u2)    -  1.2 Square Yards      - 10.76 Square Feet
1 Rectare (ha)             10,000 Square Meters - 2.47 Acres
1 Kilometer (km)       -  0.621 Miles
Nm (Metric Yarn Count)  - Measure of yarn fineness indicating
the number of 1,000 meter lengths
per kilogram of weight
i MU                       1 Million Watts
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB                  Asian Development Hank
CC              =    Construction Corporation
CIF             =    Cost, Insurance, Freight
CST                  Commodities and Service Tax
Decibels             Unit Measure of Noise Level
ERR             =   Economic Rate of Return
GDP                  Gross Domestic Product
NP              -    Gross National Product
IPD                  Industrial Planning Department
im              =   Linear Meter
m1m             -   Million Linear Meter
PEF             8    Project Engineering Firm
SEE                  State Economic Enterprises
TIC             =    Textile Industries Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BURHA
TEXTILE FINISHING PLANT PROJECT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              The Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma.
Beneficiary:           The Textiles Industries Corporation (TIC)
Amount:                Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 28.2 million
(US$29.7 million equivalent).
Terms:                 Standard.
Onlending Terms:       15 years including a grace period of 5 years, with
interest at 8.5% per annum. TIC will bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Project Objectives    The project will help expand Burma's limited fabric
and Description:      finishing capacity (bleach, dye or print) to match grey
fabrics output and partially replace the obsolete and
uneconomical finishing facilities in some of the small
weaving plants. The plant will finish 16.6 million
linear meters per year of fabrics of medium quality for
shirting and suiting. The project would also demonstrate
the feasibility of operating at a level of capacity util-
ization higher than currently practiced in the textile
industry in Burma. The project includes consultancy
services for assistance in design, engineering, implementa-
tion, commissioning services, upgrading the financial,
accounting and management information systems and training
of staff. The Government will also undertake a study of
the textile sector which will focus on measures to improve
the productivity of the existing plants, and prepare a
long-term development strategy for the sector.
Risks:                 The risks involved are delays in completion of civil works,
failure to set proper prices and inability to enforce the
work shifts and work hours required for obtaining a reason-
able return on invested capital. These risks will be
'S                           substantially minimized through provisions made under the
project.
Thisdoomnent has,,rsicted ditn1ut= andnuybe u  by mxWits oWy in tperfdornse of
tek ofr=Wdudu   Its cntentsn yaY xo*eowbe be dbdodsed bodut Wodd Bank autboemton.



-ii-
Estimated                                           (US$ Million Equivalent)
Project Costs:                                  Local      Foreign    Total
Civil Works                 6.5          3.1      9.6
Equipment & Spares          8.5         15.9     24.4
Erection, Engineering,
Transport & Others        4.3          3.2      7.5
Total Plant Cost 1/      19.3 1/      22.2     41.5
Housing                     1.5           -        1.5
Training                     -           0.4      0.4
Start-up                    0.1          0.1      0.2
Subtotal                  1.6          0.5      2.1
Base Cost Estimate       20.9         22.7     43.6
Contingencies: Physical    2.1           2.3       4.4
Price       2.1          4.3       6.4
Total Installed Cost    25.1          29.3     54.4
working Capital             2.5          0.4       2.9
Total Project Cost       27.6         29.7     57.3
Interest During
Construction              7.7           -       7.7
Total Financing
Requirement            35.3         29.7     65.0
Less Duties and Taxes       9.5           -        9.5
Net Financing
Requirement            25.8         29.7     55.5
1/ Include duties and taxes of US$9.5 million.
Financing Plan:                                     (US$ Million Equivalent)
Local     Foreign.   Total
TIC                          5.3           -        5.3
Government                  30.0           -       30.0
IDA                                      29.7     29.7
Total                       35.3         29.7     65.0



-iii-
Estimated Disbursement:
(USS Million Equivalent)
IDA FY          1984     1985      1986      1987     1988
Annual          7.3      15.4       4.4       2.3      0.3
Cumulative      7.3      22.7      27.1     29.4      29.7
Economic Rate
of Return:           20.4%
Staff Appraisal
Report:              No. 4539-BA dated November 1, 1983.
Map:                   IBRD No. 17296.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURHA
FOR A TEXTILE FINISHING PLANT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
Development Credit to the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma for
Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 28.2 million (US$29.7 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to help finance a Textile Finishing Plant Project. The
proceeds of the Credit will be onlent to the Textiles Industries Corporation
(TIC) for a term of 15 years including 5 years grace, with interest at B.5
percent per annum. TIC will bear the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The latest economic report entitled, "Burma: Priorities for Continued
Growth" (Report No.3852-BA, dated May 7, 1982) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on May 10, 1982. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.      The present leadership of Burma assumed the responsibilities of
government in 1962 and vested authority in a revolutionary council.
Thereafter, a Constitution was adopted in a nationwide referendum in December
1973, creating the Pyithu Bluttaw (People's Assembly) with supreme executive,
legislative, and judicial authority. The Burma Socialist Program Party
(BSPP) was confirmed as the only authorized political party. The
Government's guiding philosophy stated in the 1962 document entitled The
Burmese Way to Socialism reflects a combination of traditional Burmese values
and socialist doctrine. Its economic objectives are set out in the
Twenty-Year Plan, which was adopted by the BSPP in 1972 and is being imple-
mented through a succession of Four-Year Plans. U Ne Win, who had been
President since 1962, announced his resignation just prior to the national
election in November 1981 and was succeeded by U San Yu, former Secretary
General of the BSPP. Insurgency remains a problem, particularly in the hills
and border areas, although there is definitely greater territorial control by
the Government now than at any time since Independence in 1948.
1/ Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as in the
President's Report (Report No. 3586-BA) dated May 25, 1983 for a Second
Rubber Rehabilitation Project in Burma. The report was distributed to
the Executive Directors under cover of the Secretary's memorandum
IDA|R 83-73.



-2-
4.      During the 1960s and the early 1970s, the Government made substantial
progress in the attainment of its social and political goals, particularly in
terms of extending public ownership and Burmese control of economic
institutions. On the other hand, economic performance suffered over this
period, the major features being slow growth, a fall in domestic savings and
a shrinking of the external sector. In recognition of this poor economic
performance, the Government came up with a new development strategy in 1972
with the publication of the Twenty-Year Plan. The main objectives of the
Plan are to foster economic growth within the context of a socialist system,
to enhance economic strength and self-sufficiency by converting from an
agricultural to an agriculture-based industrial society, to eliminate
unemployment and to reduce income disparities. The main elements of this
strategy are: (a) to give higher priority initially to the directly produc-
tive sectors, especially to agriculture, forestry, and mining; (b) to make
greater use of aid, trade, and to a lesser extent technical assistance;
(c) to follow a price stabilization program which emphasizes cost reduction,
through increased efficiency in industry and technical change in agriculture;
and Cd) introduce work incentives and commercial principles, especially in
the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs).
5.      A wide range of policy reforms followed the publication of the
Twenty-Year Plan. While pricing policy still reflected the desire to provide
basic consumer goods cheaply and to prevent inflation, procurement prices of
a variety of agricultural products were raised substantially to improve the
economic positic,n of the farmer. In industry, the Government increased the
ex-factory prices for many of the SEEs. Meanwhile, the official exchange
rate was devalued and the interest rate on savings deposits raised. In
addition to these pricing reforms the Government introduced a major tax
reform designed to restore the country's public finance to a sound basis.
6.      In part, as a result of these measures, and in part as a result of
favorable weather and increased capital inflows, gross domestic product (GDP)
during the Second Four-Year Plan (1974/75-1977/78) increased by an annual
average of 4.7%, compared to 2.7% in the previous decade. Gross fixed
capital formation increased by about 8% per annum in real terms, and domestic
savings as a percent of GDP also increased. The improved budgetary provision
of the Government lessened its dependence on the banking system, which, in
turn, contributed to a reduction in the rate of inflation.
7.      The growth momentum was sustained through the Third Four Year Plan
period ((1978/79-1981/82). During this time, Burma achieved an average
annual GDP growth of 6.5% in real terms, accompanied by rising export and
stable prices. This favorable performance has been largely due to
(a) steadily rising agricultural production, resulting mainly from the
Government's introduction of high-yielding varieties; (b) higher capacity
utilization primarily in industry, and (c) rapid increases in investment,
particularly in the public sector.
8.      The Government's introduction of an agricultural intensification
program, the Whole Township Program, has contributed to a revitalization of



-3-
agriculture in Burma in recent years. This Program, extended now to about 80
townships, has a number of unique features, including the participation of
the People's Councils in coordinating production and procurement; selectivity
and concentration through a campaign-type approach; mobilization of the
community to provide additional labor; and the priority provision of consumer
goods to project areas to complement rising incomes. Program coverage for
paddy, expanded from 2Z of paddy-sown area in 1977/78 to 51% in 1981/82;
during this period, paddy production increased by about 50%. The Whole
Township Program has also been extended to other crops, including groundnuts,
maize, wheat, sesame, cotton, beans and pulses with good results. The focus
of the Government's agricultural program over the next few years will be on
the consolidation of past gains in paddy, with particular emphasis on quality
improvements in export rice, and further extension of the Whole Township
Program to non-paddy crops. There are indications that the dramatic
increases in agricultural production in recent years have highlighted the
bottlenecks in complementary transportation, handling, storage and milling
facilities. In the coming years, the Government will have to deal with these
bottlenecks through investments in additional capacity.
9.      Benefitting from increased domestic supplies of agricultural raw
materials as well as from a steady growth of intermediate good imports,
capacity utilization in the light and agro-based industries in the public
sector has improved. The increased level of economic activity during this
period is also reflected in the higher gross domestic capital formation. The
share of investment in GDP in constant prices increased from 15% in 1978/79
to 17% in 1981/82. On the other hand, the rapid expansion of public
investment, which accounts for 70% of the total, has been largely responsible
for the widening in the overall budgetary deficit from 10% of GDP in 1978/79
to an estimated 17% in 1981/82. Public savings have shown only a modest
growth, and the increasing deficit has been financed by large increases in
external assistance and domestic credit.
10.     Over the same period, merchandise exports increased in nominal terms
by 19% per annum, though the export growth in 1981/82, the last year of the
Third Four Year Plan period, was adversely affected by a sharp decline in the
international price of rice. Merchandise imports increased in current prices
by 20% annually. The current account deficit stabilized at about 6% of GDP,
and net disbursements of loans at around US$350-400 million a year. The
relatively small current account deficit reflects the Government's conserva-
tive approach to balance-of-payments management, not the real import needs of
the country. The Government controls all imports through a foreign exchange
budget, drawn up in accordance with anticipated financing. Although foreign
exchange availability has improved, shortages of imported intermediate and
consumer goods still remain.
11.     The Government's planned annual GDP growth for the Fourth Four Year
(1982/83-L986/87) Plan is 6.2%. In order to attain this ambitious target,
the Government needs to achieve: (a) continued success in the development of
the agricultural sector; (b) further improvements in capacity utilization
especially in industry; (c) a judicious choice of investment projects; and



-4-
(d) sufficient resources - both foreign and domestic - to expand the invest-
ment program at the required rate. Over the medium term, rice exports will
undoubtedly continue to be the mainstay for Burma's foreign exchange
earnings. However, the Government's longer term strategy is to broaden the
country's export base through agricultural diversification and promotion of
agro-based industries, to reduce Burma's reliance on rice and teak and to
insulate the economy progressively from the International price fluctuations
of less processed primary commodity exports.
12.     Moreover, in order to maintain the growth momentum, the Government
will need to expand absorptive capacity for external assistance by emphasiz-
ing institution building and management development to a much greater extent
than in the past. The Burmese planning and administrative system, as it now
exists, is complex and rigid in its manner of operation and appears to focus
excessively on the formulation of targets. Streamlining of the entire plan-
ning and administrative apparatus, decentralization of decision-making, and
strengthening of the capability of Government entities to prepare and imple-
ment projects are urgently needed.
13.     Burma's debt service ratio increased from 13X in the 1977/78 to about
28% in 1981/82, due primarily to a substantial increase in loans from private
financial institutions and suppliers' credits. By March 1982, Burma's exter-
nal public debt, disbursed and outstanding, was approximately US$1.6 billion.
The Government, concerned with the implications of the country's rapidly
increasing indebtedness, has taken action to improve its external debt
management by setting limits on non-concessionary borrowing and intends to
maintain the debt service ratio below 25% in the future. Burma's exports
have been showing steady growth in recent years, but the prospects over the
medium term are less favorable. According to the World Bank's price
projections, Burma's terms of trade which had deteriorated during the last
two years would, at best, recover slowly over the next four years. Moreover,
because of the rising debt service burden and because of Burma's low income
level, external assistance should primarily be on concessionary terms and
should, in addition, finance part of local cost requirements which cannot, at
present, be covered adequately by domestic savings. Local cost financing is
particularly needed for the agricultural sector where most investments have a
low foreign exchange component.
14.     Burma is potentially one of the richest countries in South Asia.
Apart from an impressive natural resource base, it is endowed with a rela-
tively healthy and literate population. The crucial question is the quality
with which these resources will be managed and developed. The Bank continues
to discuss with the Government further improvements in economic management
which would help Burma realize its promising potential for economic develop-
ment as well as external assistance requirements. Discussions on these
topics are carried on jointly with other donors and the IMF during the Burma
Aid Group meetings which the Bank has organized at the Government's request.
The first meeting of the Group was held on November 30, 1976, in Tokyo; and
there have been four subsequent meetings, with indications of increasing
donor support each year.



-5-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
15.     Burma became a member of the Bank in 1952, IFC in 1956, and IDA in
1962. Between 1956 and 1961, the Bank made three loans totalling US$33.1
million, all for transportation projects. One loan for the Port of Rangoon
helped finance reconstruction of cargo berths and storage facilities, and
procurement of cargo handling and port equipment. Two loans helped finance
the post-war reconstruction and dieselization of the railways. All three
projects were satisfactorily completed and the loans fully disbursed by FY68.
16.     No lending was requested between 1962 and 1972.  IDA lending resumed
in 1973 and since then 23 credits totaling about US$608 million equivalent
(net of cancellations) have been made. Over 65% of this assistance was for
projects in the agricultural sector, namely, pump, tank and groundwater
irrigation, rubber, livestock, seed and paddyland development, grain storage,
forestry, wood industries, and the Kinda Dam multipurpose project. About 19%
of IDA's assistance supported the rehabilitation of the transport sector
through four projects, namely inland water transport, railways, two port
projects and a construction industry project. The remaining 16% of IDA
assistance has been for projects in the telecommunications, mining and power
transmission projects. Six credits have been fully disbursed so far.
Disbursement performance has improved considerably particularly as agencies,
such as the Irrigation Department, have become more familiar with the Bank's
procedures. In general, IDA-financed projects have been carried out
satisfactorily. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA
Credits as of September 30, 1983. IFC has made no investments in Burma.
17.     In the past, lending was partly constrained by incomplete knowledge
of some sectors and the lack of adequately prepared projects. Through the
ongoing projects and sector work, the Association's knowledge of many sectors
has improved. A US$4.1 million UNDP technical assistance project (Burma
Umbrella Project), for which the Bank is the executing agency, has developed
a project pipeline suitable for external financing in priority sectors such
as agriculture, transport, power, and industry. Several projects, namely,
Seed Development, Rubber Rehabilitation, Power, Construction Industry and
Groundwater Irrigation were prepared under the Umbrella Project, which is now
in its third phase. Furthermore, the Association plans to continue its
technical assistance on a project-by-project basis to help improve Burmese
project preparation and implementation capabilities, as well as administra-
tive and managerial skills through in-service and overseas training.
18.     The Bank Group strategy is aimed at easing the most immediate
constraints to growth and, particularly, at increasing and diversifying
production for export in order to alleviate the shortage of foreign exchange.
Within this overall strategy, primary emphasis is being placed on the
development of agriculture and forestry and where possible, priority is being
given to quick-yielding projects. Projects under preparation include grain
storage and seed development, irrigation rehabilitation, forestry and wood



-6-
industries. At the same time, financing of infrastructure improvements will
continue in the development of energy and such areas as water supply,
industry, telecommunications, and construction, mainly to rehabilitate and
maximize utilization of existing facilities. In near term, projects are
being developed to reduce transport bottlenecks from areas of production for
principal export commodities, namely, rice and timber.
19.     The proposed project would be the first IDA operation in the induotry
sector. It will meet the pressing need for establishing finishing facllities
for grey fabric currently being produced in Burma. The IDA involvement in
the design and execution of the project will ensure that policy, technical,
financial and management issues, which are central to the proper performance
of state enterprises and the industrial sector in Burma, are addressed.
These include: (a) partial replacement of the obsolete and uneconomical
technology; (b) improved capacity utilization by operating the plant in
shifts and work hours necessary to achieve production targets; (c) sufficient
autonomy In setting prices to ensure reasonable return on invested capital;
(d) automation of an effective cost accounting, financial planning and
management information system; and (e) restructuring the textile/jute subsec-
tor and undertaking a sector study to prepare a long-term comprehensive
development plan for the sector.
20.     The Bank Group currently accounts for about 15% of Burma's total
external debt outstanding and about 1% of its debt service. In five years,
the Bank Group's share in the total external debt is projected to rise to
about 20Z and its share in the debt service to about 2-3%.
PART III - TRE SECVOR
The Industrial Sector
21.     The manufacturing sector is small.  In 1981, it accounted for about
10.5% of GDP, and employed about 7.8% of the total work force. Of about
39,000 industrial units, over 34,000 were small workshops employing less than
10 persons. Only about 450 (about 1%) are larger industrial units employing
100 workers or more. Between 1964 and 1968, all large and medium-sized
industries were nationalized leaving the private and cooperative sector with
small-scale industries. In 1981, some 416 (92%) of industrial enterprises
employing 100 workers or more were in public sector. These industrial units
along with nationalized banks and service companies, were grouped into 56
State Economic Enterprises (SEEs), which together produce about 36% of net
industrial output. In the Industrial Sector, the SEEs are divided under two
ministries, roughly corresponding to a division between light industries
producing consumer goods (Ministry of No. I Industry), and heavy industries
(Ministry of No. 2 Industry). The Textile Industries Corporation (TIC),
under the Ministry of No. 1 Industry, is responsible for the textile and jute
subsectors.



-7-
22.     Besides the publlc sector, industrial activity comprises the coopera-
tives and the private sector. The cooperative movement, which began in Burma
at the turn of the century, was adopted by the Government in 1962 to organla
economic units too small to come under direct centralized control. Its
development was to be fostered under the twenty-year plan with the expecta-
tion thflt the cooperatives' shares of GDP would increase from 22 to 26% over
the Plan period, while that of the private sector would drop from 702 to 26%.
It was felt that the priority preference given to the cooperative sector over
the private sector in respect of credit, foreign exchango and materials,
would induce the private manufacturers into forming cooperatives over a short
period.  However, these advantages have not materialized to any large extent
and consequently the growth of the cooperatives has been much slower than
anticipated.  The private sector, on the other hand, has roaind remarkably
large (60% in 1979/80) considering the limited resources that are officially
made available to it. Cooperatives and the private sector account for over
80% of sector employment, and nearly half of value added.
The Textile Subsector
23.     The textile industry in Burma developed over many years mainly as a
cottage industry. Weaving as a technical art is as old as the Burmese
culture. There are over 65,000 villages in the country, each having several
households with at least one loom and producing some kind of home-woven
fabrics. In some villages or small towns, weaving using hand looms (and some
equipped with a small motor), together with small-scale yarn dyeing, provides
the main support for the village population. Nevertheless, small weavers
could not establish adequate facilities for processlng 1/ grey fabrics as
these required significant investments in machinery and associated services.
Such facilities as were built to process grey fabrics were mostly primitive
and inadequate. Even today, despite Investments by the Government in a
number of modern vertically integrated mills, the processing capacity has not
kept up with the increase in demand and production of grey fabrics, thus
creating an imbalance in the sector.
24.     The textile industry also comprises the private sector, the coopera-
tive units and the public sector. Prior to nationalization in 1968, the
private sector and cooperatives included about 5,000 small-scale production
units each employing less than nine workers (a total of about 10,000 workers)
and some 350 larger units, each employing 10 or more pers- s (over 20,000
workers); 53% of the units were involved in spinning, we&vang and printing,
21% in knitting, 12% in ginning, IO% in dyeing and printing and about 42 in
silk work. The Government's involvement in the sector began with the spin-
ning and weaving mill at Thamaing which started its operations in 1951, using
extensively the locally grown cotton. In 1958 and subsequently, new spindles
1/ Fabric processing is the chemical treatment of grey fabrics through
bleaching, dyeing, printing and finishing to give the required final
characteristics to the finished fabric.
-7



-8-
and looms, capable of produclng finer fabrics based on imported cotton yarn,
were added together with the first modern dyeing and finishing facility. In
1968, sixty privately-owned tex-ile mills were natIonalized which put the
Government in control of 70 textile units. These operations, following a
number of reorganizations, regroupings, consolidations and subsequent
expansion, form TIC, which now represents the most significant component of
Burma's textile sector.
25.     The total output of the public and private mills (cotton textiles,
printed fabrics, and others) over the past decade has varied from a low of
about 13 million kg (1974/75) to a high of about 26 million kg (in 1977/78).
In 1980/81, the production amounted to 24.1 million kg with TTC share of
about 43%. The wide variation in production has been caused by uneven supply
of domestic cotton and inadequate allocation of foreign exchange for isport
of fiber, yarns, dyes, chemicals and spare parts. Yarn production is con-
centrated almost exclusively in TIC establishments which have a total of
about 257,000 spindles. Weaving capacity, using power and handlooms, is more
widely distributed between TIC (5,900 power looms in 26 units), private
sector (about 4,100 power looms and 5,200 hand looms), and the cooperative
sector (about 750 power looms and 122,000 hand looms). Further, it is
estimated that there are 250,000 hand looms in cottage industry units
throughout the country. The knitting capacity is very small and consists of
187 knitting machines in TIC mills and 167 in the cooperative mills.
26.     Fabric and yarn processing in the modern sense is only available in
the Paleik textile complex 1/, and to a lesser extent in the Thamaing Nill.
During 1978-1982, average annual production of grey fabrics in TIC amounted
to about 45.6 million linear meters (mlm) of which about 43.5 mlm was
processed in these two modern mills and other small units. Paleik and
Thamning were originally designed to meet fabric finishing requirements of
TIC including the smaller nationalized mills. However, because of the addi-
tion of the two modern spinning and weaving mills (Sagaing and Meiktila)
without corresponding expansion of the fabric finishing capacity, many of the
smaller mills were denied access to the finishing services at Paleik and
Thamaing. This situation was further aggravated since the commissioning of
the Shwedaung Spinning and Weaving Mill in 1982. Of the 24 small mills, 17
mills had to maintain or develop their own finishing capacity relying on a
mismatch of available indigenous equipment and machinery which has now become
technically and operationally inefficient. TIC intends to replace these with
more modern and efficient capacities in due course. The proposed project
would serve the finishing requirements of the Shwedaung Mill (about 6 million
mlm), and replace some of the obsolete small finishing units.
1/  The Paleik Textile Complex is located in Upper Burma (900 km from
Rangoon) has been in operation since 1973 and is the only one in Burma
with industrial yarn dyeing facilities. In 1980/81 it produced some
3,200 tons of dyed yarn.



Textile Industries Corporation
27.     TIC was established in 1972.  Its Management Committee composed of
ten members is headed by the Managing Director and includes Directors of
Planning, Production, Finance and Administration. TIC currently manages 48
state-owned mills and factories which manufacture woven apparel, household
fabrics and industrial/agricultural items such as rope, twine and jute bags.
These production units are currently grouped into three divisions, namely
Cotton Textiles, comprising 9 relatively large mills; General Textiles,
consisting of 24 smaller and generally older mills; and Jute Operations,
*       consisting of 15 mills.  The Government plans to establish a separate jute
corporation so that TIC will then concentrate on its textile mills. TIC has
proved competent in implementing several large textile projects in recent
years and possesses a wide spectrum of managerial and technological knowledge
gained from long experience in the operation of cotton and jute mills. It
has a pool of management, engineering and accounting staff, some of whom will
be assigned for implementation and later operation of the proposed project.
28.     Since the nationalization in 1968, TIC has undertaken a major program
of restructuring and expansion in the textile industry. Sixty seven nation-
alized and three state-owned units have been reorganized into 48 mills by
regrouping machinery and consolidating management. TIC has established new
spinning and weaving plants, diversified into knitting and garment
activities, and now proposes the new finishing plant to augment processing
capacity. To ensure adequate supplies of essential inputs, TIC has taken
over the import of all textile raw materials such as dyes, chemicals and
yarns, and handles their distribution not only to the public sector mills but
also to the private sector and cooperatives. The Government will undertake a
study of all facets of the textile sector, public and private, including
expansion and further restructuring which will set the course for the long-
range development of the industry. The proposed study would also focus on
improving productivity of all TIC's mills. The objectives and the terms of
reference of this study have been agreed. The study is expected to be com-
pleted by December 31, 1985. It will be made available to IDA, along with an
action plan for implementing the recomendations, for review and comment
(Section 4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement {DCA}).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
29.     Bank support for this project was requested in 1980 and a reconnais-
sance mission in June 1981 provided assistance to the Government in project
formulation and planning. A detailed prefeasibility study was prepared by
TIC and the Industrial Planning Department of the Ministry of No. 1 Industry
and subsequently reviewed by the Bank and Consultants, Gherzi Textile
Organization of Switzerland in June, 1982. A Staff Appraisal Report titled
"Textile Finishing Plant Project" (Report No. 4539-BA, dated November 1,
1983) is being distributed separately. A time table of key events relating
to the project and special conditions are given in Annex III. Negotiations



-10-
were held in Washington, D.C. from October 24 to 28, 1983. The delegation
from the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma was headed by His
Excellency U Tint Swe, Minister of No. 1 Indus6:ry and included U Khin Nyo,
Managing Director, TIC.
Background
30.     In 1980/81 overall average yarn production in all of TIC mills was
about 57 kg per spindle; the average annual fabric production per loom in
the five major mills being about 13,600 meters, and in smaller mills, about
7,000 meters. These figures indicate an average capacity utilization of
40-50% in spinning and 50-60% in weaving, based on total installed equipment
operating on three shifts per day and achievable levels of operational
efficiency under Burmese conditions. Capacity utilization is low for variety
of reasons. Most plants are run on two shifts (240 days per year), according
to TIC, because of social considerations and lack of spare parts. Labor
productivity is also low mainly due to lack of incentives and inadequate
training while targets are set at levels which can be easily met. Much of
the equipment, particularly that which was assembled by TIC into larger
units, is obsolete and poorly maintained - largely due to shortage or out-
moding of spare parts. Raw materials are at times short and suipply is
erratic. About 30% of cotton requirements, together with practically all
dyes and chemicals, must be imported but foreign exchange allocat.ons fluc-
tuate from year to year and available supplies are reportedly inadequate to
meet the demands of the sector. Capacity additions in spinning and weaving
have led to an imbalance in the industry. For example, TIC's new Shwedaung
Textile Hill has not been matched by a corresponding investment in finishing
capacity, and will not ibe able to process properly some 6 million meters of
its output. In some of TIC's plants alud other mills in the private and
cooperative sectors, small finishing units have been established but these
are inefficient, provide poor quality finishing, consume very high quantities
of chemicals and energy, and cause pollution.
Project Description
31.     The project will provide fabric bleaching. d7eing, printing, and
finishing facilities with modern devices to ensure product quality. About
16.6 mlm of 100% cotton and cotton polyester blended fabrics of medium
quality will be finished for shirting and suiting. The project will help
increase available modern finishing capacity from about 18 mlm to 35 mlm and
also partially replace the existing obsolete and uneconomical finishing
facilities in some small weaving plants. As finishing operations are capital
intensive, the project could only be financially and economically justifiable
and earn a reasonable return on invested capital provided a higher level of
capacity utilization is achieved. TIC will, therefore, undertake to operate
the plant for at least 7,080 hours per year (295 working days per year in
three shifts of eight hours each per day) as against 3,840 hours and two
shifts normally worked in TIC plants (Section 4.03(c) of the draft DCA). The
Government has confirmed that there were no legal constraints on guidelines
preventing industrial plants from operating higher shifts and working hours



-11-
as proposed under the project. In fact, there are segments of industry, such
as pulp and paper and cement plants, which are operating on three shifts
basis.
32.     The project size and configuration was decided after taking into
account the demand for fabric and after studying various alternatives of
possible expansion/rehabilitation of existing major facilities and economies
of scale. After detailed analysis of cost and benefits, Shwedaung, a town
225 km Northwest of Rangoon, with a population of some 50,000, was selected
by the Government as the most suitable site. Shwedaung is well connected by
a river, (the Irrawaddy), roads and rail transpertation and is centrally
located to serve both the existing textile mills in lower Burma and major
market areas. The project site covers an area of 16 hectares, with ample
space for possible future expansion, and is adjacent to the Shwedaung spin-
ning and weaving mill commissioned in April 1982.
Raw Materials, Utilities and Housing
33.     The project would use grey 100Z cotton and cotton polyester blended
fabrics currently being produced by TIC mills (Shwedaung, Meiktila, Thamaing)
and other smaller mills in the Rangoon area. At maximum planned output, the
project will require about 18 mlm of grey fabrics per year and practically
all dye stuff and chemicals required for processing will be imported. The
Government will make satisfactory arrangements for the timely procurement of
dyes, chemicals, spare parts and other maintenance materials for the opera-
tion of the plant (Section 4.03(b) of the draft DCA). The water
requirements, estimated at 95 cubic meters per hour, will be obtained from
the Irrawaddy river which is about 5 km from the plant site. Water intake
pumps and facilities will be installed at the water supply point. The water
required for dyeing, boiler feed and drinking purposes will be treated in a
water treatment unit adjacent to the river before being pumped to the plant
site. Steam required for processing will be generated by 2 package boilers,
each with a capacity of 10 tons per hour. The electric power requirements
for the project are estimated at about 1.2 MW and will be met from the recent
addition of 2 gas turbines of 18 MW each, at Prome which is 6 km away from
Shwedaung. The Electric Power Corporation (EPC) will ensure timely supply
and will undertake construction of the power transmission lines up to the
receiving substation at the plant site (Section 4.03(a) of the draft DCA).
Diesel generators will also be installed for emergency power supply and will
be financed under the proposed project. Housing facilities adjacent to the
project site will be provided for essential staff on call in case of an
emergency.  Eleven single-family houses for senior staff, 30 duplex type
buildings for supervisory and technical staff, and 60 units as dormitories
for single workers will be built.
TIC's Financial Performance and Operations
34.     During the period 1977/78 to 1981/82 TIC's financial situation
changed considerably. Although total revenues have generally increased at an
average rate of about 9% annually, costs have been increasing at about 13%.



-12-
Profit margins have eroded to 0.3Z, caused in part by the pricing system
which, in practice, permits increases after some delay. The Government has
been extremely reluctant to increase prices for jute and some textile
products such as fabrics used for uniforms. Long-term debt has increased by
kyats 1,045 million (US$135 million equivalent) over the period as a result
of major investments in new projects, increasing fixed assets by kyats 1,280
million over the same period. Although debt-service coverage, debt:equity
and current ratios are still reasonably satisfactory, a continuation of these
trends would quickly lead to an unsatisfactory financial situation and TIC
would not be able to expand further and modernize.
35.     The major problem stems from :hie jute operations under TIC.  In 1976,
the Asian Development Bank (.JB) extended a loan of US$25.3 million to TIC
for constructing a new jute mill in Burma. This mill has been completed and
is operative but there are problems with jute supply, low capacity
utilization, and low jute product prices. Recently price increases of about
8% for most textile products were approved while jute prices were not
increased. TIC's financial performance is satisfactory when textile opera-
tions are considered separately from jute. Without jute operations, for the
year ended March 31, 1982, the profit margin for TIC would have been 1.9X
instead of the actual 0.3x. Moreover, 40% of the outstanding loans, and 60%
of current debt-service, is associated with jute operations. In order to
improve TIC's financial performance, the Government plans to form a separate
Jute Corporation. While not directly addressing the necessity for a struc-
tural adjustment, this solution would contain the problem within the jute
division without damaging the otherwise financially healthy textile
divisions. Under these curcumstances, projections of the future financial
performance of TIC (i.e., the Textile Divisions) show a satisfactory finan-
cial performance and indicate that the restructured TIC will be able to
absorb the additional obligations associated with implementation of the
proposed project without undue financial strain. In September 1983, the
Government adjusted the prices of jute products and this would improve per-
formance of jute operations. In September 1983, the Burmese cabinet approved
a comprehensive proposal from the Ministry of No. 1 Industry to separate the
textile and jute operations and to establish a Jute Industries Corporation.
The proposal is expected to be approved shortly by the Council of State,
which is the highest State authority in Burma. Nevertheless, until such time
as jute and textile operations of TIC are separated, TIC will maintain
separate financial accounts and prepare separate financial reports for the
textile and jute operations (Section 5.01 of the draft DCA). The Government
will review with IDA, by end of May 1984, the then current status of
organizational changes in the textile sector in so far as these would affect
TIC's current jute operations (Section 3.05(c) of the draft DCA).
Pricing System
36.     TIC's prices are set and administered by the Government.  Such offi-
cial prices, in general, are not related to international market prices based
on supply and demand but are determined on a cost plus basis.  In contrast,
fabrics produced in private and cooperative sectors as well as resold TIC



-13-
goods are traded at free market prices. The Government is interested in
keeping the prices low for all necessity items and, therefore, prices are set
to allow cross subsidization from luxury to necessity items at the ex-factory
wholesale level. The cost-plus pricing system should, at least in theory,
allow for full cost recovery including depreciation and a reasonable
accumulation of profits in proportion to the capital invested. In practice,
price increases on strategically important materials may not be allowed, or
may be delayed. Despite these inadequacies, it is noteworthy that current
prices for most textile products are only 10-20% below present world prices
for comparable commodities which, considering the generally inferior quality,
is a reasonably appropriate margin. In view of the fact that the proposed
project would provide finished fabrics of qualities not currently produced in
Burma, the Government will enable TIC to establish prices for project output
based on the project cost structure to enable, under conditions of efficient
operation, the project to earn a reasonable return on invested capital (Sec-
tions 4.02 and 4.03(d)of the draft DCA). Such return would be lOZ after
taxes and other levies; being based on a reasonable forecast of costs and
revenues acceptable as reasonable by the borrower and IDA. The rate of
return will be reviewed in the context of opportunity cost of capital and
would be based on revalued assets.
Project Implementation and Operations
37.     Project implementation covers about 3-1/2 years of construction
followed by about a two-year production buildup period. TIC will establish a
Project Office consisting of the Project Director, Project Manager, Project
Engineer, and other essential staff, all under the overall supervision of
TIC's Managing Director. A Project Office has been established and a Project
Director and Project Manager appointed. The Project office will be assisted
by a Project Engineering Firm (PEF) whose appointment, under terms and condi-
tions agreed with IDA, will be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Sections
3.03 and 7.01(b) of the draft DCA). It is estimated that 93 man-months of
PEF services will be required during implementation and will include project
design, engineering and assisting TIC in installation. Training services
provided by PEF during commissioning and initial operations would require at
least 5 technologists (bleaching, dyeing, printing, finishing and quality
control), 4 technicians (mechanical, electrical, control and services), and 2
specialists (financial and management assistance) for a total of about 120
man-months. The total cost of all consultancy services, totalling 213 man-
months is estimated at US$2.1 million, at an average cost of US$10,000 per
man-month, including travel and lodging expenses.
Staffing and Training
38.     At full capacity the project would require about 470 workers for a
three-shift operation. A specific training plan will be prepared by TIC with
the assistance of the PEF, and will be furnished to IDA by December 31, 1984
(Section 3.09 of the draft DCA) for its review and comment. A small training
unit will be established at the plant site for initial orientation of
operators and maintenance personnel required for the production and services



-14-
facilities. After initial orientation, operators will be trained on the job,
while maintenance personnel will be trained during erection and commissioning
of the new equipment by suppliers' specialists. In addition, some 29
management, engineering and supervisory staff will be tralned abroad for
periods varying between 3 to 12 months. Training abroad would be coordinated
so that trained personnel will be available at the erection and start-up
period, to gain practical experience in the initial operation of the plant.
The total cost of traiulng is estimated at about US$0.4 million.
Accounting and Management Information Systems
39.     TIC maintains a double entry accounting system based on commercial
principles. The classification of accounts is uniform through all its mills.
Accounting records are well maintained and contain reasonable detail on TIC's
costs, revenues, production, inventories and other financial and operational
data. Nevertheless, TIC's reports to its Ministry and from its 47 mills are
quite extensive and involve substantial clerical work and bookkeeping. These
reports are currently being prepared manually. TIC's management information
system requires major modification and strengthening to cope with the
increasing volume of management reporting and data handling. System improve-
ment and computerization of the system would improve promptness and quality
of information specifically for costing systems (and consequently for
pricing) and provide for improved planning and monitoring, and efficient cash
management. Nevertheless, the terms of reference would require that the
consultants compare the benefits and costs of an improved manual system with
those of a computerized system. The consultants would formulate their recom-
mendation on this basis. Consultant services will include assistance to
improve TIC's management information systems and its financial planning
capabilities.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
40.     The total project cost, including working capital and interest during
construction, is estimated at US$65.0 million equivalent including US$29.7
million equivalent (about 46%) in foreign exchange. The cost estimates are
based on data prepared by TIC and Consultants, using end 1982 prices, and
after detailed assessment of machinery and civil works requirements, local
conditions of civil works and erection and requirements of technical assis-
tance and training. The cost estimates for machinery were reviewed in light
of recent Bank experience on similar equipment and were found satisfactory.
The project costs include provision for services and infrastructure, repre-
senting about 6.5X of installed cost, which will be required in a possible
second phase I/ which for technical and economic reasons could not be
separated from those under the project. Physical contingencies of 10 of the
1/ The second phase would include yarn dyeing and conversion and related
service facilities. TIC intends to implement the second phase when
financing is available.



-15-
base cost estimate are provided for civil works and equipment. Price contin-
gencies for foreign expenditure are assumed at 82 in 1983, 7.52 in 1984, 72
in 1985 and 6% in 1986 onward. For local expenditures, annual price
increases are assumed at 42 in 1983 and thereafter. In total, price contin-
gencies represent 152 of the estimated base costs.
41.     The proposed IDA Credit of US$29.7 million would cover the estimated
foreign exchange costs of the project. The Socialist Republic of the Union
of Burma will be the Borrower and the proceeds of the Credit will be relent
to TIC, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, for a period of 15 years, includ-
ing 5 years grace with an interest rate of 8.5% per annum (Section 3.01(b) of
the draft DCA). The proposed onlending rate, which is in line with the
current rate structure in Burma, is positive in real terms. The foreign
exchange risk will be borne by TIC. The execution of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement will be a condition of effectiveness (Section 7.01(a) of the draft
DCA). TIC will finance the local costs of US$5.3 million equivalent and the
balance of US$30 million equivalent will be loaned by the Government for a
term of 15 years including 5 years grace and an interest of 52 per annum.
Procurement and Disbursement
42.     All Machinery, equipment and spares, imported raw materials such as
dyes and chemicals, except locally manufactured transport equipment and small
contracts, financed by the proposed Credit, will be procured following inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits", dated March 1977. Since
there are no local companies that manufacture textile machinery, no local
bids are expected. Disbursements will be on the basis of 1002 of foreign
expenditures. Small contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent, but
not exceeding the aggregate amount of US$2 million, may be procured by
limited international tendering (after having invited offers from suppliers
in at least three eligible countries on the basis of suitability,
availability and price consideration following IDA approval of the proposed
list of items involved). Also, proprietary items and items in limited supply
which are critical to the timely completion of the project, and whose
aggregate cost is estimated not to exceed US$1.5 million, may be procured
following prudent shopping with prior IDA approval.
43.     Civil works will be financed by the Government and will be imple-
mented by the Construction Corporation (CC), the Government entity which is
responsible for all major permanent construction works in the country includ-
ing industrial and commercial buildings, storage and social facilities,
housing, infrastructure and maintenance work. Contracts with the CC are
usually on a cost plus basis. Since civil works is critical to efficient
project implementation, TIC will enter into a contractual agreement with CC
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.08(a) of the draft
DCA). About 402 of civil works representing the cost of imported construc-
tion materials, such as prefabricated steel structures, reinforcing bars.
corrugated aluminum sheets, steel windows and doors and pipes will be
financed by the proposed Credit and will be procured by TIC following ICB in
accordance with Bank Guidelines.



-16-
Financial Rate of Return
44.     The financial rate of return reflects the net benefit of the project
to TIC's textile operations. In constant 1982 prices, the return is 13.8%
after commodities and service tax. Product prices are calculated using a
mark-up on production cost which range from 5% to 20%, depending on the
product. The base case return has been determined using prices calculated
with a 10Z mark up. The sensitivity analysis shows the effect of the
selected different mark up levels and demonstrates that the project return is
quite sensitive to this factor. The analysis also shows a significant drop
in project profitability if capacity utilization is reduced by operating the
plant five days a week (240 days per year).  Nevertheless, the project is
able to withstand reasonable changes in other assumptions. In order to
ensure satisfactory financial performance of TIC's textile divisions, the
Government will not permit TIC to borrow any additional funds if this would
increase the debt:equity ratio above 50:50; or if a reasonable projection
shows that the forecast debt service coverage ratio, during the term of the
debt to be incurred, would drop below 1.5. TIC will maintain a current ratio
of at least 1.5:1 at all times. In addition, TIC would not invest in new
projects in excess of US$10 million equivalent before completion of the
project without prior consultation with IDA (Section 5.04 of the draft DCA).
Environment
45.     The air quality of the town of Shwedaung is relatively good as there
are few industrial establishments in the area. The plant site is about 5 km
from the outskirts of the city. Provision has been made to keep the dis-
charge of liquid and gaseous waste within acceptable limits following Bank
guidelines. The steam boilers will be equipped with automatic regulating
devices to ensure maximum combustion and to control the discharge of carbon
monoxide in the flue gasses. Full ventilation will be provided in the fabric
processing area, but without air recycling, and equipment generating steam or
heat will have special hoods with forced exhaust systems. The effluent from
the processing departments will be treated in an industrial waste treatment
plant near the project site before being discharged into the river. The
design of the main buildings and the type of equipment used would not allow
the noise level to exceed 90 decibels (Section 3.10 of the draft DCA).
Benefits and Risks
46.     The base case economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is 20.4%.
The sensitivity analysis shows that the project's ERR is relatively insensi-
tive to moderate changes in most of the assumptions concerning costs and
productivity; of particular interest is the margin between the economic
prices of grey and finished fabric which ranges from US$0.63 per linear meter
for cotton cellular to US$0.90 for cotton drills. The weighted average
margin for the product mix for the proposed project is US$0.76. If this
margin were to increase by 152 to US$0.87, the rate of return would increase
to 23.5% whereas a decrease by 15% to US$0.66 would reduce the return to
17.1%. In fact, the margin is unlikely to change substantially, as textile



-17-
finishing operations throughout the world are based on such margins, which in
the long run must be adequate to cover investments in finishing plant and the
costs of operation. The plant proposed for Burma is modern and should be
able to remain competitive with similar plants in other locations.
47.     The proposed project will be an instrument for continuing the policy
dialogue between the Government and the Association and will also address
several important sector issues. A study covering all facets of the textile
sector will enable further exchange of ideas, particularly in areas such as
the role of the private and cooperative sectors, further improvement in the
capacity utilization, financial management, pricing mechanism as well as
development of overall fiber supply strategy including imports. Technical
restructuring of the textile sector will commence by separation of the jute
operations from textiles, and the physical reorganization and closing of
small finishing operations will be initiated. This, together with the con-
sultation between TIC and the Association for new projects (in excess of
US$10 million), will ensure proper reorganization and development of the
sector. The project's significantly higher operational hours per year will
also demonstrate the operational feasibility and financial/economic impact of
the increased capacity utilization. The services of a qualified consulting
firm (PEF) would help TIC assume an active role in project implementation,
and ensure transfer of modern technology and skills to TIC staff. The
automation and modernization of management information systems would improve
quality and promptness of information, for effective costing and pricing
systems, as well as for financial planning and control systems.
48.     The normal risks associated with such projects are the shortfall in
allocation of foreign exchange for operations, and lower plant productivity.
In addition, past experience in Burma shows that civil works often cause
delays due to inadequate construction management control and planning systems
and shortages in the allocation of local construction materials. The forma-
tion of the Project Office assisted by a PEF with responsibilities in civil
works design, supervision, construction monitoring and cost control systems,
should minimize concern over the adequacy of the construction management
control and planning system. All major local building materials such as
cement, bricks, tiles, asbestos sheets, are produced in the Ceramic
Corporation. Both TIC and the Ceramic Corporation are under Ministry of
No. I Industry which would ensure better allocation of building materials to
the project. The Government would also ensure the timely supply of construc-
tion materials which would further minimize this risk to an acceptable level.
It is possible that finished fabric prices may be lower, and the cost of grey
fabrics higher, than those projected. Adopting the proposed pricing system
is a satisfactory arrangement to minimize this risk, particularly with the
Government agreeing to take no action which would prevent the project, when
operating efficiently, from obtaining a reasonable return on invested
capital. In order to ensure increased capacity utilization, the proposed
training program and post commissioning services, undertaken by PEF, will:
(i) provide for overseas training, as well as on-site training of Burmese
personnel, before and after plant commissioning; (ii) provide all manufactur-
ing and processing knowhow and other relevant technical information; and



-18-
(lll) set up and implement such production control schemes concerning quan-
tities and qualities of production as may be needed.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
49.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Socialist Republic
of the Union of Burma and the Association, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
50.     Special conditions of the draft Development Credit Agreement are
given in Section III of Annex III. Appointment of a Project Engineering Flrm
and the execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Sociallst
Republic of the Union of Burma and the Textiles Industries Corporation will
be conditions of effectiveness.
51.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
52.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 22, 1983



BEST COPI AVAILABLE
-19-                                                AM=
lags 1
"MA~~   ~~        A - i, g      W 3     ^"
11~  ~ ~ 109?il IHOOS    W                            9S1001KA g
"*SOT         tHT  SCN   TIMATI} 
13oLk      1.,OLk 3,TZIMSATUL       ASIA * PACt=tC          ACIA A PACLFIc
TOTAL                              379.4       974.9      979.9
ACRICMIaURAl                       10.,        10S.0      107.6
ow  M  SIIn  tw)                       so.0        70.0      L90.0              2,0.7                   1Z2. 1
CKILOIMS OF C0l .UINWALS)             .0       13.0        17.0              318.6                   719.6
_ouL o mm  nsL  MumIG
POPULATIONA,ID-VuAi (THOUA1DUI   21710.0    amooo.0     2Le.o
URIA  POFULATtIo  (S09 IOFAW       19.3       22.6        a7.1               21-5                     l1.9
POPULATION FWICTIUS
rOPIUJATION LNUVIM 200  (MILL)                           32.0
STATIONAW PoItUIAT1N  (NELL)                            114.1
TSAR UTATLOuII POP. 33*190                              12as
P0YILATION 0315SM
PR inq. MR.                       32.2        51.9       49.2              161.                     2e.a
PM sq. KM. A103. LAD             203.1      350.0       320.6              36.1                    119s.5
POPULATUIO AC2 STWUCUU (1
0-1U YU                          36.2       40.3        41.1               30.9                     39.4
15-" YU                           59.2       19.3        11.2               59.2                     17.2
5*    * AIM                        2.9        3.3         3.1                4.2                      3.3
POPULATION 0800 AmTU (C)
TOTAL                              1.9         2.1        2.1                1.9                      2.3
UIIUM                              3.1        3.9         3.9                4.0                      3.9
CRUDM RuT RATS tru  tUoUS)          42.9       40.1        37.0               29.3                     31.3
CRUDE DEATIB RAT (Psiw TaASI        21.0        14.9       12.1               10.9                      9.0
Wms EFww30iCTO  RATE                2.          2.8         2.0               2.0                       2.u
FANL LV PANNMA
AOCEPTR"   MIUAC (TIHAUS)
USIaS e7 IIUACI 33 111li)           ..         ..          ..              4U.1                      ee.b
um m Cow   o m m ul 1aL4:
IMbE CIFOODw ROFD. PRL CWITA
(1999-71-100)                      100.0      101.0       107.0              111.                     125.2
ME  CAPITA W ."LY Of
CALOI  (4 or RuUIET)              91.0       104.0      IL3.0               to.1                    114.2
MI03    (GS t(cAu  PM DAY)        52.0       57.0        63.0               s6.7                     57.9
OF MICH ANIMAL AN PULSE          11.0        12.0       1L2.o              13.9                     14.1
C0ILD (AGE  1-4) OLAT1 RATE         21.1        13.3       12.3               12.2                      7.0
LIE CaEcr-. AT Bla  (9Yu")          43.0       46.7        54.1               59.4                     60.2
INFANIT HART. RTEC (PMR T01S      13S.0      127.9        9.1                94.0                     68.1
ACCESS WA SAYS WATER (ZPO)
TOTAL                               ..        1.0         17.0j             32.9                     37.1
uRIAM                               ..       35.0        5O.0Or             70.8                     54.3
RURAL                               *-       1.00         1.CH              22.2                     24.4
ACCESS WO 13017  DIPOSAL
(Z OF POULATION)
tOTAL                               . .       35.0       33.                u.l1                     41.4
URUBA                              4*5.0 0I                                 72.1                     47.5
RUAL                                ..       32.0        32.7                4.7                     33.4
POPULATION PER PRISICIM          15590.0     8790.0      43e0.0             3306.0                    171L.9
POP. Err  HIISNG PERSON           U520.el    733.0       47e0.0             4797.9                   24R2.
For. FU HSPTlr  mm
OTrAL                           1520.0      1170.0     I1O0.Oj            1L10.0                   1047.2
UKS                              30.Oea     330.0       370.OZ             295.4                    051. I
IIIIRAL                             ..    15220.0      7130.0 c           5941.b                   2591.9
ADMISSIONS P    STAL  D               ..        4.0          ..                 ..                     17.0
AIRUIAE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              4.4         ...
gas"                                ..         ..
RuRAL                               ..         ..          .                   ..
A Y131  No. w  PIASIRO
TOTAL                               ..         ..
RURAL                               ..         ..
ACCESS WD ELECr. CZ OF DUELLIGS)
TOTAL                               ..         ..
123AM                               ..         ...
RIIR                                ..         ..          .                  ..



BESI COPY AVAILABLE                                                    - 20-
-     AL 20                                         AUNNDX I
Page 2
UbIK              ~~~- soc   ^"           t  Hl
MOST                       (NOT UCgNT ETIUMATE) h
RCNT                 LOW WS                 PIDDLI
.12GO&k      l67O&       I EITUATS      ASIA &      ?IC .        A"S'IAL   PACIpIc
ADJUSIT ENROLLUWI 6412T6
6IINAI I   TOTAL                     SS.0         X7.0         &.AIt               96.1                      101.2
MAU                      I1.U         a.X.a la107.1                                               106.0
MIALE                    32.0         63.0          n.a                di.s                        97.5
IKON^IAIVI TOTAL                     10.0         21.0        30.                  30.2                       44.6
HALE                     1O           26.0         22.                 37.3                        50.0
FINAlE                    7.0         17.U1       1.0                 22.2                        41.6
VUCATIOIIAI  (Sor sIcOMDOAY)            O.5          0.l          Q. l9               2.3                        11.5
PUPILTIACHMI MATLO
pv azm                               42.0         47.0         54.01c              34.4                       32.7
Su:oNAMY                             40.0         32.0         7.:                 16.4                       25.4
ADULT LITERACY PATE (1)                S9.7           ..         65.9                53.5                        72.6
-Ku
PASSENOEE CAISITNDUSAND POP             0.d          1.1          1.3/                1.6                        9.7
MOADC MEClvEu/TMLuA   PoP               5.3         14.1         2J.'                94.6                      113.7
TV  lCImm Ks/TMOUIID P .F                             ..           ..                 9.9                        5O.l
NJuSPAPER (DALLV OINIRAL
INTBREST - CERCUIATLON
PRl TIOUSIND POULATION                11.3          6.7         10.1                16.4                       34.0
CINA ANN"L ATTEMNDANC/CAFITA            6.01I        7.9L          ..                 3.6                        3.4
TOTAL LABOR Von=  (TWOUS)           10404.0      11377.0      13549.0
FNA-LE (PgRCNT)                      40.1         36.9        35.3                 33.3                       33.6
AORICULTUE (      T1                   *-         69.9        67.1                 69.0                       30.9
KiIouST3.  (P11CM?)                    ..           .0         9.6                 15.                        19.2
1PA*TICPATioN MAY1 (tPRCENT)
TOTAL                                47.1         42.9         39.7                42.5                       36.6
HALE                                 56.0         54.7         51.4                54.4                       50.7
FINALE                               37.6         31.3        26.2                 29.6                       26.6
UCOIICI DOENOEIY RATIO                  0.9          1.0          1.1                 1.0                        1.1
PUlCERT of PRIVATE INCOmt
RECEIVED YT
?IGIRST  2 01 UOUUIMLDS              14.6Jj         ..           .                 16.5                       U.2
H1CII1K  f2, OF rOUrEROLSW           44-7        4U-0/1          *                43.5                        46.0
L.wElT  OC PF HNOu S                  6.            .O         ..                  6.9                        6.4
LOwEsT 4W  or HOUSEHOLDS                          21.0           ..                17.5                       15.5
POA  Tha  gumS
rSTISATn  ASSOLUIT POVERTY INCOME
LIVEL (US$  1 CAPITA)
UI13A                                  ..           ..        94.0                133.9                      194.5
RuUAL                                  ..           ..        66.0k               111.6                      155.0
ETIMATED  EATIVr  POVCTY IiNcOE
LEV.L (U13 PER CANITA)
Ul3Im                                  ..           ..        50.0.c                                         171.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..        36.C*                                          164.8
ESTIMATED Po.  LMW ASSOLUTE
POVERTf ICe LEVEL CZ)
UUSN                                   ..           ..        40.01                43.6                       24.4
REUAL                                  ..           ..        40.L                 51.7                       41.1 
O ADr VAILALE
.NOT AWUCAML
11 0 T  S
/    She  rup  *Eeges for each Indicator are population-weighted arlth_tic  manr.  Cowerag. of countres man_  the
iodiestou. depends r awailability of dats end Is not unifrm.
lb  Unloear ethtbris noted, "Data for 1960" refer to wy yar between 1959 and 1961;  Data for 1970' between 1969 ed
971;  d  data for ilot Recent Eati_te"  retree 1979 and 1961.
J 1977: Id 1976; /a 1975; /f 1962; j 1978; Ah 1964; /I 1972; 1a 19511 Rangoon only.
Ma 1963



- -  uw
-21-                                                                     ANNEXC I
enishl   hsee  f .1  . ieee do eleedsidume  Oftiegewe em0 neepe VeWd of difiifs   eeol.eeew   In. *eieveifm lbt dee.  We. "ag  en. raslticee. wooli
=ee "sugn eSTee eeeeee,iNe.*.m1 gteese. eM40 eeieeeegeeee  'nfess. sep1f egigmqeue nmlss  teceesa.
%* niweeme groceea ecs Mi  gee g.m  --eIrv Iflop 19of elm .559c  sageS ud ii Ienll vmoge-mes egil emVafel hee,lrerswis  leme glm ee tIe  emei  pe* sof ela
silwllwl   I ge    .c..  easfle  n  weeme  eepelsesmIlld  simeicles  ceme e:.oagielmmll ce    eel, c04a-  m l w Is ef gIN  emett  te o se
ofe eclme  c  e1hlse.e,me   lie:   ic IN    sie c  eeceeleso ewee   in iFeirciti AVNImpDewCi emeigeheiti  ai.e                     leNs  melge. teiplee me la
mmiie     -I..eie I. eeem  we oea esirf-aee  Ce amostec    lea  mecewi eve"o ai     lowmew  Ge veqp-leg en 1.me.   am esewelse we w lie Iesa"  %t  e""Iev eo
eq.l*.i                                                                                 hee~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dvded he mwmhi .5 peseegismn
=Pelsi gifme  eves .sopmiglgk  meld Goema4 en ieS  swecel 515.                                               INSt   oiliest olee wet miweflegl  set.
en~0        iwe1 dces.                                                                            CL   .anjMIRs-feew  sjwl   esne plclle
teen.  e 1m1e4, atew gem lil1.1airea gene  teq iw iim o ie5geerlIllm                                       is segee stagliepise.191mo                        g
su  tdiee  e.                                                                                                   JS.j4tesg Moiett.swltsfftto1ItJsEst . hp.iiceiee semesierloo
e sisggm   eNs
UPUJlitIA4IOlJ-Uii ecile ageal  e1 icceei menO iapet.                                     selleli   tepel.wd pge.lwo rmw-mi WeS  -iiregllwe  teupiewi NO
ifhiIeVlSbmaw         eege   al          Wald left"ase  gielli wewei INlellilaeelm   emett11el, beelleic we. welecitedllie sewemmeig cmiii
glow.e . 51 and si geel 1 Sees,                                                               f 1e imee NM g"oiegica   Sm~isIleatew pias lSle4  eegipeiii eomiedie
ineSUNIelfiemftCdPLYc* Minedepesimm  reesellm   ei mnciemi0                         en Pwistiecs WE pemmeip beled Iliea Meials eeli   hp e mussel
PsTriw7~rGrnduIeeee.leliees. Segel  m cci l5emc. aepime                         elseet.si, sdlegie1, . %C-i tee   eliof Ile-Poele"i ereagellst en
en  ests .c eleeieip  itmlse    5clsicesP    mim                                       ewid-tm e hinge  fee. Sl enleal  Cegitatle  eeeisliitet ptpe
nwn. 1. -old       M.,audje                                                                 teshaliws  lsmg.lli  eON iwldilee etiesi
tiled  *seeUehllllhi el delioitlearmtwmMloi  WlhiiA
aes eeeatiiae,  mlii, gee.. med  eel see..e o  ofioel                                                                    toel  lum
am1sMq~~~~~~~~~~~zwz%te.tq~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~A oEttinflfbe".                                                                    %S
.nmsutatzfLSLl  c 1.t5e5   pele  i.e peegcqtia  eveG haoloen  wise    hlseeelgAddew    ciecqsqatSIsesI
eaili-ic  lewi  cc "geni   lif  e pm.eew rty.iAlelel eed M1. loweehll wse                        . Ease.ele. A   ilise   emelse foreeer"Wneccl elleccee  en
gesiw.  us pefeseCle lee Isc  119Seemlde h.114   .   silew eIk eel                  eleupmsla pil.1  iots       ppb
ecilmels    Olmsige  e"I. liei  .%lii. iceS.C eerililme seopea. e                         ewli mel, rache, cif inn cmlel   orwcselwelr.uaMoil*                     m
"Ontmq.2le VrtelAlIrni*.   el legalip ecele see Clee CeP -ol vtescelN  141
ele. n    ie  ics  eaqe  Ia.1.   ile  ueaiteame. me .ie. I mm  evei              flhtjff
ealeeeet re cealee     raergccg    fil   IC gtoeeo  wigs, algrm  tigile  raIse          MT.."s thlinhtedetpop"
eaeeIlc t s       eine r eI,. place  Ie:lt ewe Ie.. Te elel1c1 in.SlmeUiyille-11Mad                                   eta,Ie   e iceee   fegeh
11evelm  Jee aj,1w ljal           itq                           a 1   e   e    llec    selm  ea    ysct  Sri. en si IdeS . ecees  edsce
pepets  we mtelet..I 'A.ld                                                                     e~g.jJfl~lfJej      ees  cm eeeeeen
piciaLate   s... We  m.oedt -Iwe      b1. dchl..p    o-ole                                  pprlleasemrv    liI wo- ec it46~ yess   i ew  eeiepmwdee p ictees em 6
htfl:~..Jt a lb. t.te!sLeeed  -h leellagad . am glees.e malpicelacmin 41d                   smeebut ceC.led.idi osM Aftlo  olw    A4im
Iatah    w.let   llom. cd elow dega.                                                   *opa  oml,.   s2 ltif9  enM VA!ler *1p    twial miedete   ill am
Vsterb1vecl.2;  Cete ice.c44  hI   -cb11 sited  syc   t-l  Se                               Sel15chrleieq      eee    elc(i   ac tee   eScLwks)
~hittflViI.i..si. lIat-l. end -tttli.                                               e pereceoemldpeirafip W   el iopatei eati jenlels    n Ips.  isw
Re                             - Acigalalso. alto. .pe Jheecde...    .diI
rcfeer P.eP      qjr.       dl- Ssaleas ls get engswd cisldet..
aatlas1  ec%    C0     Teei   la.                                                                                                          (  wae. s read olwie esVA
~~LhEfltrj~eai!.A.ecaae  cane    Watvewele       s   ill "I'I"gilgery A wellS...                            e   -Lwfalyed11amot                 m
0*101.                                                                                       Ieai felermI.emlet  e   1wpers,ewIIletmeec  l  Si
Pall."1 itelw, - elcveer.:vA Seedlised-  Ja temi  ogan  ciaeptsmr                             sa        cwtm  iSefe                ra,myn me n" eapsl   ielm   e
~~va..                                                                              TV fpeet,leeri _Pe---h- --    swicrelaAM- - TV 1eEwier  fee trademe 1t1e n
me11. atridcmi   e  l-.   eciae  e  lmleeeldee   sI ee eilec ase gww.   See qeqw  egto = .11 T   Midtf. cio elleedie
Pine we ellYilgigs                                                                    ice)wetreal   11o, .  alnapa  ices    icilyetIa jewew  teAcetw   eaccccrGM. delctd  e   SAWedie
pi~em  et. .1ill led rme drGftsaaeli      1. ellde  sesenC hV-I               em ndeart. "..it eppee at             f-me wac    ItoraedeV.
fee  a~is   caceat  ee  lete.relile  eie plc-atia a.I. lt..                 Clew  .lll   ise   eev            tomea s   lic    0 Tee  ec. en  Ise ef-t
he  _-d Pecteee  estme  eSeciplee twiette  11115.  tlT te IeS  -lees..dP1 61o1 ra118                                                      ,Ivto.l
-peae meL  heesC c.   "Meo eweilealAl e          -li  peimtl cevd. ce-c.               CEa"eahie 1=11. lIE   n  aSi
owtlln  ceed It of e-n Ireecceic W.5  tamiw  Is,eleI.ehlsle t. (..y~gj     Pl   se.  li .n  -   ewetg  cri 1 tes  teem.n
egICt5? med  .111 caetwedevtee ceieeeil  eccersewee.  tedy al-e1tet.                         -1lflcepr0cae.lgi -ijwet...Ct cdlt ca
,  sggje5e.ityw   vill  a-   e                           `r    eel   elWa ef -pereits         cii aa11 dNa
estIp   erects. ..111. da.-Poee  d-etipi egfc  Ig siceno  -  elees.                   tee1wit ieetca  SLe  wetcl c  .c    l.  ey             vlyy!'c Ps.Weiemeea
Swqiasts lee  Ii esgea   valce  I  lMpeed   elee                                            ecliablt astew evaim   Zivt taaa e0          ealiisdc  ea 
sticernac  d en  em  ciecial ereei  pee ce   n2   rtsiela   5pfeeca   fltl a                               le en                                        t plCeec   Alamv mpel
lehs N   ele e - M.I.t 1d bia  chewed  - he need  pew.1aic o. l                             tC5.  wie.c I1  da   i                  l.ead -NV t ad Leaiplolmna
et Msdcedt cc.aln pllart  e avlsa    ..91 eecm  ef  clq teeclameoir   m e"elsew-e  leteeem    eeile.a   iceg laws  ftread. 
mtn avid ted -ceee  Ceel-al. l.0.If I.5e "       ec.                                     =nt.y era-bl                            piaevleesr  c.?. 9i 1r I eS- see  s
he ececeeececcee cii,l jraetl.  cc- ettla -  Irweeg vatltsoppi c    pi t ice            ihccelied      rifrs.c
N                    -9~~~~ara yor. lel  ads veiw"e I. am  ye. Sn   Wtac-i lM as. letP.
..d(a    4   aehi    e   lecdI-  ctdaspeectsdI                                             miitrflcefrw   he1 -                  et e  Jtie)-IilSI  rceye 
eycge        pae   eeii"eI  at   c  cwl e   c    ectpe                                       ehet  tee  as icetem.                 3w0 preeci * en   Metes   S   cm M
emldem dL.G -erIe   l.EEL tile .lae  p110  CiF mm    10 -1 hi.9             w               paroate". o   mL   &.-Ih                  a.gs  1.1M
et"tklre .l5cjaes, aciii       eee.k.                                                       elScld, tt.kp.,t   "  S "  f Imait lo-eg.erited   telitof0 cae eta eceties.       L"lmtrd A
.1 tee   S  rerit. si   Pjrvcealwdi   - mta  tst  et-a lelat AMeL. JA'                    Islete  dil.t e  lact tleem avaIl'ae   iyrqc19c  re                     es 
pest 1Af.  pieaasfe  aidtlle;  N11  lwiciilide.ca.pcey iccm    ftle l it                                                                     d.i mm   heel ae   NWe  a W clisl
fist a! inept. teetel.arIes. aid ecreit dli  ieee aal    1oaeee ew cete           tteialls
aemweeCsale  .t-  e.ilsietapceicle  lernle. eMts1  enlvltlw  e   scv19mn.l   ceCli                                                etasied bpc rimmyll
calm. ceNV advt-Ct Can Ida . c  elWess LO..IOa   -d a-a  eeleeeenIedoi   dieetwC. ehe  ai  1ii",I ceea   eva,                                                     -a 
Cia 5 hasa-r he ceadasad -  sw5 ceilli  ecceel aee  etcItE                   le  "led  Pel`cg   Iar. asele weecce   Wooae bVel P.ceweI  - vere.a
nat.  C teedeceetcasceatis  eace aci lelp 5   lb Ieesase er         WaIdece .   1-pbreaal.1 penln... moalbeeaem)a ncces
a5-r----  -aI e.tet I ct.ec   ec-ie 11  AeteeCal iP-) - I-icC. crace. ce
ecre     eas   at  eavl iwaal.  chee  wed ectal) aecIad It edinretaV. 1.sta
mpiel, the .elet..tcd  ltaa. 11  rdt.ae   veta,  tflePl   idecltfl bete
to aese ad         ce   he-1   a  pee-leew   eeeal wI  apt."  wO-'fS,                                      1 yil      "a"'  b.tpele ad,31:   owle IcP.e
pe.loalec      o.9.f-.1   1.-0-   . me                                   .rlcllce Iecd.--tleclaa                                            m? itet,a



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 22 -                                  AJI    :
Page 4
COUNTRY DATA - 3URKWk
GROSS WATIOAL PRODUCT IN FY1983 _                           A AL RTE OF GROcwT  (Z. conotoat Dricem)
$ Million    Z                    1973-78        1978-83       1973-3
GNP at Market Prices           5.912    100.0                     4.3            6.6           5.4
Cross Capital Formation        1.336     22.6                     9.8           15.3         12.5
Gross Nationl Saving             953     16.1
Foreign Saving S/                535      9.0
Exports of Goods, UPS            438      7.4                     0.5           11.2           5.7
Imports of Goods, NFS            951     [6.1                     2.8           20.9         11.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE, AND
PRODUCIVITY IN F1983
Value Added                Labor Force         V. A. Per Worker
S million    2              million    S               lSS
Agriculture k/                  2,884    48.4              9.4      66.3             307
Indu.tryr                         757    12.7              1.5      10.3             50S
Services/Trade                  2.318    38.9              3.3 A/  23.4 !1           72.
TOTAL                      5.959   100.0             14.2     100.0             420
GOVERUNEUT FINAJ1CE
Public Sector                 Union Governnt
Ivate million    2 of GDP       Kyats Million      Z of GDP
FY83          FY83              rm             1n83
Current Receipt.                      7,751  I        16.4 eI          6.823           14.5
Current Expenditures                  6,221           13.3             6.062           12.9
Current Surplus                       1.530            3.3               761            1.6
Capital Expenditures                  8,494 V         18.1 f/          1,998            4.3
External Assistance (gross)           3.324            7.1
NEY. CREDIT. AND PRICES                             1978      1979      1    198     19U    1982       1983
(Kyats million outstanding at                      mar.      Mar.       Mnar.     Mr.       Mr.       Mar.
end of period)
Money  nd Quasi Naney                              6,631     8,017     9,619     11,213    13,135    14,808
Bank Credit to Public Sector                      6,550      7,194     8,990     10.885    13,487    16,323
fank Credit to Private Sector                     1,706      1,728     1,653      1,651     1,749      1,702
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quadi MoNey as 2 of GDP                  22.4       25.4      28.2       30.2      30.7       31.5
Consamer Price Index at Rangoon
(1972 - 100)                                    234.6     247.9      249.4      249.4     252.9     266.3
Annual Percentage Cbanges in:
Consumer Price Index at Rangoon                  -6.0        5.6       0.6          0       1.4        5.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector                       5.4       9.8      Z5.0       21.1      23.9       21.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                    14.6        1.3      -4.3       -0.1       5.9      -2.7
*All data for FY83 are revised estimates of the Government of Burma.
aJ  Defined as external current account balance excluding grants.
bV  Includes livestock, fishery, and forestry.
c/ includes mining, power, *and construction.
l Includes workers not elsewhere specified.
e/ Includes current surplus/deficit of public corporations.
f/ Includes capital expenditures of public corporations.
not available
not applicable



5LSI COPY AVAILABLE
ANNEX I
-23-                                    Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYNE TS                                                      ERCANISE EXPORTS (FY83)
___      M2       F_83                                             S Million       _
(USS million)
Exports (tIS)                        531.2   515.0   437.8                lice and Rice Products             163         42
Iuports (GFS1)                       755.5   880.5   950.7                Teak                                97         Z5
Resource 1alanee                   -224      -365.5  -512.9               Base Metals and Ores                39         10
Animal Feedetuff                     7          2
Net Factor Incao                     -24.2   -23.0   -46.7                All Other Comodities                Bi         2!
Net Current Transfer                  16.6    17.6    23.7
TOTAL                        387        100
Current Account Balance             -231.9  -370.9  -535.9
Official Grant Aid                    96.6    58.6      79.4            EXTERNAL DEST. March 31. 1983
Net N&1.T las (DMS) &/               215.9   347.6   334.3                            llS$ Million
Disbursements                      282.2   431.1   402.5
Repayments                          66.3    B3.5    68.2                Outstanding and Disbursed               1.960.1
Short-term Capital                    -0.9        0     -0.7
Omtstanding. including
Other Medium & Long Tezm Capital / -46.8   -77.4    20.4                    Undisbursed                           3.242.3
Overall Balance                       32.9   -42.1  -102.5
Gross Reserves (and-March)           274.8   221.7   101.3
Xet Reserves Cend-oarcb)             232.5   158.4    23.1              DEBr SERVICE RATIO FOR PY1983                 z
Latio of debt service to exports of         26.6
goods and services (excluding 187)
RATE OF EXCRANCE
1980 'End of Clendar Year)
SDIl 1.00 - X 8.51                                                      IRDIIDA LEMNG, Se tenber 30. 193 QIS-$ lMillion)
US$1.00  - X 6.76
IJRD       IDA
1981 (lbd of Calendar Year)
SDU  1.00 - K 8.51                                                        Outstanding and Disbursed                     256.92
US$1.00  - K 7,40
Undisbursed                                   334.62
1982 (nd of Calendar Teat)
SER 1.00 - K 8.51                                                         Outstrading. including
US$1.00 - K 7.78                                                             dndisbursed                         -      S91.54
As of Ansust 31. 1983
SDR 1.00 - K 8.51
USS 1.00 - K 8.21
8/ Transaction reported to the World Banks debt reporting sysceu.
ki Includes errors ad omissions.
not available
not applicable
-                                                   ~                                                  South Asia Programs Department
Division C
November 1983



BUtR CUPT AVAILABLE
ANNEX II
- 24 -
STATUS OF BANK/IDA OPERATIONS IN BURMA
A. STATEmENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of September 30, 1983)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                   Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year  Borrower          Purpose                Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Three loans and six credits fully disbursed                33.1   103.6          -
597      1975    Burma   Livestock                         -      7.5        1.03
642      1976    Burma   Paddyland Development             -    30.0         6.20
686      1977    Burma   Tin and Tungsten                  -    16.0         0.76
745      1977    Burma   Seed Development                  -      5.5        1.13
835      1978    Burma   Paddyland Development II          -    34.5        18.07
879      1978    Burma   Rubber Rehabilitation             -      4.5        1.77
949      1979    Burma   Forestry II                       -    35.0        18.19
958      1979    Burma   Telecommunications II             -    35.0        23.12
1031      1980    Burma   Kinda (Nyaunggyat) Dam            -    90.0        46.46
1092 b/   1981    Burma   Grain Storage a/                  -    23.0        17.21
1114 b/   1981    Burma   Wood Industries I a!              -    32.0        17.75
1245 h/   1982    Burma   Power I a/                        -    80.0        73.33
1253 b/   1982    Burma   Construction Industry I a/        -    20.0        20.00
1315 bl   1983    Burma   Tank Irrigation a/                -    19.0        19.00
1372 b/c/ 1983    Burma   Third Port Project                -    50.0        50.00
1381 b/l/ 1983    Burma   Groundwater Project I             -    14.0        14.00
1985 b/d/ 1983    Burma   Rubber Rehab. II                  -      9.0        9.00
Total                                          33.1   608.6        14.00
of which has been repaid                     33.1     0.2         9.00
Total now outstanding                             -   608.4       337.02
Amount sold                       2.7
of which has been repaid        2.7             -
Total now held by Bank & IDA a/                   -   608.4
Total Undisbursed                                                 337.02
a/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
b/  IDA Sixth Replenishment Credits, principal amounts shown in US dollars
equivalent at date of negotiations, as shown in the President's Reports
and disbursed amounts sbown in US dollars equivalent at the rate of
exchange for the SDR on September 30, 1983.
c/ Effective October 18, 1983.
dJ/ Not yet effective.



1SL1 t;>rr AVAILABLE
ANNEX III
- 25 -                          Page 1
BURKA
TEXTILE FINISHING PROJECT
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the Country to prepare the Project:
2 years
(b) Agencies Preparing the Project:
TIC and the Consultants
Cc) Date of First Presentation to the Association:
June, 1981
(d) Date of Departure of Appraisal Mission:
February, 1983
Ce) Date of Completion of Negotiations:
October, 1983
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness:
March, 1984
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Action
Agree with TIC on the Terms of Reference of PEF
Section III:    Special Conditions
A. Conditions Effectiveness
Appointment of a Project E.ngineering Firm and the
signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement will be
conditions of Credit effectiveness (paras 37 and 41).



-26 -                            ANNEX III
Page 2
B. Other Conditions
(a) TIC will operate the plant for at least 7,080 hours
per year, through 3 shifts of 8 hours per day and
295 working days per year (para 31).
(b) Until such time as the Government forms a separate
Jute Corporation TIC will maintain separate
financial accounts and prepare separate financial
reports for its textiles and jute operations. By
end May 1984, the Government will review with IDA,
the status of organizational changes in the Textile
Sector as these would affect TIC's current jute
operations (para 35).
(c) The Government will take no action which would
prevent the project, when operating efficiently,
from obtaining a reasonable return on invested
capital (para 36).
(d) TIC will employ and retain a qualified engineering
firm on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
(para 37).
Ce) TIC will enter into a contractual agreement with the
Construction Corporation on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA (para 43).



AIIltTAN   ,r  ,,R?Arpmx OnAe smk                                                                                              ic6 ,aa-at  trb    
SNOLAGESH                     CHINA                                   /Apoojli od           _         '    )               i28D.
H   g  _  _ _ t                              g    Z t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ndAcred by Ch/n    -a      
X      J v  i~~,PEOPLE'Sj X      C _                                 ,            9       a                l81           -  
|JtHAILAND    Yi t IETX                                                                 
g  An/an  \   z    '2>.t AN^1   | N D l A  j         ,f    ~~~~~~~~KACFPN   J STATE        
____~                                      ~~~ 0) Th0                    Sh dusup                             l    
IBANGLADESH                                                             2                                                           .4CHINA \ 
9           P   \              5+ G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S,AI NG   DW   lONIAY                                          
08  >                +                            /                          +    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AO PEOPLE
STAT                                    P auJ    t SAT                                                      ,



' /,E N    '4 
L~~~~~~~~~~~
BAY                                                      PG
BENGAL                                                      IVISIO
<. R    DA                                                              THAILAND
bn  GOON                   *,
ISO                                                                                                                                                             S
BURMA
LOCATION OF MAJOR TEXTILE MILLS
TEXTILE MILLS
In Operation Pto9os_d
0     Finishing                                                                         *
Spinning and Weaving
Roads                                                ANDAMAN                                     -
Railways                                                SEA
'-RiversSE
State or Division Boundaries
-     International Boundaries
8  * ',*a'\ 
120                                                                                                                M!                                 GUfqTENASERII*  '    (W
MILES                                                                                                     N              OF
KILOMETERS of                                                                                                           TH I/L AVD
f 1wi *dg be,prU  by TI d rM rgta W e&, * ' be IN C%*mo of
fh cn wu   SW dCe ke n,. IUtr teed W  Of eNo  ; 'N*e 01 y    otf
iv*.1 am  - ef f1w bf E  aid fm rJ nmnd UThaic CorpMft% UV irAdde,
920                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IGio- 
950                                                                   I






