Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11580
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NYANMAR
TEXTILE FINISHING PLANT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1425-BA)
JANUARY 22, 1993
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               Kyat (K)
SDR1.00     -     K 8.5085 (since 1977)
US$1.00     -     K 7.7 (1982, Year End, Appraisal)
US$1.00     -     K 8.0 (1983, Average Annual)
US$1.00     -     K 8.4 (1984, Average Annual)
US$1.00  R        K 8.5 (1985, Average Annual)
US$1.00     -     K 7.3 (1986, Average Annual)
US$1.00     -     K 6.6 (1987, Average Annual)
US$1.00     -     K 6.4 (1988, Average Annual)
US$1.00     -     K 6.7 (1989, Average Annual)
US$1.00     -     K 6.3 (1990, Average Annual)
US$1.00     -     K 6.1 (1990, Year End,Completion)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Kilogram (kg)    -        1,000 Grams (g)
1 Kilogram (kg)    -        2.2046 Pounds
1 Centimeter (m)   -        0.39 Inches
1 Meter (m)  -    39.4 Inches - 3.28 Feet
1 Meter (m)  -    1.0936 Yards
1 Square Meter (m2)-        10.8 Square Feet
ABBREVIATIONS
CPE     -  Consultant Project Engineers
CST     -  Commodity and Service Tax
Cc      -  Construction Corporation
CPE     -  Consulting Project Engineers
ERR     -  Economic Rate of Return
FRG     -  Federal Republic of Germany
FRR     -  Financial Rate of Return
FY      -  Fiscal Year
GOM     -  Government of Myanmar
IDA     -  International Development Association
lm      -  Linear Meter
MTI      - Myanmar Textile Industries
ODA     -  Official Development Assistance
PCR     -  Project Completion Report
SAR     -  Staff Appraisal Report
SDR     -  Special Drawing Right
TIC     -  Textile Industries Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
W"hington, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
Office of Director-General
Operaions Evaluaton
January 22, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:         Project Completion Report on Myanmar
Textile Finishing Plant Project (Credit 1425-BA)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Myanrmar - Textile
Finishing Plant Project (Credit 1425-BA)" prepared by the East Asia Regional Office with Part II
contributed by the Borrower. The Report is comprehensive and informative, although the reestimated rate
of return is based on unrealistic assumptions.
Physical completion of the finishing plant was achieved two years late and with significant cost
overruns. The objective was to replace small, inefficient and obsolete plants and to enable better utilization
of spinning and weaving capacity. This goal could not be reached due to an inadequate economic
environment, poor sector policies and weak institutions. Specifically, obsolescence of upstream spinning
and weaving units, constraints on trade and inadequate foreign exchange allocations have led to severe
underutilization of project facilities. The project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory and its sustainability
as unlikely.
The project has been partially successful in its institution building objective, especially the training
of its production personnel. The capacity utilization has never been tested over a long period due to the
shortage of grey cloth. Nonetheless, there are indications that the operating staff have demonstrated their
technical capability in running the plant. The recommendations of the subsector study were never
implemented because they were to be combined with the work carried out in other subsectors into an
IDA-assisted industrial rehabilitation project, an idea which has been postponed owing to the current policy
constraints.
An audit of the project may be carried out at a later date because it is the first in the industrial
sector in Myanmar.
Attachment
This document has a restrictcd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonrance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.






FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TEXTILE FINISHING PLANT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1425-BA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE NO.
Preface  ............................                             .i
Evaluation Sumary lii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . . . .1
Project Identity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Project Objectives and D-scription  . . . . . . . . . . . .           2
Project Design and Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           2
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           5
Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           6
Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           8
IDA Performance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           9
Borrower's Performance.                                               9
Project Relationships . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          10
Consulting and Supplier Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . .          10
Project Documentation and Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          11
Findings and Lessons Learned  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          11
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . .          13
Highlights  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          13
Introduction .15
Production and Marketing Background . . . . . . . . . . . .          16
Planning and Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . .          17
Production Build-Up .20
Future Opportunities for Production   . . . . . . . . . . .          21
Utilization of the IDA Credit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          23
Improvement of Financial and Management Reporting vithin
MTI, and Management Controls for the Project . . . . . .          24
Financial Performance of the MTI  . . . . . . . . . . . . .          24
Conclusions and Lessons Learned . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          24
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          27
1.  Related IDA Credits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          27
2.  Project Timetable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          27
3.  Credit Disbursement ....  .      .  .    ......  .  .  .  .    .  28
4.  Status of Covenants ....  .      .  .  .    ......  .  .  .  .    .  29
5.  Use of IDA Resources  ....  .      .  .    ......  .  .  .  .    .  30
5.1   Staff Inputs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          30
5.2 Missions .30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (CONT'D)
PAGE NO.
6.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        31
7.  Project Cost and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        32
7.1   Project Cost  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        32
7.2   Project Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        33
8.  Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        34
8.1   Direct Benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        34
8.2   Projected Financial Statements With and Without
the Project   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        35
8.2.1 Estimate upon Appraisal . . . . . . . . . . . . .        35
8.2.2 Estimate upon Completion  . . . . . . . . . . . .        36
8.3   Cost and Benefit Streams for Financial and
Economic Rates of Return  . . . . . . . . . . . .        37
8.3.1 Estimate upon Appraisal   . . . . . . . . . . . .        37
8.3.2 Estimate upon Completion  . . . . . . . . . . . .        38
8.4   Weaving and Finishing Activity, 1980-90 . . . . .        39
8.5   MTI Financial Statements  . . . . . . . . . . . .        40
8.5.1 Balance Sheet, 1983/84-1989/90  . . . . . . . . .        40
8.5.2 Income Statement, 1983/84-1989/90 . . . . . . . .        41



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
TEXTILE FINISHING PLANT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1425-BA)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Textile Finishing
Plant Project in Myanmar for which Credit 1425-BA in an amount in SDR equivalent
to US$ 29.7 was approved by the Board on December 13, 1983 at the standard
variable rate for fifty years including ten years of grace. The Credit was made
to the Government of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma, later called
Government of the Union of Myanmar (GOM) (Borrower). The Borrower on-lent all
the proceeds of the Credit to the Textiles Industries Corporation, which is now
called Myanmar Textile Industries (MTI), as Executing Agency for a period of 15
years including 5 years of grace at an interest rate of 8.5 percent per annum,
with the foreign exchange risk borne by the Textile Industries Corporation. The
Credit was closed on December 31, 1990, two years behind schedule. Disbursements
under the Credit amounted to SDR 28,024,660.27, and the final disbursement was
made on March 13, 1990 at which time SDR 175,339.73 or 0.6 percent was canceled.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) was prepared
in the Industry and Energy Operations Division, Country Department I, East Asia
Region (EAlIE). Part II was prepared by the Borrower/MTI. The PCR is based on
the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); the Development Credit and Project Agreements;
supervision reports; internal IDA memoranda; correspondence between IDA and the
Borrower/MTI; MTI's audited annual financial statements; projections by MTI of
its cost and benefit streams with and without the Project; a textile sector study
produced by MTI in 1985; and sundry further data made available by MTI during the
course of the Project.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
TEXTILE FINISHING PLANT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1425-BA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.         The principal objectives of the Project were to:
(i) correct a production imbalance in Myanmar's textile subsector by expanding
the finishing capacity of the state-owned Myanma Textile Industries (MTI)
to match the grey fabric output of MTI, and to allow the shutdown of over
half of the inefficient finishing facilities in its small mills;
(ii) address sectoral policy issues;
(iii) contribute to MTI's institutional development; and
(iv) demonstrate that textile capacity could be utilized at a much higher level
than attempted before in Myanmar.
Proiect Components
2.         The project as defined during credit processing comprised:
(i) a large state-of-the-art fabric finishing plant, located near the center
of the country, to process about 16.6 million linear meters of 100 percent
cotton and cotton/polyester blended cloth of medium to high quality; the
plant would run 7,080 hours per year, or about 80 percent more hours than
commonly MTI's other mills;
(ii) consulting  services  to  assist,   first,   the  design,   engineering,
installation, start-up and commissioning of the plant; and, second, the
upgrading of MTI's financial, accounting, and other information systems;
(iii) overseas training of about fifty MTI staff, and much on-site training;
(iv)  a study of the textile subsector focussing on improving the productivity
of existing plants and preparing a subsector development strategy.
Implementation Experience
3.         In the finishing plant, test runs started more than two years later
than planned, and the credit closing date was extended twice, from December 31,
1988 to, finally, December 31, 1990. The delays had several causes: (i) time-
consuming  decision-making  and  Government  of  Myanmar  (GOM)  approval  on
international procurement, exacerbated by the procurement of major equipment in
nine separate packages, which, however, resulted in less costly equipment; (ii)
problems clearing equipment at port, and moving large items to the site; (iii)
long delivery times quoted by suppliers, and local shortage of construction
materials; and (iv) political unrest in 1988 that halted civil construction and
equipment erection. Consultants assisted MTI from design to the first test runs,
but their contract was not extended through Project completion.   They also
submitted recommendations on MTI's financial and other information systems. Some
of them were implemented but became irrelevant since GOM decided in 1989/90 to



- iv -
relieve state firms of their financial autonomy and transfer all their funds and
payments to a central GOM account.  The training program was carried out as
planned, except that MTI cut short some on-site training by supplier personnel.
A subsector study was produced by MTI in 1985, and an action plan was developed
in conjunction with a proposed IDA Industrial Rehabilitation Project, but this
Project has since been deferred due to the unconducive economic environment.
4.         Project cost exceeded estimates by US$17 million (29 percent). Local
expenditures overran budget by 36 percent, but this was due mainly to inflation
that was not accompanied by official devaluation. Foreign expenditures exceeded
budget by 23 percent in US$, but this was due to the weakness of the US$: in SDR,
in which the Credit was denominated, there was a SDR 1.3 million saving that was
used to add working capital.
Results
5.         The financial rate of return is now estimated at 6.7 percent instead
of 13.8 percent upon appraisal, and the economic rate of return at about 10.6
percent instead of initially 20.4 percent. The main reason is the plant's low
capacity utilization. Lack of foreign exchange for fibers and spares, declining
local cotton production, increasing mill obsolescence, competition from emerging
private producers and largely unrecorded imports, deficient enterprise
governance, and political disturbances have over time vastly reduced the grey
cloth output of MTI's mills.  Even if MTI closed down many of its small old
finishing facilities, as was envisaged but has yet to happen, grey cloth would
probably suffice only for a two-shifts five-days-a-week operation of the Project
instead of the planned three shifts on six days per week, and even this lower
level would be reached only after some four years.   The Project was also
ambitiously designed to produce quality fabric for which much local cotton and
weaving capacity are inadequate. The advanced large-scale technology also made
the Project results vulnerable to interruptions, which the successful training
alone may not prevent, and low utilization levels.
6.         Few policy and institutional problems of the sector were solved.
Their analysis was left to studies under the Project. Follow-up actions were
planned under IDA's above Rehabilitation Project but it has been deferred since
1988 because of the unconducive economic environment. The governance of MTI has
suffered since the autonomy of state enterprises was curtailed in 1990.
Sustainabilitv
7.         As MTI's weaving capacity is becoming obsolete, it is unlikely that
the plant can reach more than 55 percent of its planned working hours by pro-
cessing MTI's grey cloth for the local market, even if less export-discouraging
policies would relieve the foreign exchange constraints. One option would be to
raise grey cloth output through mill rehabilitation combined with comprehensive
subsector policy reform, as envisaged by IDA's deferred Rehabilitation Credit.
A second option would be to reduce the plant's dependence on HTI's other mills
by using part of the plant's capacity on a commission basis for private or
foreign contractors, as IDA has recommended and GOM has tried without success
since 1989.  Both option, however, would require a more conducive business



-v -
environment, in particular major changes in economic policy and enterprise
governance.
Findinas and Lesson. Learned
8.         The following lessons could be learned from the Project:
(i) In a severely distorted economic environment with major policy and
institutional problems, a project-financed plant alone may not perform
well even if the Government agrees to giving it exceptional treatment.
(ii) Imbalances within a vertically integrated state enterprise might better be
removed by fostering transactions with private and foreign parties than by
adding capacity irrespective of the country's competitive advantages.
(iii) The designed scale and technology of a Project should be guided by
cautious realism in view of the local context. Developing a large project
in phases or as several decentralized facilities could be alternatives.
(iv) Decisions on splitting the procurement of major equipment into several
packages need to weigh the possible gains in equipment cost and
performance against possible delays caused by the more complex
procurement.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
TEXTILE FINISHING PLANT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1425-BA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Proiect Identity
Project Name            :   Textile Finishing Plant Project
Credit Number           :   1425-BA
RVP Unit                :   East Asia
Country                 :   Myanmar
Sector                  :   Industry
Subsector               :   Textiles
Background
1.          At appraisal the textile industry in Burma included a significant
share of privately-owned and cooperative enterprises, but by far the predominant
force in the industry was the Textiles Industries Corporation (TIC). TIC was
founded in 1972, and comes under the supervision of the Ministry of No. 1
Industry. As a State Corporation it is empowered to borrow funds from internal
and external sources with the approval of the Government. At appraisal, TIC
managed 48 mills, including 15 jute factories which were later formed into a
separate corporation. Through operation of its cotton and jute establishments,
TIC acquired a wide spectrum of managerial and technological expertise. Also,
TIC had proved competent in implementing several large textile projects.
2.          With the country name change from the Socialist Republic of the Union
of Burma to the Union of Myanmar in 1988, TIC became the Myanmar Textile
Industries (MTI). The names Myanmar and MTI will be used throughout the balance
of the Report.
3.          An IDA reconnaissance mission in 1981 found the public sector textile
industry in a bad state. Average yarn production in MTI mills was about 57 kg
per spindle, and average annual fabric production per loom was about 13,600
meters in the large mills and 7,000 meters in the small mills. These figures
translated into an average capacity utilization of 40-50 percent in spinning and
50-60 percent in weaving, based on total installed equipment operating on three
shifts per day with operational efficiencies achievable under local conditions.
Capacity utilization was low for a variety of reasons. Most plants were run only
on two shifts per day, on 240 days per year, for social considerations and lack
of spare parts.   Labor productivity was low due to lack of incentives and



inadequate training, and work targets wyre set at low levels easily achieved.
Much of the equipment was obsolete and poorly maintained, largely due to the
shortage or absence of spare parts. The supply of raw materials vas erratic.
About 30 percent of cotton requirements, together vith practically all dyes and
chemicals, had to be imported and depended on the availability of foreign
exchange allocations which were inadequate to meet the demands of MTI..
4.          Capacity additions in finishing (bleaching, dyeing, printing) seemed
needed to avoid an emerging imbalance as local demand for finished textiles was
expected to grow, and supply of grey cloth was expected to expand due to added
capacity and sustained capacity utilization levels.  In particular MTI's new
Shwedaung Spinning and Weaving Mill had not been matched by a corresponding
investment in finishing capacity.  It appeared that already the shortage of
finishing capacity restricted the production of grey fabrics. Moreover, most of
MTI 's smller textile plants had established small finishing units which provided
poor quality finishing, consumed high quantities of chemicals and energy, and
caused considerable pollution.
Proiect Obiectives and Description
5.          The principal objectives of the Project were to:  (i) correct a
production imbalance by expanding finishing capacity to match grey fabric output,
and allow the shutdown of over half of the inefficient finishing facilities in
small MTI mills; (ii) address sectoral policy issues; (iii) contribute to MTI's
institutional development; and (iv) demonstrate the feasibility of operating a
textile facility at a much higher level of capacity utilization than previously
attempted.
6.          Ths Project as defined during credit processing comprised:
(i)   a fabric finishing plant to process about 16.6 million linear meters of
100 percent cotton and cotton-polyester blended fabrics of medium to high
quality for shirting and suiting; the plant would run in three shifts on
295 days (7,080 working hours per year) at an operating efficiency of 70
percent;
(ii)  consulting  services  to  assist,  first,  the  design,  engineering,
installation, start-up and commissioning of the finishing plant; and,
second, the upgrading of MTI's financial, accounting, and management
information systemJ
(iii) on-site training of MIU personnel in the operation of the finishing plant,
and overseas training of about fifty MTI staff; and
(iv) a study of the textile sector focussing on measures to improve the
productivity of existing textile plants and on the preparation of a long-
term development strategy for the sector.
Proiect Design and Oraanixation
7.          The main Project component addressed what at the time was considered
to be the textile industry's most pressing need:  the addition of modern and



- 3 -
officient fabric finishing capacity to balance the capacity within the vertically
integrated state textile sector. MTI'a weaving capacity was going to exceed its
finishing capacity, and in particular the newly erected Shwedaung Spinning and
Weaving Mill might stand largely idle if finishing capacity were not raised.
Moreov-r, there seemed to be sufficient "unmet demand", as the SAR put it, for
textiles in the country to further expand weaving, and potential future
rehabilitation of MTI's weaving mills would allow to expand or at least sustain
the grey cloth output. Furthermore, most of MTI's finishing capacity consisted
of decentral units located at its many small weaving mills, and used simple
technology with low input efficiency and output quality. Henco, two thirds of
the Project's capacity would replace such inefficient decentral facilities, and
one third would process cloth of MTI's larger weaving mills.
8.          The financial and economic analysis included then not only the
results of the plant per se but also the additional benefits of, first, reducing
inefficient production in other mills and, second, permitting the use of the new
weaving mill in Shwedaung. This was done by contrasting the total results of MTI
including the Project with MTI's results without the Project.  The    implicit
assumption was that MTI was a closed sector within a closed economy, without
linkages to either the local non-state textile industry or foreign markets. If
the Project were not undertaken, MTI's large weaving mills would not raise output
by exporting their grey cloth or selling it to private dyeing facilities, or by
weaving dyed yarn bought from abroad or from private yarn dyers; and MTI's small
finishing facilities would not be forced out of business by imports or private
sector competition  alone.   Although the SAR mentioned briefly  that  the
"unsatisfied demand" in textiles was in part satisfied by unrecorded production
and imports it still treated this demand as an unincumbered potential for MTI's
expansion. MTI's private and foreign competition was not analyzed in detail
during Project preparation.
9.          Several of the Project's assumptions have to date not materialized.
MTI has not closed small inefficient plants, in part because much of MTI's woven
cloth is too poor in quality to be processed by the Project. Operation of the
Shwedaung Spinning and Weaving Mill was not prevented by lack of finishing
capacity even before start-up of the Project because cloth output dropped in
other MTI mills. Moreover, MTI has been facing increasing competition since
Myanmar opened some of its borders and relaxed formal restrictions on private
business.
10.         The design of the finishing plant was ambitious in terms of scale,
technology, and product quality:
(i) Scale: The SAR assumed that the grey cloth production of MTI would rise by
12 percent from 45.6 mlm in 1978-82 to 51.2 mlm upon Project completion. Textile
demand would be sufficient as it was estimated to grow by 34-63 percent
(depending on demand elasticity) between 1980/81 and 1990/91. A decline in MTI's
loom utilization due, for instance, to private or import competition, lack of
spare parts, equipment obsolescence, declining local cotton production, foreign
exchange shortage for fiber imports, or political disturbances was not expected,
but has since all occured. It was also expected that GON would strengthen the
governance of MTI and its mills, and undertake a comprehensive rehabilitation and
modernization of MTI's mills with ODA, potentially from IDA. These two factors



- 4 -
have so far not materialized. Moreover, the SAR paid little attention to the
usual 4-8 percent waste of grey cloth in finishing; to the weaving of some cloth
with yarn dyed in MTI's modern Paleik mill; and to the potential of raising the
working hours of the two existing large finishing plants (Paleik and Thamaing)
through adoption of the same three-shifts six-days-per-week schedule that was
stipulated for the Project itself.
(ii) Quality: One of the justifications of the Project was its provision of
better fabric quality for local consumers, which would command some 20 percent
higher price. MTI's grey cloth rarely matches this quality, though. Moreover,
the Project was laid out to process mostly cotton/synthetics blended cloth, which
requires foreign exchange for the import of both polyester and cotton fibers,
local cotton being of unsuitable quality.
(iii) Technology:   Advanced technology was  selected to raise quality and
productivity.   The more efficient use of water,  fuel, dyes and chemicals,
compared with MTI's small finishing facilities, would amount to about 11 percent
of the product price.   The new equipment requires uninterrupted power, high
quality chemicals, and consistently high operator performance, though.   The
electronic controls of the equipment had to be manually duplicated because of
difficult access to spares and service.   Moreover, the new plant's capital
intensive technology made its financial performance vulnerable to erection delays
and low capacity utilization.
11.         The  Project  sought  to  reduce  some  of  these  risks  through
understandings with GOM and MTI:
(i) GOM would cause MTI to operate the plant with 3 shifts on at least 295
days, totalling 7,080 hours per year instead of MTI's common 3,840 hours;
(ii) MTI would close down 11 mlm of its estimated 25 mlm finishing capacity in
its small mills;
(iii) GOM would ensure the availability of spares, dyes, chemicals, and power as
needed by the new plant; and
(iv) GOM would ensure prices for the Project's output adequate for a reasonable
rate of return, and generally not take any action which would prevent MTI
from earning a reasonable return.
12.         The SAR recognized also the importance of critical policy issues
MTI's institutional development.  For a detailed assessment of most of these
factors the Project relied on a study to be carried out by MTI after Credit
effectiveness, and policy actions would emerge from there.   Already during
Project preparation an understanding was reached, and later carried out in
1984/85, that the jute business would be spun-off from MTI so that MTI's
performance be more transparent and unaffected by other activities.
13.         Project  implementation  arrangements were  thorough  and  soundly
conceived.   Project Consulting Engineers (CPE) were assigned to assist MTI
throughout the implementation cycle, and at the same time provide on-the-job
training and advice on institutional strengthening. IDA's approval to awarding
a cost-plus contract for civil works to the state-owned Construction Corporation
could be justified with the satisfactory performance of this organization, and
may have accounted for an appreciable saving compared to having mobilized a



foreign contractor, in spite of the cost overruns that were later incurred. The
procurement of major equipment was split into several packages to allow selection
of the best priced offer for each package.
Project Implementation
14.         Despite a relatively easy construction schedule of 3h years, some
test runs started more than two years later than planned. The credit closing
date was extended twice, from December 31, 1988 to, finally, December 31, 1990.
However, given that the plant would have been severely under-utilized anyway, in
part due to political disturbances in 1988/89, the opportunity cost of this delay
was limited. Delays in civil works resulted in the effluent beds not all being
completed before the plant started operations, but the settling tank and a
sufficient number of the hyacinth beds were available for the low capacity
utilization that has been reached. Implementation delays had several causes:
(i) The decision-making and Government approval on international procurement
consumed much time. The decision, encouraged by IDA, to split the major
equipment procurement into nine separate packages complicated the
procurement further.   However, it allowed to flexibly select the most
suitable pieces of equipment, and probably reduced equipment prices
considerably.
(ii) Problems were incurred clearing equipment at Yangon harbor. It was also
difficult moving large items to the Project site, for lack of adequate
transport equipment.
(iii) During 1986-88, suppliers quoted long delivery times because of a
worldwide boom in textile industry investments.
(iv) The political unrest from mid to end 1988 interrupted Project execution
severely, although no destruction was reported on the site.   Foreign
supplier and consultant personnel left the site; goods were lying
uncleared in the dockyard; and civil construction halted completely.
Afterwards, the work progress was slow in picking up pace.   Moreover,
changes in GOM's priorities affected then the availability of cement,
steel, and other construction materials for the Project.
15.         Project cost exceeded estimates by US$17 million, or 29 percent of
SAR estimate, when calculated in US$. On local expenditures, the overrun was 36
percent, mainly due to a 70 percent increase in duties and taxes and a 236
percent overrun on civil works.   This was largely explained by increases in
material prices (for example, cement about 156 percent) and wages (about 250
percent). These price increases were part of the accelerating inflation between
1986 and 1990. With the fixed SDR:Kyat parity unchanged, this translated into
cost overruns in US$. Foreign exchange expenditures measured in US$ exceeded
estimates by 23 percent, but this was due to the weakness of the dollar: in terms
of SDR, in which the credit was denominated, the budget was sufficient.  In fact,
IDA could even allow the use of US$1.7 million of the credit for additional
working capital to purchase dyes, chemicals, and other supplies for the plant,



and to import textile fiber so that grey cloth would be available for starting
up the finishing plant.
16.         The CPE submitted to MTI reports on the financial and management
information systems of MTI (mid-1986), auditing systems and reporting (October
1988),  and systems and controls for the plant  (June 1989).   Some of the
recommendations have been implemented.  One piece of advice that was not heeded
was the installation of micro-computers in the departments of MTI for decentral
use by MTI staff.  The Borrower decided instead to put all computers under
central control, and to operate the micro-computer system at the central computer
department of the Ministry No. 1 Industry.
17.         The overseas training program for 52 middle and senior management
staff of MTI and its finishing plant, which was packaged with hardware
procurement, was completed as planned, and all participants returned to Myanmar.
During equipment installation many supervisor and operator personnel received
hands-on training. MTI cut short some training periods, however, to save per
diem payments payable to suppliers.   Moreover,  it did not  follow IDA's
suggestions to extend the CPE contract through the delayed completion of the
Project.   This may have an impact in the longer run on plant maintenance
capability and quality improvement.
18.         Under the Project Agreement, MTI produced by 1985 a thorough study
on the textile subsector. An action plan for restructuring the industry was then
developed in conjunction with the preparation of an IDA Industrial Rehabilitation
Project that would address the textiles, pulp & paper, and pharmaceuticals
subsectors. Preparation of this Project has been deferred in FY 89 because of
concerns about the conduciveness of the economic environment, such as its
extraordinary exchange rate overvaluation. Some important actions that the SAR
had expected as a follow-up to the study have hence not taken place.   In
particular, the finishing facilities of small MTI mills have not yet been
systematically phased out, and by Project completion MTI had no concrete plans
yet to do so. Furthermore, MTI's operational and financial autonomy has recently
been drastically curtailed rather than enhanced.
Proiect Results
19.         Upon appraisal, the financial rate of return (FRR) of the Project was
estimated at 13.8 percent, and the economic rate of return (ERR) at 20.4 percent.
Sensitivity tests showed FRRs of still 11.0-12.3 percent, and ERRs of 16.9-18.8
percent, if any one of the following contingencies occured: capital cost increase
by 10 percent; drop of the nominal margin between grey and finished fabric by 15
percent; start-up delay by one year; or plant operation only on 240 days. In
reality, not only one but most of these negative developments took place
together.
(i) The installed cost exceeded the SAR estimate by 31 percent if the local
expenditures are simply converted into US$ at the official exchange rate (see
III.3).   However, to some extent this was due to price inflation of local cost
while the official Kyat:US$ rate remained rather stable.  The financial cost
benefit analysis conducted in Kyats instead of US$ shows only a 1 percent
increase in installed cost (in 1983 prices) because, here, the increasing



- 7 -
overvaluation of the [yet inserts a bias in the opposite direction. In economic
terms, the installed cost was about 12 percent higher than the SAR estimate.
(ii) Start-up of the main equipment got delayed not just by 12 but by 25 months.
However, as most of the equipment deliveries and co-uissioning were also delayed
by up to two years and more, the impact on the rate of return was quite limited.
Moreover, with MTI's total capacity utilization down at 27 percent in 1988/89 due
in part to the political turbulences, the new Project would hav, been almost idle
anyway if it had started at the planned date.
(iii) The most critical factor is the capacity utilization of the Project. MTI
plans now to operate the Project only on 240 instead of the agreed 295 working
days. It does hope to eventually operate with three shifts, albeit only after
5 years. However, MTI recognizes (see Part II) that it is doubtful whether even
a second shift, let alone a third one, can soon be reached, given in particular
the scarcity of foreign exchange for dyes, chemicals, spares, and adequate fiber,
and generally the shortage of cotton and grey cloth.
20.         The shortage of grey cloth was particularly severe in 1988/89, when
MTI's production came almost to a standstill in August/September due to political
unrest, and continued to be constrained by GOH's countermeasures such as the
curfew that did not allow full two-shift operation. In 1988/89, MTI's large
weaving mills operated at 25 percent capacity utilization; MII's total cloth
output was but one quarter of the 1984/85 level; and capacity utilization of MTI
as a whole was 23 percent. However, textile production had already declined for
several years before.  The events in 1988/89 just accentuated this declining
trend. MTI's cotton fabric production had declined by one half already between
1984/85 and 1987/88. MTI's total capacity utilization had dropped continuously
from 73 percent in 1984/85 to 36 percent in 1987/88. In 1989/90, the year after
the unrest, provisional figures suggest a recovery of cloth production to about
four fifth of the 1987/88 level, the year before the unrest. (See III.8.4)
21.         Increasing mill obsolescence is one reason for this decline; this is
where the deferred Industrial Rehabilitation Project of IDA would have come in.
Another reason is a one third drop in cotton production between 1985 and 1990.
A third factor is the shortage of foreign exchange, which is particularly acute
for the Project because it was meant to finish mostly polyester-cotton blended
fabric based on imported fiber. The foreign exchange retention schme introduced
in 1990 is of little help for MTI much because its foreign exchange earnings are
limited to the fees earned on some garment sewing contracts.
22.         The rate of return analysis in this PCR assumes that the plant will
in the foreseeable future operate with two shifts. The rationale is as follows:
It is assumed optimistically that MTI's large weaving mills achieve as much as
65 percent capacity utilization; that two weaving mills with formerly about 3 mlm
cloth output were destroyed during the unrest in 1988; that the other small
weaving mills reach still 90 percent of their 1978-82 output despite their
obsolescence; that only about 6 mlm of the woven cloth was already yarn-dyed; and
that wastage in fabric finishing amounts to 5 percent. Under these favorable
circumstances, grey cloth will suffice for about 24.7 ml. of finished fabric.
Even if only half of the small finishing facilities remain in operation, and do
so at no more than 40 percent utilization, they will account for 5.7 alm. The



- 8 -
two large integrated mills Paleik and Thamaing should be expected to utilize
about half their finishing capacity, to process just their own grey cloth output.
This leaves 8.9 mlm to be processed by the Project. This would require a two-
shift operation on 240 days (i.e., 3,40 working hours per year), at 70 percent
running efficiency. These are 46 percent fewer working hours per year than the
SAR had assumed. Yet the scenario is still quite optimistic with regard to cloth
availability and alternative finishing facilities, given the developments in the
textile subsector and its context since appraisal.
23.         The FRR is then estimated at 6.7 percent instead of the 13.8 percent
estimated upon appraisal. The ERR would be about 10.6 percent, compared with the
initial estimate of 20.4 percent.   The main reason for the reduction in the
expected rates of return are the lower operating hours, which have a major impact
in the capital intensive plant. The low amount of suitable grey cloth available
for finishing, and the lack of foreign exchange to import it, are the main
constraints.
24.         The results of MTI's institutional development are mixed.
(i) MTI clearly benefitted from the extensive training.   MTI staff showed
considerable skill starting up the plant, for instance.
(ii) The jute operations were first separated from the textile operations in
accounting, which was a Credit covenant, and then transformed into a
separate corporation.
(iii) Efforts to improve MTI's financial and accounting systems bore little
fruit: Since 1989/90, the finances of all state corporations have become
integrated into the national budget. A central Government Account handles
all their revenues and expenditures, and keeps all their funds.
Prolect Sustainability
25.         In the current mode, namely, processing exclusively MTI's own grey
cloth for domestic consumption, a two-shifts 240-days operation could be reached
by 1993/94 and could be sustainable for some years, but only if foreign exchange
is available for fiber, chemicals, dyes, and spares. Disruptions due to economic
or political distress can not be excluded, though.   In the long run, some
rehabilitation or replacement of spinning and weaving facilities would be needed
to sustain the activity level of the plant.
26.         The Project's capacity utilization could theoretically be raised
further, even in the short run, if MTI rigorously closed all its small finishing
operations. It is not evident, however, that their complete replacement by the
Project would be cost effective in view of the low quality of cloth that these
small mills have been processing, and in view of cost and time of transport and
transactions, fast responsiveness to special local demand, cost of displacing
staff, and other considerations.
27.         One possibility to raise the capacity utilization of the Project
would be the rehabilitation and expansion of Myanmar's spinning and weaving
industry, compbined with a thorough subsector reform program. For this approach
to succeed it would require a more conducive business environment, however, in
particular major changes in general economic policy and enterprise governance.



- 9 -
28.         Another possibility would be to reduce the dependence of the Project
on the rest of MTI's operations.  MTI would open the Project to private and
foreign collaboration instead of regarding it as a tool to merely balance its own
closed production system. One option, exporting the Project's production that
is based on local cloth, would likely fail for insufficient quality. Another
option, supplying export garment plants on the basis of imported grey cloth,
would need more export garment factories to emerge. A third option, finishing
cloth for foreign parties on a commission basis appears more feasible.   IDA
advocated this option since 1989.   MTI negotiated with foreign parties in
1989/90, and signed even a memorandum of understanding with a foreign group for
use of half the Project capacity, but no contracts materialized.   Potential
business partners are conceivably concerned about harbor and custom delays,
potential disruptions, the exchange rate regime, and their lack of control of the
plant. In the long run, the plant might also dye and print on commission for
local private businesses, although it is not designed for very short production
runs. Attracting such contracts from reliable local or foreign parties for a
sustained period of time, and negotiate satisfactory prices, requires again
significant improvements in Myanmar's business environment and MTI's governance.
As to the latter, the plant could eventually be put under private or foreign
management or ownership.
IDA Performance
29.         This was the first project in the sector, and the Association took
an active interest in all stages of the project cycle by, inter alia:
(i)   assisting GOM in the initial planning of the Project;
(ii) reviewing the prefeasibility study and having it upgraded by consultants;
(iii) expediting the clearance of procurement documents; and
(iv) preparing terms of reference for the subsector study.
30.         Project design could have proceeded with more cautious assumptions,
and could have dealt more clearly with policy and institutional constraints.
Instead, the Project was planned as an optimum insular solution with exceptional
treatment for that plant agreed by GOM.   Subsector policy and institutional
issues were discussed a few years later during the preparation of the Industrial
Rehabilitation Project, but the Project has to date not been carried out. In the
end, then, the plant could not remain unaffected by the realities of Myanmar's
textile subsector, state enterprise sector, and economy at large.
Borrower Performance
31.         MTI collaborated well in project preparation,  and managed the
procurement and construction in a difficult environment. Start-up went well, and
demonstrated MTI's ability to operate the plant satisfactorily. The overseas and
on-site training was executed as planned except for some cuts in supplier
training. The sector study was well done in view of MTI's limited experience and
data constraints.
32.         By Project completion, the Borrower was in compliance with some but
not all covenants. MTI had employed the CPE; furnished IDA the draft contract
with the local civil works contractor; separated its textiles and jute operation



- 10 -
accountts; nd undertaken the subsector study. Audits, however, had commonly been
delayed by almost on- year. Moreover, MTI was not operating the plant 7080 hours
per year, and GON did not provide foreign exchange for dyes, chemicals, and
spares necessary for efficient levels of operation.
33.         As to the financial covenants, the current ratio was met whereas the
debt service ratio was not, in 1989/90. The debt:equity ratio covenant was met
if one interprets the central Government Account, to which all capital and some
liabilities have been transferred in 1990, as an equity position. MTI has lost
practically any autonomy in finance, though.
Proiect Relationships
34.         The relationship between MTI and IDA was cordial throughout Project
preparation and implementation. Communication was effective especially, with
regard to technical and procurement matters. The interaction with MTI and GOM
on important adjustments in subsector policy was less active during Project
preparation but became more active later under the Industrial Rehabilitation
Project, based on MTI's subsector study.
35.         MTI had a good working relationship with the contractor of the civil
works, the Construction Corporation, as both belong to the same Ministry. MTI
also had a generally good relationship with the CPE, in particular in the earlier
phases of the collaboration. It did unfortunately not extend the contract of the
CPE when it expired before Project completion due to the implementation delays.
The relationship between IDA personnel involved with this Project and the CPE
remained congenial throughout.
Consultint and Supplier Services
36.         The large Project, and in particular its splitting into many major
and minor procurement packages, required careful planning and coordination,
updated knowledge of various technology options, and experience with complex
international procurement that MTI did not possess to the full extent at the
commencement of the Project.  The CPE provided essential assistance on these
matters.  They supervised the civil works, and effectively co-ordinated with
foreign suppliers the equipment delivery and installation to minimize
implementation delays. The CPE also provided a useful link between IDA, MTI, and
GOM.  The training program that was developed and supervised by the CPE was
properly focused to the needs of the plant management team. CPE also extended
sound adviceo on improvements of MTI's financial and management information
systems, and their computerization, although much of this advice was not headed
by the Borrower.
37.         The equipment list for the Project was broken into nine major
packages and several minor packages, and involved a large number of suppliers
mainly from Europo and East Asia. The performance of these external suppliers
was generally satisfactory. Most delays were beyond their control, including
long delivery periods quoted in times of heavy orders, except delays in sending
erectors even after some normalcy returned in Myanmar. The suppliers took keen
interest in the Project and kept their commitments in terms of supply of machine



- 11 -
designs and lay-outs, and training in their plants and at Project site. Barring
exception, no quality complaint was found in the supplied equipment.
38.         The decision for awarding a cost-plus contract for practically all
civil works to the domestic Construction Corporation appears justified, time and
cost overruns notwithstanding.  The overall quality of workmanship could be
considered as satisfactory.  Within bureaucratic constraints, joint efforts
between the Construction Corporation and MTI, which are both under the Ministry
No.1 Industry, succeeded in obtaining cement quota allocation from the Ministry
often on a priority basis in spite of changing allocation priorities of GOM. A
foreign contractor would not have had faster access to local materials, and would
have needed more time if it had imported construction materials, given the low
clearing efficiency at Yangon harbor and the transportation constraints in
Myanmar. The cost overruns were to some extent due to general inflation.
Prolect Documentation and Data
39.         Legal documents were thorough and well drawn up leaving no room for
ambiguities. The SAR gave an extensive account of the Project, its objectives,
execution, and financial performance. It did not elaborate much on the already
existing cloth and yarn dyeing capacity, on the extent of unregistered textile
production and import, and the critical issue of foreign exchange availability.
MTI's annual financial reports were hard to interpret for lack of international
accounting principles and supporting explanations, and the overvaluation of the
Kyat (the parallel market rate was about one eight of the official rate, in 1990)
distorted financial and cost data severely. The Borrower, with inputs by the
Consultants, provided Part II of the PCR early, together with some statistical
data and other project information for Part III. Obtaining further critical data
was more difficult, and data on cost structures and unit prices that would have
been needed for the cost benefit analysis were not provided upon IDA's requests.
Findings and Lessons Learned
40.         The following lessons could be learned from the Project:
(i) In a severely distorted economic environment with major problems of
subsector policy and institutions, an individual Project may not perform
well even if the Government agrees to giving this Project exceptional
treatment. Projects can not be insulated from their environment.
(ii) Even when a Credit finances a project within a state corporation that is
vertically integrated, balancing outputs and inputs throughout this
vertical chain may not be a sound strategy.  Efforts should focus on
removing barriers to transactions betw-en the state enterprise, private
businesses, and foreign buyers and suppliers, so that the enterprise can
concentrate on those production stages where it has a competitive
advantage.  The liberalization of domestic markets and trade, and the
removal of infrastructural and institutional constraints, should play an
important role.
(iii) The designed scale of a project should be guided by cautious realism in
view of the country and institutional context. The optimum scale from an



- 12 -
engineering standpoint may not be best economically when taking into
consideration transactions cost, product differentiation, vulnerability to
low or instable capacity utilization, and other factors.  Developing a
project in phases (for example in this Project, installing the printing
facilities only some years after the dyeing facilities), or building
several decentralized facilities, might be alternatives to consider.
(iv) Decisions on splitting the procurement of major equipment into several
packages need to take into account, on the one hand, the possible gains in
equipment prices and performance and, on the other hand, the cost of the
additional transactions and of the possible delays caused by the more
complex procurement task.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MYANMAR
TEXTILE FINISHING PLANT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1425-BA)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Highlights
(a)   This Report covers the experience under Credit  1425-BA for SDR 28.2
million available to the Government of the Socialist Republic of the Union
of Burma (the Government) to help finance the construction of a Textile
Finishing Plant (the Project) at Shwedaung.
(b)   The Project would be executed by the Textile Industries Corporation (TIC),
a State Economic Enterprise.
(c)   During the period of the Project, change occurred in the nomenclature of
the Government and the TIC with changes in name to The Government of Union
of Myanmar and Myanma Textile Industries (MTI), respectively.
(d)   At the commencement of the Credit, SDR 28.2 million equated to US$29.7
million. At the close of the contract, after allowing for changes in
exchange rates, the SDR 28.2 million approximately equated to US$36.4
million. The Project has been completed within the total credit available
and virtually as originally planned with a total foreign exchange cost of
SDR 28.0 million.
(e)   The  local  costs  incurred  by  the  Project,  excluding  interest,  were
considerably above the appraisal estimate which was exceeded by the
equivalent of US$9.0 million.
(f)   The Project was planned to have completed commissioning and started
production in February 1988, with the Consultant Engineers having
completed their contract in December 1988. The actual date of completion
of all major portions of the Project but excluding infrastructure such as
roads, external lighting, the completion of effluent beds and some minor
machinery installations was March 1990.   But the planned production
actually started in January 1990 with the production of bleached and dyed
finished fabrics first, and then followed by the production of printed
fabrics later in March 1990.
(g)   Delays in completing the Project have been due to:
(i)   Myanma Textile Industries had experiences in the foreign procurement
system for new Projects but with not more than two or three major
packages, and therefore there had been no delay in getting the final
approval in those procurements even though there had been no changes



- 14 -
in the procedures and steps to get the decisions and approvals. But
for this Project, applying within the framework of Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, there were several
major and minor packages. The total number of major packages and
their respective contracts were four major packages with six
contracts for main processing machinery, and five major packages
with five contracts for civil works and services equipment. As for
the minor packages, there were fifteen packages with sixteen
contracts. Though we separated them as major and minor packages,
they did not work out differently in actual practice. We had to go
through the same procedures and steps, and the same time was
consumed for each and every contract. Therefore, when we analyzed
the time consumed by the Project, we found out that most of the time
was consumed in the procurement processes.
(ii) There were time consuming procurement systems and delays in raising
Letter of Credits, etc.
(iii) Due to previous complicated custom clearance formalities and
procedures, and lack of in-time delivery of necessary shipping
document by most of the contractors, caused delays in shipping the
goods from Yangon Port to site. One of the distinct examples was a
six months delay in steelwork reaching the site and building start-
up was delayed by approximately six months.   This delay also
affected the erection and installation of the machinery.
(iv) Lack of own infrastructure equipment such as cranes, transportation
vehicles and equipments, loader, trailer for handling the heavy
cases, equipments and steel structures also caused considerable
delays.
(v)   After less than one month on site, the erection engineers had to
leave the site in August 1988 due to civil unrest within the
country.  Although the contractors were invited back to site in
November 1988 after an absence of approximately three months, the
majority of contractors did not return until approximately five
months after leaving the site.
(vi) Several delays in placing orders for minor packages caused by
changes of Government and systems have particularly led to delays in
printing and engraving.
(vii) Throughout the period, civil works by the Public Works had been
behind schedule mainly due to delay in steel structures reaching the
site, delay in providing some civil works drawings by Consulting
Project Engineers and machinery suppliers, and delays in supply of
local construction materials such as cement, bricks, etc.
(h)   The Project start-up is much slower than would normally be expected.
Production is planned on a 5 day, single basis throughout the first and
socond year, with the second and third shift only being operated after
that.



- 15 -
(M)   The credit had been used to purchase US$2.1 million of working capital
against US$0.4 million in the Staff Appraisal Report. Actual procurement
included US$1.1 million for dyes, chemicals, auxiliaries and engraving
supplies, and US$1.0 million for polyester fibers and cotton to provide
raw materials to the spinning and weaving mills to produce the grey
fabrics for dyeing and printing.
(j)   Grey fabrics available from MTI mills are at present in short supply,
sufficient only for the single shift operation of the plant. Due to the
low quality standard of the grey fabrics the finished fabrics produced by
this Project can only be utilized for the domestic market. The Project
has been planed for mostly polyester/cotton fabrics which require imported
cotton and polyester fibers.
(k)   All machinery and major services have now been satisfactorily completed,
staff has been trained, and the plant is operational.   However, the
Project cannot be operated at a viable operational level.   In the
meantime, the plant will be able only to operat- at low activity which
will be sufficient to maintain the machinery and the present trained staff
and operators.
(1)   To have a viable operational level of this Project, MTI is now looking for
a partner/partners who can import grey fabrics, dyestuffs and chemicals,
etc., for re-export of the finished products.
(m)   The Cabinet had approved the combined organizational set-up of the
Spinning and Weaving Mill (Shwedaung) and Textile Finishing Plant
(Shwedaung). Starting from 1991-92 fiscal year, there would be only one
management for that combined plant.
Introduction
41.         In the late 1970s the growth in spinning and weaving of the Textile
Industries Corporation (TIC), now called Myanma Textile Industries (MTI),
outstripped the only relatively modern fabric-finishing facilities available in
Myanmar, situated at the Paleik Textile Complex near Mandalay, and Thamaing Mill
in Yangon.
42.         As a result, the fabric finishing at these units was utilized mainly
for the most modern weaving mills owned by MTI, and 17 of the other smaller mills
had to maintain or develop finishing sections within their own mills.  These
units were mostly inefficient and technically obsolete, resulting in higher
chemical and energy usage than necessary.
43.         MTI recognized these problems which would be aggravated by the
planned commissioning of a new spinning and weaving unit at Shwedaung.  It
therefore planned to build a new dyeing, printing and finishing unit which would
enable the weaving units to increase production which would be finished, and for
the smaller finishing units to be closed down with consequential savings in
energy and chemicals.



- 16 -
44.         Support from IDA was requested in 1980 to assist in financing a
project to build a new finishing plant at Shwedaung near Pyay to process 16.6
million linear meters of 100 percent cotton and polyester/cotton blended fabrics,
which would be for domestic consumption.
45.         A Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was issued by IDA on November 1983,
and Credit 1425-BA for SDR 28.2 million (US$29.7 million) was signed on June 12,
1984. A Consultancy Engineering Services contract was signed between MTI and
Tootal Textiles International Ltd., UK, on July 5, 1984.
46.         The planned date for completion of test runs of machinery was
February 1988, and the Project's completion was expected on June 30, 1988. The
Consultant Engineers' contract was to be completed in December 1988. The Credit
Account closing date was set out as December 31, 1988.
47.         Production build-up to full capacity of the Project was to take place
between February 1988 and August 1989.
Production and Marketing Background
48.         The textile production in Myanmar varied in the 1970s and early 1980s
from 12.7 million kgs in 1974-75 to 25.7 million kgs in 1977-78. The percentage
produced by MTI varied from 38 percent to 60 percent, and changed constantly
depending on the amount of basic raw materials allocated by MTI to the private
and cooperative sector.    (Sources:  MTI,  Central Statistical Organization)
Production varied depending on annual domestic cotton fibre supplies and
shortages of foreign exchange for the importation of polyester, cotton fiber,
medium staple cotton, dyes, chemicals and auxiliaries.
49.         The MTI is organized under the Ministry of No.1 Industry and was
initially divided into three divisions including a Jute Division. In 1986, the
Jute Division was transferred from MTI, and the remaining two divisions were
combined. All units within MTI are strictly controlled from the center, and all
planning, marketing and finance decisions are made by the headquarters in Yangon.
50.         All selling prices have been controlled by the Government although
some relaxation in fixing prices is now anticipated.
51.         Culturally the longyi is the major form of dress and a large amount
of this market is satisfied by polyester/cotton blended fabric. The Armed Forces
also consume large volumes of fabric which are predominantly 100 percent cotton.
52.         The only portion of fabric production which can be sourced from local
materials is the heavier weight 100 percent coarser cotton fibers (1 inch staple
length, or loss). All polyester/cotton blended fabrics require both imported
polyester and cotton fibers.  Virtually all dyes, chemicals, auxiliaries and
spare parts must be imported.
53.         As the majority of raw materials are imported and all sales are for
the domestic market, a continuous outflow of foreign exchange is experienced in
supporting MTI.



- 17 -
Plannina and Prolect Implementation
54.         The MTI gave the Project the highest d-gree of importance from the
start of the Project. A Project Director was appointed by MTI reporting directly
to the Planning Director of MTI. The Project Director attends the Board Meetings
of MTI to report on the Project.
55.         A Project Team consisting of Project Manager, Project Engineer and
supporting staff, was appointed to cover all aspect. of planning the Project,
implementation, control, engineering, accounting and administration. Separate
premises were made available for the Project in Yangon which accommodated the
Project Team and the Project Consultant (Tootal Textiles International, Ltd.).
56.         Living accommodation was made available adjacent to the existing
Spinning and Weaving Mill at Shwedaung for both local officers and key personnel
and expatriate  staff.   The Consultant Engineers arrived to commence  the
Consultancy Contract on December 19,  1984.   The Consultancy Contract was
completed on December 19, 1989.
57.         The initial engineering and design was completed in September 1985
against the original planned date of May 1985.
58.         However, after completion of the initial engineering and design,
delays began to take place.
(i)   Preparation of Bidding Documents (Major Machinery):
- Due three months after completion of engineering and design.
- Actually completed nine months after engineering and design.
- Reason: As explained in above highlights, par-. 1.(g)(i), most of the
time was consumed because of the procurement system and also due to
the multi-packages system.
(ii) Bid evaluation and Contract award (Major Machinery):
- Due six months after completion of bidding.
- Actually completed twelve months after completion of bidding.
- Reason: Same as above (i)
(iii) Construction of buildings:
- Due May 1987.
- Completed December 1989.
- Main reason: As explained above in Highlights par&. 1. (g) (i) and (iv)
there were delays in custom clearance and lack of infrastructure
(handling equipments, lack of suitable road/rail transport.)
(iv) Delivery and completion of main machinery:
- Due for completion August 1987.
- Actually completed June 1988.
- Main reason: Ordering/award of contracts was delayed considerably
against the plan, but all suppliers were able to effect delivery to
Yangon to a faster schedule than originally expected.
(v) Test runs and start-up (Major Machinery):



- 18 -
- Due for completion February 1988.
- In actual practice, the machinery test-runs for all major processing
machinery except for printing were completed in December 1989, and
for the final piece of major machinery (printing) in February 1990.
Virtually all item  of major machinery were tested and commissioned
in the period August to December 1989. The Stork Printing Engraving
and HT Steamer were not commissioned until February 1990.  The
delays in erecting this area of machinery vere due to the late
ordering of dyes, chemicals and auxiliaries, and the late ordering
of the color mixing machinery. (These delays are due to changes in
Government in August/September 1988.)
59.         Performance of Public Works
(i)   Civil works have been carried out throughout the Project by the state
owned Public Works, previously called Construction Corporation.
(ii) Generally, most aspects have run lat-r than scheduled, and costs have
exceeded budget  by considerable  amounts.   However,  as delivery  of
machinery and steelwork from Yangon docks to the site was always
considerably delayed, the actual commissioning of machinery could not be
said to have been delayed due to the slowness of civil works. Delays in
providing some of the civil works drawings by consultant and machinery
suppliers was one of the causes that effected delays in civil works.
(iii) During 1989, with the prices of construction materials going up, and due
to insufficient budget allocation for civil works, the civil works stopped
on all aspects at *ite for 3 to 4 months. This resulted in the effluent
beds not being completed before the dyeing and finishing plants were
comissioned.
(iv)  However, by December 1990, all civil works connected with the effluent
plant, roads, lighting, etc., were completed and done well.
(v)   Although there were some civil works delays occurred during the period, we
found out that the state-owned Public Works had performed their duties to
our satisfaction and with high quality standards under the supervision of
the Consultants.
60.         Performance of Consultant Project Engineers
(i)   A Consultancy Engineering Services Contract was signed between MTI and
Tootal Textiles Int-rnational Ltd., U.K. on July 5, 1984 and was effected
from December 19, 1984. That contract was to be completed on December 19,
1988, but later agreed to extend up to December 19, 1989 after
negotiations between both parties.
(ii) As per contract the Consultant Project Engineers (CPE) had to provide the
following major servicess
- project engineering;
- preparation of tender documents;



- 19 -
- preparation  of  bid  evaluation  for  the  Corporation's  final
evaluation and decision;
-  coordination of civil construction, electrical, mechanical and
chemical engineering works with contractors and suppliers;
-  advice in training of project trainees locally on the job and
abroad, before and after coemissioning;
- assistance in commissioning of Project; and
-  assistance for upgrading financing and accounting systms.
(iii) In general, CPS had carried out their duties satisfactorily and fulfilled
all their obligations. But in some cases, we found out that there were
some minor weaknesses in coordination with contractors and suppliers. For
example, due to weakness in coordination betveen TKT (nOX), the Mechanical
Services Supplier and some other major production machinery suppliers,
sometimes there were shortages in materials for the utility services of
the main production machineries, and that caused some delayc in timely
work implementation.   It so happened between Meidensha (Japan),  the
Zlectrical Services Supplier and some other major production machinery
suppliers also.
(iv)  Coordinated with the machinery supplier and contractors, CPS had to
provide the civil works drawings and machine foundation drawings. But in
some cases, there were some considerable delays in providing such
drawings.
(v)   But as a whole, the performance done throughout the period by CPR was
quite acceptable and satisfactory, and showed their competoncy in this
field as a Consultant Engineering Firm.
61.         Performance of IDA
(i)   Development Credit Agreement, Credit No. 1425-BA for Textile Finishing
Plant (Shwedaung) Project, was signed on June 12, 1984.   The credit
closing date was set out as December 31, 1988. But with the requests of
MTI, the credit expiry date was extended twice and finally agroed to close
on December 31, 1990.
(ii)  During the period, IDA sent several missions to monitor, supervise and
inspect the progress of the Project.   Up to appraisal stage of the
Project, there were five visits, and also one visit was made during
through effectiveness of the credit. And later IDA sent nine supervision
missions to the Project, specialized in engineering, financial analysis,
and economics fields.
(iii) When some moderate problems were found in the fields of Project
Management, Development Impact and in Overall Status, IDA missions gave
positive and firm suggestions and advice, which were very helpful to this
Project.
(iv)  Goods *hall be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with
those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBID Loans and
IDA Credits.   The Project operated within the framework of those



- 20 -
guidelines. Thus there were several major and minor packages, and most of
the time was consumed in the procurement processes.
(v)   As for the release of monies by IDA, there was no single problem occurred
except some minor ones, and this Project could be carried out diligently
and fluently with the help of IDA. With the approval and permission from
IDA, opening a Special Account at the Myanma Foreign Trade Bank in Yangon,
boosted up the efficiency in releasing the monies to the suppliers.
62.         Utilities
(i)   All utilities were available as required except for the effluent hyacinth
beds. Although all items were considerably behind the original schedule,
all the services equipments were completed in time along with the process
machinery.
(ii)  Water: The water available from the Ayeyawaddi River proved to be of good
quality after treatment. Pumping, water treatment, storage, boilers and
distribution systems all operated efficiently and effectively.   Ample
supplies were available.
(iii) Electricity: Ample electricity was available. Supplies were stable with
no power outs or other problems.
(iv)  Natural Gas: This was available as required.  The volume and quality of
supply was good.
(v)   Caustic Recovery Plant: Initially this plant caused some problems in
automatic operation with electronic controls, and it was only commissioned
at the end of 1989, after replacement of new parts by the contractor. The
plant efficiency and capacity was found satisfactory within the specified
level.
(vi)  Effluents: The on-site settling tank was available as required and proved
to be working efficiently and effectively. The aeration fountains and six
hyacinth beds which are quite sufficient for single shift operation were
completed in August 1990, and the efficiency and effectiveness found were
within the IDA limitations. Construction of further hyacinth beds up to
the total of 17 beds was continued, for completion in May 1991.
Production Build-U,
63.         The Credit Agreement was made on the basis of the plant operating at
least 7,080 hours per annum. Production start-up was planned for February 1988,
and the full operating hours to be reached during August 1989.
64.         Full operating performance of 295 days per annum called for six days
working throughout the year with 17 days closed. Full operating hours were to
be operational 18 months after start-up.
65.         Production machinery commenced commissioning in August 1989, the 100
percent cotton dyeing facilities were handed over for operational purpose in



- 21 -
October 1989, and the polyester/cotton dyeing facilities were handed over in
December 1989. Printing facilities were commissioned and were available in March
1990.
66.         However, difficulties were experienced in making sufficient loomstate
fabrics available for regular production. Loomstate fabric of low quality was
made available in good time for commissioning of all machines but follow up
sufficient supplies could not be made available and as a result the machines were
only presented with enough work for single operation.
67.         Application was made to the IDA for a portion of the Credit to be
made available for the purchase of polyester fibers and cotton to enable a supply
of loomstate fabric to be made available for regular production. Additionally
a request for additional dyestuffs, chemicals and auxiliaries was made to
supplement the initial supplies received for plant commissioning and tests.
68.         These requests were approved and approximately US$1 million of
polyester fibers and cotton and US$1.1 million of dyestuffs, chemicals and
auxiliaries were ordered in November/December 1989.
69.         The volume of fibers ordered will still be insufficient to operate
the Project at full capacity and MTI plan to operate this plant on the following
basis.
(i)   01/02/89 to 03/31/90 - Commissioning and trial production:  five days,
single shift;
(ii)  04/01/90 to 03/31/91 - Five days, single shift (1920 hours per annum);
(iii) 04/01/91 to 03/31/92 - Five days, one and a half shifts (9 million yds);
(iv)  04/01/92 to 03/31/93 - Five days, two shifts (12 million yds);
(v)   04/01/93 to 03/31/94 - Five days, two and a half shifts (15 million yds);
(vi)  04/01/94 to 03/31/95 - Five days, three shifts (18 million yds).
Future Opportunities for Production
70.         At the present time, it is doubtful whether it would be possible to
have sufficient loomstate fabric available for the domestic market to move to the
two shift operations.
71.         The cotton types needed for blending with the polyester fibers are
not readily available in the quantities required in Myanmar and therefore both
the cotton and polyester fibers need to be imported. It is apparent that MTI
will not have sufficient foreign exchange facilities to obtain the necessary
supplies.  A switch of all the production to 100 percent cotton could create
problems for the overall cotton supply and the spinning/weaving facilities of MTI
mills.
72.         Other alternatives have therefore been examined:
(i)   direct export of fabrics;
(ii)  commission finishing of fabrics for companies operating outside Myanmar;
and
(iii) indirect export through export of garments made in Myanmar.



- 22 -
73.         The direct export of fabrics appeared attractive due to the absence
of quota restrictions. However, the following difficulties were considered:
(1)   initial problems of foreign exchange for import; and
(11) poor quality loomatate available from existing MTI mills.
It vas considered that this option would not be available until such time as
quality of loomstato had sufficiently improved to meet basic export standards.
74.         Coission finishing of fabrics for companies operating outside
Hyarnar is an option that has been considered in depth by MTI, and discussions
have been held with interested parties.
(1)   Good quality loom-tate, dyes, chemicals and auxiliaries could be imported
without outlay of foreign exchange.
(1i)  If sufficient processes are carried out, the finished fabrics could be
legitimately shown as "Made in Myanmar", with advantages from a quota
point of view.
(iii) Foreign exchange for the printing, dyeing and finishing would be earned by
kmr.
(iv)  The  MI personnel would become  trained  in export  quality  standard
procedures and spoed of respons.
The following itms would need to be examined closely:
(1)   Items would need to pass easily through Customs formalities.
(Li) Prices would not be competitive on a single shift operation.
(MLi) A sarginal cost exercise may need to be considered for implementation.
Whether, even in the case of marginal pricing, the operation would be attractive
to the buyer given the fixed exchange rate of the Kyat vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar
I1 not clear. It is considered that this option may be a possibility but it is
unlikely to operate effectively unless:
(i)   the processes involved can change the origin of the fabric to Myanmar for
export purposes; and
(1i)  the coissioning company concerned has control of buying raw materials,
liporting, dyeing, printing, finishing, exporting and the marketing of the
finished fabrics.
6.7   The indirect exporting of fabric through the export garment industry is
expected to be the only modium term method of exporting fabric. Initially such
an operation would need importod loomstate fabric, free of duty or encumbrance
by ustoms, and could at a later date be provided vith loomstate from Myanmar
sills when a period of modernization, rehabilitation and re-training has occurred
In cotton fibre production, spinning and weaving. However, at the present time,
the  xport garmnt industry is too small compared to this plant production
capacity for such an option to be considered in depth.



- 23 -
75.         Conclusions$
(i)   It is expected that a proponent for providing loomstate fabric for
comission finishing at Shwtdaung vill be found in the near future.
(ii)  The potential offtake of fabric for export garment making is too small in
the short-term to influence the volume throughout of the plant.
(iii) The Project was based upon the Government of the Union of Myanmar
providing sufficient foreign exchange to purchase all raw materials
required to operate the projoct on a 7,080 hour p.a. basis, vith finished
fabric being utilized for the domestic market.
76.         Medium-Term Solutions to Lack of Production
Given a continued problem of lack of foreign exchange, possible solutions for the
future could be:
(i)   the entry of a proponent for comission dyeing, printing and finishing;
(ii)  the closure of all other MTI obsolete dyeing, printing and finishing units
to concentrate production at Shwedaung Finishing Plant;
(iii) utilizing long term loans to modernize, rehabilitate and retrain a
spinning and weaving mill which will provide loomstate fabric for the
project which can then provide a quality suitable for export in finished
fabric or garment form.
Utilization of the IDA Credit
77.         Throughout the period, the utilization of the IDA Credit has been
slower than anticipated due to the departure of this Project from its original
timetable.  This has required extensions of the credit closing date.
78.         The Project in terms of SDRs has closely adhered to the budget with
the Credit being almost 100 percent utilized and the Project being completed as
the original concept.
79.         Due to the violent wings in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar,
Japanese Yen and tho Deutsche Mark, the budget in terms of US$ was overspent by
US$6.5 million.
80.         The value of budgoting a multi-year project with international
procurement on the basis of SDRs rather than U.S. dollars is mphasized by this
Project.
81.         The only serious deviation from budgot regarding foreign exchange
items were:
SCR ~Actual
Civil Works - US$ million             3.1            5.6
Working Capital                       0.4            2.1



- 24 -
82.         Drawdowns from IDA were made in an orderly manner, as was the
utilization of the Revolving Fund controlled by the MTI at the Myanma Foreign
Trade Bank.
Improvement of Financial and Hanaaement Renortinx Within MTI and the Setting Up
of ManaQement Controls for the Proiect
83.         A survey of all Financial and Management Information Systems (MIS)
(excluding audit) was undertaken in mid-1986 by the Consultants, and a report was
prepared, discussed and handed over for implementation at the time.
84.         The report recommended specific improvements to be carried out in
reporting techniques, and also provided a detailed system for developing a
computerized integrated MIS based on a network of micro computers with associated
training.
85.         The report emphasized the use and control of the micro computers by
HTI staff, vith input being done on a departmental basis rather than through an
impersonal central computer department.
86.         Several recommendations of the report have been implemented by the
MTI. The integrated MIS was however, left in abeyance due to MTI deciding that
the computer system should be operated under the control of the central computer
department of the Ministry of No. 1 Industry.
87.         In August/October 1988 a report was presented to the MTI by the
Consultants recommending improvements in the auditing system, controls and
reporting.
88.         A report recommending systems and controls for the Shwedaung Textile
Finishing Plant was handed over to the MTI in June 1989 for implementation.
Financial Performance of the MTI
89.         The financial performance for 1988-89 and 1989-90 were seriously
affected by the civil unrest which started in August 1988 and the subsequent re-
appraisal of all industries by the new authorities during the first half of 1989.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
90.         The planning, construction and starting up of the Project were
carried out in accordance with all aspects of the original plan except for the
time scale and the local cost of civil works carried out by the Public Works.
91.         The time scale envisaged at the planning stage did not recognize:
(i)   the extended procurement timetable; and
(ii) the lack of infrastructure for movement of large items from the port in
Yangon to site.



- 25 -
92.         The lack of computer services, parts, peripheral equipment, etc.
within Myanmar during this period have entailed computer systems being extremely
vulnerable and all essential systems having to be manually duplicated. Lack of
adequate reliable communication systems also have been a problm.
93.         However, in spite of the problems which arose from the above, and
those which accrued from the civil unrost of August 1988, a modern, state-of-
the-art dyeing, printing and finishing plant with excellent services and a well
trained staff is now available to the MTI. As this Project is capital intensive,
it needs to operate effectively with high level of efficiency and activity.
94.         The largest problem is, however, the lack of foreign exchange to
purchase the raw materials and other inputs required for the future.   The
planning of the Project anticipated that the larger part of the volume of fabrics
processed would be polyester/cotton with 30 percent of cotton having to be
imported. With all dyes and the vast majority of chemicals and auxiliaries also
having to be imported and all output being for the domestic market, it is found
out that the foreign exchange plays the vital role for the viable operation of
this Project.
95.         If this Project had been contiguous with a similar project to
modernize, rehabilitate and retain spinning/weaving capacity to provide export
quality loomstate, the expected long period of underactivity of the Shwedaung
Textile Finishing Plant could possibly have been averted.



a,
I I



- 27 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TEXTILE FINISHING PLANT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1425-BA)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related IDA Cr-dit
Titles       Industrial Rehabilitation Project
Purposes    Rehabilitation of three important State Economic Interprisess the
Textile  Industries  Corporation,  the  Papers  and  Chemicals
Corporation and the Burma Pharmaceutical Industries
Statuet      Deferred
Comments     Economic environment not currently conducive to success of such a
project.
2. Project Timetable
uto                      Planned Date                 Actual Date
Identification                                                April 9, 1981
Preparation                                                   October 10, 1982
Appraisal                         February 1983               February 7, 1983
NeSotiations                      June 1983                   October 24-28, 1983
Board Approval                    August 1983                 December 13, 1983
Credit  Signing                   January 1984                June 12, 1984
Effectiveness                     March 1984                  August 319 1984
Project Completion                February, 1988              December 31, 1990
Credit Closing                    Dccember 31, 1988           December 31, 1990



- 28 -
3. Credit Disbursement
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Fiscal             Actual         Appraisal       Actual Disbursement as Percent
Year             Disbursement    Estimate              of Appraisal Estimate
(US$ million)   (USS million)         in USS            in SDR
1984
March, 1984                             .30
June,  1984                            1.30
1985
Sept., 1984                            3.30               -                 -
Dec.,  1984            .16             7.30               2.0               0.7
March, 1985            .17            11.90               1.4               0.7
June,  1985            .18            17.90               1.0               0.7
1986
Sept., 1985            .38           20.90                1.8               1.4
Dec.,  1985            .69            22.70               3.0               2.5
March, 1986          1.05             23.80               4.4               3.5
June,  1986          1.05             24.90               4.2               3.5
1987
Sept., 1986          1.69            26.00                6.5              5.3
Dec.,  1986          1.69             27.10               6.3               5.3
March, 1987          7.02             27.90              25.2              13.1
June,  1987          9.16            28.70               31.9              19.1
1988
Sept., 1987         10.74            29.10               36.9             23.8
Dec.,  1987         18.05             29.40              61.4              43.6
March, 1988         24.76             29.60              83.8              61.7
June,  1988         26.31            29.70               88.6             65.6
1989
Sept., 1988         27.31              -                 92.0             67.0
Dec.,  1988         27.31              -                 92.0             69.1
March, 1989         28.17              -                 95.0              70.6
June,  1989         28.92              -                 97.4             72.3
1990
Sept., 1989         29.66              -                 99.9             75.2
Dec.,  1989         30.84              -                103.8             80.5
March, 1990         33.56              -                113.0             89.0
June,  1990         34.94              -                117.6             91.5
1991
Sept., 1990         35.29             -                 118.7             92.2
Dec.,  1990         35.78              -                120.5             99.3
March, 1991         36.76              -                122.8             99.4



- 29 -
4. Status of Covenants
Credit
Agreement Section           Covenant                       Status/Remarks
3.03              Employment    of    consulting    In compliance
engineers to help carry out the
Project.
3.08 (a)          Borrower    to    furnish    the   In compliance
Association,   for   review   and
comnents, draft contract to be
entered into with Construction
Corporation.
4.03 (a) (b)      Borrower  to  ensure  plant  is   Partially in compliance.
provided with necessary electric    Power supply is satisfactory and
power,   dyes,   chemicals   and   spare parts are not yet much
spares.                              needed.  The import of dyes and
chemicals was funded initially
under the Credit, but lacks now
foreign exchange.
4.03 (c)          Operation of the plant at least   Not yet in compliance.  Due to
7,080   hrs/p.a.,   after   plant    low  capacity  utilization  of
completion.                          spinning and weaving mills, and
little   access   to   foreign
exchange, MTI's mills do not
provide sufficient grey cloth to
the Project.
4.04              Borrower to undertake a textile   In compliance.   Report formed
sector   study   and   make   it   basis for the preparation of the
available to IDA for review and   now    deferred    Industrial
comment.  Report to include plan   Rehabilitation Project.
for implementing recommendations.
5.01              MTI to maintain separate accounts    In    compliance.    The    jute
for its textile operations and   operations were even transformed
its jute operations.                 into a separate corporation.
5.02              Association to receive unaudited   Not  in  compliance.    On  the
financial  statements  within  6   average  unaudited   statements
months  and  audited  statements    received 10 months from the end
within 9 months from the end of   of  fiscal  year,  and  audited
each fiscal year.                    statements within 20 months.
5.03              MTI to maintain current ratio of   According    to    financial
1.5  or  better,  a  debt  equity   statements  for  1989/90,  the
ratio not to exceed 50t50  and   current ratio was 12.7 and the
debt  service  coverage  of  1.5   debt service ratio 0.6.   The
times or better.                     debt  equity  ratio was  77:23,
presuming the position of the
central Government Account in
MTI is treated as equity.
5.04              Until completion of the Project    In compliance.
MTI not to make any investments
outside the Project greater than
US$10 million.



- 30 -
5. UsV of IDA Resource.
5 * 1 Stff Innut
nk                                 Innut (staff Week.)
Project preparation                             33.1
Project appraisal                               42.9
Credit negotiations                             10 9
Credit processing                                6.3
Project supervision                             66.4
Project Completion Report                        3.0
Pro10ct administration                           0 4
Total                                          163.0
5.2. Missions
Staes of
Project       Monthl   No. of    Days in   Speciali-  Performance  Type of
Cycle         Year     Persons   Field        zation LI  Rating /b    Problm _&
ug to Anuraisal
1             3/81         1        3        
2             10/81        2        7        E FA              -        -
3             6/82         6       14           EA CON         -         -
4             10182        2       14        E VA              -         -
5             2/83         2       14        EV A              -         -
Through Zffectivness
I             7183        2         7        E FA              -         -
1              4/84       2         7        E VA              I         None
2              6185        2        8        E PA              2         pH 08
3              2/86        2        9        E VA              2         pH 0S
4             11/86       2         9        S E               2         pH 06
5              1/87        1        5        z                 2         PF  08
6             10/87        2       17        zC E              2         pH 08
7              3/69       2         7        IC e              2         DI PS 08
8             11/89        3        5         EA RC            2         08
9              1/90        1        5        E                 2         08
10             1/91        1       5         1                 2         0O
^    * - Englner, VA   Financial Analysts,
IC - ecoomist, CON - Consultant
i~  I - No or minor problems, 2 - Moderate problms
PM - Project Management, DI - Development Impact, 08 - Overall status.



- 31 -
6. Prolect ImDlmntatI&n
Completion Dates of Major Project Implmentation Activities
SAR
Activity                            Forecast        Actual
Engineering and design                            5/85         9/85
Preparation of bidding documents                  8/85         6/86
Submission of bids                               11/85         8/86
Bid evaluation and contract award                 5/86         8/87
Construction of industrial buildings              5/87         12/89
Construction of infrastructure                    8/87         8/90  L.
Delivery of equipment and sachinery               8/87          6/88  1
Erection and installation                        11/87         3/90  .L
Test runs and start-up                            2/88         12/90
Technical assistance by CPR                       2/89         12/89
Training                                          2/89         12/90
Production build-upd~,                            8/89          3/95
/a  Except some hyacinth beds that vere completed by 5/91.
ib  Except some equipment that vas delivered by 12/90.
Ic  Except  ome equipment that vas installed by 12/90.
1.  Planned by MTI.  This Report assumes  built-up by 3/94, but only to a lower
level of capacity utiliuation.
The Project was scheduled to be constructed, commissioned and ready for start-up by
end-February 1988, with CPn having completed their contract a year later. The actual
Project completion was December 31, 1990, 34 months later than the target date. The
causes of the late Project completion are approximately attributed to the following,
inter alias
(i) Time consuming Government approval procedures;
(ii) Customs bureaucratic delays;
(iii) Long delivery times quoted by foreign suppliers;
(iv) Civil unrestg and
(v) Changes in Government.



- 32 -
7. Proiect Cost and Financina
7.1 Proic t Cost
(US$ million)
item                  Apraisal Estimate             Actual Costs
Foreign                   Foreign
Local   Exchange   Total   Local  Exchange  Total
Civil works                5.0        3.1      8.1   16.8      5.6       22.4
Equipment and spares       0.5       15.9     16.4     -      23.4       23.4
Erection                   0.4        0.6      1.0    0.1      2.6        2.7
Duties and taxes           9.5        -        9.5   16.2      -         16.2
Engineering and management 0.3        1.8      2.1    1.8      2.6        4.4
Local expenses             0.3        -        0.3     -       -          -
Transport and others       3.3        0.8      4.1    0.3      -          0.3
Total Plant Cost        19 3      22        41.5   35.2    34.2        69.4
Housing                    1          -        1.5     1.4     -          1.4
Training                   -          0.4      0.4     -       0.4        0.4
Start-up expenses          0.1       0.1       0.2     -       -          -
Subtotal                 1.6       0.5       2.1    1.4      0.4        1.8
Base Cost               20.9      22.7      43.6   36.6    34.6       71.2
Physical contingency       2.1        2.3      4.4    -        -          -
Price escalation           2.1        4.3      6.4    -        -          -
Installed cost          25.1      29.3      54.4   36.6    34.6        71.2
Working capital            2.5        0.4      2.9    0.9      2.1        3.0
Total Proiect Cost      27  6     29.7      57.3   37 5    36.7       74.2
Interest during construction
IDA credit               5.4        -        5.4    4.9      -          4.9
Other loans              2.3        -        2.3     1.9     -          1.9
Total Proiect Financing 35 3      29 7      65.0   44.3    36-7       81.0
L  Basd on the off clat exchange rate, whAch deviates subatntietly from the peratLet market rate.
The Project incurred a 36 percent cost overrun in local expenditures:  US$37.5
million equivalent actual compared to US$27.6 million estimated. This was mainly
due to the worsening undervaluation of the Kyat which led to a threefold increase
(excluding physical and price contingencies) in civil works costs, when expressed
in US$. These increases were directly due to the escalation of construction prices,
materials and labor, during the protracted implementation period, while the official
SDR:Kyat exchange rate was held constant despite rapid inflation. To illustrate,
cme nt prices increased by 156 percent and construction labor by 250 percent during
this period.  The Kyat depreciated considerably on the parallel market but not,
against the SDR, on the official market.



- 33 -
7.2. Proiect Financina
(US$ million)
stem                         Planned                      Actual
Foreign                    Foreign
Local   Exchange   Total   Local  Exchange  Total
MTI                         5.3        _         5.3     5.4                5.4
Government                 30.0        -       30.0    38.9      -         38.9
IDA Credit                  -         29.7      -        -      36.7       36.7
Total                  35 3      2921L2    ALs6Q    44.3   ,JL 71



- 34 -
8. Proiect Results
8.1. Direct Benefits
Production Per Year
Fabric LA  Appraisal Estimate           At Credit Closina              Full Production
(Dec. 31, 1990)              Planned by MTI
'000 lm    '000 m2         '000 lm    '000 m2          '000 lm         '000 M2
A              2,950      3,160              255          260             -              -
B              5,450      5,830           4,475        4,565         14,264        15,830
C              3,170      2,410               18           20           274           280
D              1,790      1,500                -            -             -              -
E              3,240      3,240              108          105           549           590
F                -          -                101          114         1,372         1400
Total     16,600    16,140             4,957        5,064        16,459        18,100
LA                                                       SAR                Revised
Width  Weight       Width   Weight
(cm)    (g/m2)      (cm)     (g/m2)
Fabric A - Polyester/cotton broadcloth              107      130        102         172
Fabric B - Polyester/cotton shirting                107      116        102    105/114
Fabric C - Cotton drill                              76      257        112         258
Fabric D - Cotton cellulars                          84      154          -           -
Fabric I - Cotton poplin                            100      104         97         114
Fabric F - Cotton Sheeting                            -         -       112         146
Additional Proiect Benefits
SAR        Current
Estimate    Estimate
(K' million)
Additional production of grey fabric which could not
be finished without the Project                                     6              3 la
Savings in dye *tuff, chemicals and energy                         15              8  /b
L In 1989/90, grey fabric production was leas than half the volum estimated upon appraisal, due to shortfalls
of cotton production, difficult access to foreign exchangp, nd obsolete woaving equipment. It could hence have
ben processed even without the Project. In the longer term, however, the finishing capacity without the Project
might not always suffice to process atl of NTIOs grey cloth output.
Lb The savings of energy wiLl be due to the use of natural gas instead of fuel oil, nd to more efficient
machinery. Caustic soda wiLl be recovered to about 60 percent, and about one quarter of other dyes, chemicaLs,
and auxiliary _ateriast can be saved through higher efficiency.



8.2. PROJECTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WITH ANO WITHOUT THE PROJECT
8.2.1. Estimate Upon AppraisaL
(in 1987 Prices)
/a
1988/89           1989/90            1990/91           1991/92            1992/93
W/O   with        W/O   with         W/O   with        W/O   With         W/O   with
Project Production as                 02    80X         02   1002          02   100X          0X   1002         02   100X
X of Planned Output
Income and Cash Flow
Total Sales Revenue            2,252  2,514      2.252  2,579       2,252  2,579      2,252  2,579       2,252  2,579
Direct Prod. Cost              1,757  2,039      1,757  2,072       1,757  2.072       1,757  2,072      1,757  2.072
Depreciation                      28     53         28      53         28     53          28     53         28     53
Interest                           6     39          7     36           6     32          5      29          5     25
Taxes (CST)                      145    193        146    205         146    205         146    205        146    205
Net Income                       224    243        225    265         226    269        226    273         227    277
Retained Net Income
Cash Flow                                                                                                                                           W
Cash Generated Before                                                                                                                           -n
Debt Service                   193    279        192    275         192    274         192    273        192    272
Cash Expenditures
*Investments                       0     11          0       6          0      0           0      0          0      0
*Debt Service                     63     93         24      99         20     93          21     90         20     86
Net Cash Flow                    130    175        168    170         172    181         171    182        172    184
Accumulated Cash                 436    460        604    630         776    811        947    993       1,119  1,179
Year-End Balance Sheet
Current Assets                 1,603  1,656      1,771  1,836       1,943  2,017      2,114  2,199       2,286     /b
Net Fixed Assets                 980  1,408        952  1,355         924  1,302        896  1,249         U8      /b
Current Liabilities              257    310        257    311         257    311        257    311         257     /b
Long-Term Debt                   140    554        123    490         108    430         92    368          77     /b
Capital & Reserve                314    314        314    314         314    314        314    314         314     /b
Goverrent Accounts                 0      0          0       0          0      0           0      0          0     /b
Retained Earnings              1,873  1,890      2,031  2,074       2,189  2,264      2,348  2,455       2,507     /b
Ratios
Current Ratio                    6.2    5.4        6.9    5.9         7.6    6.5        8.2    7.1         8.9     /b
Debt/Equity Ratio               6:94  20:80       5:95  17:83        4:96  14:86       3:97  12:U8        3:97     /b
Debt Service Coverage            3.1    2.8        8.1    2.8         9.4    3.0        9.0    3.0         9.8    3.2
/a  The sales  nd production cost figures include all inter-factory sales.
The official exchange rate has been used.
/b The 1992/93 balance sheet estim_te was omitted in the SAR.
Source: SAR



8.2 PROJECTED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WITH AND WITHOUT TNE PROJECT
8.2.2. Estimete upon Completion
(1988/89-1990/91 in current prices; thereafter In 1990/91 prices)
a/
--Audit of hTI --l--------------------------------------------  TI's Estimtte /  -----------------------------------------
88/89  89n90   :    1989/90              1990/91             1991/92           1992/93             1993/94            1994/95
With    With   : WIO    With           W/o   With         w/o   With         w/O   WIth         W/O   With         W/O   With
Project Project :           /b                  lb
Project Produkction as            02     OZ:        0X      0X          0X    27X          0X    27X          02    412           0X    542          0X    54X
2 of Plmd  Output
Income Statement
Total Sales Revemna         449    936   : 1,062   1,062         1,051  1,195       1,706  1,195       1,743  1,960       1,777  2,072       1,812  2,072
Direct Prod. Cost             na    786   :   873      874         987  1,088       1,592  1,088       1,631  1,706       1,675  1,787       1,719  1,787
Depreciation                 nn      na         50      56          56     75          61      87         62      88         62      89         63      89
Interest                     25       6:         1       1           2     20           7     24           7     24           6     22           6      21
Taxes (CST)                  27      78 :    62         66          91    115         100    115         100    145          99    168          99    168
Not Income                   (81)    47   :   126      121         (30)   (28)          8    (32)          5     86           4      94         12      96
Cash Flow
Cash Generated Before
Debt Service               no      na        145     194         109    I"          143    170         143    170         141    163         141    163
Cash Expenditures            na      no
* Investments                n       na   :    89      191         106    158         135    139         135    139         135    139         135    139
D*ebt Service                 na     no          2       2           3       6          7      31          8      25           6     25          6      25
Net Cash Flow                na      ne   :    55        1           -       -          -       -                    -      -               -            -
Accumtlated Cash              16      0        (27)   (100)        (30)   (25)                    -      -               -            -           -      -
Year-End Balemic Shiest
Current Assets              969    594   :   556       591         480    495         480    495         480    495         480    495         480    495
Net Fixed Assets          1,157  1,298   :  814   1,307            918  1,389         992  1,441       1,066  1,492       1,139  1,542       1,212  1,591
Current Liabilities         733      35   :    38       39          38     39          38      39         38      39         38      39         38      39
Long-Term Debt              548    359   :   134       359         132    353         149    346         140    321         135    301         129    279
Goverruent Account   Id        -  1,380   : 1,002   1,308        1,188  1,450       1,208  1,512       1,293  1,471       1,372  1,533       1,443  1,603
Capital LReserve    /d    288        70  :    70        70          70     70          70      70         70     70          70      70         70      70
Retained Earnings    Id    556       47   :   126      121         (30)   (28)          8    (32)          5      86          4      94         12      96
Ratios
Current Ratio                1.3   17.0   :  13.9    12.7         11.8   12.1        12.6   12.8        12.6   12.         12.6   12.8        12.6   12.8
Debt/Equa1ty Ratio  /f   1.52:1  .26:1   : .14:1   .26:1         .14:1  .26:1       .14:1  .25:1       .13:1  .22:1        .12:1  .20:1      .11:1  .18:1
Debt Service Coverage         na     ns   :   0.5      0.6         1.6    0.9         5.3    2.0         5.1    2.4         5.3    2.7         4.6    2.7
/a  At official exchange rate.
lb Provisioale data of NTI, adjusted for lower capacity utilizatIon and for Introduaction of Goveirsient Accmmt.
/c The sales and cost data include Inter-factory sales. In 1989/90, for exasple, sales would be K 652.2 million and cost K 440.1 million If these
inter-factory sates were excluded. Nil always includes them In Its figures.
/d in 1989/90, all retained earnings and local bank debt were trwanferred to a Goverruent Account. All pasymnts will heniceforth be mad from
arid to this Accownt, and all profits remifn in that accoun~t. NTI's estimetes do not yet take this Into accounit.
I4' Data Provide-d by Nil, but adjusted by IDA staff for lower caPacity utilization and for introduaction Governaent Account In 198/90.
/f Preetnng the Goverment Accounat constitutes ojity.
Source: NTI. IDA staff.



8.3. COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS FOR FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN
8.3.1. Estimte upon Appraisal
(Kyats millions)
/a
------------------------- FINANCIAL COST & BENEFIT ANALYSIS -------------------------      ---------ECOCONIC COST & BENEFIT ANALYSIS ---------
Fiscal     Plant    Working  Incremental  Incremental  Incremental      Net Financial Benefit        Duty in  Other    SaLes  Prod.Cost : Net Economic
Year     Capital   Capital     SaLes     Production     CS Tax           In 1982/83 Prices         Cap.Cost  CapitaL Adjustmt Adjustmt      Benefit
(ApriL- :                      Revenue       Cost                  :Deflator   Before    After               Adjustmt
March)  Current Prices through 87/88; Constant 87/88 P. thereafter:            Tax       Tax      ----------- In 1982/83 Prices -------- (82/83 Prices)
T983/84 :    20.9          -          -           -           -    :  1.070      -19.5    -19.5  *       4.4      0.6        -        -  :  -14.5
1984/85 :   146.5          -          -           -           -    :  1.106    -132.5    -132.5         29.9      3.8        -         -:   -98.8
1985/86 :    167.5         -          -           -           -    :  1.168    -143.4    -143.4         32.4      4.1        -        -     -106.9
1986/87 :    62.8          -          -           -           -    :  1.230      -51.1    -51.1         11.5      1.5        -        -      -38.1
1987/88 :    20.9       13.6      143.8        78.9        25.9    :  1.290       23.6       3.5           -        -      4.7      2.6       10.8
1988/89 *               10.8      261.5       139.6        47.0    :  1.290       86.1      49.7  :                 -      8.5      3.5       61.7
1989/90          -       6.0      326.8       173.3        58.8    :  1.290      114.3      68.8  :        -        -    10.6       4.0       83.4
1990/91 :        -         -      326.8       173.3        58.8    :  1.290      119.0      73.4  :        -        -    10.6       3.4       87.4
1991/92         * -        -      326.8       173.3        58.8    :  1.290      119.0      73.4  :        -        -    10.6       3.4       87.4               4
1992/93 .        -         -      326.8       173.3        58.8    :  1.290      119.0      73.4  :        -        -    10.6       3.4       87.4
1993/94          -         -      326.8       173.3        58.8    :  1.290      119.0      73.4  :        -        -    10.6       3.4  :   87.4
1994/95          -         -      326.8       173.3        58.8    :  1.290      119.0      73.4  :                 -    10.6       3.4       87.4
1995/96 :        -         -      326.8       173.3        58.8    :  1.290      119.0      73.4  :        -        -    10.6       3.4  :   87.4
1996/97 :        -         -      326.8       173.3        58.8    :  1.290      119.0      73.4  :        -        -    10.6       3.4  :   87.4
1997/98 :        -         -      326.8       173.3        58.8    :  1.290      119.0      73.4  :        -        -    10.6       3.4  :   87.4
1998/99 :        -         -      326.8       173.3        58.8    :  1.290      119.0      73.4  :        -        -    10.6       3.4  :   87.4
1999/00 :        -         -      326.8       173.3        58.8    :  1.290      119.0      73.4  :        -        -    10.6       3.4  :   87.4
2000/01 :        -         -      326.8       173.3        58.8    :  1.290      119.0      73.4  :        -        -    10.6       3.4  :   87.4
2001/02 :        -         -      326.8       173.3        58.8    :  1.290      119.0      73.4  :        -        -    10.6       3.4  :   87.4
2002/03 :        -         -      326.8       173.3        58.8    :  1.290      119.0      73.4  :        -        -    10.6       3.4  :   87.4
2003/04:         -         -      326.8       173.3        58.8    :  1.290      119.0      73.4  :        -        -    10.6       3.4  :   87.4
2004/05 :        -         -      326.8       173.3        58.8    :  1.290      119.0      73.4  :        -        -    10.6       3.4  :   87.4
2005/06':        -         -      326.8       173.3        58.8    :  1.290      119.0      73.4  :        -        -    10.6       3.4  :   87.4
2006/07      -39.8    -30.3       326.8       173.3        58.8    :  1.290      173.3    127.8  :    -7.3    -0.9    10.6          3.4      133.6
Financial Rate of Return:   Before CS Tax    20.94X
After CS Tax     13.75X
Economic Rate of Return:                      20.41X



8.3. COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS FOR FIIANCIAL AND ECOCMtIC RATES OF RETURN
8.3.2. Estim_te upon Cowpletion /a
(kyats mfilions)
------------------------ FINANCIAL COST & BENEFIT ANALYSIS ------------------------         . ----------ECOCONIC COST & BENEFIT ANALYSIS ---------
Fiscal  : Plant    Working  Incremental  Incremental  Incremental :   Not Financial Benefit          Duty in  Other    Sales Prod.Cost : Net Economic
Vear   : Capital   Capital     Sales     Production     CS Tax    :       In 1963/84 Prices        Cap.Cost Capital Adjustat Adjuttmt       Benefit
(April- :                      Revenue       Cost                  :Deflator  Before   After                 Adjustat
Narch) :Current Prifes through 89/90; Conrtant 89/90 P. Thereafter:             Tax      Tax      :-------- In 1963/84 Prices ---------:(C3/84 Prices)
193/84         0.1         -          -           -           -    .  1.000       -0.1      -0.1  *        -      0.0        -        -  *    0.0
1984/85        8 -                                -           -    :   1.026      -8.5      -8.5           -      0.2         -       -        -8.3
19/66:    30.3             -          -           -           -    :  1.042      -29.0    -29.0           1.6      0.4                - -  :  -26.9
1966a/7:    77.8           -          -           -           -    :  1.111      -70.0    -70.0         20.9    -2.5                  -   :  -51.6
1967/88:   202.9           -          -           -                 :  1.347    -150.6   -150.6  :    32.0   -24.1            -        -  : -142.8
196/89:    80.6            -          -           -           -    :  1.665      -48.4    -48.4  :       6.6    -7.5                  -       -49.3
1969/90      114.3       0.0        0.5         2.2         3.2    :  2.262      -51.3    -52.7  :       5.6   -18.3       0.0    -0.1  :  -64.2
10/91         22.4      13.4      14.3        101.1        23.6    :  2.262        3.3      -7.1  :      4.3   -10.6       0.0    -6.4  :   -9.4
1991/92          -       0.0      144.3       101.1        23.6    :  2.262       19.1       8.7  :         -       -      0.0    -6.4  :   12.7
192/93:          -      10.2      253.9       114.2        44.9    :  2.262       57.2      37.4  :                 -      0.0    -7.2  :   50.0
199394;          -       7.0      328.9       156.0        68.2    :  2.262       73.3      43.2          :         -      0.0    -9.8  :   63.5
1994/95:         -         -      328.9       156.0        68.2    :  2.262       76.4      46.3                           0.0    -9.8:   66.6
1995/96:         -         -      328.9       156.0        68.2    :  2.262       76.4      16.3  :                  -     0.0    -9.8  :   66.6
1996/97 :        -         -      328.9       156.0        68.2    :  2.262       76.4      46.3  :                 -       0.0    -9.8  :   66.6
1997/96 :        -         -      328.9       156.0        68.2    :  2.262       76.4      46.3  :                 -      0.0    -9.8  :   66.6                  0
1996/99 :        -         -      328.9       156.0        68.2    :  2.262       76.4      46.3  :                 -      0.0    -9.8  :   66.6                   1
1999/00 :        -         -      328.9       156.0        68.2    :  2.262       76.4      4.3  :                   -      0.0    -9.8  :   66.6
2000/01 :        -         -      328.9       156.0        68.2    :  2.262        76.4     4.3  :                   -      0.0    -9.8  :   66.6
2001/02 :        -         -      328.9       156.0        68.2    :  2.262        76.4     46.3  :                  -      0.0    -9.8  :   66.6
2002/03:         -         -      328.9       156.0        68.2    :  2.262        76.4      46.3  :                 -      0.0    -9.8  :   66.6
2003/04 :        -         -      328.9       156.0        68.2    :  2.262        76.4      46.3  :        --              0.0    -9.8  :   66.6
2004/05 :        -         -      328.9       156.0        68.2    :  2.262        76.4      46.3  :                 -      0.0    -9.8  :   66.6
2005/06 :        -         -      328.9       156.0        68.2    :  2.262        76.4      46.3  :                 -      0.0    -9.8  :   66.6
2006/07 :        -         -      328.9       156.0        68.2    :  2.262        76.4      46.3  :                 -      0.0    -9.8  :   66.6
2007/06 :        -         -      328.9       156.0        68.2    :  2.262        76.4      46.3  :                 -      0.0    -9.8  :   66.6
2008/09 :        -         -      328.9       156.0        68.2    :  2.262        76.4      46.3  :                 -      0.0    -9.8  :   66.6
2009/10 :     -1.1     -30.6      328.9       156.0        68.2    :  2.262        90.4     60.3  :       0.0      0.0      0.0    -9.8  :   80.6
Financial Rate of Return:    Before CS Tax    11.81%
After CS Tax      6.75s
Economic Rate of Return:                      10.64S
/a  The financial cost benefit analysis is based on HTI's estimates, and adjusted for operation reaching 2 shifts after 4 years rather then 3 shifts
after 5 years. Working capital was calculated to the SAR. Foreign plant cost are converted Kyats at the current official exchange rate.
The deflator is the GDP inflator. The economic cost benefit analysis adjusts capital for duties, and for the increasing overvaluation of the
Kyat against the dollar. Sales nd production cost could not be fully adjusted to International prices because NTI has not provided, despite
IDA's requests, the detailed cost structure and current unit prices that underlie its estimate of financial benefits nd costs, to which the
adjustentsn ould be  pplied.  The production cost were adjusted pproxim_tely for production inputs whose prices were not raised in line with inflation
and the devaluation of the Kyat on the parallel m_rket. Given that the critical capacity utilization of the Project depends largely on policy factors
foreign exchange allocation, governance system of state enterprises, export discouragement through exchange rate policy, etc.) Project performrnce could
change drastically over the twenty year plant life. If NTI is deprived of foreign exchange for fiber, spares, and chemicals the FRR and ERR would be
mach lower than estim_ted above,  If, on the other hand, the business environment Improves significantly  nd the plant can encge in satisfactory
commissioning contracts then the FRR wid ERR could go up towards the SAU estimate.



*                                                                        8.4. WEAVING AID FINISNINI   ACTIVITY IN NYAIWI. 1960-90
--------------------------- WEAVING (win) ----------------------------------(--------------- FARIC FINISNING (ala)  a/  ---------------- -OUTPUT VALUE -
: (million Kyat)
No. of Loom    Crcity:-  ---------- Output ------------: Capacity Util. ----- Capacity -----  ------- Output ------ :C4.city Util. :(Tex. Caramnts)
Power  NIbd    (Cloth):   Cray Cloth             Cloth            Cloth                  /c                                                 :       7c
Looms   Looms     /c   : Actual  A  EIst I.            :            /c :
8/89 /b        86-89  : 76-82    4-90       86/87   3/69o  86/67  88/9   : K /s  8/5  89/90 : 6   86/    88/89   868   88/89    a s   a9/90
(: (Av.)  (Avg.)                                       -67/68 -86/69        :(Avg.)
:  :            : (Sm)  (KTI)          :                      :
Paleik Kill               600        -     7.6 :    7.7      7.7        4.4    1.4:    58X    18        11.3   11.9   11.9 : 11.3    6.2    2.5:  52.1  20.61 : 206.5    57.1
Thating Mill              792        -      .6       6.3     8.3        6.4    2.1       73X    24Z:  6.3    6.4    6.4 :  6.3    5.2    3.2:  61.91  38.31 : 121.5    34.6
Sging lillt               600        -    6.2:    6.5        6.5        5.2    2.1:    84       34:         -      -                                                : -  -  -:  -   :  n  no
Uiu.~ai  Sbpg.IMsavg.    600         -    S.5:    2.7        6.3        4.1    1.6:    751    291:          -             - -     -       -      -:      -      -  :  52.2    22.7
Shwsdaug finisding                   -       -         -       -           -      - :                       -      -   16.6       -       -                                                     I -  :  -  -
Otbw La    Niltla         600              6.2:    7.6       7.6        5.4    1.9       661    231:        -      -       :      -       -      -       -       -:       no      no
Subtotal  lig KTI Kills   3,192        -   36.3:   33.0    36.6          25.5    9.1 :   70x    251:  17.6   20.3   36.9 : 17.6   11.4    5.7 : S6.21  27.91 . 564.5   178.4
ll KTI Kill.              3,348               no      1 12.6    12.6        n      no  :    no     M      25.9   28.6  28.6 2 25.9   15.3    6.6    53.51  23.91: 575.7  195.4
.--------                  ----    *----   ----:   ....    ....           ...        ... --   ...-    ..   ...        ...    ....    ...     ...    ...  ...   ....      ....    .....- --  ---  --   --:--  --
Total KTI Kills           6.540        *       n :   45.6    51.2          na      n:    na    rn         43.5   48.9   65.5: 43.5   26.7   12.5:  s4.61  25.6x: 1140.2   373.8
:                                   :                                       :::
Cooperatives              247  131 000  s         no  x        n          n    Ino :   no       na   :   m   1           u  :   na    nu         a:   na                          no
Private, Recoded        1,822    6,300       n        un      rn         n       un      n no    n   :   no       n      un: :    n      r       n       n                nc      n
Private UnrwArdad          no  200,000      un        nx      n          n       ur      n  :n  na         na     n      n  :    rn    rn       n:    no       n   :      no      n
,,,,, ------             .....   _...       ...  - - - -  -  -  - -      -   - .         -   : .           - -    -      - --:    - -     -      .             - :----
Total lon-State Uints    2,069  339,300       no:       no      no          n              r      urno :   na       n      no :    n       no  n     :    no     n          na      nn
.._ .... ..                ....     ... .. -- --:- -:- --:- --:- ---
Grnd Total               86609  339,300       no:       n       no         no      no      no     no        urn     n      n:    n        n       no:   no    un            no      no
/a In addition thare Is yam dyeing, ax waving with dyed yarn. Palaik  ill d*ed In 1960/61 3,200 tona  of yarn  for about 9 wt- cloth
/b Data for nmn-state* sctor frm staff  stimtes of July 1906, refarriag to 1M.
/c including inter-factory scles; in currant pricas.
Sources: KTI; SM  ter  indlicated; staff estimtes from  internxl report on Ny.inr textile sector (1966)



8.5. NTI FINANCIAL STATENENTS
8.S.1. Btance Sheet, 1983/84-1969/90
(Currant Kyst wiltion)        83/8U    8K/85        85/86     86/87      87/88     U/89       89/90
ASSETS
Gross Fixed Assets            2,150      1,189      1,257     1,376      1,662      1,790     1,992
Depreciation                     536       429        467        529       581        633       694
......                         -----.   .... -----  -----.    . -----    -----.    . -----    -----. .. 
Net Fixed Assets               1,614       760        790       847      1,081      1,157     1,296
Inventory                        724       524        496       409        410       475        41.
Receivables                      217       535        508       514        529        .77       150
Overpaymnt to the Stte            41        27          -          -         -          -          -
Csuh & Snk Deposits              114        71        139        141        16         16         -
..... .......                  -----     .....   .  . -----   -----.    . -----     -----.   . -----....... .... ........ ..
Current Assets                 1,096     1,157      1,143     1,064        965        968       5941
......... .. .... .. .... .. .......  .....  . ......  -----  -----.   . .....    -----.    . ----
Total Assets                2.711      1,917      1,933     1.910      2,066     2,126      1,892
LIMILITIES & CAPITAL
CredItors                        269       16"        190       208        205        157        35
Payeble to State                   -                   18         17        15          7          -
Provisfin for Taxes               69        62         62        62         62          -         -
Short-Term t.nk Lowns            337       358        382       377        391        569
Other Current LiabiLities         53          -         -          -         -          .          -
Long-Term Loan                 1,085       352        268       227        46         548       360
..... -..... .....                       .....   .  . -----   -- -       ----       -----.   . ..... ...............
Liabilities                    1,813       936        920       891      1,137      1,281       395
CapitaL                          361       306        306       300        294        285        68
Reserve FuWd                       -         -          2         2          2          3         2
Retained Profits                 534       676        703       717        633        556        47
Goverrnent Accou.t                 -                    -                    -          -      1380
Net Worth                        896       962      1,011     1,019        929        8"      1,497
....-                      -----      -----      .....  .  . .....    -----.    . -----    -----.... ....... . . 
Total Liab. and Capital       2,711      1,917      1,932     1,910      2,066     2,126      1,892
Source: NTI



8.5. NTI FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8.5.2. Income Statement, 1983/84-1989/90
(Current Kyat miliion)               83/84    84/85       85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89    89/90
SALES
Domestic Sates                         /a         /a       655       516       297      261        576
Export Sales                           30         30        30        25        13         9        14
Total Sales Before Tax                 na         na       685       541       310      270       590
Memo: Inter-Factory Transfers          /a         /a       493       417       277       179      346
EXPENSES
Cost of Goods Sold                     /a         /a       529       414       293       268      440
Administration                         50         45        40        42        45        49        67
Financial Expenses                     78         42        16        12        10        25        6
Research & Development                  2          3         1         1         1         1         1
Selling Expenses                       17         17        13        12        11         8        12
Comuiodity & Service Tax              131        108        88        66        40        27        78
Total Expenses                         na         na       687       547       400      378       604
INCOME
Operating Profit                      -16         29        -3        -6       -89      -108       -15
Other Income                           77         67        66        54        37        27        62
Net Income                             61         96        63        48       -52       -81        47
State Contribution                     18         29        19        15         -         -       47
Retained Profit                        43         67        44        33       -52       -81         0
/a Not availabLe separately from inter-factory transfers.
Source: MTI



