OFFICIAL         CREDIT NUMBER 1425 BA
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Textile Finishing Plant Project)
between
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                          , 984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1425 BA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                /2            , 1984, between
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF T    UNION OF BURMA (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (herein-
after called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project des-
cribed in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as
hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Assoc1ation has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "TIC" means the Textile Industries Corporation, a
state-owned corporation, under the jurisdiction of the Borrower's
Ministry of No. 1 Industry, established pursuant to notification
No. 88/76 of August 4, 1976 of said Ministry;
(b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and TIC pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary


﻿-2-
Loan Agreement, and the term "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan
provided for under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) "Kyats" and the sign "K" mean the currency of the Bor-
rower; and
(d) "CC" means the Construction Corporation, a state-owned
corporation under the jurisdiction of the Borrower's Ministry
of Construction, or any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
twenty eight million, two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 28,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works required for the Pro-
ject and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall ac,7ue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.


﻿- 3 -
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified *in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1994, and ending December 1,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause TIC to carry out
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and textile industry prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to TIC under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and TIC under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association, including, inter alia, that (i) TIC shall pay


﻿-4-
periodically to the Borrower amounts representing interest on the
amount so relent at an annual rate of 8.5% on the outstanding
balance of the Subsidiary Loan; (ii) the principal amount shall
be repaid by TIC over a period of 15 years, including a grace
period of 5 years; and (iii) the foreign exchange risk of the
said amount shall be borne by TIC.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit, and except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower speci-
fically undertakes, with respect to the estimated expenditures
required for carrying out the Project:
(a) to cause TIC to provide promptly as needed, from its
own financial resources, K 40,000,000; and
(b) to make arrangements for TIC to obtain, promptly as
needed for the execution of the Project and on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association, all additional amounts
required to meet such expenditures.
Section 3.03. In order to assist TIC in carrying out the
Project on behalf of the Borrower, the Borrower shall or shall
cause TIC to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Association, such consultants to be selected in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on
the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause TIC to insure, or
make adequate'provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by TIC to
replace or repair such goods.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services financ-
ed out of the p-oceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for
the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or shall cause
TIC to furnish, to the Association, promptly upon their prepara-
tion, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall, or shall cause TIC to, (i) maintain
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the pro-
gress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (b)
of this Section 3.05, the Borrower shall, not later than May 31,
1984 review with the Association the then current status of orga-
nizational changes in the Borrower's textile sector insofar as
these affect TIC's current jute operations.
(d) Upon the award by TIC of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall cause TIC to prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the bene-
fits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the


﻿-6-
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and TIC of their respective obligations under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement, and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
(f) The Borrower shall, and shall cause TIC to, enable the
Association's representatives to examine all plants, installa-
tions, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of TIC and
any relevant records and documents.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take, and shall cause TIC
to take, all such action as shall be necessary to acquire and
renew as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of
land, permits and licenses as shall be required for carrying out
the Project, and shall furnish, or cause TIC to furnish, to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition or renewal, as the
case may be, evidence satisfactory to the Association thaL such
land and rights in respect of land, permits and licenses are
available for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall, and shall cause TIC
to, exchange views with the Association, at the request of the
Association, with regard to the progress of the Project, the per-
formance of its repective obligations under this Agreement, the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters related to the pur-
poses of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, and shall cause TIC to, promptly
inform the Association of any condition which interferes or
threatens to interfere with, the purposes of the Project, the
accomplishment of the progress of the Credit, or the performance
by the Borrower and TIC of their respective obligations under
this Agreement and the Borrower's and TIC's respective obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 3.08. In ensuring the execution of the civil works
under Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall cause TIC to:
(a) furnish to the Association, in a timely manner, for its
review and comments, a draft contract to be entered into with CC
by TIC for the execution of such civil works and, thereafter,
taking into account the Association's comments, if any, cause TIC
and CC to enter into such contract; and


﻿-7-
(b) without limitation or restrictions upon the provisions
of Sections 3.01 and 3.05 (a) of this Agreement, furnish to the
Association, by September 30 of each year, commencing on Septem-
ber 30, 1984, for its review and comments, proposed financial and
works plans and a plan for the provision of construction mate-
rials to meet the requirements of the said contract for its next
following fiscal year.
Section 3.09. For the purposes of carrying out Part B.2 of
the Project, the Borrower shall cause TIC to furnish to the Asso-
ciation, by not later than December 31, 1984, or such other date
as the Association shall establish, for its review and comment
its proposed training program for staff of TIC, and, thereafter,
taking into account the Assocation's comments, if any, carry out
such training program.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, and shall cause TIC to,
ensure that the plant to be established under Part A of the Pro-
ject shall be designed and installed, and thereafter maintained
and operated, in accordance with standards for environmental con-
trols established in guidelines satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of TIC; Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall cause TIC:
(a) to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and
textile industry practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers;
(b) at all times to operate and maintain its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs      and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
textile industry practices; and
(c) to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insu-
rance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consis-
tent with appropriata practice.


﻿-8-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall not take or cause to be
taken any action which, assuming production under conditions of
efficient operation, would prevent TIC from earning a reasonable
rate of return on invested capital in respect of the plant
included in Part A of the Project.
Section 4.03., After completion of Part A of the Project the
Borrower shall take all such action as may be necessary to ensure
that:
(a) the plant established under such Part of the Project
shall be supplied with sufficient electric power to enable it to
operate at rated capacity;
(b) TIC shall be able to procure, in a timely manner, dyes,
chemicals, maintenance materials and spare parts for the effi-
cient operation of such plant;
(c) TIC shall operate such plant at least 7,080 hours per
annum; and
(d) TIC shall establish such prices, for the products of
such plant based on its cost structure, as will enable it, under
conditions of efficient operation, to earn a reasonable rate of
return on invested capital in respect of such plant.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) undertake a study of
the textile sector in accordance with the terms of reference
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association; (ii) com-
plete such study by December 31, 1985, or such other date as the
Association shall so establish; and (iii) make available, in a
timely manner, to the Association for its review and comment the
report of such study, which report shall include an action plan
for the implementation of the recommendations thereof.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause TIC to maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its opera-
tions and financial condition, including, commencing April 1,
1984 and, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
and financial statements in respect of (a) its textile operations
and (b) its jute operations.


﻿-9-
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall cause TIC:
(a) to have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by the Director General
of the Central Accounts Office, acting on behalf of the Council
of People's Inspectors of the Borrower;
(b) to furnish to the Association as soon as available, but
in any case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, copies of their unaudited accounts, and not later than nine
months after the end of each such year, (i) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited, and (ii)
the report of such audit by said Director General, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including, commencing April 1, 1984 and without
limitation to the foregoing, opinions by said Director General
covering (A) its textile operations and (B) its jute operations;
and
(c) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning said accounts, financial statements, records and expendi-
tures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause TIC, in respect of its textile
operations:
(i)   to maintain a ratio of current assets to current
liabilities of not less than 1.5:1; and
(ii)   not to incur any additional debt in any fiscal
year unless a reasonable forecast of TIC's reve-
nues and expenditures shows that the projected net
revenues of TIC for each fiscal year during the
term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least
1.5 times the projected debt service requirements
in such year on all debt of TIC, and the debt-
equity ratio would not exceed 50:50.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all debt of TIC maturing by
its terms more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred;


﻿- 10 -
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (a) under a
loan contract or agreement, on the date the loan
contract or agreement providing for such debt is
entered, and (b) under a guarantee agreement, on
the date the agreement providing for such guaran-
tee is entered into;
(iii) the term    "equity" means all    TIC's unimpaired
paid-in share capital plus accumulated net earn-
ings from prior fiscal years not set apart for
specific purposes;
(iv) the   term  "incur" with   reference  to any   debt
includes the assumption and guarantee of any debt
and any renewal, extension or modification of the
terms of the debt or of the assumption or guaran-
tee thereof;
(v) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable by TIC, for the purposes of servicing
such debt, or, if no such rate is available, at a
rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
(vi) the term "current assets" means cash (excluding
advances for the Project or any other capital
investment), assets readily convertible into cash
(excluding stocks of spares and advances from cus-
tomers), and all other assets which could in the
ordinary course of business be converted within
one year into cash or assets readily convertible
into cash;
(vii) the term "current liabilities" means TIC's liabi-
lities, due and payable and all other TIC's liabi-
lities which would be due and payable or could be
due for payment within one year, including the
portion of debt falling due within one year;
(viii) the term "net revenues" means TIC's gross revenues
from all sources less all operating and adminis-


﻿- 11 -
trative expenses, and amounts paid or to be paid
within the year on account of taxes, surcharges or
other levies, if any, provided that the operating
and administrative expenses shall not include
interest and other charges on debt, and provision
for depreciation of assets;
(ix) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization, interest and
other charges in respect of debt; and
(x) the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
(a) prepared by TIC in the fiscal year in which
the debt in question is proposed to be incurred,
(b) has been reviewed by the Association, and (c)
which both the Borrower and the Association accept
as reasonable and as to which the Association has
notified the Borrower of its acceptability, pro-
vided no event has occurred since the Associa-
tion's acceptance of such forecast which would
have a material adverse effect on the financial
condition of future operating results of TIC.
Section 5.04. Until completion of Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause TIC to make no investments, in excess of the
aggregate of $10,000,000 equivalent, in fixed assets other than
for the Project and works already in progress, without prior con-
sultation with the Association. For the purposes of this Section
completion of Part A of the Project shall be deemed to have been
accomplished when the plant to be constructed pursuant thereto
has operated for 3 consecutive months at 2 shifts per day and at
an average of not less than 60 percent of rated capacity.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that the Borrower or
any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of TIC or for the
suspension of its operations.


﻿- 12 -
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely that the event speci-
fied in Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as     addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and TIC, respectively, have
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
and corporate action; and
(b) that the consultants referred to in Section 3.03-of
this Agreement shall have been employed pursuant to the Provi-
sions of such Section.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, namely that the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and TIC respectively and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and TIC in accordance with its
terms.
Section 7.03. The date,   d           /9/94'      , is hereby
specified for the purposes of S6 tion 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under the pro-
visions of Section 4.02 (b), Section 4.03, Section 5.04 and Sec-
tion 6.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement, which-
ever shall be the eatlier.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Planning and Finance or the
Deputy Minister of Planning and Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Condition,;:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Finance
Office of the Ministers
Rangoon, Burma
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINANCE                            713-21300
Rangoon                           BANKFE-BM
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
By
uthorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regioa Vice President
South Aisa


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Cate gor                    SDRs)          to be Financed
(1) Equipment, spare          18,100,000        100% of foreign
parts and erection                        expenditures
services
(2) Initial imported             380,000       100% of foreign
raw materials                             expenditures
(3) Imported mate-             3,220,000        100% of foreign
rails for civil                           expenditures
works
(4) Consultants'               2,465,000       100% of foreign
services and                              expenditures
training
(5) Unallocated                4,035,000
TOTAL     28,200,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) expenditures made prior to the date of this Agreement;
and


﻿- 16 -
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manu-
facture, procurement or supply thereof.
3.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph I above,
if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which in
the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures.
4.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to expand the Borrower's capacity to
process fabrics. The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Textile Finishing Plant
Establishment at Shwedaung of a textile fin41shing plant with
a production capacity of approximately 16.6 million linear meters
of 100% cotton and cotton polyester blended fabrics.
Part B:   Technical Assistance and Training
1.   Provision of consulting services to assist in (a) the
design, engineering, installation, start-up and commissioning of
the plant included in Part A; (b) the upgrading of the financial
and accounting systems of TIC; and (c) the training of TIC
personnel in the operation of such plant.
2.   Provision of overseas training for TIC staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1988.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the current edition of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cre-
dits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall, or shall
cause TIC to, prepare and forward to the Association as soon as
possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the
date of availability to the public of the first tender or pre-
qualification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and contain-
ing such information as the Association shall reasonably request;
the Association will arrange for the publication of such notice
in order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of
the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The
Borrower shall, or shall cause TIC to, provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the purchase of goods which cannot be bulked
in packages of $100,000 equivalent or more may be awarded through


﻿- 19 -
limited international bidding procedures acceptable to the Asso-
ciation, whereby contracts shall be awarded on the basis of eva-
luation and comparison of bids invited from a list of suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, and in accordance with the proce-
dures set forth in Part A of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs
1.2 and 3.9 thereof) and paragraph A.3 of this Schedule; pro-
vided, that the aggregate value of contracts awarded pursuant to
this paragraph shall not exceed $2,000,000 equivalent.
2.   Contracts for goods of a proprietary nature and items with
limited sources of availability whose timely supply is critical
for the efficient execution of the Project may, with the prior
approval of the Association, be procured by prudent shopping
through normal trade channels, provided, however, that the aggre-
gate cost of such goods shall not exceed the equivalent of
$1,500,000.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts, with respect to all contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of $250,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall, or shall
cause TIC to, furnish to the Association, for its comments, the
text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the    Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request. Any further modification to the
bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, and before
a final decision on the award is made, the Borrower shall, or
shall cause TIC to, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to which it intends to award the contract and shall fur-
nish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 3.03
of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendation for award, and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿- 20 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall, or shall cause TIC to, furnish to
the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall, or shall
cause TIC to, inform the Association of the proposed modifica-
tion, waiver, extension or change order and the reasons there-
for. The Association, if it determines that the proposal would be
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall prompt-
ly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for its determina-
tion.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of  IA& *
198
FOR SECRETARY


