Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3588 UG
BOU Project Agreement
(Energy for Rural Transformation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANK OF UGANDA
Dated December 20, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3588 UG
BOU PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and BANK OF UGANDA (BOU).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Republic of Uganda (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
thirty-eight million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 38,300,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on 
condition that BOU agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are 
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary financing agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and BOU (the BOU Subsidiary Financing Agreement), a portion of the proceeds 
of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made 
available to BOU on the terms and conditions set forth in the BOU Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS BOU, in consideration of the Association's entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Page  2
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part G.2 (a) of the Project;
Management and Operations of BOU
Section 2.01. (a) BOU declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out, or cause to be carried out, Part G.2 (a) of the Project and conduct its 
operations and affairs, in accordance with sound financial standards and practices, 
with qualified and experienced management and in accordance with BOU’s Statute.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and BOU shall otherwise agree, BOU shall carry out, or 
cause to be carried out, Part G.2 (a) of the Project in accordance with the provisions 
of the Schedule to this Agreement, the Project Implementation Plan and ESMF.
(c)
BOU shall establish and thereafter maintain, in a form and with functions 
and staffing satisfactory to the Association, a unit to be responsible for the 
carrying out of Part G.2 (a) of the Project (the Apex Unit) including the supervision 
of the PFIs in the carrying out of their obligations under the Participation 
Agreements.
(d)
BOU shall:
(i)
make available to the PFIs the proceeds of the Credit allocated to 
Category (1) in the table set forth in paragraph A.1 of Schedule 1 
to the Development Credit Agreement under Participation Agreements 
to be entered into between BOU and each PFI, under terms and 
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, 
including the terms and conditions set forth in the Schedule to 
this Agreement; and
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under this Agreement, take all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services or other resources, 
necessary or appropriate to enable the PFIs to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of their respective Participation 
Agreements all the obligations of the PFIs therein set forth, and 
not to take any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
Section 2.02. (a) BOU undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, Subloans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Schedule to this Agreement.
(b)
BOU shall exercise its rights in relation to each Subproject in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and of BOU; 
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement, the BOU Subsidiary Financing 
Agreement and the Participation Agreements; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the 
Project.
Section 2.03. BOU shall establish a fund into which shall be deposited amounts 
of principal and interest paid by PFIs to BOU, acting for the Borrower, under the 
respective Participating Agreements. 
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part G.2 (a) of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of paragraph 4 of Part A of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) BOU shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the BOU Project 
Agreement and Part G.2 (a) of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, BOU shall:
Page  3
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association, not later than six (6) months 
after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Association and BOU, a plan for the 
future operation of Part G.2 (a) of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with BOU on said plan.
Section 2.06. BOU shall duly perform all its obligations under the BOU 
Subsidiary Financing Agreement and the Participation Agreements. Except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, BOU shall not take or concur in any action which 
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the BOU Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement, the Participation Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) BOU shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part G.2 (a) of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the BOU Subsidiary 
Financing Agreement and the Participation Agreements, and other matters relating to 
the purposes of the Credit and, to that end, together with the Borrower, review with 
the Association, at least once every year progress in carrying out Part G.2 (a) of the 
Project, with a view to determining and effecting such changes as may be required to 
ensure the successful carrying out of the Project.
(b)
BOU shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part G.2 (a) of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BOU of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the BOU Subsidiary Financing Agreement and 
the Participation Agreements.
Section 2.08. BOU shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
5 to the Development Credit Agreement the carrying out of Part G.2 (a) of the Project, 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
review with the Association, by March 31 and September 30, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure that efficient 
completion of Part G.2 (a) of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter;
(c)
carry out, jointly with the Borrower, the Association, PSF and UCC not 
later than June 30, 2004, a midterm review, of the Project, which shall cover salient 
aspects of the Project, including: (i) progress made in meeting the Project’s 
objectives, (ii) overall Project performance as measured against the said Performance 
Indicators, and (iii) the quality of the advisory services provided for the Project; 
(d)
the Borrower shall, not later than four weeks prior to the review 
referred to in (c) above, furnish to the Association a report, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, including an evaluation of the progress achieved 
in Project implementation; and
(e)
not later than 60 days after the Midterm Review, prepare an action 
program, acceptable to the Association, for further implementation of the Project 
having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, carry out such 
action program.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) BOU shall with respect to Part G.2 (a) of the Project maintain 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
its operations and financial condition.
(b)
BOU shall:
Page  4
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
relating to the Project for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, BOU shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of its financial system for Part G.2 (a) of the Project in order 
to enable BOU not later than eighteen (18) months after the Effective Date or such 
later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management 
Reports, acceptable to the Association. Each such report shall:
(i)
set forth actual sources and application of funds for Part G.2 (a) 
of the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and projected sources and application of funds for 
the said Part of the Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said report, and show separately 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report;
(ii)
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explain variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and 
(iii)
set forth the status of procurement under the said Part of the 
Project and expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by 
said report.
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, BOU shall prepare in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association, not later than 45 days after the end of 
each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
BOU thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify BOU of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
Page  5
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex  to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall 
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The 
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For BOU:
The Governor
Bank of Uganda
37/43 Kampala Road
Box 7120
Kampala, Uganda
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
UGABANK
61059
256-41-258218
Kampala, Uganda
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of BOU, or by BOU 
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Governor of BOU or such other person or persons as BOU shall designate 
in writing, and BOU shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
BANK OF UGANDA
Page  6
By /s/ Edith Ssempala
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Part A:
Terms and Conditions Applicable to Subloans 
1.
No expenditures for goods or services required for a Subproject shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless: (a) the Subloan for 
such Subproject shall have been a Subloan in an amount approved by BOU and for which 
the Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account; and (b) such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety days prior to the date on 
which the Association shall have received the request and information required under 
paragraph 2 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Subloan.
2.
(a)
Each request by a PFI for authorization to make withdrawals from the 
Credit Account in respect of a Subloan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the 
eligible enterprise and the Subproject, including a description of the expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the terms and 
conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of amortization therefor; (iii) a 
statement as to the environmental impact of the Subproject, including where relevant 
any remedial action to be taken with respect thereto; and (iv) such other information 
as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)
Requests made pursuant to the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph shall be presented to the Association on or before November 15, 2005.
3.
Subject to any modifications made from time to time by agreement of the 
Association and BOU, Subloans for amounts exceeding $250,000 shall be subject to the 
prior approval of the Association. 
4.
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby a PFI shall obtain, by written contract 
with the eligible enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to 
protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and the PFI, including the 
right to:
(a)
require the eligible enterprise to carry out and operate the Subproject 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial 
managerial and environmental standards and to maintain adequate records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 4 of this Part, and (ii) such goods and services shall be used exclusively 
in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association, if 
the Association shall so request, such goods, works, plants and construction included 
in the Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the eligible enterprise shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon 
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the eligible enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association or the PFI shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the eligible enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from 
the Subproject; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the eligible enterprise to the use of 
the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such eligible enterprise to perform its 
obligations under its contract with the PFI.
5.
With respect to the procurement of goods, works and services to be financed out 
of proceeds of Subloans, each Participation Agreement shall contain provisions 
Page  7
requiring each eligible enterprise to comply with the following procedures, namely, 
that goods and services shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken 
also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability 
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefore, 
and, in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of the parties 
rendering them.
6.
(a)
The annual interest payable by each PFI to BOU on proceeds of the Credit 
relent to it shall be at the average weighted deposit rate, namely the weighted 
average of the interest rates paid to depositors by all commercial banks on 
interest-bearing term deposits, as issued semi-annually by BOU.
(b)
Each PFI shall on-lend the said proceeds to eligible enterprises, under 
Subloan Agreements
at a rate commensurate with prudent banking practices. The PFIs may 
set the maturities of Subloans and grace periods in accordance with the said banking 
practices provided that the maturities and grace periods shall not exceed 15 years and 
5 years, respectively; and shall promptly notify BOU of the interest and maturities 
applicable to Subloans made to eligible enterprises.
7.
(a)
Subloans made by a PFI to an eligible enterprise for any one Subproject 
shall not exceed $10,000,000 equivalent; said amount being subject to change by BOU in 
consultation with the Association.
(b)
A PFI shall not extend initial or additional Subloans to any Eligible 
enterprises with non-performing loans in that PFI.
8.
(a)
The Apex Unit shall be responsible for receiving and reviewing all 
documentation on Subloans made by PFIs.
(b)
The APEX Unit shall: (i) receive and review all quarterly reports from 
PFIs receiving such support; and (ii) verify the eligibility of the PFIs for the said 
support and approve the grant of support to qualified applicants.
9.
No support shall be provided for the refinancing of any portion of a PFI's 
exposure to an eligible enterprise. A PFI applying for support under the Credit 
Support Facility Fund must show that the support requested is to cover risks relating 
to incremental Subloans to existing eligible enterprises or initial Subloans to 
eligible enterprises borrowing from the PFI for the first time.
10.
Unless otherwise agreed by BOU and the Association, an enterprise to be eligible 
for a Subloan must: (a) be a legal or physical person lawfully engaged in business 
activities in the territory of the Borrower; (b) have adequate technical expertise or 
experience in rural sector investment activities; (c) possess adequate infrastructure 
and staff; and (d) not be involved in any legal or financial dispute which would 
materially affect its ability to undertake the Subproject.
