FILE COPY                     1 I
Report /02
Environmental Impact Statement for
Bondo-Nebbi distribution line &
generator operation in Arua
(Revised v.2)



ECON-Report no. /02, Project no.               <Velg tilgjengelighet>
ISSN: 0803-5113, ISBN 82-7645-xxx-x
e/,, 9. January 2003
Environmental Impact Statement
for Bondo-Nebbi distribution line &
generator operation in Arua
Commissioned by West
Nile Concession Committee
Prepared by EMA & ECON
ECON Centre for Economic Analysis
P.O.Box 6823 St. Olavs plass, 0130 Oslo, Norway. Phone: + 47 22 98 98 50, Fax: + 47 22 11 00 80,
http://www.econ.no



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Table of Contents:
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ...................2
I INTRODUCTION                            .           .          7
1.1 Background                       .7
1.2 Objectives of the study               .7
1.3 EIA team                         .7
1.4 Methodology                       .8
2    POLICY, LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK             ..9
2.1 Policies .9
2.1.1   National environment management policy     .9
2.1.2 Energy policy                    .9
2.1.3  The National Policy for the Conservation and Management of
Wetland Resources 1995                  ..9
2.1.4  Water Resources Policy 1995 ....................................  10
2.2  Legal and Regulatory Framework ....................................  10
2.2.1  The Uganda Constitution, 1995 ....................................  10
2.2.2  National Environment Statute and Regulations ............................. 10
2.2.3  Electricity Regulation ....................................  11
2.2.4  Water Act ....................................       11
2.2.5  Land Act 1998 ....................................   12
2.2.6  Local Governments Act 1997 ....................................  12
2.2.7  Town and Country Planning Act 1964 ....................................   12
2.2.8  Investment Code Statute ....................................  12
2.2.9  International Agreements ....................................  12
2.3 Institutions ......                                     13
2.3.1  National Environment Management Authority .13
2.3.2  Electricity Regulatory Authority (ERA) .14
2.3.3  Directorate of Water Development (DWD) .14
2.3.4  Town and Country Planning Board .14
2.3.5  District Level Institutional Structure .14
2.3.6  Donors and Financing Institutions .15
3 AREA PROFILE               .           .16
3.1 Topography .16
3.2 Geomorphology .16
3.3 Climate .17
3.4 Soils .17
3.5 Water Resources .17
3.6  Land Tenure And Administration .17
3.7 Settlements .18
3.8 Demography .18
3.8.1  Population and Population Trends .18
3.8.2 Population Growth .18
3.8.3 Population Density .19
3.8.4 Health .19
3.8.5 Infrastructure .20
3.8.6 The Economy .20
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).docPL\9.01 .03\10:06



Environmental Impact Statement forBodoNebbi tranmsinline, Uganda - DRAFT -
3.8.7    Social Services .........................                          21
4     PROJECT DESCRIPTION                   ......................... 23
4.1    Introduction and background ..................................       23
4.2    Project layout ..................................                    24
4.3    Distribution Line ..................................                 24
4.4    The existing generator units at Arua and Nebbi ................................. 25
4.4.1    Distribution ..................................                    26
4.4.2    Additional Thermal Generation Capacity .................................. 27
5     ENVIRONMENTAL BASELINE                     ..                 ...................... 29
5.1    Vegetation ...........................                               29
5.2    Wildlife ..........................                                  29
5.3    Administrative Boundaries ..........................                 30
5.4    Environmental Health and Sanitation ..........................       30
5.5    Education ...........................                                31
5.6    Other Services ..........................                            31
5.7    Cultural Heritage ..........................                         31
5.8    Attitude to the project ..........................                   31
6     ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF THE DISTRIBUTION LINE &
GENERATOR SETS                   .             .33
6.1    Ecological Impacts ................................                  33
6.2    Negative Impacts ................................                    34
6.2.1    Change of land use ................................                34
6.2.2    Flora ................................                             34
6.2.3    Fauna .................................                            34
6.2.4    Noise ................................                             35
6.2.5    Electromagnetic Fields ................................            35
6.3    Potential benefits ................................                  36
6.4    Socio-economic impacts ................................              36
6.4.1    Access Tracks And Traffic ................................         36
6.4.2    Impacts On Land Use And Settlement .................................   37
6.4.3    Visual Impacts ................................                    38
6.4.4    Impacts on Property ................................               38
6.4.5    Employment ................................                        38
6.4.6    Health And Safety ................................                 39
7     PROPOSED MITIGATION MEASURES                     .        .............................. 40
7.1    Summary of mitigation measures ................................      40
7.2    Erosion .................................                            42
7.3    Access to the forest reserves in Arua .................................  42
7.4    Vegetation ................................                          42
7.5    Chronic effects of electromagnetic radiation ................................  43
7.6    Noise ................................                               43
7.7    Access tracks and traffic impacts ................................   43
7.8    Land use and settlements .................................           43
7.9    Visual influence ................................                    43
7.10     Property rights .................................                  44
7.11     Health and safety issues ................................           44
8 REFERENCES ..........                                                            47
ANNEX 1: LIST OF PERSONS CONSULTED                      .       .48
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.lo.03\lo:06



-EMA & ECON-
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
ANNEX 2: EIA REVISION DUE TO LINE ROUTE CHANGE ......................... 49
ANNEX 3: LINE ROUTE MAP .......................................................  57
ANNEX 4: COMPENSATION PROCESS FOR ROAD UPGRADE .................. 62
ANNEX 5: ESTIMATED SHARE OF LINE WITHIN ROAD RESERVE ......... 67
ANNEX 6: RECORD OF CONSULTATION MEETINGS & DISCLOSURE OF
INFORMATION ..................................................         69
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.01.03\10:06



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Acknowledgements
The Environmental Impact Assessment study team for the Bondo - Nebbi Distribution
Line project would like to express its sincere gratitude to all those who made it possible.
Numerous people were consulted in Kampala, Nebbi and Arua towns and at the project
site. Their contributions are hereby acknowledged. Particular mention must be made of
Mr. Justin Ecat, EIA Coordinator, NEMA; Eng. Moses Murengezi, Assistant
Commissioner Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development; Eng. Gerald Muganga,
Manager Engineering (service) Uganda Electricity Distribution Company Ltd.; Eng. Swali
Rajab UEB Regional Manager West Nile; Eng. Butele, The in-charge UEB Nebbi; Fred
Onyai, Nebbi District Environment Officer; Mr. George Ambe Vice Chairman LC V -
Arua; Eng. Lawrence Pario, District Executive Engineer - Arua, Mr. Stanley Adrabo,
Deputy CAO - Arua. Special recognition is also made of the contribution and support
given for the project by the Engineers of SBI, the company that is upgrading the Arua -
Nebbi Highway Finally, the EIA team would also like to thank all the local council
officials of Arua and Nebbi for their unreserved cooperation.
However, while acknowledging the contributions and support received during the course
of the study, the EIA Team assumes full responsibility for any omissions and errors
contained in this Environmental Impact Statement Report (EIS).
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\10:06



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFFREI            African Rural Renewable Energy Initiative
CAO               Chief Administrative Officer
CEFORD            Community Empowerment for Rural Development
DEO               District Environment Officer
DRC               Democratic Republic of Congo
EIA               Environmental Impact Assessment
EIS               Environmental Impact Statement
EMA               Environment Management Associates
EMR               Electro-magnetic Radiation
ERT               Energy for Rural Transformation
ESMF              Environmental and Social Management Framework
GoU               Government of Uganda
IDA               International Development Association
IFC               International Finance Corporation
km                Kilometres
km2               Square Kilometres
km/s              Kilometres per second
LC                Local Council
M2                Square Kilometres
M3/s              Cubic Metres per second
MW                Megawatt
MWh               Megawatt - hour
NGO               Non-Governmental Organisation
NEMA              National Environment Management Authority
NES               National Environment Statute
OPIC              Overseas Private Investment Corporation
RAFU              Road Agency Formation Unit (RAFU)
RDC               Resident District Commissioner
ToR               Terms of Reference
UEB               Uganda Electricity Board
URECL             Uganda Rural Electrification Company Limited
UWA               Uganda Wildlife Authority
WB                World Bank
WNES              West Nile Electricity Supply
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.01.03\10:06 1



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Executive Summary
Background and introduction
The growing demand for electricity in rural Uganda is currently not being met by
the present supply. The Government of Uganda (GoU) has recently introduced
new measures to decentralise the sector to correct shortfalls and to encourage
private participation in the energy sector. The World Bank (WB) is providing
assistance through the Energy for Rural Transformation (ERT) project as part of a
larger programme known as the African Rural Renewable Energy Initiative
(AFRREI). The objective of the programme is to facilitate private sector
involvement in generating and supplying electricity as a catalyst for overall rural
development. The West Nile Electricity Supply Project falls under the AFFREI
category of independent grid systems in isolated areas, and consists of three main
components: Nyagak and Olewa minihydros and the construction of a 33 kV line
connecting the two isolated grids of Arua and Nebbi. Further, until the hydro
generation facilities are operational, heavy fuel oil fired generator sets in Arua
will provide electricity to the two districts. A private developer will be responsible
for building and operating the generation facilities, while the Government of
Uganda has committed itself to building the distribution line.
The World Bank requires that projects, which are part of the AFFREI/ERT
undergo environmental impact assessments. The Bondo - Nebbi 33 kV
distribution line and the interim generator sets form essential part of the West Nile
Electricity Supply project under the ERT, and an EIA is therefore required. An
Environmental and Social Management Framework was developed especially for
the ERT programme to provide guidelines for the application of World Bank
safeguards to the Ugandan context. This EIA study generally follows these
guidelines.
Project description
EIS reports for the two-hydropower schemes in Paidha and Arua are provided
separately. This report is concerned with the distribution line project from Bondo
to Nebbi and potential impacts of interim generator set operation in Arua. The
project has the following components;
. the construction of a 33 kV line from Bondo - Nebbi Town in Arua/Nebbi
districts covering a total length of 45 km; and
. interim generation of power using heavy fuel oil engines at Arua town site.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:062



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Regarding the first component, the 33kV single line will be built using wooden
poles of an average height of 10 meters and span between poles of +/- 100 meters.
For 33kV lines a corridor of 10 metres i.e. 5 meters either side is allowable. The
use of land for installation is in Uganda regulated through Part VIII of the
Electricity Act.
This EIA study examines the line route recently surveyed by UETCL and makes
recommendations for minimising likely impacts due to the construction of the
Bondo - Nebbi distribution line. The route, which has been decided by the
Ugandan Government, follows the newly upgraded road from Bondo to Nebbi.
This EIS report has been written for the. route surveyed and is for an EIA of
Category B projects according to the World Bank/IFC environmental guidelines.
The original version of this report assessed a different route for the line passing
through ecologically sensitive areas (eg wetland and the Laura Forest reserve). An
additional field trip was carried out in November 2002 to update the impact
assessment based on the recently conducted survey report. This reassessment is
attached with this report as Annex 2.
The second component, interim generation of electricity in Arua, involves
installing two new, efficient fuel oil powered generator (1,5 MW) sets in the
existing powerhouse compound currently used by the UEB in Arua. These
generator sets will be used to produce electricity 18 hours a day for approximately
14 months until the hydro station in Paidha is commissioned. The new generator
sets will replace the old diesel fired generator sets currently in use, and will be
powered mostly for peak demand once the hydro station is online.
Environmental baseline
The landscape through which the rehabilitated road and the 33kV line pass has
rolling plains from the Nile floor in the Rift Valley. It passes through the Madi
Plateau, and the Rift Valley escarpments. The geomorphology of the area where
the line will pass consists of a monotonous Made vast plain with occasional rising
abruptly from it termed as zone of tours and inselburgs.
The vegetation through which the line passes can be categorised into 3 namely:
savannah communities, post-cultivation communities and sites of impeded
drainage including seasonal swamps. Combretum-Acacia - Hyparrhenia is the
most dominant vegetation type consisting of mixed deciduous trees with both
annual and perennial grasses. There are however, no available records indicating
detailed survey of wildlife in Nebbi district by the time this report is prepared.
Available information indicates that wildlife population is low partly due to
habitat loss for these animals due to agricultural encroachment (according to
NEMA). 21 small mammal species (6 shrews and 15 rodents) were recorded in
Arua District by the Forest Department in 1993 in Mount Kei. The most abundant
mammals found in the proposed project area are the common small mammals
(rats, shrews and bats) that are widespread. Nebbi District has a number of
savannah and wetland species of birds, while for Arua District a total of 124 bird
species are given.
The proposed distribution line passes through sparsely populated areas where
settlements are restricted at the trading centres. The most settled area is the Okollo
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\10:063



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
sub-county where both the county and sub-county headquarters are found. Other
areas considered well settled are Katiyi and Ullepi Trading Centres.
The principal land use in the project area is small-scale farming mainly for
-subsistence, which accounts for more than half the route length. Forest Reserve
and woodlots are insignificant land uses. Built up areas accounts for about 0.5%
of the corridor length. Small-scale farming dominates agricultural production with
cassava, by for the most important crop. Cotton is quite dominant in Nebbi. Other
crops grown in the project are sugar cane, sweet potatoes, beans, and maize. Fruit
trees commonly found in this belt is mangoes, which is a major source of income
especially in December. However, limited cash cropping occurs throughout the
length of the corridor.
Regarding the interim power generation, the current UEB powerhouse compound
is located in Arua town. The powerhouse may have to be extended and some fuel
oil storage tanks may have to be set up, but the size of the compound should be
big enough to accommodate the installation of two new generator sets. The area
around the compound is not densely populated, but some houses belonging to
UEB staff are located nearby.
Negative environmental and social impacts
The line route, which has been decided by the Ministry of Energy and mineral
Development will closely follow the recently rehabilitated road from Bondo to
Nebbi, a stretch of 45 km (see map in Annex 3). Approximately 8 km of the line
will be built within the road reserve of the upgraded road (see Annex 5).
The incremental environmental and social impacts of the line construction, given
that the road is already there, are likely to be small and limited (see Annex 2 for
details). The key negative impacts are summarised below:
* No farmland will be taken and no resettlement is required. However, some 5
thatched huts and a permanent house may have to be relocated within the
boundaries of the owners' existing land area or in one case to land in the
immediate vicinity. Further, some small woodlots, single trees and a
eucalyptus plantation are likely to be affected. The land use and settlement
patterns will generally be left unaffected. The number of people affected are
much lower than 200, and nobody will lose more than 10% of their land.
* The influx of workers is expected to be low and the resulting pressures on
health, roads and other facilities, and the risks of disease and social
disruption are low.
. The general incremental ecological impacts, given that the road is already
there, are likely to be limited since the line will be close to the new road for
the whole stretch and the area has relatively low ecological value.
* The line may however have some limited impacts on the bird population in
the area. As discussed in section 6.2.3, and in Annex 2, these impacts are
expected to be low negative. In the case of unexpected negative impacts,
mitigation can be effected (see below).
. Some negative visual impacts, however limited since the line follows the
road, is low in height and carried by brown, wooden poles (rather than shiny
metal constructions).
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.01.03\l0:064



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Some disturbance and noise during construction, but limited waste, limited
need for access roads, quarries and building materials. Some 400 poles will
most likely be purchased locally from a pole plantation.
The new generator sets in Arua town will potentially have low environmental and
social impacts, as summed up below:
* Some noise and disturbance during installation
* Some noise during operation can be expected, both from operation of
generator sets and from transport of fuel. The new generator sets are likely
to be less noisy than the old ones, though running for 18 hours (rather than
4) (including some hours at night). These impacts will be limited to 14
months, when the hydro station takes over. After that the generator sets will
generally be used during peak demand (ie. daytime).
*It is important to note that the centralised power generation will replace the
supply from many privately owned, small and less efficient diesel generator
sets.
. Some emissions to air from heavy fuel oil combustion. The new generator
sets are more efficient than the old ones, but will run for longer and use
heavy fuel oil rather than diesel. The total emissions in Arua from power
generation may not go up for some years, since the new generator sets are
more efficient than all the small privately owned generator sets they will
initially replace.
*Some risk of fuel oil spills from the transfer of oil from the tank lorry to the
permanent storage to the generator sets.
*Some waste from the upgrade of the Arua powerhouse and some increased
transport of fuel to Arua can be expected.
Positive impacts
. The distribution line is a locally long awaited connection between Nebbi
and Paidha towns in the south and Arua town in the north. The electricity
the line will bring to trading centres, schools and villages is potentially of
huge importance to these relatively poor communities. Limited potential for
local employment during construction
*The generator sets will be up and running within 10 months of the contract
signature of the preferred bidder, URECL, for the electricity licence. The
installation of generator sets is a response to a strong local need for
electricity.
Mitigation measures
It is the clear recommendation of this report that an approval is given for the
commencement of this project. Negative environmental and social impacts are
low, while the potential benefits of electricity supply are high for the local
communities.
However, some cost effective mitigation measures should be put in place to limit
the negative environmental and social impacts:
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:065



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Due to the low number of people affected, an abbreviated resettlement
action plan (RAP) should be drawn up in accordance with Environmental
and Social Management Framework for ERT projects. The abbreviated RAP
should be based on the Ministry of Energy's compensation process, which
includes a report by the Government valuer, and be advised by an external
resettlement/compensation expert. The RAP should be submitted to and
approved by relevant Ugandan authorities and the World Bank. The RAP
should take into account the ongoing compensation process for the
rehabilitation of the road. This is to ensure that people who are affected by
the stretches of the line, which are in the road reserve are compensated
fairly for incremental impacts of the line over the impacts of the road.
• The construction of the line should to the extent possible avoid cutting
valuable trees, though balancing the risks these trees represent for the line.
The construction should generally be sensitive to people's properties and
land.
* The poles should be put securely and far enough down in the ground so that
they do not easily fall over and cause hazards and power disruption.
* Consideration should be given to fitting the distribution line with an
inexpensive type of bird diverter, eg markings or flappers (such as those
used by ESKOM of South Africa) or insulation material for the stretches
that passes the two small wetland habitats of River Ora and at Namthin
bridge. The operator of the line should be tasked with the monitoring of bird
migratory patterns to assess whether there is a risk of these being affected. If
they are clearly affected, the operator should have a commitment to install
the anti-collision devices.
* Consideration should be given regarding the need for fitting the new
powerhouse in Arua with noise insulation material. This issue should be
discussed with the developer once'his choice of generator set design is
finalised.
* Proper storage facilities for the heavy fuel oil should be put in place as well
as procedures for handling the transfer of fuel.
* Waste of various kinds both from the installation of the generator sets and
the construction of the line should be removed and disposed of in a safe
manner.
* Noise and emission levels should be monitored in order to put measures in
place to reduce these if necessary.
These mitigation measures have been assigned responsibilities in Chapter 7.1 of
this report.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\1 0:066



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
1 Introduction
1.1 Background
The distribution line from Bondo to Nebbi covering 45 km falls under the second
component of the Energy for Rural Transformation (ERT) for Uganda, which is
under a larger World Bank (WB) initiative known as the African Rural Renewable
Energy Initiative (AFFREI). This study assesses the potential environmental
impacts of the distribution line and also the interim short-term thermal power
generation in Arua.
1.2 Objectives of the study
According to the Terms of Reference (TOR) for this study, the objectives include
among others, to ensure that the construction of the 33 kV distribution line and the
thermal generation of power comply with GoU and World Bank environmental
and social safeguard policies.
This particular study involves an assessment of the potential impacts on the
biophysical and socio-economic environment as a result of the construction of a
distribution line from Bondo to Nebbi along the Arua - Nebbi highway and the
interim thermal power generation. The study is in line with the Government of
Uganda standards, and environmental legislation, regulations and administrative
framework (NEMA, 1995) and the World Bank's environmental and social
safeguard policies. These are set out for projects under the ERT programme as an
Environmental and Social Management Framework. While three (3) studies were
previously carried out on the Nyagak hydropower project and one (1) on the
Olewa hydropower scheme on River Enyau, no such study has been done on the
proposed distribution line and the thermal power generation.
1.3 EIA team
The EIA study was carried out by a multidisciplinary team of consultants with
very rich background in environmental assessments in Uganda and in the region
and are quite familiar with both NEMA and World Bank expectations.
The team consisted of the following:-
. Dr. Yakobo Moyini - Team Leader.
. Dr. Christine Dranzoa - Ecologist (terrestrial)
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:067



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
* Dr. Natal Ayiga -.Sociologist
* Mr. Luka Agwe - Socio economist
* Mr Isaiah Owiunji - Ecologist (Aquatic)
* Dr. Darlington Akusa - Public Health
. Mr. Henrik Lindhjem - Economist
1.4 Methodology
The study team in formulating this report used three main methods namely:
literature review of reports, documents and other relevant information about
the project;
* site visits. The team took a close look at the area through which the
distribution line passes in December 2001. The team was guided by the
drawings of UEB surveyors beginning from Nebbi Police Station to Bondo.
The team also visited the sites of current thermal power generation to assess
their suitability for additional capacity installation; and
* a reassessment field visit was carried out in November 2002 based on a
finalised survey report of the distribution line. The route will follow the
recently rehabilitated road from Bondo to Nebbi.
* consultation with the district officials of Nebbi and Arua districts, the UEB
Manager for Nebbi and Arua, Officials of the Ministry of Energy and
Mineral Development, the In-charge UEB - Nebbi, and other stakeholders.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:06 8



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
2         Policy, legal and
institutional framework
2.1 Policies
This chapter discusses the policy, legal and administrative framework within
which the TOR for the EIA for the Bondo - Nebbi Distribution Line and the
Thermal Power Generation has been prepared. National or local and international
environmental requirements and guidelines are discussed along with relevant
international environmental agreements ad conventions.
2.1.1 National environment management policy
The National Environment Management Policy (NEMP) was adopted by Cabinet
in 1994. Its overall goal is the promotion of sustainable economic and social
development that enhances environmental quality without compromising the
ability of future generations to meet their own needs. One of the strategies
identified to achieve this goal is Environmental Impact Assessment. The policy
clearly states that an Environmental Impact Assessment should be conducted for
any policy or project that is likely to have adverse impacts on the environment.
This statement is further embedded in the National Environment Statute No. 4 of
1995 which makes EIA a legal requirement for eligible projects, policies and
programmes.
2.1.2 Energy policy
A draft Energy Policy has been formulated for Uganda and awaits Cabinet
approval. The policy, once approved, will emphasise sustainable and
environmentally benign development. At the sectoral level, the policy further
strengthens the provisions of the National Environment Management Policy 1994
for environmental impact assessments.
2.1.3 The National Policy for the Conservation and
Management of Wetland Resources 1995
The National Policy for the Conservation and Management of Wetland Resources
1995 was put in place to curtail the rampant loss of wetlands and ensuring that
benefits arising their utilisation are sustainable and equitable. Among others, and
in line with the National Environment Management Policy 1995, the wetland
ELA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:069



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
policy calls for the application of environmental impact assessment procedures on
all activities to ensure that wetland developments are well planned and managed.
2.1.4 Water Resources Policy 1995
The overall water resources policy objective is to sustainably manage and develop
the water resources in a coordinated and integrated manner so as to secure/provide
water of an acceptable quality for all social and economic needs. To further
elaborate, the National Water Policy states as follows:
. "the first priority in water resources allocation will be the provision of water
in adequate quantity and quality to meet domestic demands; and
. "allocation of water to meet irrigation, livestock, industrial and other
demands will be done considering the economic, social and environmental
value of water".
The foregoing statements mean that meeting the demand for domestic water is the
first priority. Then, when it comes to water for other uses, prioritisation is
dependent on several factors and can be made the subject of tradeoffs between
various social economic and environmental considerations.
Finally, the policy provides that conditions for, and impact of, water supply
project should be assessed considering demographic, environmental and health
aspects in accordance with stipulations for carrying out environmental impact
assesment as given in the National Environment Management Policy 1994 and
prepared in accordance with the NEMA guideliens ad regulations.
2.2 Legal and Regulatory Framework
2.2.1 The Uganda Constitution, 1995
The Uganda Constitution of 1995, Article 39 and 41 provides that everyone has a
duty to maintain and enjoy a sound environment. Every person in Uganda has a
right to a healthy environment and as such can bring action for any pollution or
disposal of wastes. Chapter three section 245 stipulates that Parliament shall by
law provide measures intended to protect and perserve the environment from
abuse, pollution and degradation.
2.2.2 National Environment Statute and Regulations
The National Environment Statute, 1995 provides tools for environmental
management that hitherto had not been deployed, including EIAs. The Statute
imposes a mandatory duty on a project developer to have an environmental impact
assessement conducted before embarking on a project.
The EIA Regulations, 1998 specifies the types of projects to be subjected to EIAs.
An EIA should be conducted for planned activities that may, are likely to, or will
have significant impacts on the environment.  The EIA required should be
appropriate to the scale and possible effects of the project, and therefore the
Environment Statute and the Regulations recognise three levels of EIA:
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\10:0610



EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
. an environment impact review shall be required for small scale activities
that may have significant impact;
. environmental impact evaluation for activities that are likely to have
significant impacts; and
* environmental impact study for activities that will have significant impacts.
Determination of the level of the EIA required is done through the screening
stage, and the EIA Guidelines provide a checklist where environmental factors
potentially affected are listed. This is a useful tool in the first stage to see which
category the project falls under.
2.2.3 Electricity Regulation
The Electricity Act of 1964, which provides for the legal framework for operation,
further empowered the Uganda Electricity Board (UEB) to supply electricity to or
take electricity away from any person inside or outside Uganda was reviewed.
The present Electricity Act 1999 removed the monoploy of UEB. Previously, the.
Electricity Act, Cap 135 established UEB as a statutory power to exercise
corporate and monopoly functions relating to the generation, distribution,
distribution and supply of electricity and gave UEB licensing and other regulatory
functions.
The Electricity Act 1999 has now created the Electricity Regulatory Authoirity
(ERA). The Act also allows for the entry of private players in the electricty sector
through a detailed licensing mechanism overseen by ERA. The Authority has the
power to issue licences to any person intending to participate in the generation,
distribution and distribution of electricity. The sale, import, and export of
electricity are also licensable. Before the Electricity Regulatory Authority issues a
license for any of the activities supposed to be licensed under the Electricity Act,
1999, it requires that the applicant first produces a certificate of approval from
NEMA.
However, the Electricity Act 1999 is not yet fully operational until diverstiture of
Uganda Electricity Board (UEB), which is currently under the Parastatal
Monitoring Unit of the Ministry of Finance , Planning and Economic
Development is complete.
In the case of the WNES Project any Independent Power Producer (IPP) can be
licensed to generate and sell power in accordance with its implementation
Agreement and the Power Purchase Agreement the company will have with the
Government of Uganda and the regulator. The Electricity Act 1999 requires that
the IPP pays royalty to the District Local Government in which the generating
station is located.
2.2.4 Water Act
The Water Act, 1995 (GoU, 1995b) provides for the use, protection and
management of water resources and supply. The objectives of the Act are to
promote the rational management and use of the waters of Uganda through the
introduction and application of standards and techniques, the coordination of all
public and private activities that may influence water quality and quantity and to
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.01.03\l0:061l



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
allow for the orderly development and use of water resources for such activities as
generation of hydro-electric or geothermal energy.
2.2.5 Land Act 1998
The Land Act 1998 provides for the ownership and management of land. It
provides for four different forms of land tenure (customary, leasehold, mailo and
freehold) and the procedure for applying for the granting of any of these tenures.
The Act provides that non-citizens of Uganda may be granted leases not
exceeding 99 years.
The Act inter alia provides that the construction of electric lines, construction of
dams and hydro-power plants are public works and any person authorised to
execute public works on any land may enter into mutual agreement with an
occupier or owner of the land in accordance with the Act.
2.2.6 Local Governments Act 1997
The Local Governments Act 1997 provides for the decentralisation and devolution
of government functions, powers and services from the central to local
governments and sets up the political and administrative functions of the latter.
This provision is significant since the Electricity Act 1999 authorises the ERA to
delegate some of its licensing functions to local govemments.
2.2.7 Town and Country Planning Act 1964
This act provides for the orderly and progressive development of land in towns
and other rural areas of the country. It defines building operations to include the
making accessible of electrical installation and development in relation to any
land. Any placing of new poles for transmission and distribution of electricity and
construction of substations have to comply with the provisions of this Act.
2.2.8 Investment Code Statute
The Investment Code Statute, sets out the procedure for an investment license and
the kind of information to be included therein. It makes provision for the Uganda
Investment Authority as a corporate body and distingushes between foreign and
non-foreign investors.  The Code provides that investment in the energy
conservation industry is priority and requires an investor to perforn an
environmental impact assessment for approval by NEMA before the project is
implemented.
2.2.9 International Agreements
Uganda is signatory to and has ratified several intemational agreements relating to
the environment. Both global and regional agreements of potential importance are
briefly discussed below:
The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) was
ratified by Uganda in 1993. The objective of the UNFCCC is to regulate levels of
greenhouse gas concentration in the atmosphere, so as to avoid the occurence of
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0612



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
climate change at levels that would harm economic development, or that would
impede food production activities. One of the ways of doing this is for countries
to work towards greater energy efficiency and, in the process, saving forests and
vegetation (which serve as carbon sinks and reseviors) and turning increasingly to
the use of renewable sources of energy.
The Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) has been ratified by Uganda. A
major objective of the convention is to ensure the conservation of biological
diversity and the sustainable use of its component parts, and equitable sharing of
any of any benefits accruing therefrom.
The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and
Flora (CITES) has been ratified by Uganda and seeks to ensure that the
international trade in species of wild fauna and flora does not threaten the survival
in wilderness of the species concerned. Species on the CITES lists are considered
of conservation concerns.
Uganda has ratified the African Convention on the Conservation of Nature and
Natural Resources (1968); signed the Protocal Agreement on the Conservation of
Common Natural Resources (1982); and the Lusaka Agreement of Co-operative
Enforcement and Operations Directed at illegal Trade in Wild Fauna and Flora
(1994).
2.3 Institutions
2.3.1 National Environment Management Authority
Under the National Environment Statute, 1995 (GoU, 1995) the National
Environment Management Authority (NEMA) is the principal agency in Uganda
for the management of the environment and coordinates, monitors and supervises
all activities in the field of the environment (GoU, 1995). NEMA is under the
Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment, and has a cross-sectoral mandate
including the review and approval of EIS reports.
The National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) is the institution
responsible for overseeing and conducting all aspects of the environment and in
particular the review of Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) reports. NEMA
has issued guidelines on EIAs (NEMA 1997), while the Environmental Impact
Assessment Regulations (GoU, 1998) was approved by the Ugandan Parliament.
The actual implementation of the EIA process remains a function of the relevant
line ministries and departments, the private sector, NGOs and the general public.
NEMA reviews EIS reports in collaboration with relevant lead agencies. In the
case of the distribution line and thermal power generation, the major lead agency
is the Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications (MoWHC). Other lead
agencies that would participate in the review are the Ministry of Lands, Water and
Environment and in particular the Departments of Forestry, Land Administration
and the Wetlands Programme; and the Directorate of Water Development.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0613



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
2.3.2 Electricity Regulatory Authority (ERA)
The Electricity Regulatory Authority issues licences for the generation,
distribution or supply of electricity. It is also provided with the authority to
consider the need to protect the environment and conserve natural resources when
granting such a licence. The application for a license is advertised in the gazette
to inform the public and invite them to make objections if any on personal,
environmental and other grounds, before granting of the application. The licence,
after approval of application, requires compensation to any person affected or
damage to the environment, wildlife, living conditions or pr6perty or for
relocation due or caused in the course of the operations of the licence.
2.3.3 Directorate of Water Development (DWD)
The Water Statute, 1995 (GoU, 1 995b) created the Directorate of Water
Development which provides for the use, protection and management of water
resources and supply.
The objectives of the statute are to promote the rational management and use of
the waters of Uganda through the introduction and application of standards and
techniques; to coordinate all public and private activities that may influence water
quality and quantity; and to allow for the orderly development and use of water
resources including such activities as generation of hydro-electric or geothermal
energy.
2.3.4 Town and Country Planning Board
The 1995 Uganda Constitution Cap 30 provides for the formation of the Town
and Country Planning Board. This Board provides for the orderly and progressive
development of land in towns and other rural areas of the country. It defines
building operations to include the making accessible of electrical installation and
development in relation to any land. Any placing of new poles for transmission
and distribution of electricity and construction of substations would have to
comply with the provisions of this Act.
2.3.5 District Level Institutional Structure
The district level institutional structure is described in this section as follows:
Nebbi and Arua District Administration
The Bondo - Nebbi Distribution Line project covers the districts of Arua and
Nebbi. However, much of it falls under the Arua Local Administration. The two
districts are created under the Local Govrnment Act 1997. The thermal power
generation is located in Arua and Nebbi towns.
The departments at the district level which are directly involved in the project as a
whole include the District Environment Officer, the District Medical Officer, the
District Security Officer, the District Water Officer, Community Development
Officer, District Forest Officer, District Agriculture Officer, District Education
Officer, and District Engineer, and the Town Clerks of the two towns.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0614



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Although technical expertise for hydropower project may not exist among the
district officials, their proximity to, and knowledge of, the project area makes
their participation very necessary especially if they are requested by the Ministry
of Energy and Mineral Development for technical input.
The Local Councils at the village level (LC I and LC II) and the villagers are well
organised; so ae the town councils.
Private Sector and Civil Society Institutions
Interested private sector institutions and NGOs will be given an opportunity to
participate in further studies. A number of NGOs exist in the districts of Arua and
Nebbi including CEFORD (Community Empowerment for Rural Development) a
local initiative in the districts that was identified in the project area. They are
involved in social community development work. These and other NGOs have
relevant experience in the districts and could play an important role in carrying
out some of the mitigation and monitoring activities, in particular those related to
social, health and educational issues.
2.3.6 Donors and Financing Institutions
This EIA follows intemational EIA standards and procedures. It will therefore be
possible, upon approval from NEMA, for developers to seek financing and donor
support from private and government organisations.
The World Bank, and its private sector arm IFC, apply the same social and
environmental safeguard policies:
* OP 4.01 Enviromental Assessment
* OP 4.04 Natural Habitats
* OP 4.09 Pest Management
* OP 4.20 Indigenous People
* OP 4.1 1 Safeguarding Cultural Property
* OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement
* OP 4.36 Forestry
* OP 4.37 Safety of Dams
* OP 7.50 Projects on International Waterway
* OP 7.60 Projects in Disputed Areas.
The application of these social and environmental safeguard policies in the
Ugandan context for projects under the ERT programme is set out in the Ministry
of Energy's Environmental and Social Mangement Framework (ESMF). This
framework provides detailed guidelines for EIA work for various types of
potential ERT projects.
In addition, bilateral donors have their specific guidelines for incorporation of
environmental and social concerns into project planning and irnplemention. This
EIA has paid particular attention to the ESMF, which is based on the safeguards
of the World Bank.
ELA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised vcr2).doc\PL\09.01.03\l0:0615



-EMA & ECON-
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
3 Area profile
Of the 45 km stretch, between Bondo and Nebbi, only 10 km are in Nebbi District
leaving the longest stretch of the line in Arua District. A map of Arua and Nebbi
Districts are provided at the end of this chapter. A map of the line route is given in
Annex 3.
3.1 Topography
Arua District in which 35 km of the 45 km line passes comprises of rolling plains
from the Nile floor in the Rift Valley 600 masl to the DRC where the plain
drastically changes to between 1200 - 1400 masl. The landscape in the project
area can be generally grouped into three topographical zones.
. Madi Plateau: Occurs at an altitude of about 900 masl. It occupies the
eastem parts of the district including Madi-Okollo County through which
much of the distribution line passes.
* Western Highland: This upper plateau occurs at an altitudinal range of 1200
to 1800 masl, the parent rocks include basement complex metamorphose
which is responsible for the formation of the hilly terrain. This zone does
not however fall directly in the project area, which is the eastem zone.
. Rift Valley. The Rift Valley escarpments are highest in the south and fade
off to the north. They consist of several fault camps arranged, roughly
parallel with the Albert Nile. These scarps separate the Rift Valley plains
from the Madi Plateau.
3.2 Geomorphology
The geomorphology of the project area consists of a monotonous Madi vast plain
with occasional rising abruptly from it termed as zone of tours and inselburgs. At
the Nile, Rift Valley faults are seen at about 300 meters in height. Rift Valley
deposits occur and are backed by a series of scarps arranged in an echelon, which
separate the Rift Valley plain from the Madi Plain. Large scarps in the West of the
project area, above which is the West Nile Plateau in tum stop the plain. This
succession of plains is largely due to Rift Valley movement hence low erosion
surfaces have been established, the Madi Plain which is part of the African end of
tertiary surface, and another principal erosion surface which is the older
Gondwana surface is what characterises the geomorphology of the project area.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0616



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
3.3 Climate
The project area has a bi-modal rainfall pattern with light rains between April and
October. The wettest season normally August and September receives
120mm/month. The average total rainfall is 1250 mm per year. The mean
monthly evaporation ranges from 130 mm - 180 mm. In the dry season
(December - March) temperatures in this part of the country remain high
throughout.
3.4 Soils
The soils covering most parts of the districts of Arua and Nebbi are mainly
ferralitic and sand loams. These soils have fine texture with rather loose structure,
which are easily erodible and leached. Most soils in the area are acidic. Soil types
in the area include:
. yellow - red sandy, clay loams littosols varying from dark grey to dark
which are slightly acidic and mainly derived from granite, gneissic and
sedimentary rocks. They occur on gently undulating - hilly topography
mainly in Madi Okollo County.
. brown - yellow clay loans with laterite horizon with a variety of dark
brown to dark greyish brown, which are slightly acidic. These occur mainly
in Nebbi district especially in Padyere County and parts of Madi in Arua
District, occurring on flat ridge tops or as undulating topography.
. light grey white loamy soils with laterite horizon ground, structure - less
loamy sands occurring from Bondo and through parts of Okollo. They are
also acidic - allocative and mainly found on the lower and bottom slopes.
3.5 Water Resources
The entire project area lacks adequate surface and ground water resources.
Although the Nile is a very reliable water source and has attracted significant
settlement along it, it is not strategically located and covers only 7.0% of parts of
Nebbi and Arua districts. The river benefits mainly Jonam County in Nebbi
District and Madi Okollo in Arua District, removed from where the distribution
line passes and thermal energy is generated.
The Albert Nile is fed by streams and ground water during the heavy rains and
loses its water during the dry season through evaporation and also to the
surrounding unconsolidated sands, silt and gravel which re-charge the water
content of the surrounding countryside through natural systems.
3.6 Land Tenure And Administration
Land in the West Nile region is commonly owned under the customary tenure,
whereby an individual can possess one or more pieces of land and utilise it subject
to the jurisdiction of the family, community and elders of the clans. The
individual landholder has the right to utilise the piece of land, lend it temporarily
or dispose of it according to customary laws of inheritance, but may not sell it.
Those keeping cattle graze it on communal land. Ninety eight percent of the land
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0617



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
in this region is under customary tenure ship without any documentation or
registration. Land inheritance is from father to son. This explains why the census
results for 1991 show that 88.5% of the landholders are male. The land through
which the distribution line passes is mainly under customary tenure.
3.7 Settlements
There is a marked difference between settlements in the urban areas compared to
those in rural areas. Up to about 7% of the population live in urban areas where
settlements are governed by the Town and Country Planning Act 1964. They
have demarcated residential, civic and industrial areas. Urban settlements in
Nebbi and Arua are mostly of permanent or semi-permanent building structures
while in rural areas; settlements are characterised by temporary structures (mostly
huts). Along the Arua - Nebbi highway a few permanent settlements exist
especially in the Trading Centres. From Bondo to Nebbi there are six (6) major
trading centres that is: Aryek, Wingupier, Amadudu, Okollo, Alibu and Uleppi
otherwise villages are characterised by clustered lineage units on communal land.
A lineage may range from 3 to 5 generations and a household from 2 to 25
persons. The average occupancy rate in the rural areas is 7 persons per household
3.8 Demography
The West Nile Region, which is separated from the rest of Uganda by the River
Nile only became incorporated into the present day Uganda in 1914, having been
part of the Lado Enclave, administered from the Belgian Congo Free State (now
the DRC) until 1910 and subsequently from Sudan for a few years. Until recently,
it was composed of Nebbi, Arua and Moyo districts, but now it has been sub
divided into smaller districts which are Nebbi, Arua, Yumbe, Moyo and
Adjumani. The project covers the districts of Nebbi and Arua. The two districts
are inhabited by six main ethnic groups, namely: the Alur, Kakwa, Madi, Lendu,
Lugbara and Okebo.
3.8.1 Population and Population Trends
According to the 1991 Population and Housing Census, the population in the two
districts totalled 954,900 persons of who about 48.0% were males and 52.0%
females. Nebbi had a total population of 316,900 persons (33.6%) while Arua had
638,000 (66.81%).
The main demographic feature of the population is based on the two former
districts. The number of women exceeds that of men with a regional sex - ratio of
approximately 93.0. This may be attributed to seasonal and permanent male
labour migrations to outside the region as well as to the effects of armed conflicts,
where men have been more vulnerable than women especially those in Arua after
the fall of Idi Amin who comes from the district.
3.8.2 Population Growth
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0618



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
The regional growth rate is slightly above 3% p.a. and is thus considerably more
than the national average of 2.5% p.a. This may be attributed mainly to the people
who fled the region at the time when the last census was carried out (1980) but
who have since then returned. It is also partly explained by the fact that early
marriages are highly encouraged for the main reason of obtaining household. The
population growth rate of Nebbi and Arua is between 2.7% and 2.8% per year.
The urban growth rates are between 6.3% (Nebbi) and 7.7% (Arua).
3.8.3 Population Density
There is a wide variation in population density between districts and within
districts. For example, the average population density for Nebbi is 114 persons /
km2, while for Arua is 84 persons / km .
Table 3.1 Demographic features in Nebbi and Arua Districts
Population                            Population  Population   Literacy Rate
Growth       (Age 10 plus)
(% p.a.)
Census    Male     Female    Total    Density                  1991      (_/e)
Year      ('000)   ('000)    ('000)   (inhJkM2
Nebbi
1969      98.7     105.4     204.1    73.4        1.3          Male       66.6
1980      111.6    121.4     233.0    83.8        2.8          Female     29.0
1991      152.1    164.8     316.9    114.0                    Average    46.8
Arua
1969      178.7    190.9     369.6    48.7        2.4          Male       65.4
1980      226.8    245.5     472.3    62.2        2.7          Female     28.0
1991      307.7    330.3     638.0    84.0                     Average    45.7
Source: 1991 Population and Housing Census Report
3.8.4 Health
As is the case in most rural areas in Uganda, the leading three causes of illness
are: malaria, URTI and LRTI. This can be seen in the table below.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.l.03\I0:06il9



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Table 3.2      Prevalent diseases in the Nebbi/Arua Area.
Disease                                Prevalence (%)
Malaria                               36.9
Upper Respiratory track Infection      19.2
Lower Respiratory track Infection      14.6
Diarrhoea Diseases                    7.5
Intestinal Worms                      7.4
Skin Diseases                         2.9
Eye Diseases                          2.8
Source: 1998 District Medical Reports (Nebbi/Arua)
The major facilities for health care services include: three hospitals in Nebbi and
four hospitals in Arua. Health units in the rural areas provide elementary
treatment and are usually staffed by a medical assistant supported by trained or
semi-trained nurses. The distribution line will serve two health units that are at
Bondo and another in Madi Okollo.
The majority of the people in the project area walk to health centres covering very
long distances since public transport is not commonly available. One fifth of the
population in the project area is within 5 km of the nearest health service.
3.8.5 Infrastructure
The Kampala Highway is presently being upgraded into a tarmac surface. The
road construction project will improve all the bridges along this highway thus
making communication between Arua and Nebbi much easier than it is now. The
paving of this road will accelerate economic development in the two districts
particularly for those settled along the highway. Postal services remain unchanged
both in Arua and Nebbi, although special delivery services such DAKS
COURIER and Speed Delivery services operate in the districts. Uganda
Telecommunications (UTL) has installed automatic exchange services in Arua but
not yet in Nebbi. Mobile Telephone Networks of MTN and Celtel exist in both
Arua and Nebbi with reliable network. There is private FM radio stations in both
Arua and Nebbi operated by the Church of Uganda and an individual,
respectively. They both have clear reception in the two districts. Electric power
supply is available for only four hours a day forcing people to look for other
alternatives such as generators and solar power.
3.8.6 The Economy
Agriculture is the dominant economic activity in the two districts employing well
over 85% of the population. However, the sector remains subsistence-oriented
with less than 40% of the produce sold.  In Nebbi, cotton growing is being
encouraged after the collapse of the former cooperative societies and low price on
the international market while tobacco is the dominant cash crop for Arua.
ELA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PLk09.0l.03\10:060



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Robusta coffee growing is being encouraged both in Arua and Nebbi districts
including the areas where the distribution line passes.
3.8.7 Social Services
In the education sector major changes have occurred as in other parts of the
country and mainly at primary level. The introduction of Universal Primary
Education (UPE), supported by a number of other programmes (COPE, EARS
and TDMS) has increased enrolment in the districts of Arua and Nebbi. New
classroom blocks are being constructed through the School Facilities Grant (SFG)
Programme. The new structures in the project will benefit from availability of
electricity.
In the health sector, the main progress has been in the domain of curative health.
The promotion of preventive health, where communities can play a substantial
role remains weak in the two districts. Disease and mortality indicators show a
high incidence of preventable and mainly poverty - and ignorance related
diseases. New health centres along the Bondo-Nebbi section of the highway are
potential electricity customers.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.01.03\l0:062l



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Map of Arua and Nebbi Districts
T M..  Iui  '   Ob9 d wd I p MOMbd
ff.d,g.vd Tm. p"uMbb Mf WdI.'t
T/-   - 1ARUAI HIgh For"XI,, mcbI 
ItA Hando-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\2 X  "  ~ =  I f   I
mi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
;SN                                            0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ELA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised vea2).doc\PL\09.01.03\10:0622



-EMA & ECON-
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
4 Project description
4.1 Introduction and background
The Uganda Electricity Board (UEB), currently undergoing privatisation, supplies
some 840 customers in Arua, Nebbi and Paidha municipalities in the West Nile
Region, split by sector comprising roughly 60% business/commercial, 15%
institutional, and residential consumers. UEB has five diesel generators, four in
Arua and one in Nebbi, with a current operating capacity of 776 kW. UEB
operates a distribution grid in Arua supplying some 700 consumers, and very
small distribution centres in Nebbi (some 80 consumers) and Paidha (some 30
consumers), with the latter two centres connected by a 24 km 33 kV line.
Power from UEB is available only for four hours per day, between 7 - 11 pm.
This supply is erratic, and UEB estimates that it sheds over 400 kW each evening
to grid-connected consumers. One component of the unmet demand is from the
estimated 1,000 registered business establishments in Arua, Nebbi and Paidha
municipalities. Arua, is by far the most important economic centre in northern
Uganda, although Paidha is the region's fastest growing economic centre.
Surveys conducted by a local Ugandan and international team under the World
Bank's ERT program found that there are currently over 180 independent diesel
generating sets (gensets), and a further 42 medium to large diesel mills (grain),
with a total installed capacity of 2.86 MW, generating over 7.65 GWh per year.
West Nile's urban consumers spend over US$ 6.5 million per year on petroleum
fuels to cover costs of lighting and power.
West Nile demand for electricity is expected to grow very quickly. Initially, the
ERT planned a 3.2 MW investment at Nyagak, near Paidha, in Nebbi District.
However, the demand and load profile studies carried out for the ERT during
August and September 2000 show that demand will exceed that capacity.
Therefore, the Nyagak hydropower facility will have to be sized to approximately
5 MW while the Olewa hydropower site near Arua will need.to be developed,
with distribution lines installed between Arua and Nebbi, part of this has been
done and the remaining stretch that is Bondo to Nebbi is yet to be completed, and
is the reason for this study, expanded distribution systems in Paidha, Nebbi and
Arua, and stand-by diesel generator (1 by 1.5 MW in Arua and 1 by 1 MW in
Paidha).
To this end, the Electricity Regulatory Authority of Uganda (ERA) intends to
issue a licence to supply electricity to the districts of Arua and Nebbi. A bidding
EIA Bondo-Ncbbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0623



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
procedure is going on managed by ERA. Based on bidders' submissions, ERA
will select a winning bidder and award the licence to this company.
A condition of the licence will be that the licensee obtains the necessary
environmental authorisation from the National Environment Management
Authority (NEMA). Once the bidder has been selected and the licence awarded,
ERA anticipates that NEMA will then be able to award the necessary
authorisation to the licensee to develop the West Nile Electricity Supply Project.
However, NEMA cannot do this until a satisfactory report on the impacts of the
WNES project is properly assessed, analysed, reported, and reviewed by the
environmental body.
4.2 Project layout
As mentioned above the WNES project has three components namely the
completion of the Arua - Nebbi Distribution Line by Government and the
installation of new diesel generation sets in Arua and Nebbi by the successful
bidder (URECL) and the development of mini-hydropower schemes at Nyagak
and Olewa falls. This description is of the Bondo - Nebbi Distribution Line and
the thermal generators.
. The purpose of the distribution line project is to enable power to be
transmitted from the proposed power station at Nyagak to the existing grid
in Arua. After construction the line will be leased to the company that wins
the West Nile Electricity Concession; and this company will be responsible
for the safe and efficient operation and maintenance of the facilities.
Further, before the hydro station in Paidha is commissioned, the line will
enable having generator sets in one place (Arua) and transmit the electricity
to Nebbi and Paidha.
* A component of the project requires the immediate installation of additional
thermal power generation to serve the people of Arua and Nebbi districts
within the project zone while the hydropower schemes are being developed.
With this additional power in place, electricity will be available to the
consumers for at least 18 hours a day compared to the present four, a more
than fourfold increase in availability.
The project development will involve the construction of a 33 kV distribution line
from Bondo to Nebbi Town to connect to the existing local grid there. The project
will cover the districts of Arua and Nebbi although much of the proposed line will
be within Arua district. The proposed distribution line will be built by the
Government and then provided to the winner of the West Nile Electricity Supply
Concession, who will be responsible for the generation and supply of electricity in
the region as well as maintenance of the line.
4.3 Distribution Line
The first component of the project consists entirely of the construction of a 33kv
distribution line from Bondo to Nebbi Town. The construction of this line began
from Arua, but because of financial constraints, stopped at Bondo Trading Centre
on the Arua - Nebbi highway. The remaining stretch is app. 45 km, which
Government is planning to construct. the distribution line.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0624
U 



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
The 33kV single line will be built using-wooden poles of an average height of 10
meters and span between poles of +/- 100 meters. For 33kV lines a corridor of 10
metres i.e 5 meters either side is allowable. The use of land for installation is in
Uganda regulated through Part VIII of the Electricity Act.
This EIA study examines the line route recently surveyed by UETCL and makes
recommendations for minimising likely impacts due to the construction of the
Bondo - Nebbi distribution line. The route, which has been decided by the
Ugandan Govemment, follows the newly upgraded road from Bondo to Nebbi.
This EIS report has been written for the route surveyed and is for an EIA of
Category B projects according to the World Bank/IFC environmental guidelines.
The original version of this report assessed a different route for the line passing
through ecologically sensitive areas (eg wetland and the Laura Forest reserve). An
additional field trip was carried out in November 2002 to update the impact
assessment based on the recently conducted survey report. This reassessment is
attached with this report as Annex 2.
The map of the route is enclosed as Annex 3.
4.4 The existing generator units at Arua and
Nebbi
The distribution system in Arua consist of three 11/0.4 kV generator transformers,
about 35 km of 11 kV overhead lines and 25 distribution transformers. Most of
the 11kV lines were constructed in 1962, with only 3.5 km constructed later
(1983). Most of the wooden poles have over the years been replaced by new
ones. All the 11kV lines are constructed with 0.104 sq. Inch steel conductors.
Total distribution transfomer capacity is about 2.5 MVA.
The network in Nebbi/Paidha consists of a 315kVA 33/0.4 kV generator
transformer, about 22 km of 33 kV overhead lines and 8 distribution transformers.
Total distribution transformer capacity is about 650 kVA. The 33 kV line from
Nebbi to Paidha (21 kin) was constructed in 1998 with wooden poles and Dog
conductor.
The existing generating plant installed and operated by UEB in the Arua and
Nebbi Districts comprise the following units:
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.01.03\l0:0625



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Table 4.1       Existing Diesel Generators in Arua and Nebbi
SPEE    OUTPUT
LOCATION     TURBINE     YEAR     TYPE       ALTERNATOR            D        KVA   KW
RPM     ____       _
ARUA
I        PERKINS    2000     2006-      NEWAGE STAMFORD        1500     350   240
2       PERKINS     2000     TWG        ATLANTA               1500      350   240
3       PERKINS     1998     2006-      WILSON                1500      380   280
TWG
4       PERKINS     1999                NEWAGE STAMFORT        1500     380   280
2006-
TOTAL                           TWG                                       1460  1040
2006-
____TWG
NEBBI
U I AL  PERKINS     1999    2006-TAG    NEWAGE STAMFORD       1500     250    240
TOTAL                ____250                                                    240
Table 4.2       Existing Generator Transformers in Arua and Nebbi
VOLTAGE
LOCATION        MAKER        YEAR         WINDING    RATING       X     LV       kW
ARUA
I 1        FOSTER        1965        Ydl          300       4.67%   415     11000
2          FOSTER       1965         Ydl          300       4.67%  415      11000
3          CROMPTON     1967         YdI          300       4.67%  415      11000
TOTAL                                               1100
NEBBI
I          N/A          N/A         N/A         325?        N/A     415     33300
Note: Additional gensets have added at Arua since the Norconsult and World Bank assessments were taken.
The two power stations appear well-run and the generating sets are in good
condition. However, the generator transformers are old, but show no outward
signs of age-related problems.
4.4.1 Distribution
The distribution networks in the two districts appear to be in reasonable condition
and were constructed to UEB standards which have historically reflected UK
practice. In Arua the distribution voltage is 11 kV and the NorConsult report
indicates 35 km of 11 kV overhead powerlines and 25 distribution transformers.
Most of the construction transformers. Most of the construction appears to date
from the original installations by UEB 40 years ago, but maintenance and pole
replacement appear to have been adequate.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0626
_U



-EMA & ECON-
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Nebbi, 33 kV is used as the distribution voltage and NorConsult indicate 22 km
of 33 kV overhead power lines and 8 distribution transformers. Of this, the 21 km
Nebbi-Phaidha power line was built in 1998.
Two different routes for the distribution line from Nebbi/Paidha to Arua have
been evaluated. These routes are:
* From Paidha along the Congo border road to Arua, ca 100 km.
* From Nebbi along the Kampala Highway to Arua, ca 80 km.
Paidha and Nebbi are already connected through a 21 km long 33 kV line.
An AFRREI team examined the two routes in January 2000. The team concluded
that, even if there is a heavy population concentration along the Congo border
road, it did not provide sufficient demand potential on short term. In addition the
Congo border route is about 20 km longer, and therefore the Kampala Highway
route is recommended. The report concems the latter route.
Since the NorConsult assessment was undertaken, a 33 kV line has been
constructed from Arua to Bondo (approximately 30 km) and is currently energised
at 11 kV. In addition, 8 km of 11 kV line and distribution transformers have been
built associated with this network development.
4.4.2 Additional Thermal Generation Capacity
According to information from UEB the total load is about 1.2 MW in Arua and
0.2 MW in Nebbi/Paidha. In addition, over 2.3 MVA of independent (non-UEB)
small diesel generator capacity have been recorded during the load profile work
by ERA. If this entire load shall be supplied in the years before the Nyagak
hydropoer plant is commissioned, new diesel generators have to be installed.
Of the 2.3 MW independent diesel generator capacity, about 50% is located in
Arua while about 33% is located in Paidha. Additionally, in order to meet the
demand while the hydro power plant are being constructed, it is recommended to
install two new heavy fuel oil generator sets to be placed in the existing UEB
compound in Arua. The new heavy fuel oil generators will act as back up when
the hydro power plant comes into operation.
The licensee of the West Nile electricity supply will be required to install at least
1.5 MW of generating capacity in Arua within 180 days of the licence coming
into effect. It is assumed that this plant will be required for base-load operation
until the commissioning of hydroelectric generation, peaking duty immediately
thereafter, and subsequently for base-load generation as demand grows.
Given this expected duty it is further assumed that efficient, slow-speed or
medium-speed diesel generation will be indicated. The licensee may also
consider the advisability for operational reasons of installing multiple units in
Arua. However, due to taxation of diesel which renders its use as a fuel for base-
load generation expensive and the developer may like to consider the use of heavy
fuel oil (HFO) as an altemative.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised vcr2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\1:00627



-EMA & ECON-
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
In order to have a constant voltage at Arua, a 33/11 KV substation with a
transformer with automatic voltage control has to be constructed in Arua. While
UEB had plans to install this transformer in the power station at Arua, this has not
yet been done by the time of this study. Moreover, as time for repair of a
transformer can be long (up to months) it is recommended to install two 3 MVA
33/11 kV transformers. However, only one unit has to be on-line while the other
acts as a reserve. This is now the obligation of the licensee of the WNES.
Additionally, information from UEB indicated the total load is over 1.2 MW in
Arua and 0.2 MW in Nebbi/Paidha. This means that the distributiori transforrners
in Arua have an average peak load of about 50% of its nominal value. The figure
for NebbilPaidha is about 33%, depending upon the load.
EIA Hondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.01.03\l0:0628
U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
5         Environmental baseline
5.1 Vegetation
The vegetation types of both Nebbi and Arua districts can be categorised into
three broad types: savannah communities,y post-cultivation communities and sites
of impeded drainage including seasonal swamps. Combretum-Acacia-
Hyparrhenia is the most dominant vegetation type consisting of mixed deciduous
trees with both annual and perennial grasses. It is dominated by Acacia hockii and
Term inalia moliliis. Vitellaria (previously Butyrospermum) Hyparrhenia dissolute
forms the drier savannah community interspersed with both perennial and annual
grasses. The grass savannah popularly known as grasslands is dominated by
species of hyparrhenia. In the post-cultivated communities tree cover is sparse and
consists of re5mants of previous climaxes.
Although the vegetation types of both districts have been highly modified by
man's activities, Arua district has few forest reserves like Mount Kei Forest
Reserve, which is the only reserve where a systematic inventory was carried out in
1993 by the Forest Department (Davenport et al 1996). A report by Davenport et
a!. (996) gave a species list of 217 tree and shrub species for Mount Kei Forest
Reserve of which three species Aeschynomene schimperi, Combretum racemosum
and Morinda titanopylla were not recorded elsewhere in Uganda. None of these
species were encountered during our surveys for the right of the way for the
distribution line. The proposed power distribution line passes through post-
cultivation communities, dry Combretum Vitellaria (previously Butyrospermum) -
Hyparrhenia savannah ecosystem especially in Nebbi District. However, in Arua
District, part of the distribution line will pass through two forest reserves. The
rest of the area is heavily populated and dominated by small-scale peasant
cultivation and scattered woodlots of eucalyptus and other plantations.
5.2 Wildlife
Mammals
There are no available records indicating detailed survey of wildlife in Nebbi
district by the time this report was prepared. Available information showed that
generally wildlife population is low partly due to habitat loss for these animals
due to agricultural encroachment (according to NEMA). In other parts of the
district, wildlife is confined to the lake and wetlands especially towards the Nile
River.
EiA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2)edoc\PL\o9.1o.03\10:06p9



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
In Arua District, there are three reports available concerning the systematic survey
of mammals. Two were the ones done by the Forest Department in 1993 in Mount
Kei Forest Reserve where they recorded a total of 21 small mammal species (6
shrew and 15 rodents) and one other by Kityo and Duli, 1992 (see Davenport et
al. 1996). Whereas Davenport et al. (1996) listed two of the small mammals
(Acomys percivali and Crocidura somalica) found in Mount Kei Forest Reserve
as restricted range species the most abundant mammals found in the proposed
project area are the common small mammals (rats, shrews and bats) that are
widespread and common. Also in Arua District, wildlife inventory has been
carried out in Ajai Wildlife Reserve, previously a sanctuary for the northern white
rhino, which is now extinct. Some of the important wildlife species in Ajai
include; Hippopotamus Hippopotamus amphibius , Sitatunga Tragelaphus spekei,
African Buffalo Synecerus caffer, Aardvark Oryteropus afer and 27 others
(Stubblefield, 1993). However, the reserve is some way from the project area.
Within the visited project area, the local communities also reported the presence
of Baboons, Colubus monkeys, cane rat and civet. The larger mammals are
mobile species with a large home range and are unlikely to be affected by line
construction.
Birds
Nebbi District has a number of savannah and wetland species of birds but again
there is no available record showing their presence. Although not heavily forested,
the District also has some forest bird species; while for Arua district Davenport et
al. (1996) gave a total of 124 bird species for Mount Kei Forest Reserve and
Stubblefield (1993) provided 116 species for Ajai Wildlife Reserve as the only
key records available by the time this report was written. According to these
previous reports, a high proportion of the species recorded were associated with
open savannah habitat, e.g. Lappet-faced Vulture Torgos tracheliotus, Martial
Eagle Polemaetus bellicosus, Helmented Guineafowl Numida meleagris etc.
Other species associated with aquatic systems include the Crested Crane
Balearica pavonina that is an IUCN red list, categorised as near threatened
species and only 9% of the species were dependent on the forest habitat. We
expect that the same scenario would apply for the other forest reserves found in
Arua District.
None of the forest reserves mentioned above will be affected by the line
construction. None of the ecologically important wetland areas, which are habitats
for the Crested Crane, near the River Nile are close enough to the line route to be
affected.
5.3 Administrative Boundaries
The proposed distribution line corridor passes through Arua and Nebbi districts.
In Arua district the line will pass through the counties of Ayivu, Vura and Madi
Okollo while in Nebbi it will affect the county of Padyere.
5.4 Environmental Health and Sanitation
The latrine coverage in Nebbi district is estimated at 46.5% while in Arua it is
33%. Areas covered by the distribution line in both districts have better latrine
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0630



EMA & ECONE
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
coverage since the population is. more exposed due to their neamoess to the
highway. The water coverage is also estimated to be relatively low for both
districts. It is 37.7% for Arua district and 44.0% for Nebbi. There is no water
system in the Trading Centres through which the line passes such that pit latrines
are the best way for human waste disposal.
5.5 Education
The distribution line passes through a rural area where the rates of illiteracy are
very high. Presently, it is among the areas, which record 36% and 72.5% illiteracy
for men and women, respectively. Due to the past civil strife, which badly
affected the districts in the project area, most of the educational infrastructure was
negatively affected. This is now being reconstructed by Community Action
Programme and the Northern Uganda Reconstruction Programme (NURP).
The student teacher ratio in primary schools is most adverse in Arua, where on
average there are twice as many students per teacher as in the country in general.
There is a National Teachers-College in Arua to which a line has been extended as
the distribution line continues to Bondo. There is at least one primary teacher's
college in each of the districts in the project area.
Technical education in the region suffers from lack of infrastructure, qualified
teachers, tools and equipment. In the region, there are nine Technical
Institutes/Schools of which five are goverment operated and four are managed
by NGOs.
5.6 Other Services
The low level of development of infrastructure in the region is seen as one of the
major hindrances to development. Most of the roads are in a poor state, making
travel during the wet seasons difficult. The Arua - Nebbi Highway along which
the proposed line will be constructed, is presently being tarmacked which will
improve the state of road transport, telephone, fax and recently mobile telephone
networks are found in both Nebbi and Arua towns. MTN, the giant South African
Mobile Telephone Company has put up a booster in Laura Forest Reserve to
improve telephone network especially for MTN subscribers.
5.7 Cultural Heritage
No site of cultural interest is known to exist along the proposed Bondo - Nebbi
Distribution Line. Cultural sites noted in Nebbi District do not fall in the specific
project area under study. They exist in the sub-counties of Wadelai, Atyak,
Paidha, Erussi, Pakwach and Nebbi town. However, the latter does not exist in
the area of the distribution line.
5.8 Attitude to the project
The CEFORD Consultation report clearly outlines the demand and eagerness of
the people of the West Nile for a reliable electricity supply. Although people were
excited when the construction of the Arua - Nebbi line was started, their hopes
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0631



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
were ditched when the construction work stopped at Bondo. It is hoped that the
life of the people of West Nile will be rekindled when the Bondo - Nebbi line is
completed.
Those the EIA Team talked to welcomed the West Nile Electricity Supply Project
and wish that the project would take off. A description and record of the
consultation process for the West Nile Electricity Project is provided in Annex 6
to this report.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.Ol.03\l0:0632



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
6 Environmental impacts of the
distribution line & generator
sets
NOTE: A reassessment of the environmental and social impacts of the line
construction and generator sets was carried out in November 2002. The line
route has been surveyed and will follow the recently rehabilitated road from
Arua to Nebbi. This new route will greatly reduce the impacts described in
this chapter, eg. The Laura forest reserve will not be affected. Further, a low
number of people and a small amount of land will be affected (a preliminary
survey reported in Annex 2). Nobody will need to resettle and nobody will
lose more than 25% of their land.
The impacts of the generator sets in Arua, which was left out of the original
EIA report, are likely to be low to negligible. The reassessment report
concering both the line and the generator sets is enclosed as Annex 2 to this
report.
This chapter analyses the impacts of the project from the viewpoints of:
. Ecology
. Access tracks and traffic
. Land use and settlement
. Agriculture
. Visual impact
. Employment
. Health and safety
6.1 Ecological Impacts
Building distribution lines is one of the important activities amongst many others
of hydroelectric projects. Electric power distribution systems include the
distribution line, its right-of-way (ROW), switchyards, substations and access or
maintenance roads. The principal structures of the distribution line include the line
itself, conductors, towers and supports (e.g., guy wires). The voltage and capacity
of the distribution line affects the sizes required for these principal structures. The
ROW in which the distribution line is constructed can range in width from 6
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0633



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
meters to 500 metres. The principal source of impacts of hydroelectric distribution
lines is on the vegetation that results from the clearance of sites (World Bank
1991). Other direct impacts such as fires, electrocutions would be attributable to
general hazards accruing from the power line. A few indirect impacts could result
from human induced factors such as habitat disturbance and hunting due to
creation of access.
6.2 Negative Impacts
6.2.1 Change of land use
During construction work part of the land will be used for construction of the line,
access roads, tower pads, and substations. There will be 6 metres of ROW of the
pole line that will continuously be cleared of major vegetation. Part of the work
may include realignments away from road reserves hence leading to change in
land use. Although the ROW in this case is not wide and very long, it can interfere
with or fragment remaining vegetation lining riverbanks and changes in scenic
view. However, this impact will be low given that this is largely a farimland area.
6.2.2 Flora
The power distribution line passes through post-cultivation communities, dry
Combretum- Vitellaria-Hyparrhenia savannah ecosystem. The dominant tree
species include Combretum binderanum, Vitellaria paradoxica ssp nilotica,
Terminalia   mollis  and    dominant   grasses   include  Hyparrhenia
filipendulla, Themeda triandra and others.
However, the whole area is heavily populated and small-scale peasant cultivation
and scattered woodlots of eucalyptus and other plantation (Appendix 1) dominate
much of the right-of-way of the distribution line. Therefore, no areas of high
ecological value will be affected during construction of the distribution line. There
will be some changes in species composition within the cleared areas. Some
vegetation may be permanently lost; while the surrounding vegetation will
experience changes in species composition towards more secondary-shrub
species. Some of the nearby eucalyptus production forest may be cleared to create
open areas for aligning lines. This will result in loss of ecological values of trees
and other plant species affected. Further vegetation clearance will lead to soil
erosion and hence soil degradation, especially along the riverbanks. However, it is
anticipated that the impacts will be low. There is also the possibility that the
distribution line could open up the woodland forests to human activities like
hunting, agriculture, settlement and recreation. Generally the impact on the flora
is assessed to be low especially if the line is aligned within the road reserve.
6.2.3 Fauna
Mammals
The proposed distribution line will mainly pass through cultivated areas,
settlements and some eucalyptus woodlots. The only natural vegetation of concern
is the forest reserves through which the line would pass. The natural forest
reserves are known to have Baboons, Colubus monkeys, cane rat, Rock Hyrax,
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\10:0634



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Duikers, Bushpigs, Bushbuck, foxes and civet (see Appendix 2). Most of these
mammal species are unlikely to be affected by the distribution line itself except
that there could be possibility of hunting when the area is opened up. This could
have low-medium impact on the mammals. There could also be a threat of
electrocution to bats but this is also assessed to be low, as it does not occur often
where distribution lines exist.
Birds
See Annex 2 for an updated assessment of bird impacts.
During the surveys we recorded a few bird species. With the exception of the
Black-crowned Crane Balearica regulorum which is confined to this region and is
rare and therefore listed regionally as near threatened, the majority of the species
recorded in the project area are common and widely distributed and occur in
scrubland, woodland and open cultivation. The Black-crowned Crane is a wetland
species but it is unlikely that the distribution line will affect it.
The possibility of avian hazards from distribution lines and towers is low since
migratory birds tend to fly at high altitude, as such the distribution line would
pose very little risk to such species. Furthermore, the ecological team did not find
any evidence of bird strikes by the existing lines through consultation with the
local communities.
Fish
Although Uganda has a large number of fresh water fish in its various lakes and
rivers, the rivers and streams in the project area are reported to contain some
tilapia. Children capture mudfish mainly during the dry season. Fishing is not an
activity undertaken by villagers. No reports of fish migration or other species
were reported in interviews.
Generally during the construction period there will be some habitat destruction
and disturbance causing the displacement of some species. However, since the
area for the proposed project is already highly cultivated and large mammals are
very rare, impacts due to change of land use will be low but long-term. In general,
animals which are less mobile (often small animals) or species requiring habitat
types with limited distribution will be more affected than larger and often more
mobile species.
6.2.4 Noise
In the construction activity of the power line there will be little or no concentrated
noise events, nor continuous activity at one location. However, there will be
increased noise levels for residents along the proposed route but this should be of
relatively short duration and therefore low impact.
6.2.5 Electromagnetic Fields
Placement of low-slung or lines near human activity (e.g. settlements) increases
the risk for electrocutions. However, technical guidelines for design ordinarily
minimise this hazard. Furthermore electric power distribution lines create
electromagnetic fields that are alleged to cause cancer, leukaemia and lymphoma.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0635



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
The impact of electromagnetic fields has. not been determined yet, but since the
proposed project consists of a low voltage line, the impact should be minimal.
6.3 Potential benefits
Electric poles often provide patches of passerine birds and as well as breeding
sites for both hole and open nesters. These impacts are considered small and
positive for these species.
6.4 Socio-economic impacts
6.4.1 Access Tracks And Traffic
The construction of distribution lines is generally carried out utilising motor
vehicles where access is reasonable and where access to each tower site can be
achieved by track road. In the case of the Bondo - Nebbi 33 kV line, not much of
the above will apply. First of all, the line should follow the road alignment of the
Arua - Nebbi Highway that is presently being widened and tarmacked. Secondly,
the line, according to survey report and drawing will have to fall strictly within
the road reserve which is 15 metres from the centre of the road to either side. This
will greatly minimise the construction of access roads thus reducing land take and
any impacts on sensitive ecological sites. Lay downs can be done within the road
reserve as well without any vehicles having to deliver them.
Traffic Impacts
The traffic issue deals with direct physical effects, for which there are a range of
measures that can be taken in order to minimise the potential for adverse impacts.
An assumption has been made that all the construction of the Bondo - Nebbi line
will be affected using motor vehicles. On the basis that the alignment of the
distribution line is made to follow the Arua - Nebbi Highway, vehicles used for
construction can stop along the Highway ad construction equipments and
materials are delivered by hand. This will greatly minimise potential impacts on
sensitive sites including farmland.
Obviously there are yet no details regarding the number of vehicles or types
required for the construction of the 33 kV distribution line. But it is also assumed
that UEB will use one big lorry and a few small vehicles to carry the poles, wires
and other materials which can comfortably be parked either by the road side or
within the 15 metre road radius of the road reserve. It is, therefore, difficult to
imagine the use of heavy - duty vehicles, such as mobile cranes at both the lay
down areas and the small tower connection sites. Traffic congestion is therefore
not anticipated, given that Arua - Nebbi Highway does not after all have heavy
traffic.
Otherwise with construction of distribution lines the main concern has been the
presence of large, relatively fast moving vehicles, passing through rural areas that
are not used to such equipment. In which case the main factors that needed to be
considered are: road capacity, safety of residents, structural integrity of roads and
sources of construction material. However, in the case of the Bondo - Nebbi
distribution, apart from the concern for safety of all road users and perhaps safety
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.Oi.03\l0:0636



-EMA & ECON-
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
of local residents, the other issues do not concern this project. Either ways the
impacts are insignificant.
6.4.2 Impacts On Land Use And Settlement
The study team understood from the company that is upgrading the Arua - Nebbi
Highway to a tarmac status, that compensation has been made to those who are
affected by the road project. That all those who have cultivated along the
Highway and would be affected by the road construction have been adequately
compensated. It is, therefore, the considered opinion of this study that UEB
constructs the line within the road reserve so that no more settlements and
cultivated land are affected. In any case cultivation of low growing crops is
permitted after installation of the line, so long as a 5 m access track under the line
is kept clear. Otherwise between pole 25 and 36 the line passes through Thatha
Trading Centre where at least 5 permanent settlements are found and will be
positively affected in terms of electricity supply. There is a restaurant/lodge,
which will benefit from the project. Between pole 36 - 55, there is the Namuthini
Primary School, which will also benefit from the line. Between pole 62 - 88, the
Owinyoper Trading Centre, a primary school and about 30 customers are potential
beneficiaries of the distribution line.
Anyiribu Trading Centre with about 4 permanent buildings and a primary school
is located between poles 88 - 109. At the Junction to Kango, development
potentials are visible once the line is constructed.
Between pole 109 and Bondo, which is the unsurveyed stretch, there exist a
cooperative society store, 3 up coming trading centres each with over 5 permanent
settlements. Amadudu Trading Centre, also has a primary school, and has seven
(7) potential customers for power supply.
The same stretch passes through Madi - Okollo County Headquarters, which has
about 30 permanent settlements. Here one homestead, which is anyway outside
the road reserve could be affected. The project can avoid this by re-aligning the
route to and restrict it within the road reserve.
At Ullepi that is specifically Esoli Eucharistic Centre, there is a Catholic Church
and some homesteads, which will benefit from the line.
At Zabu, there is the Zabu Primary School with permanent structures, which will
also benefit from the project. At Alibu Trading Centre, these are 4 permanent
settlements and a store, which belongs to Alibu Cooperative Society. These too
will benefit as well.
At Iriri, there are 15 potential customers to benefit from the distribution line
including a church and the Uganda Change Agent Organisation.
There is a Community Training Centre at Katiyi Trading Centre, a Primary
School, and offices of World Vision. All these are expected to benefit from the
distribution project.
Ullepi Parish has over 40 potential customers to benefit from the project. There is
the Ullepi Secondary and Primary Schools, the Catholic Mission, all within the
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0637



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
same vicinity. The routing to the Mission compound is likely to pass through a
football field, unless it is re-routed to avoid negative impact.
6.4.3 Visual Impacts
The landscape through which the Bondo - Nebbi line passes is rather a flat plain.
The landscape between poles 0 - 25 is urban and flat. There may be insignificant
impacts on this landscape character.
Between poles 25 and 36, the landscape character is again a flat plain with a
savannah type of grassland. No significant impacts are anticipated on this portion
of landscape.
As described earlier, the topography of this part of the world is mainly rolling
plains rising from the Nile floor in the Rift Valley (600 masl). The line runs
through the Madi Plateau, which is rather flat and gentle. It is usually cheaper to
design road align in such landscape character. Sine the distribution line will run
within the road reserve and follows the alignment of the existing road, visual
impairment effects will be minimal.
The study did not notice any steep terrain across which the line will pass. Again
the route generally follows the lower ground, so the influence on the landscape
character would be local and quite limited.
6.4.4 Impacts on Property
If the distribution line is constructed along the Arua - Nebbi Highway, it will pass
through the existing trading centres. But as discussed earlier, the line is expected
to be restricted within the road reserve unless, for economic reasons, UEB is
forced to construct it off the road alignment. Therefore, no property will be
affected. However, between poles 36 and 55, 3 eucalyptus woodlots belonging to
some residents in the area could be affected. Impacts can be minimised by re-
aligning the line to fall within the road reserve. Similar conditions will be
experienced between poles 55 and 62, 62 and 88 at Owinyoper, at Kanini between
poles 88 and 109, and where there are mango trees; At Katiyi Trading Centre,
there are a few eucalyptus trees close to the road as well and finally at Ullepi
Catholic Mission, trees including eucalyptus exist and could be affected by the
construction work. Some coffee plants belonging to the Mission are likely to be
affected. However, these impacts are very limited. Laura Forest Reserve, a
property of Arua District may also be affected unless the line is restricted to the
road reserve, within which, trees have been cut by the road construction company.
6.4.5 Employment
The study team learnt that the local community did not benefit from the
construction of the Arua - Bondo line because the contractor came with workers
from Kampala. The considered view of this study is that local people should be
given first priority when the Bondo - Nebbi line construction starts. Most of
those talked too are looking for employment opportunities especially the youth.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0638



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
The potential employment, even if small though number of local persons on the
construction of the 45 km stretch represents a significant, albeit short-term project
benefit.
The principal activities and number of operations associated with the construction
of the distribution line include: digging of holes, pulling of poles for unskilled
persons and wiring gangs. This may require at least 5 skilled persons.
The total number of persons particularly employed on the distribution line is 50 -
100 on site at any one time.
6.4.6 Health And Safety
The potential for acute effects of exposure to electromagnetic radiation (EMR)
frequencies is generally well established for distribution lines. There are however
regulations and intemational guidelines aimed at avoiding or limiting exposure,
which may affect both workers and members of the public. However, this often
applies with 50/60 H2 frequency of high voltage distribution lines. The Bondo -
Nebbi line is a 33 kV, low voltage line with minimum health effects.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0639



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
7 Proposed mitigation measures
NOTE: Due to the anticipated low impacts of this project, an EMP has not
been drawn up. Since the line route will follow the main road from Arua to
Nebbi, the environmental and social impacts of the line construction will be
greatly reduced compared to the original EIA report. A summary of
mitigation measures based on the reassessment report in Annex 2 and the
rest of this chapter, of which a Resettlement Action Plan clearly is the most
important, is provided as section 7.1 to this chapter.
7.1 Summary of mitigation measures
Some cost effective mitigation measures should be put in place to limit the
negative environmental and social impacts of the line construction and the
interim generator sets:
. Due to the low number of people affected, an abbreviated resettlement
action plan (RAP) should be drawn up in accordance with
Environmental and Social Management Framework for ERT projects.
The abbreviated RAP should be based on the Ministry of Energy's
compensation process, which includes a report by the Government
valuer, and be advised by an external resettlement/compensation
expert. The RAP should be submitted to and approved by relevant
Ugandan authorities and the World Bank. The RAP should take into
account the ongoing compensation process for the rehabilitation of the
road. This is to ensure that people who are affected by the stretches of
the line, which are in the road reserve are compensated fairly for
incremental impacts of the line over the impacts of the road. This
should be the responsibility of Ministry of Energy and Mineral
Development (MEMD).
. The construction of the line should to the extent possible avoid cutting
valuable trees, though balancing the risks these trees represent for the
line. The construction should generally be sensitive to people's
properties and land. This should be the responsibility of the line
builder, as specified in the tendering documents from MEMD. This
mitigation measure will be fulfilled through good engineering practice.
. The poles should be put securely and far enough down in the ground so
that they do not easily fall over and cause hazards and power
disruption. This should be the responsibility of the line builder, as
specified in the tendering documents from MEMD. The developer will
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0640



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
be required to build the line to certain minimum standards. This
mitigation measure will be fulfilled through good engineering practice.
Consideration should be given to fitting the distribution line with an
inexpensive type of bird diverter, eg markings or flappers (such as
those used by ESKOM of South Africa) or insulation material for the
stretches that passes the two small wetland habitats of River Ora and at
Namthin bridge. The operator of the line should be tasked with the
monitoring of bird migratory patterns to assess whether there is a risk
of these being affected. If they are clearly affected, the operator should
have a commitment to install the anti-collision devices. Some of these
anti-collision devices have proven up to a 100% effective in Southern
Africa, e.g. in the comparable case of protecting the Grey Crowned
Crane against collisions with 22kV lines
. Consideration should be given regarding the need for fitting the new
powerhouse in Arua with noise insulation material. This issue should be
discussed by MEMD/ERA with NEMA and URECL once his choice of
generator set design is finalised.
* Proper storage facilities for the heavy fuel oil should be put in place as
well as procedures for handling the transfer of fuel. This is the
responsibility of URECL, the preferred bidder for the West Nile
Electricity Project.
* Waste of various kinds both from the installation of the generator sets
and the construction of the line should be removed and disposed of in a
safe manner. This should be the responsibility of URECL and the line
builder, respectively.
. Noise and emission levels should be monitored in order to put measures
in place to reduce these if necessary. This should be the responsibility of
the District Environmental Officer of Arua in cooperation with NEMA.
* Monitoring of the progress with the line and the adherence to these
mitigation measures should be the responsibility of the District
Environmental Officers of Arua and Nebbi on the operational level,
with supervision from NEMA.
The costs of the mitigation measures, with the exception of the RAP, are
expected to be low and largely part of good engineering practice. NEMA will
have the overall responsibility for monitoring the overall progress, reg.
environmental and social issues, of the project. The main mitigation
measures and the their associated costs are summed up in the table below.
Table 7.1 Responsibilities and Costs Estimates for Implementation of
Mitigation Measures.
Issue         Mitigation Measure     Suggested      Estimated    Estimated
Responsibility  One-off costs  recurrent
for              (USS)       costs
implementation            (US5)Iyear)
Distribution line
Resettlement and  Implement RAP      Ministry  of See RAP (to be  See RAP (to
Compensation                         Energy          prepared)  be prepared)
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.01.03\10:0641



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Low impact line  Be sensitive to trees, people's  Line builder  Nornal good   Normal good
construction     properties & land                              engineering    engineering
practice       practice
Securely fasten  Make sure poles are put deep  Line builder    Normal good    Normal good
poles            enough into the ground so not                  engineering    engineering
to represent hazard                             practice       practice
Mitigate bird    Install anti-collision devices  Line builder    30,000*          1,000
impacts
Waste handling   Make sure waste is disposed of  Line builder     2,500          1,000
in a safe manner
Monitor progress  Inspect and observe adherence  District       Negligible     Negligible
with mitigation measures.    Environment
Officer
Generator sets
Noise control    Install insulation or noise fence  Uganda Rural  12,500          1,000
to reduce noise from generator  Electrification
set operations               Company Ltd
Oil handling to  Install proper oil storage   Uganda Rural        7,500          2,500
reduce spills    facilities and put in place  Electrification
procedures for fuel handling  Company Ltd
Waste handling   Make sure waste is disposed of  Uganda Rural   Negligible     Negligible
in a safe manner             Electrification
Company Ltd
Monitor progress  Site inspections to monitor  District         Negligible     Negligible
& record         emission and noise levels and  Environment
complaints       adherence to mitigation      Officer
measures. Keep record of public
complaints and instigate
necessary changes.
TOTAL                                        ____        _        52,500         5,500
* Based on an estimate by Endangered Wildlife Trust of South Africa
7.2 Erosion
It is unlikely that during construction of the line a lot of areas will be exposed to
agents of erosion through removal. However it is important that the area and time
of exposure of bare soil is minimised. The construction process is likely to move
quickly along the route, and it is recommended that where site restoration is
necessary the process includes re-planting the cleared area with grass in order to
prevent erosion in the short-term.
7.3 Access to the forest reserves in Arua
A potential impact arising from the construction of a distribution line is the
increased incidence of activities such as tree felling, charcoal buming and hunting
especially in the two forest reserves in Arua. This could however be mitigated by
aligning the distribution line in the present road reserve to avoid creating another
access route through the forest.
7.4 Vegetation
There is some concem that popular fruit trees may be cleared such as mangos and
pawpaws. Another concem is related to the protected species of Vitellaria
paradoxa ssp nilotica and Balanites aegyptiaeca that have various economic and
ecological values. Efforts should be directed in reducing the number of trees
removed in the process of building the line.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03U0:0642



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
7.5 Chronic effects of electromagnetic
radiation
At present there are no known guidelines or recommended levels of exposure by
any of the international or national regulatory authorities. It is therefore difficult
to make any firm suggestions that could be implemented to avoid any form of
potential effect. However it is suggested people should be prevented from
undertaking major activities directly beneath the distribution lines, even if the line
is a low voltage one.
7.6 Noise
The construction activity on the Bondo-Nebbi line is anticipated to be unlocalised
therefore it is not necessary to provide additional noise measures, other than to
ensure that all silencing equipment of vehicles and machinery, such as
compressors, are maintained in good working condition.
7.7 Access tracks and traffic impacts
As much s possible UEB should use the Arua - Nebbi Highway during
construction of the line. In the process of lay downs, the project developer should
minimise impacts to vegetation and crops cultivated close to the road reserve.
Workers should be properly instructed to minimise the amount of disturbance to
vegetation and cultivated land.
Presence of fast moving vehicles during construction of the line especially well
settled areas such as trading centres should be avoided.
Particular attention should be paid when it comes to trading centres like those in
Ullepi, Okollo, Owinyoper, Kango junction, Amadudu, Alibu and Iriri which have
the presence of school children, disabled persons and the aged. In consultation
with the respective district engineers humps should be provided at some sports to
avoid road safety risks. Roper signage for work in progress is also recommended.
7.8 Land use and settlements
To avoid further complications, UEB should restrict construction work within the
acceptable road reserve. This is because, settlements affected along the Arua -
Nebbi Highway because of the road construction have been paid compensation.
Only where UEB cannot avoid due to technical reasons, lines may pass through
some settlements and property, in which, local authorities and the communities
concerned should be properly consulted and reasonable agreements favouring all
sides are reached.
7.9 Visual influence
UEB should ensure that construction of towers and/or poles in relation to adjacent
land use especially in residential areas such as trading centres do not cause serious
visual impacts. This can be avoided by re-routing of lines.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0643
_U



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
7.10 Property rights
As said earlier, UEB should take advantage of compensation made by the current
road project and should ensure that destruction of property especially at trading
centres are avoided. Where it is inevitable like in the case of eucalyptus woodlots,
proper negotiation with the owners of such woodlots should be conducted and
realistic decisions made by the parties concerned.
7.11 Health and safety issues
UEB should work with the local authorities and communities to ensure that people
are prevented from undertaking major activities directly beneath the distribution
line.
As much as possible, UEB should ensure that no unauthorised activities, such as
construction or use of equipment, over the permitted heights specified in the
appropriate regulations and standards are used within the way leave areas.
As long as the way leave is respected, especially where situations may force the
developer to construct the line outside the road reserve, and resettlement is
prevented, then there should be no risks of acute effects arising from the
distribution line.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0644



I  EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Table 7.1         Effect Mitigation/Enhancement Matrix for Construction of
Distribution line (Bondo - Nebbi).
Sector Activity  Potential       Effects           Mitigation       Responsibility
Impacts:                          Measures
Negative
Impacts
Electricity      1. Land use     Vegetation        Restrict         UEB/Contractor
supply:                          destruction       alignment within
Construction of                                    the road reserve
Electricity
distribution lines;
Wayleaves,                       Deforestation     Alignment of     UEB/Contractor
laydowns,                                         line to be
digging holes for                                  restricted within
poles                                              the road
reserve/re-
routing
2. Road safety  Accidents         Humps to be      Road Construction
constructed at   Project
trading centres,
school and
churches
3. Flora        Loss of           If alignment     UEB/DEOs of
indigenous        cannot avoided   Arua/Nebbi
species           and destruction
caused,
indigenous
species to be
restored
Construction of  4. Health and    Vulnerability of  Supervise       District Local
the line, access  safety of public  children and the  construction  Governments of
roads for                         public in settled  work to ensure  Arua and
laydowns                          areas.           poles are firmly  Nebbi/UEB/
placed and wires  Contractor
are firm.
DEOs of
Closure          Arua/Nebbi
monitoring
during operation
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\10:0645



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
5. Visual        Loss of vision      Avoid use of   UEB
Intrusion                            shiny penstock
Construction   6. Displacement  Poverty/desperation  Re-routing or  UEB/ArualNebbi
of line off the  of people (i.e                     district       District Local
Road Reserve   houses+property)                     authorities of  Governments
due to                                              Nebbi and
economic and                                        Arua
technical                                           compensates
reasons                                             or relocates
affected
persons
B) Positive
Impacts
Completion of  7. Creation of   Improved income of  Provide non-   UEB/Contractor
Arua-Nebbi     unskilled jobs    local people       skilled jobs for
Distribution                                        local
line                                                communities
8. Connection of  Improved standard  Connect as     UEB/
Rural people on   of education welfare  many people  Concessionaire
the grid especially  and incomes     as possible
schools, churches
and business
premises
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised veT2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0646



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
8 References
Arua District Local Government (2000) District Development Plan, 2000/01 -
2002/03. Volume I: Policy Framework.
Arua District Local Government: District Environment Action Plan Secretariat.
The District Environment Action Plan for Arua District, 2001 - 2005.
Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment 2000. The Uganda Forestry Policy,
Kampala, Uganda.
National Environment Action Plan Secretariat. The National Environment Action
Plan for Uganda. 1995.
Nebbi District Local Government (2001). 3 Year Development Plan (2001/2002 -
2003/2004) Volume Two: Project Profiles.
NEMA (1997) District Environment Profile
NEMA (2001) State of Environment Report for Uganda, 2000/2001.
Stubblefield, L. (ed) 1993. Ajai Game reserve, Uganda. Preliminary results of the
Frontier Uganda, Bilogical Assessment.
WS Atkins International Ltd., 1999. Bujagali Hydroelectric Power Project.
Connection to the 132 kV Distribution Network: Environmental Impact
Statement.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0647



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Annex 1: List of persons
consulted
1. Eng. Moses Murengezi, Assistant Commissioner (Electrical Power) Ministry
of Energy and Mineral Development.
2. Eng. Gerald Muganga, Manager Engineering (Services), Uganda Electricity
Transmission Company Ltd.
3. Mr. George Ambe, Vice Chairman LC V Arua District
4. Eng. Lawrence Pario - District Engineer Arua District.
5. Mr, Stanly Acrabo - Deputy CAO Arua District.
6. Mrs. Aciferu Christine, Deputy Speaker Arua District.
7. Eng. Swali Rajabo, UEB Manager Arua/Nebbi
8. Mr. Betele John in-charge UEB, Nebbi.
9. Mr. Fred Onyai District Environment Officer, Nebbi.
10. Mr. Nathan Ahimbisibwe, Assistant CAO, Nebbi District.
11. Mr. Sam Ogenyi Rwoth, CAO, Nebbi
12. Eng. Munduga Gideon - SBI - Road Construction - Arua - Nebbi Highway.
ELA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\10:0648



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Annex 2: EIA revision due to
line route change
WEST NILE ELECTRICITY SUPPLY PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT RE-ASSESSMENT REPORT
Part Im: Report on the impacts of Bondo-Nebbi distribution line following the
decided route
By ema consult limited
November, 2002
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.01.03\10:0649



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Introduction
By the time the Environmental Impact Assessment for the Bondo - Nebbi
Distribution Line was conducted; a survey of the route was not yet completed
therefore a lot of assumptions were made over environmental concerns of the line.
However, due to the urgency involved in the implementation of the West Nile
Electricity Project (WNESP), Uganda Electricity Transmission Company has
finally completed the survey work and the bidding process for the construction of
the line is in progress. It was therefore important that re-assessment is done to
critically address issues that could not be otherwise addressed due to the
incomplete survey work. Three major issues were looked at during this re-
assessment study, which included resettlement, sensitive ecological sites and
archaeological concerns.
This section discusses impacts on land use and settlement between Bondo and
Nebbi.
Impacts on Land Use and Settlement from the line
The distribution line will follow the Arua - Nebbi road alignment, as marked on
the map in Annex 3. However, for technical reasons, the line goes off the road
alignment at some points (see Annex 5 for an estimate of how much of the line
will be within the road reserve). Nonetheless, no serious environmental concerns
have been identified in the direct impact areas.
Compensation of people affected by the upgrading of Arua-Nebbi Highway is on
going (see Annex 4 for excerpts from the compensation process report).
Consultation with the Road Agency Formation Unit (RAFU), Land Officers in
Nebbi and Arua, and Solen Bonne International (SBI), the Company that is
constructing the Highway, indicates that affected people are being compensated
for loss of properties. RAFU, has channeled money for compensation to SBI and
the exercise is being supervised by the Land Officers of the respective districts.
The conclusion of this study is that there will be no adverse impact of the project
on land use and settlements in the project area. No farmland will be taken by the
project. However, a few settlements are likely to be affected as well as a
eucalyptus plantation and other valuable trees. This is presented below:
The assessment report is discussed village by village. The village is the lowest
administrative unit in the Movement Government System; the political system of
Uganda. Some of these villages are marked on the map in Annex 3.
Tata Village
Tata village is the first village assessed. There is also a trading centre within this
village. While no serious environmental impacts are anticipated at this point, 5
homesteads were identified. The distribution line will pass high above the grass-
thatched houses with no negative impacts on them.
Atiak Village
At Atiak village, there is a eucalyptus woodlot through which the line will pass.
This plantation will be affected since it falls within the Right of Way. Clearly, part
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.01.03\l0:0650



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
of the woodlot will have to be cleared to give way for the electricity line, causing
a negative impact to an area planted by trees to provide firewood, poles and
income while enhancing environmental conditions.
Namthin Primary School
The line will pass near Namtin Primary School, which is located 300 metres off
the Arua-Nebbi Highway. The construction and operation of the line will result in
cutting down of more than five mango trees, which is a source of food and income
for this community. This is a negative impact of the project on this environment.
Namtin Bridge
Near Namtin Bridge, which is presently being constructed by the Arua- Nebbi
road project, a eucalyptus woodlot belonging to one Rev. Elea Onika will be
affected. Parts of the woodlot fall within the ROW and must be cleared to give
way to the line. The impact is negative in the sense that it will affect fuel wood
and income supply to the household.
Aryek Growers Cooperative Society Store
At this point 5 mangoes and 10 eucalyptus trees exist. More than six of these trees
will be cleared to allow the distribution line to pass. The line will also pass
through a homestead, affecting 2 thatched huts, which should be relocated further
in-wards. The project will affect food patterns, as well as settlement and the
ecosystem of the area. However, the household has adequate land at the backyard
where the two affected huts will be relocated.
Patek Village
In this village, the pole will be constructed on the plot where a hut existed until
recently when the owner voluntarily relocated it to his backyard where there was
available land.
Omyer Primary School
The line will pass behind the primary school without causing any major
environmental problems. However, before reaching the school compound, it
passes through a sensitive ecological zone where there is a small natural forest of
Shea trees. More than 3 of these trees will be cut down. This has impacts both on
the eco-systems and food situation. Shear Tree is a source of food and oil in the
area.
Kangu Village
While the line will not affect settlements, it will affect trees of indigenous nature
including Shea. Same impacts as above are anticipated. At least five trees are
likely to be affected.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised vcr2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0651



-EMA & ECON_
Environmental Impact Statement for BondoNebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Okollo County Trading Centre
At this point only positive impacts of the project is observed. The line will
provide the badly needed electrical power in the area to provide lighting and other
energy needs.
However, immediately after this point, there exists the Kau forest. The Surveyors
of the line have already cut down trees of indigenous species to create the Right of
Way. The impacts are mainly ecological in nature and though negative are not
severe.
Kathi Onduka Village
In Kathi Onduka Village, one mango tree will be cut down. This will result in loss
of food and income for the owners of the tree.
Iriiri Village
At this point the line will affect two huts. The huts will have to be relocated to
ample land in the vicinity.
Uleppi Trading Centre
Here the power line will affect a permanent house and a mango tree. Both the
house and the tree belong to one Mr. Safi Nasur. The house is a business premise
while the mango tree is for both food and income. The house will be relocated
while the tree will be lost causing loss of food and income as well as involuntary
relocation of property.
Within the same area is a eucalyptus plantation through which the line will pass.
The Right of Way will pass through the woodlot, which is planted for fuel wood
and poles. The negative impact is on energy, income and the ecology.
Clearly, no farmland will be taken by the construction of the Bondo - Nebbi
Distribution Line. Impacts of the project will be limited to settlements and
properties such as valuable trees. However, vegetation will be cleared but this will
be within the Right of Way (ROW).
Ecological and bird impacts of the line
The line passes along, and for most of the stretch very close to, a major road. The
incremental ecological impacts from the line, given that the road is already there,
are likely to be small. The ecological and biodiversity values of the proposed line
corridor, and the adjacent area, are relatively low.
As described above, the line passes through some woodlots, bush land and
individual fruit trees. These impacts are mainly economic in that some fruit, and
wood for building and cooking are lost. Many of the ecological impacts described
in Chapter 6 of this report are now reduced due to the new line route.
Regarding bird impacts, Dr Christine Dranzoa, of Makerere University in
Kampala, Chris van Royen of Endangered Wildlife Trust of South Africa, Peter
Nelson of Corporate Environmental Affairs of ESKOM, South Africa, have been
consulted. The latter two have broad experience of impacts on (and mitigation) of
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.01.03\1O:0652
l



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
transmission and distribution lines on bird populations. This section supplements
and updates section 6.2.3 of this report.
The three main impacts of transmission/distribution lines on birds, and the
relevance for this project, are:
Habitat destruction and human disturbance: Due to the rerouting of the line
along the main road, no destruction of important habitats for birds will
occur. However, some woodlots and individual trees will be removed, as
described above. Since most of the bird species recorded in the project area
are common and widely distributed, the clearing of vegetation along the
corridor is unlikely to cause major impacts on these species' habitats.
Further, the only near-threatened species recorded in the wider region, the
Black Crowned Crane, has its home range in wetlands, a type of habitat
which is not very common in the project area. The distribution line passes
two small wetland areas. These are at Namthin bridge where there is an
eucalyptus woodlot and just outside Ulepi trading centre before it crosses
River Nyagak, which is known in the area as River Ora. Black Crowned
Cranes are not a common sight in this particular habitat, which was
confirmed by the local communities the EA team talked to. It is therefore
unlikely that this particular family of birds will traverse the planned
distribution line at this point (or indeed then at any other point along the
line). Regarding human disturbance, it is to some extent already present in
the area along the road, so the line should not in the short term increase the
impacts of human disturbance on bird populations.
. Collisions: Birds may often collide with transmission/distribution lines
resulting in injuries or death. Some species are more susceptible to
collisions than others, but such information has not been available for the
project area. The most important factor in determining the collision impacts,
are the location of the line in respect to the roosting and breeding sites of
birds. Since the most threatened species, the Black Crowned Crane, does not
have its most typical habitat in the project area, the location of the line may
therefore not increase the number of collisions significantly for this
particular species. The type of line may also be important for the extent of
impacts. The line in question is single, at a height of 10 meters above
ground using wooden poles. This 33kV line is likely to have lower impacts
on birds than more extensive, multiple transmission lines using large metal
tower constructions at a height, which may more severely interrupt birds'
migratory patterns. Further, other bird species tend to fly below the height
of 10 meters when moving around the savannah and bush land habitats.
Those birds that fly high, normally take off from trees, which are often
higher than the distribution line. In the long term, however, the presence of
a distribution line may change the flight and roosting patterns of the birds in
the area. Consultation with local people has not resulted in any reported bird
collisions or injuries from the first section of the line form Arua to Nebbi.
Further, some stretches of the line will pass through villages and trading
centres, where the incremental impacts on birds from another human built
structure is low. If the distribution line does turn out to give unexpected rise
in bird deaths/injuries due to collisions, (up to a 100%) effective mitigation
measures are known and available (see below).
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0653



EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Electrocutions: Large birds of prey are most commonly electrocuted on
power lines. Relevant bird species in the project area for this type of impact
are for example the Lappet-faced Vulture and the Martial Eagle, none of
which are directly threatened. Further, the near-threatened Black Crested
Crane lives in wetland habitats and is unlikely to be at risk of electrocutions.
Due to the type of line under consideration (low height, single line, few
options for electrocutions) and the area it passes through it is likely that this
impact will be relatively low.
There is a risk that some common species of birds may be affected by the power
line, mostly through collisions with the power line. This impact is likely to be low
negative, and may, if impacts are unexpectedly large, be mitigated (see below).
Impacts of installation and operation of generator sets in Arua
The new generator sets in Arua town will potentially have low negative
environmental and social impacts, and high positive impacts through the
generation of 18hours a day electricity as compared with 4hours at present.
Impacts are summarised below:
. Some noise and disturbance during installation, both from the construction
of a bigger power house, the installation of the generator sets, the transport
of parts etc.
* Some noise during operation can be expected, both from operation of
generator sets and from transport of fuel. The new generator sets are likely
to be less noisy than the old ones, though running for 18 hours (rather than
4) (including some hours at night). These impacts will be limited to 14
months, when the hydro station takes over. After that the generator sets will
generally be used during peak demand (ie. daytime).
• It is important to note that the centralised power generation will replace the
supply from many privately owned, small and less efficient diesel generator
sets, which result in both emissions to air and noise.
. Some emissions to air from heavy fuel oil combustion. The new generator
sets are more efficient than the old ones, but will run for longer and use
heavy fuel oil rather than diesel. The total emissions in Arua from power
generation may not go up for some years, since the new generator sets are
more efficient than all the small privately owned generator sets they will
initially replace.
* Some risk of fuel oil spills from the transfer of oil from the tank lorry to the
permanent storage to the generator sets.
. Some waste from construction and upgrading of powerhouse, some
increased transport of fuel to Arua.
* The generator sets will be up and running within 10 months of the contract
signature of the preferred bidder, URECL, for the electricity licence. The
installation of generator sets is a response to a strong local need for
electricity as soon as possible. Therefore, the installation of generator sets
will give a high positive impact.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.Ol.03\l0:0654
=



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Mitigation measures for both elements
However, some cost effective mitigation measures should be put in place to limit
the negative environmental and social impacts:
. Due to the low number of people affected, an abbreviated resettlement
action plan (RAP) should be drawn up in accordance with Environmental
and Social Management Framework for ERT projects. The abbreviated RAP
should be based on the Ministry of Energy's compensation process, which
includes a report by the Government valuer, and be advised by an external
resettlement/compensation expert. The RAP should be submitted to and
approved by relevant Ugandan authorities and the World Bank. The RAP
should take into account the ongoing compensation process for the
rehabilitation of the road. This is to ensure that people who are affected by
the stretches of the line, which are in the road reserve are compensated
fairly for incremental impacts of the line over the impacts of the road. A
preliminary survey of number of people and amount of land affected is
given in the table below.
. The construction of the line should to the extent possible avoid cutting
valuable trees, though balancing the risks these trees represent for the line.
The construction should generally be sensitive to people's properties and
land.
* The poles should be put securely and far enough down in the ground so that
they do not easily fall over and cause hazards and power disruption.
. Consideration should be given to fitting the distribution line with an
inexpensive type of bird diverter, eg markings or flappers (such as those
used by ESKOM of South Africa) or insulation material for the stretches
that passes the two small wetland habitats of River Ora and at Namthin
bridge. The operator of the line should be tasked with the monitoring of bird
migratory patterns to assess whether there is a risk of these being affected. If
they are clearly affected, the operator should have a commitment to install
the anti-collision devices. Some of these anti-collision devices have proven
up to a 100% effective in Southern Africa, eg in the comparable case of
protecting the Grey Crowned Cranes against collisions with 22kV lines.
* Consideration should be given regarding the need for fitting the new
powerhouse in Arua with noise insulation material. This issue should be
discussed with the developer once his choice of generator set design is
finalised.
. Proper storage facilities for the heavy fuel oil should be put in place as well
as procedures for handling the transfer of fuel.
* Waste of various kinds both from the installation of the generator sets and
the construction of the line should be removed and disposed of in a safe
manner.
. Noise and emission levels should be monitored in order to put measures in
place to reduce these if necessary.
These mitigation measures have been assigned responsibilities in Chapter 7.1 of
this report.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0655



l                                          .           - EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Table 1:   Properties for Compensation due to Bondo-Nebbi Distribution Line
Construction
Place               Items                Quality             Ownership
Atiak Village        1. Eucalyptus       10 trees            Private
Namthin Primary     1. Mango             5 tree              School
School              2. Eucalyptus        > 10               Rev. Elea Onika
Aryek Growers        1. Mango            2                   Private
Cooperative Society  2. Eucalyptus       40                 Private
Stores
3. Huts             2                   Private
Patek village        1. Hut              I                   Private
Omyer Primary        I . Shea trees      3                  District/ Public
School
Kangu Village.       1. Shea Trees       > 5                 Public
2. Other trees      > 3                 Public
Okollo Trading       I. Forest Reserve   > 20                District /Public
Centre
Kathi Onduka         1. Mango            I                   Private
Village
Iriiri Village       1. Huts             2                   Private
Ulepi Trading       1. Permanent House   I                   Private
Centre              2. Mango             I                   Private
3. Eucalyptus       > 10                Private
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0656



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Annex 3: Line route map
P.O. Box 7625         Phone: +256 41 233433/4
Kampala, Uganda       Fax: +256 41 341789
Plot 29/33, Kampala Rd  Email: transcoVuetcl com              _
Amber House~~6                         0    *
GMIAH/MOE/51/08
29 August 2002
The Permanent Secretary
Ministrn of Energy and Mineral Development
P.O.BOX 7270
KANIVPALA
CONSULTANCY SERVICES ON THE ARUA - NEBBI 33 kV LINE -
SURVEY REPORT
We arc pleased to submil to you the Survey Report as pant of the requiremcnts for the
contract for Consultancy Services for the Arua - Nebbi 33kV line.
The Survc-v and pegging of the line was carried out by the Planning section from I 9V'
July to 12& August 02.
The report has been presented in tcxt form, route maps and graphs in separate
volumes.
We hope that tihis report will go a long way in laying ground for the completion of the
project.
Managing Director.
EtA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.Ol.03\l0:0657



~EMA &ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission, line, Uganda - DRAFT -
I  I               W                     -    *---           K~~~      ~  ~~~-  -  --  b-            -r 
. m H **             . r                                                     -_7_
; ~ ~~~~~ ~                                            , e - e=.  
*e4z.  "'~'':-~        .
-C ~ ~~
r , 6 ~_ _ _ t _                                    _.
rnY
~~ - -  s  Z  i  O a 5              ;         |~~- 
-  I r7i  ......  ,_A                            *-       -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. _ -* l---. -                .   _ .
-'V..  _r____
¢   t  w       -           _  r             ' ' |                 r        _ 
CONTE)      O       E                     r      I
EIA Bondo.Nebbi line (revised vcr2).d0C\pL\0q,.0 .0r\j ,6r
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2) doc\PL\09 0! 03\I0 0658



-EMA & ECON    lie-Jad   PF 
Environmenta Iimpact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmissio line, Ugamda - DnAFT -
';~~~ ~  ~~~ .     . *. rI *.-..* ;;. ..  - :    -_
,_ ~ ~ ~ A _  _* r_*. . -   _.,.'                 ,
-It                A .   .   .  A 
_ _ _ _ : _ _ ~~.         _      _  _e_A 
H~ ~ ~~~~~~~~AA I     .  .r ,,   _ .,  -I,  .  ..'
4- ~  ~                      -
J     ,rS                 -   -L
iiK;                             ..  .,  .1
As     _A             A~ .A     ;t,I ~   e  '   ~   R
EIA Bonda-Nebbilinc(evisedAvcr2).docUL\09.01,03\10:06S9
0 ~~    -
2~~
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
m
EtA Bondo-Ncbbi line (revised ver2) dOCXPL\09 01 03\l0O:W9



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
5-        j A'.-=2|  ,-M |r. J  .                   I;L2.... 
*     r.                 ,   r -   . I     --- <-.
r            r  r.  .  :.   ;i  ,,r , I 
p~ ~   ~   ~  b r  .r                 =
M-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x *I                i    -.-*
,   ~~.      .-       .- ,. -   - ---
- , _.         ....  --- -.
.. ' ~~~ > AS ':; ;; - *'  , z  -z  O~~~..  I
W~~~~~~~~~~ -
X e aS ~~~~0                      __         _ 9 .t
E B o  Cb pi ri  r  <dv  92doPL0013\060
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (re,vised ver2).doc\PL\09.01.03\10:0660



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
.~~~ ~~~~~ -  -                                 .4. ,.  ,z S 
.   :- .'          .~ <'L 7-,.-'             S      [
'-;~~ ~~    ~    ~ '.                           * '-         -- ;  ;.  * - '- ; , A
..
4-,,, C.-.,. ,,    .
=S,~~~~~~~~~~ .4---; 
_ -  -                                X':.'.S.t.. 7-,
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (rcvised ve2).doc\PL090103100661 :  '-:
-~ *                  1.5.    -         ) ; -o' 
; ~~'J          '       X  I  '   *  "   '.  . *~' ;v-  .. L-., ,  - 
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.01.03\10:0661



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Annex 4: Compensation process
for road upgrade
Short stretches of the distribution line between Bondo and Nebbi are planned to
be within the road reserve of the newly upgraded road from Nebbi to Arua.
Excerpts from the report on the ongoing compensation process for the people
affected by the Arua-Nebbi road rehabilitation project, are provided below. The
report has been obtained from the Road Agency Formation Unit (RAFU). The
report was written by East African Consulting Surveyors and Valuers Chartered
Surveyors.
Part 1: Inspection and Valuation Report
Valuation Estimates for Compensation of Land and developments along the
proposed 85 Km Road, Nebbi- Arua. For the Ministry of Works, Housing and
Communication. RAFU Road Development Programme Phase I Project (RDPPI)
By Norconsult as in association with East African Consulting Surveyors and
Valuers.
Scope of Work
* Inspect and value all interests in land along a corridor of approximately 85
Km long from Nebbi to Arua in a bid to establish the level of
compensation to the claimants.
The relevant legislation that affects this valuation includes:
* The Constitution of the Republic of Uganda 1995,
* The Land Act 1998
* The Land Regulations 2000/01
The route goes through the districts of Nebbi and Arua
The total compensation along this route is broken down as follows:
CROPS            LAND              IMPROVEMENTS       BUILDINGS
94,676,210       466,173,835       3,327,060          76,846,480
TOTAL            641,023,585
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0 .03\J0:0662



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Observations of developments along the corridors:
a)    There are cases where the road reserve is only a metre or so from
outside the building /house
b)    Cases where the reserve line just "kisses" the external verandah of the
building /house
c)    Cases where the reserve line takes the whole verandah
d)    Cases where the reserve line takes in the whole building /house
e)    Cases where the reserve line only affects the commercial building in
front of a residence or a residential room at the rear.
f)    Cases where the development is in the road reserve but will not
necessarily be affected when the road is built
g)    Cases where the development is outside the reserve but will suffer
"injurious affection"
h)    Cases, which fall under the Town and country planning legislation
The survey also clearly shows public utility properties, which are affected and
these have to be relocated elsewhere within the community or appropriate place to
continue serving the community. These include electricity poles and sub-stations;
wells and stand pipes for portable water; clinics and churches.
A survey has already been done to record all crops including perennial crops,
which were damaged in the process of corridor line and co-ordinance survey.
A thorough survey has been made and a record of all-perennial crops and trees
within the 30 metre road corridor belonging to all the affected people. (please note
that parts of the corridor are 20 metres).
Valuation Methodology
The valuation methodology is based on the domestic local law which
methodology has been slightly adjusted to meet the World Bank standards.
Houses and Other Structures
The present market cost of the materials to build a replacement structure within an
area and quality similar to the affected, plus the cost of transportation of building
materials to the construction site, plus the cost of labour and construction fees.
Urban Areas
The valuation of buildings, houses and other structures not included in the District
compensation roles was based on the open market values on comparison basis
with similar properties recently sold in urban areas.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0663



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Crops
The valuation of perennial crops, improved pastures, fruit trees, medicinal herbs,
forest trees and temporary and semi permanent buildings/houses and shelters,
hedges is provided under the approved Current District Compensation rates as set
out and computed by the District Land Board.
Witnesses
The identification of the owners, measurements of the plots, and buildings
records, of crops and other affected properties is demarcated by the surveyors
witnessed by the LC members and confirmed by the Land registry records where
the land is registered.
Resettlement
The nature and character of the affected persons on the road development projects
runs across many communities of various economic standings and across many
cultures. The affected land area is usually small and in narrow strips. Most
affected people would have come nearer the road to set up business premises
especially in trading centres and towns. Some of these business premises have
barely basic lining rooms, mainly for security of their business property. In most
cases the affected persons have permanent houses elsewhere. The road
programme would only affect business premises and therefore there would be no
need to relocate them to another site.
Part 2: Excerpts from Report 2
Below are excerpts from report 2: the Compensation Plan and Schedule for people
affected by the upgrading of Arua - Nebbi Road. Obtained from Road Agency
Formation Unit (RAFU).
Land Expropriation and Compensation of Affected Properties on proposed RDPPI
Projects. Consultancy services.
RDPP HW/C002:            Nebbi to Arua Road
Resettlement Action Plan:  Draft Report August 2002
Norconsult for Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications
Road Agency Formation Units (RAFU)
Addendum No. 1
Resettlement Action Plan for Nebbi to Arua Road
Implementation of Resettlement /Compensation
Implementation Arrangements
RAFU will do the overall supervision and monitoring of the resettlement process.
Arrangements have been put in place whereby the constructor will be responsible
for disbursement of funds to the PAPs at established centres at district level. The
District Verification and Compensation Committee will assist the constructor.
ELA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0664



-EMA & ECON-
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
The arrangement is hoped will give the PAPs enough time to relocate since the
constructor will be abreast of payment schedules hence will accordingly direct
civil works along the road.
Time schedule and summary of activities
Time scale for the resettlement process is estimated to take eight (8) weeks. This
takes into account important variables such as resolution of conflicts and
grievances and cash flow from GoU/RAFU to the contractors. Time schedule and
summary of activities is presented in the table below.
Activities          Schedule in
weeks from
commencement
S
Deposit of  I    3  2               3     4     5      6      7     8
lists of PAPs
in the district
and verification
Resolution of conflicts
and grievances        xxxxxxx xxx xxx xxxxxxx xxx xxx xxxxxxxx
GoU/RAFU
disbursement of funds
to the constructor
Issue notice of eviction
to PAPs accompanied                   ,                 cc ,,C,,,
toPAPsaccmpanied            xxxxx~xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx|
by payment
Relocation by PAPs
xx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Progress weekly field
reports to RAFU    ~          ,~,,     ~,~,,,,,          ,        , 
reprt toRAU      x xxxx xxx xxxx xxx xxx xx x xxxxx xxx x xxxx|
Monitoring and Evaluation
This is important to provide RAFU with a feedback of the resettlement process.
RAFU will carry out an in-house monitoring or contract to a consultant as
independent monitor to ensure complete and objectives information. The
proposed program is given in the log frame below and is based or the propose
implementation schedule.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0665



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Activity          Responsibility  Indicators  Means         Targeted
/Services of  Achievements
Verification  in weeks from
commencement
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8
Finalization of   RAFU          Number and    Records/maps
PAPs lists                      categories
Final lists of    RAFU
displaced persons
Number and    Records
categories
Compensation      RAFU          Effectiveness  Reports and
payments                        of            records           xxxxx|
compensation  indicating
payments and  specific
procedures   payments
Site Selection    RAP/RAFU *    Number of     Field visits
site         and report
Site development  PAP/RAFU *    Number and    Field site
state         observation
and report
Relocation/Shifting  PAP/RAFU *  Access to    Records and
vacate sites  reports           EK
Revenue           PAP/RAFU      Agri output   Home visit
restoration plan                and income    and report
of affected
people       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Resettlement Budget
Component Compensation Costs
The component costs of compensation for cases of imperious affection (properties
not in the road reserves but could be affected by the road works) will be computed
and will include the following:
* Compensation for land
* Compensation for crops
* Compensation for assets
* 15% or 30% disturbance allowance depending on notice given
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.01.03\10:0666



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Annex 5: Estimated share of line
within road reserve
The below correspondence with the Director of UETCL provides their estimate of
the share of the line which will be within the road reserve of the newly
rehabilitated road from Arua to Nebbi.
Subject:     Line from Bondo to Nebbi in road reserve?
Please refer to the survey report submitted to the Ministry of Energy and Mineral
Development about the above line and your e-mail of Tuesday September 10'
2002 about the above subject.
Part of the report was a set of maps showing the remaining part of the 33kV
Bondo-Nebbi at a scale of 1:5000.
On the above maps, a road reserve of 15 metres would be very close to the road.
However on the maps, the line route is clearly far from the road in most places
and therefore outside the road reserve.
The extent of the line in the road reserve is hereby summarized as follows:-
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0667
l



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
SECTION                             FROM       TO POLE     LENGTH IN
POLE NO. NO.           ROAD
RESERVE
(METRES)
BONDO - NDUBU                        27         29          100
37         39          120
79                    240
83                     1700
NDUBU-ANYARIBU                       207        210         300
236        247         1150
260        265        470
284        286      X200
317        324         710
339        344         520
360        364         380
ANYARIBU-NEBBI                       458        460         180
465        472         550
475        489         1200
Total length of line falling within the road reserve is approximately 8km.
For the part of the line to be upgraded from I IkV to 33kV, most parts are within
the road reserve. This part might not need an EIA since the construction of this
part will follow the existing line route.
The rest of the route is outside the road reserve.
Regards,
Eriasi Kiyemba
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised vcr2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0668
U 



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Annex 6: Record of consultation
meetings & disclosure of
information
Below is a description and record of the consultation process for the West Nile
Electrification Project. The annex was also part of the EIA report for Nyagak. The
consultation process in both districts have concerned all three components of the
project:
* Nyagak and Olewa mini hydros
* Interim Generator sets in Arua
* Distribution line from Arua to Nebbi
Description of the consultation process
The West Nile hydropower project has a long history, at least back to 1995, but
possibly before that. The previous three environmental and social assessment
studies that have been carried out have involved public consultations, both locally
and with central authorities. NORPLAN (2001), for instance, conducted its own
extensive consultations. A list of people consulted is provided in the appendix C
to that report. Further, NORPLAN (2001) identified and reviewed two important
consultation studies conducted earlier.
The first, conducted by a local NGO, CEFORD (Community Empowerment for
Rural Development), involved discussions with local and district officials,
communities and consultants involved in the project. The CEFORD consultation
report clearly outlines the demand and eagerness of the people of the West Nile
for a reliable electricity supply (NORPLAN 2001: p3-1 1). Further, NORPLAN
(2001 :p3- 11) sums up the results of the report: "There are high expectations from
the district government level to stakeholders on the ground although there are
certain steps in coordination and planning that need to be carried through for a
successful project outcome. Interviews with affected persons at the site revealed
that those interviewed welcomed the project as a development opportunity. Those
in the way of the proposed access roads did not mind relocating in other fields in
the vicinity so long as they received adequate compensation. It appears that the
people prefer to remain in the project area since they expect employment,
electricity and a general economic development from the project."
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.01.03\l0:0669



- EMA & ECON
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
The second consultation study, included specific questionnaires about the project
included in the surveys undertaken by the District Planning Unit, as part of the
District Development Report (June 2000).
Further, several World Bank and PCF teams have visited the districts of Nebbi
and Arua over the last few years as part of the project appraisal processes. These
visits have, as far as ECON understands, involved both site visits and consultation
meetings with local authorities and representatives.
ECON first got involved in the West Nile project in November 2601, and has
maintained a close and frequent liaison with local people in Nebbi (and Arua)
since then. As part of ECON's team Mike Bess, a rural energy expert who had
been involved in consultation processes in connection with PCF, has represented
the continuity in our relationship with local stakeholders. Our Kampala-based
project coordinator, Henrik Lindhjem, has frequently visited the area for
consultation and information purposes with representatives from the Ministry of
Energy, Electricity Regulatory Autority, members of the transaction advisor team
and on one occasion with potential investors. Further, EMA, the Ugandan
consultants that have been in charge of carrying out a proper EIA process, have
actively consulted with local and central (NEMA and other) stakeholders
throughout the EIA process.
The Local Councils at the village level (LC I and LC II) and the villagers are well
organised. During the site visits, the LC officials mobilised villagers for
consultations and they have established good co-operative arrangements. The
visits to the area have involved both meetings with local government and
administrative representatives in Nebbi and Paidha, site visits accompanied by
local stakeholders, but also included open meetings with representatives from
traditional community structures (e.g. village chiefs), women groups, NGOs, local
religious leaders (e.g. bishop), business community etc.
Most people speak English well in the area, which has facilitated communication
and consultations enormously. In the cases where people have not spoken English
well, translations were conducted by local officials or communication was done
by local Ugandan members of the transaction advisor team (EMA) with
knowledge of the language of the area.
Further, ECON subcontracted EMA to carry out the necessary EIA work for the
project. This work, which included two fieldtrips to the area, has involved
extensive consultations with affected local people in the immediate project area
(reg. compensation and mitigation issues) as well as local government and
traditional village representatives. EMA has also thoroughly consulted and
requested advice from central authorities relevant to the project, particularly
NEMA and DWD.
In addition, Electricity Regulatory Authority and the Ministry of Energy and
Mineral Development have organised public meetings in the area, independently
of ECON's involvement.
Lastly, communication has been frequent with the local UEB representative who
is in charge of running the present electrical system in Arua and Nebbi Districts.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\10:0670



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
He has been an important source of information for local people and has
facilitated consultation and information sharing all through the project. Since the
project has a high profile and is generally considered important to the two
districts, the local governments in the two districts have chosen their top
representatives/officals to be in charge of project liason (eg. The Assistant Chief
Administrative Officer (CAO) in Nebbi and the Deputy Chairman in Arua).
Assessment of the need for further consultations
It is ECON and EMA's clear view that the consultation before ECON started its
involvement had already been extensive and thorough. ECON continued the close
and frequent liason from the start of our involvement in November 2001. There is
an enormous interest in the project locally and the clear message conveyed
through the consultation process is a strong eagerness to see the project go ahead.
The consultation saturation point for local people may, in our opinion, be
exceeded.
The development of the resettlement plan, and the strengthening of the EMP,
should, in our view, conclude the pre-project-development consultation process.
Record of local meetings
The first section of this annex provided a general description of the consultation
process regarding the West Nile Electricity Project, as far back as is known by
ECON. To our knowledge there are no offical records of the meetings that have
taken place before ECON's involvement commenced in November 2001, except
for what is documented in the various EIA studies. Further, official minutes of
meetings and detailed lists of participants since Nov. 2001 have not been written
down by ECON. These records may, however, be kept locally.
Below is provided the record of local meetings since Nov. 2001; the date, place,
duration, types (and if avaialable, names) of participants and purpose of visits to
West Nile. In addition to the physical meetings, which are presented below, local
government and administrative officals were frequently consulted over the phone
(the mobile phone operator MTN has transformed communication to the area) or
through written communication. Only meetings of relevance to the Nyagak
project are listed, and the range of meetings/consultations with central
stakeholders (NEMA, Directorate of Water, MEMD and others) are not
mentioned here.
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\10:0671



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Borndo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
Table        Record of local consultation meetings since Nov. 2001
Date       Place        Purpose          Duration  Participants
Nov        Nebbi Town, Site              2 days    Local Council Chairmen,
Local govt.  familiarisation and        Chief and Administrative
main meeting local consultation         Officers, other administrative
room                                    officers (incl.
environmental), local
community representatives,
local UEB representative,
local media, MEMD and
ERA officials.
Transaction advisor team
Nov        Paidha Town, Site             2 days    Town mayor, administrative
Mayor's     familiarisation and         officers, local community
office      local consultation          representatives, local media,
local UEB representative,
MEMD and ERA officals
Transaction advisor team
Nov        Arua Town,   Offical Public   I day     Minister of Public Works
Catholic hall hearing for both          Parliament representatives
Districts
ERA CEO
MEMD officals
Local officals and civil
society
Transaction advisors
Nov/Des    Nebbi Town, EIA field trip incl. 5 day
Local govt   preliminary
main meeting compensation
room         consultation               EMA team
Nov/Des    Paidha Town, EIA field trip incl. Iday
mayor's      preliminary
office       compensation
consultation               EMA team
Nov/Des    Village of   EIA field trip incl.  I day
Nyapea       preliminary
compensation
Ngai consultation          EMA team
Nov/Des    Village      EIA field trip incl. 2 days
ofNgia       preliminary
compensation               E      t
consultation               EMA team
Jan'02     Nebbi Town, Bidders'          2 days     Range of stakeholders (see
Local govt   programme, incl.           meeting Nov/Des)
main meeting site visits and            8 representatives from 5
room         meetings between           potential private company
prospective                 investors
investors and local
community                   Transaction advisors
Jan'02     Paidha Town, Bidders'         2 days     Range of stakeholders (see
mayor's      programme, incl.           meeting Nov/Des)
EIA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l.03\l0:0672



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
office          site visits and                   8 representatives from 5
meetings between                  potential private company
prospective                       investors
investors and local               Transaction advisors
community
March'02      Nebbi Town,     Progress status      I day        Range of stakeholders (see
Local govt      and consultation                  previous meetings).
main meeting    reg. Compensation                 Transaction advisors
room
March'02      Paidha Town, Progress status         I day        Range of stakeholders (see
mayor's         and consultation                  previous meetings).
office          reg. Compensation                 Transaction advisors
July'02       Nebbi Town      Site investigations               Local representatives
URECL, the preferred bidder
July'02       Paidha Town     Site investigations               Local representatives
URECL, the preferred bidder
Consultation meetings during reassessment field trip
A field trip was carried out during 6-12 November to reassess impacts of changes
in hydro-design. During this trip several meetings and focus groups were held (see
section 5.2 of Annex 8), see table below.
Table        Record of consultation meetings during reassessment field trip
Time      Date    Place         Purpose                                                       No. of
______ _   ____ ______ ______ ______ ______ ______ ______ ______ _____ A tten d ants
2.00 pm   6/11/0  Planning      I. Brief District Environment Officers/ about The West Nile   3 people
2       Unit Arua       trip
8.00 PM   1/11/0  Paidha        of Paidha Town Council Officials over purposes of visit.      1o people
=_______               2. Request local authorities to mobilize communities in project area
3. Consult elders over cultural heritage in the project area
9.00 am   8/11/0  Paidha        I. Held key informant in-depth interviews with professionals in  5 people
2                     Paidha Town Council
3.00 pm   8/1 1/0  Nyapea       I. Brief Sub-County Chief and LC III Counsillors about our visit  7 people
2       Sub-County    2. To request local authorities to mobilize for a community meeting
Head
quarters
11.00     9/11/0  Nyapea        I. Held Focus Group Discussion with Communities in the Direct  31 people
pm        2       Sub-County       Impact Zone
Head
quarters     2. Held Key Informant in-depth interviews with Nyapea Sub-County  7 people
I_____________ _ _Officials
5.00 pm   10/Il/  Paidha        1.  Held discussions with Sub-County Chiefs of Paidha, Nyapea,  10 people
02    Town          Mayor Paidha,
Council         Town Council Engineer and Sub-County Accountants to discuss
Pertinent issues as the issue of repair of the Nyagak Bridge,
access road, compensation etc
10.00     12/11/  Nebbi         1. Meet Nebbi District Local Government Officials to brief them about  10 people
pm        02                    our
field findings, issues of compensation and possible resettlement and
the
need to repair the Nyagak bridge since it might be submerged.
2. Consult over, the issue of compensation regarding the Arua-Nebbi
Road                                                           _________   ______
EtA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0I .03\IO:0673



~EMA &ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Bondo-Nebbi transmission line, Uganda - DRAFT -
and its linkage with the Bondo-Nebbi Distribution line.
2.00 pm   du/elc Along the  1. Consultation of Communities over compensation of the Bondo-  1o people
02    Arua -     Nebbi Distribution
Nebbi         Line
Hghway
4.000   II/1/  Campnof i   . Consult them on the progress of Compensation of people affected  5 people
PM      02     SBI near   by the
Bondo        Road project and its implication to the Distribution Line.
9.000   12/01  Arua       I. Brief Local Govemment Officials about the trip to West Nile and
02     District   our findings.
Local
Council    2. Consult the Land Officer - Arua over the issue of Compensatiqn
regarding the Arua-Nebbi Road Construction and its linkage with the
________________  ~ IDistribution  Line                                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Disclosure of information
Information about all aspects of the project, such as progress reports regarding
project status, the contents of the Electricity Act, bid evaluation process etc, has
been made available through official ERAdMEMD channels to local goverunment
in due course before consultation meetings. In the rare case that this has not been
possible, e.g. due to time or practical constraints, members of the MEMD/ERA
and/transaction advisors have made clear presentations of the issues to be
discussed and what implications they may have for local people.
The record of disclosure of previous environmental work before ECON's
involvement in the project, is unclear. However, it is likely that NORPLAN
(2001), which is carried out according to World Bank standards, has followed the
standard disclosure procedures.
ECON    and EMA    have followed the procedures of NEMA      for disclosure of
environmental information. A project brief (scoping study) was first submitted to
NEMA for its review. NEMA's review process is unkonwn to ECON, but it is
likely that the project brief was disclosed to relevant stakeholders (eg. District
environmental officer and DWD), before NEMA decided that an EIA was
required. The EMA team conducted the necessary EIA work and submitted a draft
EIA report to NEMA for review. NEMA made this draft available in 7 copies to
local government, represented by the district environmental officer, as well as
DWD in Kampala and other relevant stakeholders. It is our understanding that
local government has procedures for further disclosing information to interested
local people., The local government was then given a reasonable amount of time (
some weeks) to comment on the report. The comments were received and taken
into account in the final version of the EIA report.
EA Bondo-Nebbi line (revised ver2).doc\PL\09.0l .03\il0:o674
U ~ ~~~~~.0             211    ra        1   re oa   oermn    fiil bu h rpt      etNl n



