RP1 95
VOL. 6
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
NYAGAK MINI-HYDROPOWER PROJECT
DRAFT FINAL
MAY 2006
EMA Consult Ltd.
Kampala
UGANDA



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project     Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
Contents
Contents                                                                i
Acknowledgements                                                       iv
Acronyms and Abbreviations                                              v
SUMMARY                                                                 vi
1.    INTRODUCTION
1.1   Background                                                        1
1.2   Methodology                                                       1
2.     PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.1    Project Area                                                     2
2.2   Nyagak Mini-hydropower Scheme                                     4
2.3    Potential Impacts                                                7
3.     INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR
RESETTLEMENT AND COMPENSATION
3.1   Institutional Framework                                           8
3.2    Government of Uganda Policy Framework                            9
3.3    Legal Arrangement Governing Land Acquisition and Compensation    10
3.4    Compensation Rates                                               12
3.5    World Bank Policy                                                12
3.6    Comparison between Ugandan Law and World Bank Policy
on Compensation and Resettlement                                 14
4.     SOCIO-ECONOMIC BASELINE AND PUBLIC CONSULTATION
4.1   Introduction                                                      15
4.2    Demographic Characteristics                                      15
4.3    Main Source of Livelihood                                        17
4.4    Land Ownership and Land Tenure for Crop Production               18
4.5    Resettlement Preferences                                         19
4.6    Economic and Social Benefits of the Project                      20
4.7    Views on Resettlement and Compensation                           20
5.     POLICIES AND PROPOSALS FOR RESETTLEMENT AND
COMPENSATION
5.1   Basis for Resettlement and Compensation                           22
5.2   Objectives for Resettlement and Compensation                      23
5.3   Compensation for Crops and Other Assets                           24
5.4   Compensation for Buildings and Other Assets                       24
ema Consult Ltd.



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project    Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
5.5   Disturbance Allowance                                            25
5.6   Other Compensation                                               25
6.     COMPENSATION SYSTEM
6.1   Inventory of Affected Individual and Community Properties        25
6.2   Income Restoration Strategy                                      26
6.3   Criteria for Eligibility for Compensation                        26
6.4   Compensation Procedures                                          26
6.5   Compensation Agreement                                           27
6.6   Entitlement Cut-off                                              28
7.    IMPLEMENTATION
7.1   Organizational Framework                                         28
7.2   Implementation Programme                                         28
7.3   System for Complaints and Grievances                             31
7.4   Compensation Costs                                               31
7.5   Process of Payment                                               31
7.6   Financial Responsibility                                         32
8.     MONITORING
8.1   Introduction                                                     33
8.2   Monitoring Programme and Methodology                             33
8.3   Preliminary List of Parameters to be Monitored                   34
8.4   Monitoring Indicators                                            35
8.5   Monitoring Schedule                                              36
8.6   Monitoring Costs                                                 36
8.7   Monitoring Results and Application                               37
9.     REFERENCES
APPENDICES
1.    Terms of Reference
2.    List of People Consulted
3.    Focus Group Discussions
4.    Focus Group Discussion Guide
5.    Results of the Socio-economic Survey of the Project Area
6.    Legal Framework Which Governs Compensation / Resettlement
7.    Compensation Payment Documents and Forms
8.    List of Claimants and Compensation Values
9a.   Claimants and Compensation Crop Assessment Schedule
9b.   Land Holdings
10.   Approved Compensation Rates for Nebbi District for 2004/2005
ema Consult Ltd.



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
List of Tables
Table 4.1:   Percentage Distribution of Household Heads
by Background Characteristics
Table 4.2:   Percentage Distribution of Main Source of
Livelihood by Household
Table 4.3:   Percentage Distribution of Place Where Crops
are Grown
Table 4.4:   Percentage Distribution of Land Ownership
on Which Crops Are Grown
Table 4.5:   Percentage distribution of Land Tenure System
Table 4.6:   Percentage Distribution of Households by Place
of Choice to be Resettled
Table 4.7:   Percentage Distribution of Households,
Choice of Party to Resettle Them
Table 4.8:   Percentage Distribution of Expected Economic
Benefits to the Area
Table 7.1:   RAP Implementation Schedule
Table 7.2:   Summary of Total Cost Estimates for Compensation
Table 8.1:   An Example of Monitoring Indicators for Each Parameter
List of Figures
Figure 2.1:  Land Cover of the Project Area Showing Project Setting
Figure 2.2:  Layout of the Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project
Figure 2.3:  Land Required for the Nyagak Project
Figure 4.1:  Level of Education of Household Members
Figure 4.1:  Literacy Levels
ema Consult Ltd.                             iii



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
Acknowledgements
The RAP team for the Nyagak Mini-hydropower project would like to express its sincere
gratitude to all those who made the study possible. Numerous people were consulted in
Kampala, Nebbi and Arua districts. A number of people were also consulted in Paidha
particularly in the villages of Ngia, Nyagak and Gari where the Nyagak site is located and
their contributions are all valued. Particular mention must be made of Mr. Fabian Ahisibwe
the Project Coordinator at the WENRECO Kampala office, as well as his colleagues at the
office. Finally, the RAP team would like to thank local council officials and the Paidha Town
Council officials particularly the LC III chairman and his councillors, the LC I officials in the
area who helped in mobilisation.
However, while acknowledging the contributions and support received during the course of
the study, the Team assumes full responsibility for any omissions and errors contained in this
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) Report for the proposed Nyagak mini-hydropower project.
ema Consult Ltd.                            iv



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project    Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AIDS        Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CAO         Chief Administrative Officer
DEC         District Environment Committee
DEO         District Environment Officer
EIA         Environmental Impact Assessment
EIS         Environmental Impact Statement
EMA         Environmental Management Associates
ERT         Energy for Rural Transformation
GoU         Government of Uganda
HIV         Human Immuno - Deficiency Virus
IDA         The International Development
Association
IFC         The International Finance Corporation
Km2         Square Kilometre
kV          Kilovolt
LC          Local Council
m2          Square meter
m3/s        Cubic metres per second
MW          Megawatt
NFA         National Forest Authority
NEMA        National Environment Management
Authority
NGOs        Non-Governmental Organisations
RAP         Resettlement Action Plan
RDC         Resident District Commissioner
TOR         Terms of Reference
UEB         Uganda Electricity Board
USD         United States Dollar
USH         Uganda Shilling
WB          World Bank
ema Consult Ltd.                               v



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
SUMMARY
* Introduction and purpose
West Nile Rural Electrification Company Limited (WENERCO) (hereafter referred to as the
developer) is proposing a mini-hydropower project on the Nyagak River. The project will be
located in the West Nile sub-region of Uganda within Ngia, Nyagak, Gira and Rutha villages,
in Nyapea Parish, and in Paidha town Council in Nebbi district. The project area is on the
Nyagak River 2 km from Paidha township.
The project will consist of a 14m high diversion weir to be constructed 600 m downstream
from the Nyapea Bridge. Land used for cultivation of crops will be taken for the small
reservoir, penstock pipes, diversion weir, the surge tank, the powerhouse, access roads and
transmission line from Paidha town to the powerhouse (1.8 km stretch) via Paidha prison, as
well as a workers' camp. The powerhouse will be configured to accommodate two 1.5-MW
generating units along with associated electro-mechanical equipment.
Once completed the project will provide a secure and reliable power supply to the West Nile
districts of Nebbi and Arua.
The purpose of this resettlement action plan (RAP), conducted in November / December
2005, is to assess the extent to which people are likely to be affected by the project,
particularly those in need of compensation / or resettlement, and describes the measures
necessary to mitigate the impacts, particularly the loss of agricultural land resulting from the
project. The RAP also provides a basis for compensation / resettlement, and an
implementation and monitoring description and schedule.
* Key stakeholders
The key stakeholders in the Nyagak Project include: West Nile Rural Electrification
Company Limited (WENRECO), the Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment (MWLE);
The Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries, the National Environment
Management Authority (NEMA); the Local Government of Nebbi district, Paidha Town
Council, Arua district, Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development, Rural Electrification
Agency (REA), Electricity Regulatory Authority (ERA) and the local communities in the
project area. Other stakeholders include civil society organizations, particularly churches.
* Project impacts
An earlier environmental impact assessment was conducted but apart from the loss of
agricultural land and the displacement of those who cultivate this land, there were no
significant impacts identified.
The major impact, and that upon which this RAP focuses, is the loss of 60 acres of land
belonging to 178 households and affecting 43 tenant farmers.
ema Consult Ltd.                             vi



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
* RAP methodology
The results of the RAP are based on a socio-economic survey of the project site, which
included a census of the population settled in the zone of 200 meters (beyond which
settlement is sparse) within the project area. Consultations with various stakeholders
including local authorities in Nebbi district headquarters, Paidha Town Council, Nyapea sub-
county officials, Arua district headquarters, Civil Society organizations, particularly
churches, and the communities in Ngia, Nyagak, Gari and Rutha villages. The legal
framework and policies of the Government of Uganda and World Bank also provided the
basis for the RAP.
* Policy and legalframework
The applicable policies and laws in Uganda regarding Resettlement, Land Acquisition and
Compensation including the Constitution of the Republic of Uganda, 1995, the Land Act,
1998, The Land Acquisition Act (1965), were reviewed and applied. The World Bank
Operational Policy O.P 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement has been applied. Whereas the
World Bank's policy states that 'land for land' is the preferred compensation (as opposed to
cash settlement) for land loss it also states that where the land losses are only a small
percentage of the total land owner's holdings, cash compensation in lieu of replacement land
can be provided. The effective legal instrument of the Government of Uganda only requires
that cash compensation be provided for land losses.
* Signiflcant findings
There will be no loss of houses or other buildings, and no cultural features will be affected by
the project. However, 211 households will lose access to a total of 60 acres of agricultural
land which is owned customarily. These lands are used for growing a variety of subsistence
agricultural crops and additional crops that are sold in local markets. The 211 households are
comprised of 178 landowners and 43 tenant farmers. People in the area are generally in favor
of the project and they perceive that the project will bring increased prosperity to the area
mainly through the provision of jobs during construction and operation. 95% of the people
who are directly affected and will lose land indicated that these land losses comprise only
10% or less of their total individual holdings and that they are overwhelmingly in favor of
receiving cash compensation for their land. Only a few indicated that their preference would
be for land as compensation and that they would prefer to find their own land with the cash
compensation provided. Based on previous compensation experiences in the region, they
insisted that they receive their compensation prior to vacating the land.
Other impacts include the loss of access to water resources, particularly during the
construction phase, and the loss of travel access at the conduit. The developer has committed
to providing additional boreholes to compensate for water access losses, and to provide a
footbridge over the conduit. People of the affected communities indicated a concern over the
spread of HIV/AIDS as a result of an influx of workers to the area, as well as a threat to their
security.
ema Consult Ltd.                            vii



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
* Basis for compensation
The basis for compensation for land losses will be the 2005 land valuation for Nebbi District.
Crop loss compensation is based on a valuation of crops that was conducted during the RAP
preparation.
* Compensation and resettlement
No households will require to be resettled. Compensation will be provided in cash for land
lost and to those tenants who have traditionally been using the land to be affected. Cash is the
preferred form of compensation for 90% of the affected households and is justified since 95%
of those affected have 10% or less of their total land holdings within the project area. Those
wishing to have 'land for land' will be compensated in cash and have strongly expressed a
desire to find their own land. Additional compensation of 20,000 U shillings will be provided
to tenants for purchase of farm inputs such as seed, fertilizer and hand tools. Crop loss
compensation will be provided as per the valuation report and a disturbance allowance of
15% of land value will be given provided that six months notice to vacate is provided. Formal
notice to vacate was given in January 2006.
* Implementation and monitoring
A steering committee, whose responsibility will be to ensure the execution of the RAP, will
be formed and comprised of representatives of the major stakeholders. The developer will
undertake the compensation which is indicated in Table A. An implementation schedule (see
Table B) with responsibilities has been prepared. It is suggested that all cash compensation
will be provided by the end of the third month following initiation of the RAP
implementation. Implementation will not begin until the RAP has been disclosed and the
decision has been made to proceed.
Table A: Compensation Values
Land value  Value for  Disturbance  Farm      Total Value  Claimants  Tenants
Crops       allowance  Implements
123,920,000  56,653,880  26,992,445  4,420,000  207,566,325  178     43
A monitoring procedure has been prepared and it includes a preliminary list of parameters
that require monitoring as well as a list of possible indicators for each parameter. One of the
initial tasks of the steering committee will be to finalize these lists. It has been suggested that
an external consultant be used for monitoring and that monitoring be conducted twice
annually for a period of three years. In order for the monitoring to be effective the monitoring
results must be fed back to the developer and the steering committee and must be acted upon.
ema Consult Ltd.                             viii



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Table B: Implementation Schedule
Month(s) for Task Implementation
Major Tasks         1      2     3      4      5      6      7      8      9      10     11     12     Responsibility
Decision to proceed                                                                                          Developer and local
authority
Disclosure of RAP                                                                                            Developer
Establish steering committee                                                                                 Developer coordinates
Establish grievance                                                                                          Local government
committee
Confirm registration of                                                                                      Steering committee
interests
Finalize implementation                                                                                      Steering committee
program
Identify land for land people                                                                                Developer
Assist in identify lands                                                                                     Developer and steering
committee
Establish bank accounts                                                                                      Developer
Payouts for cash for both                                                                                    Developer
Vacate of lands                                                                                              Land owners
Initiate Monitoring                                                                                          Developer
activities *
.Monitoring                                                                                                  Developer / REA
Grievances                                                                                                   Grievance committee
ema Consult Ltd.                                                     ix



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   Background
West Nile Rural Electrification Company Limited (WENRECO) has submitted a formal
proposal to the Government of Uganda and the Electricity Regulatory Authority (ERA) and
obtained a license to develop a 3.5 MW mini-hydropower plant on River Nyagak, in Paidha.
The project is referred to as the Nyagak Project.
A comprehensive environmental impact assessment (EIA), in full compliance with both
Government of Uganda and World Bank requirements, was conducted for the proposed
hydropower scheme in 20021. This Resettlement and Compensation Plan (RAP) forms a key
component of the EIA and it is a World Bank requirement (OP 4.12 for Involuntary
Resettlement) in order for WENRECO (hereafter referred to as the developer) to qualify for
a project development subsidy.
The scope of the RAP is to provide details on i) the affected population, ii) the regulation
framework, iii) the methods used for identification of Project Affected Persons (PAPs), iv)
the methods and scope of consultation with PAPs on resettlement issues, v) the resettlement
and compensation packages, vi) the methods and planning of resettlement and compensation,
vii) the institutional arrangements for the implementation of the RAP, viii) the cost of the
RAP, and, ix) monitoring.
The RAP includes the following elements:
* A census survey results of project affected persons and results of valuation of assets;
* A description of compensation and other resettlement assistance to be provided;
* Results of consultation with project affected persons about acceptable alternatives
with particular focus on compensation for loss of land;
* Institutional responsibility for implementation and procedures for grievance redress;
* A timetable and budget for compensation and/ or resettlement;
* Arrangements for implementation and monitoring.
1.2   Methodology
The draft plan was prepared during the period October - November 2005. The main tasks
undertaken during this period included:
*  Consultation at national and local levels on the legal and institutional framework for
the preparation of the plan and on current policies and procedures;
* Baseline socio-economic household survey conducted in the project area;
* Preparation of the database and data analysis;
* Consultation on options for resettlement and compensation;
* Formulation of policies, proposals and methods for implementation of the
Resettlement plan.
'Prepared by EMA consultants in conjunction with Centre for Economic Analysis, Oslo
ema Consult Ltd.



Nyagak Min i-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
The plan was prepared in close consultation with stakeholders. Questionnaire
samples and a summary of consultation meetings with important conclusions are
presented in Appendices 3 and 4.
The RAP consists of nine chapters and supporting appendices covering legal framework
analysis, baseline survey information, basis of compensation, policies and proposals for
resettlement and compensation, compensation system, implementation procedures, and
monitoring.
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.1   Project Area
The project will be located in the West Nile sub-region of Uganda and specifically within
Ngia, Nyagak, Gira and Rutha villages, in Nyapea Parish, and in Paidha town Council in
Nebbi district. The project area is on the Nyagak River 2 km from Paidha township. The land
cover map of Nebbi District in Figure 1.1 indicates the general location of the project. The
Nyagak River valley is U-shaped with moderately steep and slightly low banks, rising about
2 metres above the river level. The geology is characterized by resistant intrusive igneous
rocks which are responsible for the formation of the rapids on this part of the river.
The area to be inundated is of high agricultural potential and is intensely cultivated for a wide
variety of crops by subsistence small holders. Much of the produce from these lands is
marketed in Paidha Town. In proximity to the area to be inundated is a tract of National
Forest Authority land, which until it was recently harvested, was under eucalyptus plantation.
This land will also be lost to the hydropower scheme. A muram road connecting Nyapea
parish and Paidha Township passes through the project area but the mode of transport in this
area is mainly by foot while a few people use bicycles to transport their produce to Paidha
Township on market days.
The Alur are the dominant ethnic group in the project area although other groups, including
Congolese, reside in Paidha township. Settlement is generally dispersed on the higher land of
the project area.
Services in the area are minimal. There are no boreholes and there is no electricity supply
although the entire area is well serviced by MTN, the mobile phone service provider. The
nearest health center is at the Nyapea sub-county headquarters, 3 km from the project area.
The area has a primary school and Nyapea College is located less than 5km from the project
site.
A comprehensive description of the project area is provided in the EIA.
ema Consult Ltd.                              2



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project         Resettlement Action Plan                      May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Figure 2.1:
Land Cover
of the                                                    Land Cover (Use) Map - Nebbi District
Project
Area
Showing
Project
Area _
Setting,                                                                                                      -- 
Nebbi Town Council
KANGO        f-. jIVK        I                                   ,   f              -\ 
ROOKUCWINY                                                      PANYANGJO
ZEU                        '' f                           -                ...... r          yPADYCREt_ ,
4_  w    <~PADHA       /   9                 >    _     f      ~        N 
NGOKORO                                                   ~~~~~~~~~JONAM
Js  ,  5   s   !  2   /  }  f'-9./  PAKWA¢H
t      S    -R8J S   S   e i~ROMBO
Legend:
NEBBI TOWN COUNCIL                                                                                    I
Land Cover (Use) Types:                                                                      J PAr4V4,MU,R
Broadleaved Tree Plantation orWoodlot
Coniferous Plantation                                                            W
Tropical High Forest(Fully Stocked)  /\,/International Boundary
Tropical High Forest (Degraded I Encroached)  /DistrictBoundary
Woodland                              / CountyBoundary
Bushland                                 Sub-CountyBoundary                          |
Grassland                            '
Wetland                                 'Main, Permanent River
Small-Sc-ale (Non-Uniform) Farmland      Sma1I4 ~!raU3
Uniform or Large-Scale Farmland           em                                                                                3
Built-Up Area                        /.\/Al Weather Road, Bound Surface
Open Water                             VAl Weather Road, Loose Surface
Impediments (e.g. Bare Rock, Barren SoiQ  ,A/ Dry Weather Road                                  Soun:e:NationalBio..ass St.dy,Fo.stDepl, PO Bo. 1613. KIa



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
2.2   Nyagak Mini-hydropower Scheme
The project will consist of a diversion weir to be constructed about 600 m downstream from
the Nyapea Bridge. A power intake point will be located at the left abutment of the weir.
The water conveyance works is comprised of a 14m high diversion weir. The powerhouse
will be configured to accommodate two 1.7-MW generating units along with associated
electro-mechanical equipment. The recommended infrastructure development comprises the
following features:
*  River diversion works
*  Intake structure
*  Power station housing 3.5 MW turbine generator units
*  Services bay
*  Main and emergency spillways
*  Outdoor switchyard
*  Transmission lines
* Access road from Paidha passing near the government prison;
*  Improvement of the community road between the UEB bridge and Nyapea road.
Figure 2.2 provides a layout of the scheme.
The preferred layout comprises a small reservoir beyond the Nyapea Bridge and a power
house 2 km downstream. The river will be diverted through an underground penstock and
channeled to the powerhouse. The total construction time for the development will be
approximately 18 months.
The boundary of the area of land to be acquired by the project is shown in Figure 2.3. The
area (temporary and permanent land acquisitions) includes that which is required for the
construction of the low pressure penstock, diversion weir, powerhouse, transmission line (1.8
km from Paidha to the power house), workers' camp and access road connecting the
community road to the intake point. Further description of the project components is
provided in the EIA.
The scheme will require approximately 60 acres. This comprises land for project
infrastructure development, access road, workers' camp and the transmission line. A zoning
proposal for the scheme has been accepted by the Town and Country Planning Board of
Nebbi. After compensation for land and crops has been provided the area required for the
development will be fenced off.
For successful and responsible execution of its obligations under the License Agreement and
the Implementation Agreement, the developer requires such quantity in proprietary rights and
interest as would confer full and an encumbered control over the physical solemn, the river
bed, the geological formations, and such fixtures as may be subsequently affixed to the area
covered by the scheme.
ema Consult Ltd.                             4



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Figure 2.2: Layout of the Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project
robat                                                Consu
ema Consult Ltd.                                                   5



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project    Resettlement Action Plan               May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Figure 2.3: Land Required for the Nyagak Project
~~~~ I       I     I          tU  I  I  I  I  I  " -h-
-                -    ..   .~~~~~~~~~  .  .~ - 
a,  I   I  C n s I                                                     6
ema Consult Ltd.                                                       6



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project    Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
2.3   Potential Impacts
The EIA for the Nyagak mini-hydropower project provides details of the potential impacts of
the project and the mitigation measures that should be undertaken. There are no significant
impacts on the biophysical environment. The main impacts of the project are socio-
economic, primarily the loss of agricultural land which contributes to the livelihoods of 111
area households, as well as a severance and loss of access to the river for some members of
communities in the project area during the construction period. Other issues relate to noise,
safety and possible social conflict between construction workers and local residents. No
items of cultural importance will be affected by the power project. Compensation for the loss
of agricultural land is the focus of this RAP.
In addition to these impacts identified in the EIA, the RAP consultation program identified a
number of social issues including theft, insecurity, increased deaths due to electrocution,
increased spread of diseases, especially malaria and HIV/AIDS.
* Land Take
The total land area to be acquired for the scheme is about 60 acres (refer to Figure 1.1)
including land required for access road construction. The lands required for construction
and associated purposes are mostly in Ngia village. The land to be acquired permanently
is in the villages of Ngia and Gira. Near the Nyapea eucalyptus plantation the land take
due to inundation constitutes a narrow strip along the immediate bank of the Nyagak
River. Almost all of the land is of high agricultural quality and is currently under
agricultural production. Only some of the steeper riverbanks remain under forest cover or
in shrub cover.
* Population and Households Displaced and Affected
No household will be displaced however a total of 178 landowners2 will lose
approximately 60 acres of their land. Included in these 60 acres will be land that will no
longer be available to 43 tenants. As indicated in Chapter three, there are 111 households
resident in the area within a 200 m band of the project site. These people have land they
use for subsistence agriculture. The difference in number of beneficiaries, that is
household (111) versus landowners (178) and tenants (43) is due to the fact that not all
beneficiaries live within the 200m zone, the area covered by the census. Some of these
people live in Paidha town while others live at Nyapea and other parts of Paidha and
Nyapea sub-counties.
It is important to note that 95% of the people affected have 90% or more of their total
land holdings outside of the project area (refer to Appendix 9b).
The total number of people directly affected is 1326 if an average of six members per
household is used.
2 178 landowners in total of which 111 are resident within the 200 metre zone.
ema Consult Ltd.                               7



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
* Other Resources Affected
Only land resources and crops will be affected by the implementation of the Nyagak
mini-hydropower scheme. Water access, particularly for domestic washing, will be
limited in areas in proximity to the construction sites during construction. There will be
some limited access to the water during operation.
The study did not identify areas of fuelwood in the affected area.
* Severance and Impact on Access and Communications
The community road connecting Paidha to Nyapea and Jangokoro areas (refer to Figure
1. 1) will be improved. The high pressure penstock crosses this road and WENRECO has
committed to constructing a foot bridge of adequate strength and dimensions for people
and bicycles to access Paidha.
The significant positive impact of the project will be the economic benefits gained regionally
and nationally with the provision of electrical energy. As well, the renewable resource used
as a source for this energy will result in less environmentally damaging fossil fuels being
used to create the same amount of energy. However, positive benefits to be realized by
project affected people will likely be confined to the provision of some temporary jobs during
construction and the provision of some commodities, primarily food, to the construction
workers.
3. INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR
RESETTLEMENT AND COMPENSATION
3.1   Institutional Framework
At the national level the Minister of State for Disaster Preparedness, under the Office of the
Prime Minister, is responsible for resettlement of refugees and persons displaced by disasters.
The experience of this Ministry in managing resettlement is important although the
circumstances are very difficult. There is no central ministry or department directly
responsible for resettlement or compensation although it is understood that a national policy
on resettlement will be developed.
The Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries has responsibilities relating to
overall rural development. The Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social Development has
responsibilities for the social and economic welfare of the population including cultural
affairs, youth, and labour and disadvantaged groups. The Ministry of Local Government is
responsible for local administration, and the Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment has
responsibility for the use of water, administration of land, valuation, physical planning and
environmental matters.
The National Environment Management Authority (NEMA) is responsible for environmental
affairs and in particular the supervision and review of Environmental Impact Assessments.
ema Consult Ltd.                              8



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
Since 1995 the government has implemented a policy of decentralization of functions to the
district level in an effort to stimulate economic and community development, to facilitate a
higher degree of transparency in government administration and greater accountability in the
use of public funds and resources. The country is presently divided into 60 districts which are
responsible for an increasing range of functions including economic planning, statistics,
information gathering, agriculture, health, education and land administration. Each district
has a Resident District Commissioner who is appointed by the President as his representative
in each district. District Land Boards have also been established.
There is a sophisticated system of local government at four levels in each district.
LC5- District level
LC3- Sub-country level
LC2- Parish level (since 2001 this level has been phased out)
LCI- Village level
Local councils are responsible for local policy matters, resolving local conflicts and
providing orderly leadership and democratic practices at the grass roots level in their level
and in their respective areas. The system has facilitated mass participation in government
affairs and awakened the rural population to their rights of citizenship and obligations
particularly regarding involvement in development programmes and projects in their areas.
3.2   Government of Uganda Policy Framework
There are no policy documents or government guidelines for resettlement and compensation
in Uganda. NEMA produced guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment in 1995 and
whilst these cover socio-economic issues, there are no specific guidelines for resettlement or
compensation.
A study was undertaken in 1995 by the office of the Prime Minister entitled "Resettlement
policy and institutional capacity for resettlement planning in Uganda". This reviewed
resettlement experience and activities in the country, institutional capacities and legal
framework. It then made recommendations for a national policy, the key elements of which
were:
* Avoid and minimize resettlement:
Resettlement and rehabilitation plans to be conceived and executed as specific
development programmes;
Resettlement and rehabilitation to improve the living standards of people displaced;
Prompt compensation for losses at replacement cost and allowance for disturbance;
cost of rehabilitation to be provided;
Absence of legal title should not be grounds for denying any group compensation and
rehabilitation;
Resettlement plans to be submitted for independent review for each project with a
resettlement component beyond 30 affected households or 30 properties;
An independent Commissioner of Resettlement Plan Review to ensure resettlement
and rehabilitation is well planned and that plans are followed;
Affected persons to have effective access to grievance procedures;
Vulnerable groups to be identified and their special circumstances to be taken into
account;
ema Consult Ltd.                             9



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
•  In rural areas replacement land to be the preferred option; in urban areas cash
compensation to be an option; and
*  In development and conservation projects there should be no forced eviction without
alternatives.
In addition guidelines for the following were proposed:
* Distances between location of origin and destination to be minimized where possible;
* Communities to be relocated as communities;
* Communities to be provided with infrastructure and services;
* Host communities to benefit from the introduction of resettlers;
* Active participation to be arranged for resettlers and host in the planning process;
All resettlement costs to be identified and included in the project cost;
All funding sources to be identified;
Environmental effects of resettlement schemes to be identified;
* All land based resettlement proposals to be examined for feasibility;
* All cash based resettlement proposals to be examined for adequacy;
Resettlement planning to be considered within the context of national and district
plans and procedures;
Implementation schedules to be prepared for individual components of resettlement
and rehabilitation plan;
Resettlement plans to include provision for monitoring and evaluation of
implementation;
Existing conditions at place of origin of destination to be fully surveyed and
identified, including population census;
Eligibility criteria to be established for all classes of affected persons;
Multidisciplinary approach to be applied to resettlement planning;
* Counselling of the affected population to be commended during the planning phase.
The above guideline features are similar to the requirements of the World Bank for
involuntary resettlement. However, all of this is contained within a study and it remains to
bring it into official government policy and practice.
3.3 Legal Arrangement Governing Land Acquisition and Compensation
The Electricity Act, the Land Act and the Land Acquisition Act are all relevant to the RAP.
The following briefly describes the Acts and those sections which directly apply (in bold and
italics) to the RAP.
* Electricity Act (1999)
The Electricity Act (1999) is a principle applicable law in respect to the construction
and operation of the power station. Part VIII of the Act provides for acquisition of
land and requires the "prompt payment offair and adequate compensation" to all interested
parties on the land. Section 71 of the Electricity Act (1999) deals with compensation for
affected people to be determined in accordance with the Land Act (1998) and Land
Acquisition Act (1965). The Act gives the Electricity Regulatory Authority powers to handle
claims for compensation for land acquired.
ema Consult Ltd.                            10



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
* Land Act (1998)
The Land Act is an act to provide for the tenure, ownership and management of land;
to amend and consolidate the law relating to tenure, ownership and management of
land; and to provide for other related or incidental matters.
It is thus cast in terms that go much further than the constitutional mandate set out
above. Specifically, the act addresses four issues namely, tenure, control, administration and
dispute processing. As regards tenure, the Act repeats, in section 3, the provisions of Article
237 of the Constitution which vests all land in the citizens of Uganda, to be held under
customary, freehold, mailo or leasehold tenure systems (much of the affected land in the
Nyagak project area is held under customary tenure system). It then proceeds to define the
incidence of each tenure regime (s.4), provide mechanisms of acquisition of certificates of
customary ownership (ss.5-9), or the conversion of customary tenure to freehold (ss. 10-15),
or collective management of land held under customary law (ss. 16-27), the protection of
land rights of women, children and persons with disabilities (s.28), the conversion of
leaseholds into freehold (s.29), the security of occupancy for 'tenants by occupancy' (ss.30-
39) the prohibition of certain types of dispositions (ss.40-41), and the creation of Land Fund
to assist various categories of people wishing to obtain secure rights in land (s.42).
As the developer is a non-citizen of Uganda, there are limitations as to the quantity of tenure
rights it may receive. Under Article 237 (2) (c) of the Constitution and section 41 of the Land
Act, non-citizens cannot acquire or hold mailo or freehold land. This means, inter alia, that
not only are non-citizens forbidden to purchase freehold or mailo interest but also they may
not accept such interest by way of assignment or devolution. The maximum interest that a
non-citizen can receive under those provisions is a ninety nine-year lease (subsection 3 of
section 41). WENRECO has been granted a lease period of 20 years.
It is understood that the developer, like any other land user in Uganda, will not, in virtue of
whatever proprietary rights it may achieve, be exempted from the exercise of the police
power of the state and local authorities under article 245 of the Constitution and section 44 of
the Land Act.
* Land Acquisition Act (1965)
This Act provides for the procedure and method of compulsory acquisition of landfor
public purposes whether for temporary or permanent use. The minister responsible for land
may authorise any person to enter upon the land and survey the land dig or bore the subsoil or
any other thing necessary for ascertaining whether the land is suitable for a public purpose.
The Government is required to pay compensation (cash) to any person who suffers damage
as a result of any action. Any dispute as to the compensation payable is to be referred by the
Attorney General to court for decision.
The Land Acquisition Act stops at payment of compensation. It is not a legal requirement to
purchase alternative landfor the affected people by the project. Once affected peoples are
promptly/adequately compensated, then the obligations stop there. The Government through
the Ministry of Lands, Water and Environment, will pay the compensation to the affected
persons.
ema Consult Ltd.                             11



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
There are no requirements or provisions in Uganda law that people need to be moved or
that alternative land is made available or bought. Each affected person entitled to be
compensated in cash only, on receipt of his/her compensation is expected to move and has no
further claim.
Additional details of laws governing land acquisition, and compensation are presented in
Appendix 9.
3.4   Compensation Rates
* Land
Land management and control of its transactions are decentralised at District and Parish
levels through District Land Boards and Parish Land committees respectively. The functions
of a District Land Board are:
*  To hold and allocate land in the district which is not owned by any person
or authority;
*  To facilitate the registration and transfer of interest in land; and
*  To deal with all other matters connected with land in the district in
accordance with the laws made by Parliament.
Fixing the value for land in Uganda depends on whether it is public (Government) or
privately owned and according to land tenure types indicated in the section of land
acquisition. If it is public land, the Chief government Valuer's office fixes the rates of
compensation. However, if it is owned privately, the developer will negotiate with the owner
and agree on the amount to pay for the land to be acquired.
In both instances, the value for land varies from one location to another. For
example in Nebbi district where the Nyagak project is located, land does not have
the same value as land in another district largely due to land availability, usage
and population density which is quite high in Paidha. Since the compensation is to
be implemented in Nebbi district the rates established for Nebbi District will be
used as the basis for compensating PAPs. The compensation rates used for this
project are provided in Appendix 10.
* Crops and Trees
The affected communities may leave a number of trees and crops when they move
to other areas as a result of displacement. The loss of any trees and crops will be
compensated for in Uganda and each District Land Board sets its own
compensation rates. As a result, varying compensation rates exist amongst
districts. These rates are reviewed annually and the rates can fluctuate but usually
it is very rare for these rates to be lower than any previous year. In the case of
resettlement or replacement for losses in excess of 20% of total assets, additional
livelihood support and follow-up may be required for ERT projects.
3.5   World Bank Policy
ema Consult Ltd.                             12



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
The World Bank has ten environmental and social safeguard policies which provide the
framework for the management of environmental and social concerns of Bank financially
supported projects. OP 4.12 "Involuntary Resettlement" requires that displaced persons
should be compensated at full replacement cost and assisted with relocation/resettlement. The
developer should be encouraged to offer replacement land rather than cash compensation
when the residual land holdings are not economically viable. In addition, the WB guidelines
stipulate that the resettlers should not be worse off after the move and that there should be
measures to restore livelihood to at least the former (preferably a higher) standard of living.
This implies that a livelihood restoration program, long-term support and monitoring are
essential.
Other features of O.P. 4.12 include:
*  All viable alternative project designs should be explored to avoid the need for
resettlement and when it can be avoided, to minimize the scale and impacts of
resettlement;
*  Resettlement measures to be conceived and executed as development activities
providing sufficient investment resources to give the persons displaced the
opportunity to share in project benefits. Assistance should be given to the community
in their efforts to improve former production levels, income earning capacity and
living standards or at least restore them to the levels they would have without the
project;
Land for land compensation except in some circumstances;
Particular attention should be paid to vulnerable groups;
Communities should be given opportunities to participate in planning, implementing
and monitoring their resettlement;
Settlers should be helped with integration into their host community;
Policies and proposals should be linked to the project implementation schedule;
There should be adequate monitoring and evaluation;
The developer should be encouraged to offer replacement land. Cash compensation
may be appropriate when residual land holdings are economically viable and where
land take is less than 10 % of the holding. For households who lose assets / income
large enough to make the remainder unviable, compensation should be provided as if
entire holdings had been taken;
For losses that cannot easily be valued or compensated in monetary terms e.g. access
to public services, customers or suppliers, or forests, attempts must be made to
establish access to equivalent and culturally acceptable resources and earning
opportunities.
Displaced persons should be:
*  Informed about their options and rights;
a  Consulted options;
*  Compensated promptly and effectively at full replacement cost;
*  Given at least equipment to those taken;
* Assisted with relocation;
* Given assistance and support during the transition period.
ema Consult Ltd.                            13



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
3.6   Comparison Between Ugandan Law and World Bank Policy on Compensation
and Resettlement (Table 3.1)
Uganda Policy            World Bank Policy        Reconciliation
Fair, adequate and prompt  Displaced persons should  When there are
compensation (which is   be compensated at full   discrepancies between the
interpreted as cash for  replacement cost, assisted  Bank and local
land).                   with relocation /        laws/policies, the Bank
resettlement during      policy will prevail.
transition period.
The laws stop at         The developer should be  The developer must
compensation. Local laws  encouraged to offer     conform to World Bank
do not encourage the     replacement land rather  policy and provide "land
developer to provide    than cash compensation    for land" where this is
additional incentives such  when the residual land  possible and desired.
as income restoration once  holdings are not      In addition to
PAPs receive             economically viable.     compensation, the
compensation for loss of                          developer is encouraged to
property.                                        follow the Bank policy of
ensuring that the
livelihoods of the 178 land
owners and 43 tenants are
protected through the
provision of development
assistance in the form of
loans, farm implements,
agricultural extension
service and other
appropriate services.
There is no provision for  The Bank policy is that the  The majority of PAPs do
identifying land for the  PAPs along with the     not want assistance in
resettlement of affected  developer together will  finding alternative land.
persons. Affected people  identify suitable lands for  They wish to find it for
receive cash compensation  resettlement.         themselves.
and find their own land for
purchase.
For further information on Government of Uganda legal framework as it relates to
resettlement reference should be made to Appendix 6.
ema Consult Ltd.                             14



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
4. SOCIO-ECONOMIC BASELINE AND PUBLIC CONSULTATION
4.1   Introduction
A survey was conducted within a 200 m zone from the edge of the land to be owned by
WENRECO for the proposed mini-hydropower project development. A 200 metre zone was
selected based on current settlement pattems. Settlement is very sparse beyond this zone. The
distribution of household members in both the direct and indirect project impact zones by
demographic and social characteristics was analyzed. As well, potential social impacts and
their mitigation measures have been identified. Much data was provided through two focus
group discussion meetings (FGDs) held in the villages of Ngia and Gira and attended by over
50 residents including women, youth and residents of Nyagak and Rutha villages (Appendix
3). During each of the meetings, the socio-economist explained the need for the survey. A
sample of the FGD question guide used during the meetings is presented in Appendix 7.
The project will require only those lands within a 50 meter corridor along the river for
construction work; however, households beyond this corridor could be affected, thus leading
to the decision to consider all lands and their owners within a 200 meter corridor.
The primary aim of the census was to identify the PAPs and determine their present socio-
economic status, as well as to identify those who are likely to benefit socially and
economically, primarily in terms of employment. The census would allow project benefits to
be evaluated. It was made clear, however, that only those within the 200 meter corridor and
whose property fell within the area of land required for project development would receive
compensation for property losses.
4.2   Demographic Characteristics
The study covered 111 household heads living in the zone of 200 meters of the Nyagak
River. Seventy of the household heads were male and 41 were female. Ninety-eight per cent
of the household members had spent the previous night at the place where enumeration took
place. Table 4.1 provides a summary of demographic characteristics.
* Age of household heads
Slightly more than a quarter (26%) of the household heads are aged between 26 - 35 years,
24% are between 36-45 years, 17% of the household heads are between 16-25 years while
there were child headed households those aged 15 years and below (3%).
* Level of education of household heads
Data presented in Table 4.1 indicates that 14% male and 68% female have no education.
About 73% male and 26% female had primary education and 14% and 5% male and female
respectively had secondary education.
ema Consult Ltd.                             15



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Table 4.1:  Percentage distribution of household heads by background
Characteristics
Male       Female      Total
(n=70)     (n=41)      (n=111)
Marital  Married    84.4%      68.4%        78.4%
status
Divorced   3.1%       2.6%        2.9%
Widowed    1.6%       18.4%       7.8%
Never      10.9%      10.5%       10.8%
married
Age of    15 years and 1.5%    5.3%        2.9%
household below
head
16-25      19.4%      13.2%       17.1%
26-35      22.4%      31.6%       25.7%
36-45      26.9%      18.4%       23.8%
46-55      17.9%      7.9%        14.3%
56-65      6.0%       18.4%       10.5%
Above 65   6.0%       5.3%        5.7%
Literacy  Literate  72.1%      23.7%        53.5%
Illiterate  27.9%     76.3%       46.5%
Education None      13.6%      68.4%        33.7%
level
Primary    72.7%      26.3%       55.8%
Secondary  13.6%      5.3%        10.6%
* Literacy levels of household heads
Fifty-four per cent of the household heads are literate with 72% being male and 24% being
female (Table 4.1).
* Marital status of household heads
Seventy-eight per cent of the households heads were married, 11% never married, 8%
widowed among which 18% were female and only 2% male widowers.
* Social characteristics of household members by education
Heads of households were asked to report the social characteristics of household members.
The data presented in Figure 4.1 indicates that 34% of the household members were reported
to have had no education. About 56% of household members had primary education and only
11% attained secondary education.
ema Consult Ltd.                             16



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project     Resettlement Action Plan               May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
70.0 -
58.2
60.0 -
50.0 -
40.0 -       36.0
_-O              ,.                .  s
30.0-
20.0-
5.8
10.0
None                Primary             Secondary
Figure 4.1: Level of Education of Household Members (n=589)
Data presented in Figure 4.2 indicates that about 52% of the household members who are
aged 6 years and above are illiterate and 48% are literate.
Literacy levels
54.0-                                    52.4
52.0 -                                 4
50.0 -
47.6
48.0-
46.0- -1 
44.0              .
Literate                  Illiterate
Fig. 4.2: Literacy Levels
4.3    Main Source of Livelihood
Table 4.2: Percentage Distribution of Main Source of Livelihood by Household
No. of Households     %
Cultivation of  49                 44.1
crops
Rearing livestock 1                0.9
Trading          61                55.0
Total            111               100.0
ema Consult Ltd.                               17



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
Household heads were asked to report on their main source of livelihood. Table 4.2 indicates
that slightly more than half (55%) of the households derive their livelihood primarily from
trading (as a result of proximity to the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) in agricultural
produce and 44% derived their livelihood from crop production.
* Cultivation of crops
Crop production is important. The main crops grown include: coffee, bananas, sweet
potatoes, Irish potatoes, onions, yams, millet, beans, maize, cassava, vegetables, groundnuts,
sugarcane and fruits. Most of these are grown for subsistence consumption with the balance
being traded for the purchase of essential commodities such as salt, soap, and clothes.
Table 4.3 indicates that the majority of the households (58%) grow crops in the homestead
backyard and 32% of the households grow crops on farms. Overall, 46% of the households
grow crops along Nyagak River.
Table 4.3: Percentage Distribution of Crop Location
No. of     Per cent
households    (n=111)
Household       64            57.7
backyard
Farm            35            31.5
Along the river  51           45.9
4.4   Land Ownership and Land Tenure for Crop Production
Table 4.4 indicates that two thirds (67%) of the households in close proximity of the Nyagak
River cultivate on customary land with 16% of the households growing crops on privately
owned land and the remainder growing crops either on public land (10%), borrowed land, or
hired land (7%).
Table 4.4: Percentage Distribution of Land Ownership on Which Crops Are Grown
No. of     Per cent
Households
Privately owned land  18           16.2
Private borrowed land 3            2.7
Customary land      74             66.7
Public land         11             9.9
Hired               4              3.6
Others              1              .9
Total               111            100.0
ema Consult Ltd.                             18



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Based on the above data three categories of households will lose income and livelihood due
to land take of the project:
* Those who own land and use it for the cultivation of crops;
* Those who hire land for cultivation (tenants); and,
* Those who hire out land and earn incomes from the hire.
Table 4.5 below indicates that most land close to the Nyagak River (87%) is customarily
owned; other land tenure systems close to the Nyagak River include 5% freehold, andl .8%
leasehold. Six per cent of households did not know the land tenure system.
Table 4.5: Percentage Distribution of Land Tenure System
No. of           %
households
Customary    97              87.4
Freehold     5                4.5
tenure
Lease tenure 2                 1.8
Others       7                6.3
Total        111             100.0
4.5   Resettlement Preferences
Respondents were asked to suggest the place they would like to relocate if they were required
to do so. Table 4.6 indicates that a third (33%) of the households would be willing to relocate
to any free land available, 19% of the households preferred land near town and a similar
percentage indicated land near Paidha town, while 12% of the households were willing to
relocate near Nyapea sub-county. Ten per cent of households expressed a desire to be
relocated to areas where land for agriculture is fertile, and others (5%) where they can have
access to health and education services. The remainder of the households preferred areas that
had good transportation.
Table 4.6: Percentage distribution of households by place of choice of to be resettled
No of Households   %
Near town                     21               18.9
Any free land                 37               33.3
Were transport is good        2                 1.8
Access heath and education    6                 5.4
services
Fertile land for digging      11                9.9
Near Paidha                   21               18.9
Near Nyapea Sub-County        13               11.7
Total                         111             100.0
ema Consult Ltd.                             19



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Asked by whom the households would like to be resettled, 65% chose self-resettlement, 16%
by local government and only 11% of the households wished to be resettled by the developer.
Table 4.7: Percentage Distribution of Households, Choice of Party to Resettle Them
No. of         %
Households
Central Government    1              0.9
WENRECO               12             10.8
Local government      18             16.2
Self                  72             64.9
Others                8              7.2
Total                 111            100.0
4.6    Economic and Social Benefits of the Project
The socio-economic assessment also addressed the type of social services in the area that may
be directly or indirectly affected by the Nyagak power development project.
The development of the Nyagak power project is expected to come with some economic and
social benefits. Table 4.8 indicates that 42% of the households expect to gain employment
from the project, 38% of the households expect the area to develop in terms of industry and
market, 12% expect a business boom in terms of hotels, bars, lodges and 8% of the
households expect to get power supply for domestic use. Other economic benefits mentioned
during the FGDs included: improved standards of living, provision of markets for their
produce, improved health services and enhancement of educational services.3
Table 4.8: Percentage Distribution of Expected Economic Benefits to the Area
No. of           %
Households
Power supply                   9                8.1
Business boom                   13             11.7
Area development               42              37.8
Employment                     47              42.3
Total                          111            100.0
4.7   Views on Resettlement and Compensation
* Comments from the baseline survey
Ninety-eight per cent of respondents indicated that they were in favour of the project. The
remaining respondents were not supportive, mainly as a result of lack of compensation by the
Government of Uganda for crops destroyed at the time of the feasibility study and prior to the
construction of the transmission line to Agu hill from Paidha Township. Those who will be
affected by the project strongly expressed the need for compensation prior to the
commencement of any development activity.
3 It is noted that although expectations are usually high in such cases, the reality is that most of these expected benefits
for resettlement programs are seldom realized.
ema Consult Ltd.                             20



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Respondents were asked to suggest their preferences for relocation if the need for relocation
should arise and the analysis of this question are presented above in 4.5. However, as
previously determined, based on the data available, no household will be required to be
physically relocated. When asked if they had other land to which they could move, 95% of
respondents indicated they had 90% of their total land holdings outside of the project area.
Details of size of individual household land areas to be lost to the project are presented in the
valuation results in Appendices 8 and 9.
The developer will investigate the availability of land nearby for "land for land"
compensation for those wishing this form of compensation. This investigation will be
conducted in cooperation with affected people wishing land as compensation. The developer
will then purchase and allocate this land. Tenants will not receive land in compensation but
instead, appropriate cash compensation as well as UGX 20,000 per tenant for the purchase of
farm implements.
* Results of stakeholder consultations
Meetings were held in the villages of Ngia and Gira, and in Nyapea parish. Residents from
Nyagak and Rutha villages attended these meetings as well. The focus of the meetings was
on the purpose of the RAP and available options for resettlement and compensation. The
following items were discussed:
Compensation for land taken, including cash for land or land for land;
Compensation for crops, including cash, provision of seedlings, fertilizers, equipment
or extension services;
Compensation for buildings including cash, provision of dwellings, materials or cash;
Dissection of individual plots by the project and land owners' wishes regarding the
fate of their remaining land unaffected by the project;
The implementation of the plan including how payments should be made, the
administration of compensation and monitoring;
Priorities for community development projects;
* Compensation to be effected before construction works begin.
The most talked about issue was compensation for losses and this concern is based on their
experiences and the experiences of others where compensation was slow in being affected
and was inadequate to cover the losses incurred. Related to this concern is the removal of
land from production indefinitely for no apparent reason. People have little faith in the
authorities in terms of promises made and schedules provided.
The majority of the community (95%) preferred cash compensation for land and a number of
the households indicated that they would use the money to invest in businesses rather than
remain in farming. Most individuals either already had other land to which they would
relocate or, if land for land was required, they would prefer to look for their own land to
purchase. They clearly did not wish to be told where they were to be relocated.
Where plots are to be dissected by the land acquisition boundary, it was indicated that most
people would prefer to continue cultivating on the part of their plot that would be outside the
boundaries of the project site rather than to relocate to another plot.
ema Consult Ltd.                            21



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
It was generally requested that payments for compensation be made in one installment before
the residents are required to vacate. As much notification as possible for vacating lands
would have to be given. Assistance with the opening bank accounts to facilitate management
of compensation payments was requested. It was also requested that all payments made be
confidential. Some of the occupants were concerned about security. As to why they do not
wish to move before compensation payment is made, most referred to the negative experience
with the UEB (the Agu Hill transmission line) whereby crops were destroyed without
compensation.
It was generally agreed that a committee should be set up to implement the compensation
exercise. This committee should consist of representatives from the community, the LCs, the
developer, the land crop owners committee and District Land Boards (who would assist in
identifying land for resettlement where required).
The consensus for community development projects focused on income-generating projects,
particularly the availability of capital for small scale trading activities.
A strong appeal was made that project affected people should be given priority should be
given priority for employment opportunities at the site during both construction and
operation.
During public consultation it was evident that some residents considered the amount of
compensation to possibly be inadequate. Some suggested using World Bank or international
compensation rates although such rates do not exist. The issue of relocation and
compensation is gender sensitive and women expressed the need for their protection in case
they are not treated fairly by their husbands who in some cases have two or more wives.
Women fear that the cash compensation will not be shared with members of the family who
will be left to suffer.
5. POLICIES AND PROPOSALS FOR RESETTLEMENT AND
COMPENSATION
5.1   Basis for Resettlement and Compensation
The basis for resettlement and compensation will be the legal and institutional framework as
well as the project impacts which have been identified (refer to Chapters 2 and 4). Regarding
the framework, Government of Uganda laws and policies along with World Bank policies
(specifically O.P 4.12) apply. The main impact is the loss of 60 acres of cultivable land to
221 landowners and tenants. Considering the average household size4 of six members per
household, a total of 1326 individuals will be directly affected by the project. Other social
impacts are minor in comparison but include temporary and permanent loss of water access
and loss of community access. As well, there are the usual construction related social impacts
of theft, social disruption, safety, dust, noise, and potential introduction / increase of
communicable diseases.
4Based on the consultant's general knowledge.
ema Consult Ltd.                             22



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
5.2   Objectives for Resettlement and Compensation
The following resettlement and compensation activities have been developed based on a
desire to balance the needs and interests of the different stakeholders and in the light of
previous experiences on resettlement and compensation. The formulation of the objectives
follows extensive consultations with the community and consideration of the Government of
Uganda legal framework and the World Bank safeguard guidelines.
*  To ensure that resettlement and compensation measures contribute towards overall
development within the community. This will be achieved by providing adequate
compensation for loss of land and destruction of crops.
*  At a minimum, maintain the standard of living of project affected people and provide
opportunities for them to achieve a higher standard of living in the long term. This
will be achieved by ensuring that adequate compensation is made for loss of property.
Livelihoods of the affected tenant farmers will be restored by providing them with
loans for engaging in meaningful economic activities.
*  Land take for the project will be limited in order to minimize people displacement and
other adverse socio-cultural impacts.
*  A consultative process will be used to ensure involvement of all stakeholders during
implementation of the resettlement and compensation plan.
*  To provide fair and timely compensation for land, crops, building and other assets.
*  To provide land for land compensation where appropriate and particularly for
disadvantaged groups.
*  To ensure adequate notification to vacate land and to minimize the transition period of
resettlement, where resettlement is affected. (WENRECO has been advised to give
notice six months prior to the commencement time of the project).
*  To assist the search for suitable land where land for land compensation is required. To
assist the community with business development where appropriate.
*   To establish adequate institutional arrangements to ensure effective and timely
implementation of the RAP.
*  To plan and implement community development projects for the indirectly affected
communities.
*  To provide technical assistance for business development and financial management.
This section of the RAP considers the proposals for resettlement and compensation. It
considers firstly the issues related to land and resettlement, and crops and assets. Secondly, it
addresses the disturbance allowance, and proposals for other measures such as community
development, including livelihood restoration and employment.
ema Consult Ltd.                             23



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
The options for land compensation are the provision of alternative land or cash payment.
Current thinking amongst resettlement specialists and funding agencies is a shift from cash-
for-land basis to a land for land basis, particularly for people who largely depend on the land
for their livelihood. Although this is the most accepted approach, in the Nyagak area 95% of
the PAPs have indicated that they prefer a cash settlement. This may be valid since 95% of all
PAPs have approximately 90% of their land holdings outside of the affected area.
In order to satisfy the requirements of the various parties concerned it is proposed that the
main form of compensation for loss of land is cash paid into a bank account opened for this
purpose for cash amount exceeding UG sh 300,000.
Compensation for land will be payable to all customary owners. In addition, it is proposed
that compensation is paid for all land acquired whether used on a temporary or permanent
basis and that all rights on such land are thus forfeited.
Where land is bisected by the land acquisition boundary, it is the view of the majority of
owners that they prefer to retain the unaffected portion of their holding. However, in some
cases owners would wish to sell the entire plot particularly where the remaining portion is too
small to be of any practical use.
5.3   Compensation for Crops and Other Assets
Customary owners will be compensated for loss of crops on the areas of land to be acquired
for project development. Compensation will be in accordance with the Land Act 1998 which
states that compensation is payable for "standing crops at their open market value excluding
annual crops which the owner can harvest". The Act however, does not make provision for
any other form of compensation for such items as seedlings, fertilisers, equipment etc.
The calculations of crops lost and payments due under current regulations and established
practice in Uganda are undertaken by professional valuers. These calculations will take into
account the loss of income from farming until such time as new crops are established on
replacement land in the case of a land for land compensation package. In the case of cash for
land, crop compensation will only apply to the existing crop.
The community road connecting Paidha to Nyapea and Jangokoro areas (refer to Figure 1.1)
will be improved.
5.4   Compensation for Buildings and Other Assets
Options regarding compensation for the loss of any buildings were presented to the
community. These options included replacement buildings, materials or cash.
Overwhelmingly the preference was for cash compensation.
In accordance with the Land Act 1998 and current practice, compensation is payable on a
replacement cost basis. Compensation will be payable for dwellings, latrines, food stores and
any other valuable belongings. However, in the case of Nyagak no buildings or assets other
than crops and land are affected.
ema Consult Ltd.                             24



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
5.5   Disturbance Allowance
The disturbance allowance is provided to cater for the disturbance caused to householders in
moving homes, finding new land, new schools for children, and to enable those affected to
become re-established during the transition period. In this case, the disturbance allowance is
provided only for the inconvenience of altering each household's agricultural activities since
moving households is not an issue. In accordance with the Land Act 1998 a disturbance
allowance will be paid and this will be equivalent to 15% of the assessed value of the land if
more than six months notice to vacate land is given. If the notice period is less than six
months an allowance of 30% of the assessed value will be provided.
Notice to vacate land required for the development of the project was provided verbally in
early November and followed-up in writing (MOU) in January 2006, thus establishing the
15% disturbance allowance rate. Note should be taken to the effect that the written notice to
vacate was given after the completion of the valuation exercise, which was completed in late
November 2005. The PAPs clearly indicated that they would not be able to vacate their land
until the developer provides full compensation for their property losses. This was agreed
during a meeting for mobilising the PAPs for the valuation exercise.
5.6   Other Compensation
* Water Supplies
Access to Nyagak River for water supplies will be temporarily restricted during the
construction period for Gira village and permanently restricted for Ngia village. The
developer is committed to providing access to alternative sources of water during the
construction and operational phases and will therefore provide facilities either from boreholes
or pumped supplies from the river wherever necessary. Consultations will be held with
relevant authorities over the most appropriate form of provision and the location of such
water supplies.
* Employment
It is proposed that priority will be given wherever possible to the employment of people from
the immediate area affected by the project (Ngia, Nyagak, Gira and Rutha villages),
particularly during the construction phase where there are likely to be considerable
opportunities for the recruitment of unskilled and semi-skilled labourers. The contractor will
specify proposals for both the recruitment and training of local staff.
6.      COMPENSATION SYSTEM
6.1   Inventory of Affected Individual and Community Properties
A detailed inventory of assets likely to be affected by project activities has been completed.
These activities include land for the transmission line (1.8 km from Paidha to the power
house), access road from the community road to the intake point, power house, workers'
camp, the low pressure penstock, the weir and the area to be inundated. Using compensation
ema Consult Ltd.                             25



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
rates for Nebbi district, affected properties have been valued and this will act as the basis for
compensation. The valuation results are included in Appendix 9a. The compensation rates for
Nebbi district are also included in Appendix 10.
6.2  Income Restoration Strategy
The main source of livelihood in the area is subsistence agriculture. Due to land take, 178
landowners will lose approximately 60 acres of land which constitutes a small proportion
(10%) of their source of food and income. This needs to be restored. Livelihood restoration
will be done in line with the World Bank requirement, which requires that assistance be
provided to those who lose their livelihoods as a result of a development project. In the case
of the Nyagak power project, the developer will compensate the 178 landowners by providing
cash or alternative land. The 43 tenant farmers should also be provided with some
compensation to enable them to continue a livelihood. It is proposed that the developer
provide each tenant farmer and land owner Uganda Shillings 20,000 for the purchase of farm
inputs (e.g. seeds, fertilizer, hoes).
6.3   Criteria and Eligibility for Compensation
Affected persons, irrespective of their status (whether they have formal title, legal rights, or
no legal rights), are eligible for some kind of assistance if they occupied the land prior to the
entitlement cut-off date (OP 4.12). The entitlement cut-off refers to the time when the
assessment of persons and their property in the project area is carried out. Thereafter, no new
cases are considered. Only the 178 land owners and 43 tenants who are affected by the land
acquisition will be eligible for compensation. Persons who settle or use the area after the
resettlement survey (census and valuation) are not eligible for compensation or any form of
resettlement assistance.
6.4   Compensation Procedures
Compensation for all households losing land and crops will be conducted in a transparent and
timely manner. The following compensation procedures will be followed by the developer in
effecting compensation to the affected people.
*  The developer will make payments of compensation according to the agreed
compensation rates;
*  The developer will make payments to the affected families, particularly those who
would have lost their agricultural land and crops;
*  Payments by cheque: all payments of compensation in excess of 300,000/= shall be
made by cheque, issued by the developer and drawn on the developer's Bank Account
established for this purpose;
*  While making payments, no further discussion of values or levels of payment will be
undertaken.
* Payments are only made to persons positively identified by the study.
* The developer will submit to the Government of Uganda a report on Compensation
payments.
ema Consult Ltd.                            26



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
The various forms that will be used related to payments are provided in Appendix 8. At
the conclusion of the compensation payments exercise, the developer will submit to REA
a compilation report of all completed forms and vouchers used, copies of which will be
included as well as any documentation of accountability to support the verification of
payments.
6.5   Compensation Agreement
The developer and the affected peoples will sign a transparent agreement to ensure a smooth
compensation process. Each of the affected persons will sign the verification form which will
be witnessed by the LC I Chairperson of the respective village. A certificate of completion
will be countersigned by the LC 1 Chairperson.
6.6   Entitlement Cut-off
The socio-economic household survey marked the beginning of the entitlement period.
Entitlement was completed during the valuation exercise, which was conducted between
December 6th and 20t 2005. No new cases of compensation will be entertained after
December 20th 2005. Communities in the affected areas have been informed accordingly and
the developer and the local authorities will reinforce this measure. Anyone who had not
registered with the land Valuator during the above mentioned period will not be eligible or
compensation or any form of resettlement assistance.
7.    IMPLEMENTATION
7.1   Organizational Framework
Discussions have been held with the relevant government agencies at both the national and
district level and with the community and local organisations in the area regarding the most
appropriate organisational structure for implementation of the plan.
It is generally agreed by all parties that a steering committee should be established to oversee
the execution of the plan. This should be comprised of representatives from the following:
The developer
NEMA
Funding Institutions
Ministry of Disaster Preparedness
Local Banking institutions especially Stanbic Bank, which has branches in Nebbi
and Paidha
Land Tribunal representatives
Local government representatives
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development (MEMD)
Rural Electrification Agency (REA)
It may be necessary to use the services of a number of technical specialists representing legal,
financial, business development and agriculture sectors.
ema Consult Ltd.                            27



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
The developer will chair the steering committee and oversee the entire compensation process.
The specific tasks of the steering committee will include:
*  Establish and maintain a register of all persons with interests in the area and who
are directly affected by the project, (based on the data base and valuation records);
*  Provide and disseminate information regarding the implementation of the project
and the programme of development, land acquisition and compensation;
*  Administer the compensation process;
*  Assist displaced households to identify suitable land, where land for land is the
preferred option, as necessary;
*  Assist displaced households with obtaining other sources of employment and
business development, where necessary;
*  Assist displaced households with relocation, as necessary;
*  Assist those affected and provide advice with financial management such as the
establishment of bank accounts;
*  Liaise with the contractor regarding the employment of persons affected by the
power project;
*  Act as the initial point of contact for land compensation grievances;
*  Initiation and co-ordination of community development projects.
It is proposed that the implementation of the plan be managed by the developer. A
compensation committee will be set up which will consist of representatives from the LCs,
the Land Crop Owners committee, women's groups, youth groups, parish land committees,
district Land board and people with disability groups.
7.2   Implementation Programme
The President of the Republic of Uganda commissioned the project in early February 2006
with the laying of a foundation stone. Once the RAP is approved by the World Bank,
implementation can proceed. Table 7.1 provides an indicative summary of the schedule of
key implementation activities and responsibilities.
The baseline socio-economic survey report and the valuation records, which shall be held in
Paidha Town Council and sub county offices, will be used as the basis for registering
interests. However, verification of property boundaries as these relate to land acquisition is
still required.
As part of the registration of interests, it will be important to note the intentions of those
households whose plots will be taken only in part for the mini-hydropower scheme. It will
also be important to establish which households wish to sell their entire plots in order that
valuation of those portions outside the land acquisition boundary can be undertaken. This
exercise will also facilitate the matching up of those who are interested in obtaining land
within the area to replace what is lost.
The Nebbi District Land Board will assist in the identification of lands outside the area by the
project on behalf of those households requesting land for land compensation.
ema Consult Ltd.                             28



I
Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
Negotiations with affected individuals will be undertaken on a confidential basis and all
records will be secured and maintained by the developer. Agreement of all persons over 18
years of age in each affected household will be obtained before compensation agreements are
signed. Payments will be made by the developer.
ema Consult Ltd.                             29



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Table 7.1: RAP Implementation Schedule
Month(s) for Task Implementation
MajorTasks          1     2      3     4      5      6      7     8      9      10     11     12     Responsibility
Decision to proceed                                                                                        Developer and local
authority
Disclosure of RAP                                                                                          Developer
Establish steering committee                                                                               Developer coordinates
Establish grievance                                                                                        Local government
committee
Confirm registration of                                                                                    Steering committee
interests
Finalize implementation                                                                                    Steering committee
program
Identify land for land people                                                                              Developer
Assist in identify lands                                                                                   Developer and steering
committee
Establish bank accounts                                                                                    Developer
Payouts for cash for both                                                                                  Developer
Vacate of lands                                                                                            Land owners
Initiate Monitoring                                                                                        Developer
activities *
.Monitoring                                                                                                Developer / REA
Grievances                                                                                                 Grievance committee
* collect extra data (e.g. who are the disadvantaged) to finalize parameters to be measured and indicators
Month I is the first month of implementation following World Bank approval of the RAP.
ema Consult Ltd.                                                   30



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
7.3   System for Complaints and Grievances
It is envisaged that a number of issues (grievances) will arise as a result of land acquisition by
the Nyagak project. A system will be put in place to settle these issues amicably through
recognised institutions and to the satisfaction of parties involved.
Affected people will have access to the survey results and compensation policies. During
implementation a number of issues may arise amongst the affected people. If a person is not
satisfied with the compensation or rehabilitation measure provided, he/she will have the
opportunity to raise the issue through an established Grievance Committee. The committee will
be formed at the village level and may include Local Council members, representatives of the
affected persons and a representative from the developer. Issues concerning the manner in which
compensation/benefits are handled within families can also be brought to the committee.
If the complainant does not agree with the committee's decision, he/she has recourse by
appealing to the District Probation Officer. If he/she does not still agree to the decision, he/she
could go to the court as a last option.
As well, a Land Tribunal can address grievances. Its' jurisdiction, based on article 243 of the
constitution includes:
*  The determination of disputes relating to the grant, lease, repossession, transfer or
acquisition of land by individuals, the Uganda Land Commission or other
authority with responsibility relating to land;
*  The determination of any disputes relating to the amount of compensation to be
paid for land acquired.
Although the courts can handle grievances, the local communities feel that exposing family
members to courts of law could trigger separation of families. Most prefer that grievances should
be handled by the grievance committee before taking it to the courts.
7.4   Compensation Costs
The component costs of compensation are summarised in Table 7.2
Levels of compensation have been determined through a cadastral and valuation exercise.
Reference should be made to Appendix 10.
ema Consult Ltd.                              31



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Table 7.2: Summary of the Total Cost Estimates for Compensation
S/N     Item                                                     Estimated Cost
(Uganda shillings)
1   Compensation
*  Compensation for land                             123,920,000
*  Compensation for crops                             56,653,880
*  Disturbance allowance (15%)                        26,992,445
Sub total                                               207,566,325
2    Community Development Service (livelihood restoration
strategy)
o  Agricultural implements (hoes, seeds) for 221       4,420,000
households in the project area @ 20,000=
3    Monitoring costs (to be determined)
Sub total                                                 4,420,000
GRAND TOTAL                                             211,986,325
Other items of direct compensation include:
* Provision of water supplies
* Community development projects
* Cash for farm inputs for tenant farmers and the land owners
The implementation of the project will involve the following administrative costs:
(i)   Office rent and office operating costs
(ii)   Transportation and subsistence costs.
(iii) Staff support (amount to be determined)
These costs are still to be determined.
7.5   Process of Payment
The developer must pay the affected persons fairly and in a timely manner. The process includes
further verifications of entitlements and disbursements.
7.6   Financial Responsibility
The developer will pay out funds for compensation to the affected households. The payments
will be witnessed by the Local council 1 of Ngia and Gira villages. This is because the land to be
acquired is located in the two villages.
ema Consult Ltd.                               32



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
8.    MONITORING
8.1   Introduction
Monitoring is an important management tool if conducted effectively and if its recommendations
are followed; it can provide a strong input to effective project management.
A monitoring program for the RAP is required to ensure that the plan is implemented in an
effective and efficient manner. In order for monitoring results to be effective regular monitoring
results will be reported to REA management and acted upon where such action is required to
ensure RAP implementation. The basic purpose of the monitoring program is to ensure that
project affected peoples receive their due compensation in a proper and timely fashion and that
any grievances are addressed appropriately.
A structured monitoring programme will be established and will be conducted over a three year
period beginning from the time compensation (cash or land for land) is provided and the vacating
of land occurs. A program and methodology for monitoring is outlined below and will be
detailed and finalized by the steering committee.
8.2   Monitoring Program and Methodology
The monitoring program will be based on the current baseline data that was collected and
analyzed during the preparation of the RAP, as well as on additional baseline data that will be
required for monitoring indicator purposes. Monitoring will be conducted every six months for a
period of three years and will be conducted through site inspections either by a trained monitor
from the developer's staff, or preferably, by an external consultant with appropriate training and
who can provide a non-partisan analysis of findings. The monitor will examine indicators and
provide objective measurements or, in many cases, use professional judgment to measure the
parameter against baseline information. Monitoring reports will be submitted to the developer (if
an external consultant is used) and to REA management. REA management will respond to any
recommendations provided by the monitor.
The initial task of the monitor will be to finalize the list of parameters for which monitoring will
be required. He/she will do this with input from the RAP steering committee. The monitor will
then finalize a set of practical monitoring indicators and test these on site. Once the indicators
have been finalized the monitor can proceed with actual monitoring. It will not be practical nor
necessary for the monitor to interview each project affected person but rather a sample of the
population will be used. Through meetings with the RAP steering committee members and
others within the community the monitor will be made aware of any RAP implementation
problems that may not present themselves through an analysis of a sample of the population
affected. Where possible the monitor will determine why certain aspects of the RAP are not
being implemented as per schedule or in an effective manner and these determinations will form
part of the monitor's report along with his/her recommendations to put the RAP implementation
ema Consult Ltd.                             33



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
back on track. Since the site is not extensive, and since the indicators being used are practical
and easy to measure, the monitor should be able to complete a monitoring visit within a six days.
The monitor will prepare a monitoring report following each visit. Each report will also include
an assessment of implementation of the recommendations provided in previous reports and will
analyze the level of progress being made towards the full implementation of the RAP and the
overall effectiveness of the resettlement program.
If the RAP is implemented as planned, a number of the parameters that will be monitored,
particularly those dealing with payments and resettlement, will only require monitoring during
the first visit since these parameters relate to activities for which completion is required in the
early stages of project implementation. Subsequent monitoring will not require any attention to
these parameter unless, of course, the activities to which they belong have not been
implemented. Subsequent monitoring visits are likely to focus on parameters such as household
well-being, disadvantaged groups, crop production and some of the required infrastructure
(water, road improvement and footbridge).
8.3 Preliminary List of Parameters to be Monitored
The RAP contains a number of requirements to be met by the developer to ensure that full and
effective resettlement is implemented. The following is a preliminary list of parameters that
should be considered for monitoring. This list will require discussion with the RAP steering
committee and further input from the monitor.
Parameters to be monitored include:
* Disturbance payment;
* Full and timely payment provided to affected people for land take;
* Full and timely payment provided to affected people (including tenants) for crop losses;
* Income restoration activities initiated and developed including income created from such
activities;
*  Job creation through the project;
* Establishment of bank accounts for PAPs and retention of same;
* Use of compensation funds to provide family support and the equitable distribution of
benefits within the family to ensure similar goods and services (food, education, health) to all
members of the family;
* Household well-being of affected people;
* Well-being of disadvantaged groups )e.g. do women maintain their economic independence
[assuming that they had it in the first place]);
* Acceptance in community of new land holders where land is given for land taken;
* Production levels of new lands vs old lands;
* Timely and adequate provision of water facilities;
* Provision of improved roads;
* Provision of foot / cycle bridge over the penstock;
ema Consult Ltd.                              34



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
* Grievances presented and success and timeliness of handling grievances;
* Livelihood restoration for those who have been hiring land through provision of loans and
other development services including employment opportunities;
* Provision of farm inputs.
8.4    Monitoring Indicators
The basis for good monitoring will be the establishment of verifiable indicators. An example of
such is provided in Table 7.2 but these must be given further thought and must be tested.
Indicators must be easy to measure and in some, if not many, they will be measured subjectively.
The basis upon which the indicators will be measured will be existing baseline data or additional
data that will be required for this purpose. It is important that all data required for monitoring is
provided prior to project implementation, particularly prior to compensation payment and land
take, before changes occur.
Table 8.1: An Example of Monitoring Indicators for Each Parameter
Parameter to be     Indicator         Procedure and           Baseline
measured                              Measurement
Disturbance payment  Signed voucher   View signed voucher     List of PAPs
Land take payment   Signed voucher    View signed voucher     List of PAPs and
compensation
amounts
Land for land       Signed voucher     View signed voucher    List of PAPs and
land area owned
Crop loss payment   Signed voucher    View signed voucher     List of PAPs and
land area owned
Farm input payments  Signed voucher   View signed voucher     List of PAPs
Job creation        Payroll record    View payroll             List of PAPs
Estbl. of bank      Bank record       Interview with bank     None exist now
accounts                              staff/see personal bank
account statement
Household well-     Possessions and   Observation of new      Inventory of basic
being**             services used     possessions and retention  belongings and
of old possessions and  services used (e.g.
services                schools)
Distr. of benefits  Interview with hh  Question wife and      Current benefits
within households**  members          children if their well  (schooling,
being has changed       shopping money)
Well-being of       Interview and     Question disadvantaged  Current level of
disadvantaged**     evidence of       re: what they have now as well-being
income            compared to before
Production levels    Farmer's estimate  Visit plots           Visit plots and
ema Consult Ltd.                               35



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
and physical                              estimate
evidence                                  production or
farmers provide
estimate
Water supplies      Physical evidence  Visit boreholes and other  None exist now
supplies provided
Improved roads      Physical evidence  Visit road and assess  Visit road and
changes; observation of  assess visually its
developer working on the  condition
road                    (potholes, width,
surface material)
Footbridge          Physical evidence  Visit site where       None present
footbridge is to be located
Grievances handled  Steering          View record of          None present
committee records  grievances
of grievances made
and number dealt
with successfully
Farm inputs         Physical evidence  Discussion with farmers  None present
Livelihood          Evidence of                               Current livelihood
restoration**       economic activity
(probably
agriculture)
** Denotes parameters that are most difficult to monitor and monitor and others will be
required to consider further development of effective indicators
8.5    Monitoring Schedule
Monitoring will be conducted over a three year period with two visits per year by the monitor.
8.6   Monitoring Costs
Monitoring costs will include the use of a social science specialist who has experience in
resettlement plans and the monitoring of these plans. The job could be performed by an
individual who visits the site twice annually over a three year period. Although it has been
suggested that monitoring could be conducted by a team comprised of representatives of the
different concerned ministries, it is highly unlikely that such a team will have the skills to
conduct effective monitoring. However, these ministries at the District level possess the
knowledge of local conditions and activities and would be used as valuable resource people as
input to the monitoring program.
Monitoring reports will be provided twice a year and will be submitted by the developer to REA
and the relevant government bodies at the district level.
ema Consult Ltd.                              36



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
It should be noted that REA has a monitoring responsibility as well and it will be conducting its
own monitoring to ensure that the RAP is being implemented effectively. Some of the
monitoring responsibilities and costs discussed here could be shared between the developer and
REA to avoid duplication.
8.7   Monitoring Results and Application
The purpose of monitoring for the developer and REA is to inform each of the progress being
made on the implementation of the RAP and to indicate problem areas that need to be addressed.
For monitoring to be useful the results must be acted. Schedules, responsibilities and budgets
may have to be adjusted in order for the implementation of RAP to be put back onto its
implementation track. If monitoring reports are given the respect and attention that they deserve,
each succeeding report should be able to report back on progress, reflecting on monitoring report
recommendations, made since the previous report.
ema Consult Ltd.                              37



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
9.    REFERENCES
1. Energy Policy for Uganda 2002
2. Wildlife Policy, 1995
3. Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development. 2001. Energy for Rural Transformation.
Environmental and Social Management Framework,
4. .National Environment Management Policy, 1994
5. Laws of Uganda 2000 Cap 153
6. 114. The National Policy for the Conservation and Management of Wetland Resources
1995
7. National Environment Management Policy, 1995
8. The Uganda Forestry Policy, 2001
9. The National Water Policy, 1999
10. The National Environment Act, 1995
11. The Constitution of the Republic of Uganda, 1995
12. The Land Act, 1998
13. The Environment Impact Assessment Regulations, 1998
14. The National Environment Regulations, 2000
15. The National Environment Regulations, 1999
16. The Water Resources Regulations, 1998.
17. The Sewerage Regulations, 1999
18. The Uganda Wildlife Act 1996
19. The Water Act 1995
20. The Forests Act, 1964
21. The Local Government Act 1997
22. Land Acquisition Act, 1965
23. The Electricity Act, 1999
ema Consult Ltd.                               38



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project    Resettlement Action Plan               May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
APPENDICES
ema Consult Ltd.                                39



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project    Resettlement Action Plan               May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Appendix 1
Terms of Reference
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
West Nile Electricity Supply Project
1. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE
The World Bank's Operational Policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) must be applied to
any project which displaces people from land or productive resources, and which results in
relocation, the loss of shelter, the loss of assets or access to assets important to production, the
loss of income sources or means of livelihood, or the loss of access to locations that provide
higher incomes or lower expenditures to businesses or persons. The policy applies whether or
not the affected persons must move to another location . The Bank describes all these processes
and outcomes as "involuntary resettlement," or simply resettlement, even when people are not
forced to move. Resettlement is involuntary if affected people do not have the option to retain
the status quo that they have before the project begins.
It is the Borrower's responsibility to prepare the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). The RAP
must be prepared, accepted, and disclosed by the Bank prior to Project approval by the Bank.
The principles and requirements underlying RAPs are contained in OP 4.12. In OP 4.12, Annex
A, the basic contents of RAPs are set out.
2. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The West Nile Rural Electrification Company Ltd (WENRECo.), a Subsidiary of Industrial
Promotion Services (IPS) has been granted a 20 year license to generate, distribute and sell
electricity throughout the districts of Arua and Nebbi. The West Nile Electrification Project will
be the first integrated power utility concession to be granted to a private investor in Uganda
under the Power Sector Restructuring and Privatization Strategy in which the government is
unbundling the Uganda Electricity Board into separate transmission and generation businesses.
5The full policy and its Annex are available on the World Wide Web (the Internet), in Volume 2 of the Bank's Operational
Manual at http://wbinOOl 8.worldbank.orq/institutional/manuals/opmanual.nsf/textonlv
ema Consult Ltd.                                40



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
The concession will oblige the WENRECo to build, own and operate a vertically integrated
power system that will involve the construction of the Paidha - Nyagak run-of-river hydro power
station on the Nyagak River. The site will include a 14m high (crest level to foundation level)
diversion weir that will have a surface area of approximately 11.2 acres and the holding pond
will extend approximately 600m upstream to an existing bridge crossing. These facilities will
supply Paidha and Nebbi municipalities through an existing 33kV sub-transmission line through
a distribution and sales concession.
The major construction components include construction of access roads, diversion structure,
and a low pressure water transmission penstock over a distance of approximately 1 km, a high
pressure penstock, a power house further downstream, and a transmission line to the
interconnection point on the existing grid at Paidha.
3. IMPACTS, LAND ACQUISITION, AND RESETTLEMENT
The project area is characterized by relatively steep topography and is sparsely populated
although the land in the project area is used for agricultural production. Preliminary surveys of
the project area indicated that only two housing units will have to be removed, and that there are
about 60 families owning land in the affected area but that only about 25% of the total land
holdings of those to be affected will be lost. The total estimated affected land is 134.5 acres.
Impacts will include the loss of housing structures (two households), and the loss of productive
agricultural land and thus the loss of income for some 60 families. Impacts may also include the
loss of water resources (that part of the river between the weir and the outfall at the generating
station), the loss of fuelwood resources, the loss of medicinal plants and the loss of wild food
sources. More than the 62 families as indicated could be directly affected since others without
land and houses in the area may rely on some of the natural resources in the area to be occupied
by the weir, the pipeline and ancillary structures, as well as the flooded area upstream of the
weir.
It is the intention of the Project to move (or deprive from resources) as few people as possible
consistent with the requirements of the Project, and that general principles of doing no harm, of
avoiding or minimizing resettlement are to be followed. The Project is committed to ensure that
affected people are meaningfully consulted, compensated fully and fairly for their losses, and
assisted in their efforts to improve their livelihoods and standards of living or at least to restore
them.
4. OBJECTIVE
The objective of the consultancy is to prepare an abbreviated Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
that will address the social issues related to land acquisition and this will include the loss of
homes and related structures, the loss of livelihood and income, and the loss of common
resources. The plan will clearly describe in detail how these social impacts will be addressed
through resettlement and compensation.
ema Consult Ltd.                              41



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
5. TASKS
i) Community participation:
Prepare a strategy for community involvement (those directly affected and potential
host communities) in the preparation of the RAP
* Implement the community involvement strategy
* Summarize the views expressed and show how community input has been considered
in terms of the preparation of the RAP.
i) Legal analysis framework: Conduct an analysis of the legal framework, covering:
*  The scope of the power of eminent domain and the nature of compensation associated
with it, in terms of both the valuation methodology and the timing of payment.
*  The applicable legal and administrative procedures, including a description of the
remedies available to affected persons in the judicial process and the normal
timeframe for such procedures, and any available alternative dispute resolution
mechanisms that may be relevant to resettlement under the project.
* Relevant law governing land tenure, valuation of assets and losses, compensation, and
natural resource usage rights, environment, natural habitat and social welfare.
*  Laws and regulations relating to agencies responsible for implementing resettlement
activities.
ii) People affected:
*  Define the criteria that are to be used to identify the eligibility for compensatory
measures for each category of affected people, whether losses are partial or total,
whether people have their own land or also rent land, what happens when buildings
are occupied by more than one business tenant or household, for example.
*  Survey the area to determine the numbers and categories of households and
individuals who will be affected by the Project (different categories of those displaced
may include, for example, those losing legal title and those without it, those losing
lands or those losing housing or those losing both, those losing temporary access or
those losing permanent rights, business or residential property).
iii) Assets inventory:
*  Prepare a description of the assets (e.g. houses and outbuildings) to be lost and which
will have to be replaced. This description will also include an objective valuation of
assets.
*  Describe productive lands to be lost, their current use and the annual quantity and
value of crops and other products yielded by these lands.
ema Consult Ltd.                              42



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project    Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
* Describe other private land production resources (e.g. trees for fuelwood, medicinal
plants) and common resources that will be lost. Describe in terms of quantities to be
lost and their values (see iv below) for replacement / compensation purposes.
v) Other social concerns:
* Conduct a survey of non-tangible assets (e.g. business contacts and relationships that
will be lost but have economic value)
* Survey public infrastructure and social services that will be affected.
* Determine the effect that resettlement will have on family and community social
structure.
vi) Resettlement and compensation:
Describe the methodology to be used in valuing assets to determine replacement cost,
and a description of the proposed types and levels of compensation under local law
taking into account the requirement cost of OP 4.12 and supplementary measures as
are necessary to achieve replacement cost for lost assets.
* Provide values for all losses.
Conduct a survey amongst affected households and individuals to determine views on
types and levels of compensation.
* With those who have to be resettled, determine their preferred areas for relocation as
well as preferred housing.
If host communities are involved with receiving households to be resettled, determine
their concerns and the general acceptability of relocated households.
Provide an alternatives comparison for resettlement and compensation.
Choose the best alternative for resettlement and compensation and fully describe this
alternative in terms of scheduling, responsibilities for implementation and costs.
vii) Organizational elements and procedures for delivery of entitlements:
*  Describe the process by which the RAP will be submitted to project authorities,
considered and approved, and how entitlements will be delivered.
*  State who in the overall project organization will be responsible for resettlement, and
what facilities the overall resettlement officials will have available to them. If there is
no unit or officer(s) with the training andjob description to oversee resettlement
issues, describe the way in which such capacity will be developed, structured, and
given authority. In an annex, provide TOR for such a unit or officer(s) and describe
interim arrangements until such capacity is functioning.
viii) Implementation schedule, including how resettlement and compensation will be linked
to the civil works:
* Set out the schedule by which resettlement will arise and be treated, in terms of the
overall management of the Project.
ema Consult Ltd.                               43



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
ix) Grievance redress mechanisms
* Describe the mechanisms available to affected people for complaints about aspects of
their treatment under this policy framework. Show how the mechanism will be
accessible (in terms of language, distance, and cost) to affected people, and what
recourse/appeal from the local grievance mechanism may be available.
x) Monitoring:
* Provide an appropriate mechanism for monitoring the effective implementation of
resettlement and compensation, either as part of the overall monitoring of Project
progress, or separately to affirm the achievement of resettlement goals of ensuring
that all affected people are addressed. Describe how overall Project achievements
will be monitored, and at what frequency, by formal supervision or by the use of
independent monitoring agencies (NGOs, researchers, committees of affected people,
or some combination of actors). Show how the results of monitoring will be fed back
into Project implementation. Where appropriate, set up monitoring checklists or
templates to focus the work of local monitors.
6. DESIGN OF A RAP
At a minimum, ensure that the individual RAP will include the nature of the subproject, the
resettlement impact, the number of people affected, baseline census and socio-economic
information, a matrix that shows the entitlements of the categories of affected people, a
description of resettlement sites and programs for improvement or restoration of livelihoods and
standards of living, the subproject budget and implementation schedule. Show any further
information that may be needed.
7. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
The consultant will report directly to the WENRECo official designated to oversee the
resettlement study.
The RAP shall be prepared as a self-standing document.
WENRECo. shall review and comment on the submitted reports within two weeks from the date
of receipt.
NEMA and the World Bank will review the draft RAP incorporated with WENRECo's
comments for a 'no objection' before the consultant submits final reports.
The reports shall be submitted in six (6) hard copies and one soft copy on CD ROM.
ema Consult Ltd.                               44



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
7. DELIVERABLES AND TIMETABLE
The consultant will provide the following deliverables in the time frames indicated:
*  An inception report within five days of start up
*  A community participation plan as part of the inception report
*  Land survey results (within 3 weeks of inception)
*  Social information analysis within 3 weeks of inception)
*  Draft RAP within 4 weeks of inception
*  Final RAP one week after receiving comments from WENRECo, GoU and World
Bank.
The project is expected to be completed within 3 (three) months as per the attached schedule
Activity                            Duration (Months)   Cum. Total (months)
Survey & Resettlement Action Plan   1                   1
Review by WENRECo.                  0.5                 1.5
Review by NEMA & World Bank         0.75                2.25
Submission of Final Report         0.75                 3.0
8. RESOURCES
The consultant shall provide all personnel necessary for the completion of the land survey,
valuation and RAP. The following personnel shall be included as a minimum requirement.
Position                        Description
Project Manager / RAP Specialist / A minimum of 10 years experience in resettlement
Sociologist                     / mitigation issues related to development schemes
such as power projects. The RAP specialist shall
have significant experience in projects financed by
the World Bank
Land Surveyor                   The Land   surveyor shall be a registered Land
Surveyor in Uganda
Land / Property Valuer          Experienced to carry out valuation of land and
particularly agricultural property.
Social Scientist                Experienced  in research  conducted  in rural
communities
ema Consult Ltd.                               45



Nvagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan          May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
ANNEX 1: SPECIMEN ENTITLEMENT MATRIX
Relocation to
resettlement sitEWrlT .EMENTS                      Food from
lj#M999QgY      TYPE OF                           choice, with payment                               WFP during
(uslf 1       LossL 111 id     Compensation for   W88WctIlqnd.         Compensation for   Moving     cons9tIo%n
Loss of Structures  wFor cros,fn6eqs     Loss of Income    Allowance   of  ffice
Ls aE rrScplaccmcnt at  Crops at markct             FP from
Loss of land   Compensation at full new site, plus land  cost in scarcet               WFP during
replacement value   clearing by project   eay  ntsoin lieuco                  cio
ro)g                        for structure,                             amet i ie                    11vaftee
gR  s      Loss of shelter  relocation to     None                 Ebwvgseltdillee               Allowance of
(iving on site)  Loss of      6snt Fences (wire or                     hading           Moving to be 61SO&rbance
structure                   g 0 ntL.ee  wood) at $ 3/meter  Lump sum cash  done        Allowanceof
Residential or                 . '?.Hand-dug wells at   payment of 6      free by      $100
business            cprociated      $200                months rent per   project      $100
tenant
Replacement cost for                  Free moving6motsrn
Residential   Loss of rental  No loss of structure,  non-movables if   No loss of       if notification  6 months rent
Tenant:       accommodation   no entitlement to  installation was     income            before       euvln o
housing at new site  agreed with owner                    defore       disturbance
For loss of      Free moving
Business      Loss of                             Replacement cost for  business income, if notification
Tenant        Loss            No loss            facilities that cannot  payment of half  before
premises                            be moved            of turnover for 6  deadline
months
ema Consult Ltd.                                              46



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Appendix 2:
List of People Consulted
PAIDHA TOWN COUNCIL
NAME                     POSITION                 CONTACT
*     Ngarombo Samson          AG. ACAO-Okoro           077 931149
*     Jalwiny Silimani         Town Clerk                077 613634
*     Hon. Orama Agnes         Sec/Work P.T.C           077 906977
*     Odar Robinson            L/S                      075 663738
*     Manano Zollo             A.E.O                    077 629835
*     B.A.Mungu Acel           Chairperson LC III Nyapea  078 666811
*     Orwinyo-Ozelle. S        C/man LC III Paidha       077 306592
*     Hon. Ochola Bruno        Speaker P.T.C             077 659346
*     Omar Kubi                Sec. Soc. Services        078 541866
*     Omwony Tonny             Sec. Finance/Works       078 995630
*     Penjonga Omondi          Sec. Finance/Paidha S/C  078 565933
*     Orwothwun. S             C/man Finance S/C        077 306592
*     Udota Margaret           Secretary Soc. Services  077 306592
*     Adufua Martin            District Councillor      078 585724
NEBBI
1.    LC V                            Alenyo
2.    CAO                             Nathan
3.    RDC                             Adima Betty
COMMUNITY MEMBERS
NAME                            VILLAGE
1.    Mungu-Acel Barakia              LC III C/man Nyapea Division
2.    Orwinyu Uzelle                  LC III C/man Paidha T/C
3.    Kertho Chrisanto                Jupakonja Village
4.    Owaga Santo                     Athuma Village
5.    Wat-Angoya David                Gari Village
ema Consult Ltd.                             47



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project    Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
6.    Onen Pastore                    Athuma Village
7.    Onega Charles                   Athuma Village
8.    Thoni Kuma David                Athuma Village
9.    Binen Denice                    Athuma Village
10.   Oting Cwinyu Gerald             Athuma Village
11.   Oyeki James                     Ngia Village
12.   Openjuru Francis                Ngia Village
13.   Ongu-Kadhu Charles              Ngia Village
14.   Uvon Cosmas                     Ngia Village
15.   Ajoga Luciano                   Ngia Village
16.   Ozelle Isaiah                   Ngia Village
17.   Gombe Drabolo                   Ngia Village
18.   Onegio Domminicic               Athuma Village
19.   Okura Musa                      Ngia Village
20.   Omani Emmanuel                  Ngia Village
21.   Onegarach Safi                  Nyagak Village
22.   Opoti John                      Nyagak Village
23.   Anyii Isaac                     Nyagak Village
24.   Odaga Saluatore                 Nyagak Village
25.   Adigitho Godfrey                Nyagak Village
26.   Onega Gerald                    Nyagak Village
27.   Katho Isabella                  Nyagak Village
28.   Birwinyo-Iwu Janet              Nyagak Village
29.   Zuza Beatrice                   Ngia Village
30.   Mandhawum Apolina               Ngia Village
31.   Fuarac Suazi                    Ngia Village
32.   Ogwiri Domminic K               Ayuda
33.   Mon-ango Paska                  Nyagak Village
34.   You-ningom James                Mathevele
35.   Odir Samson                     Athuma
36.   Nyamunda Marriana               Nyagak
37.   Ngwcarach Jeska                 Nyagak
38.   Ocida Athuaneth                 Nyagak
39.   Roseline Nyamungu               Nyagak
40.   Kasamba Alloysius               Songea
41.   Binega Jerose                   Nyagak
ema Consult Ltd.                              48



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project     Resettlement Action Plan               May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
APPENDIX 3
FOCUS GROUP DISCUSSIONS
NAME                             AGE                 VILLAGE
1. Ajenesa Thorach                                      Nyagak
2. Okecha Gerald                    38                  Nyagak
3. Opoki Stefano                    42                  Ngia
4. Seka Bakith                      63                  Ngia
5. Kisaraki Johnson                 30                  Jupakonja
6. Angala Galdina                   53                  Ngia
7. Omani Emmanuel                   70                  Ngia
8. Remijo Kerubedi                  63                  Athuma
9. Okathi Lazaru                    51                  Ngia
10. Agenonga Robert                 20                  Mathawele
11. Openji Jenesio                  76                  Mathawele
12. Jalar Godfrey                   24                  Mathawele
13. Bidong Patrick                  22                  Ngia
14. Oryem Saban                     23                  Jupakonja
ema Consult Ltd.                               49



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Results of consultation meetings:
Date              People consulted   Results             Comments
October 4th 2005  WENRECO               * RAP team
briefed on
scope of work
and the
facilitated
October 4th 2005  NEMA officials           Briefed about
the study and
agreed on
proper
consideration
of issues
regarding
land and other
assets
October 1 Ith 2005  Nebbi district      * Project is very Meeting very
officials met (RDC,      well come but useful with
LC V, CAO,               long awaited.  cooperation
Planning Officer,        Community    accorded to the
Environment              will be      study team.
Officer, Land            mobilized for
Officer)                consultative
meetings with
the
consultants.
October 12th 2005  Paidha Town          *  Study team    Meeting was very
Council Officials        welcome but  useful and assisted
met including the        hope this will  greatly in the study
Mayor, Ass. CAO,         be the last  process
Land Officer,            consultative
Town Council             meeting
Engineer, Planner,       before
LC III for Paidha        implementatio
and Nyapea               n.
subcounties,             Communities
chairpersons for         will be
Ngia, Gari and           mobilized for
Nyagak. Rutha           the census
was absent with          and related
apologies.              study
components
including
survey and
valuation.
PAPs persons
ema Consult Ltd.                             50



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
should be
compensated
adequately
and promptly
October 13th 2005  Community            * Hope it is not  Meeting was well
meeting at the           because of the  attended and
Nyagak site near         2006          outcome used for
the Nyapea bridge,       elections    formulating this
held under a tree     * Hope crops    plan.
and attended by         and land will
over 60 household        be
heads and most of        compensated
the Local council        adequately
(LC) officials of        and timely.
the villages of       * That the
Ngia, Gari, Nyagak       contractor
and Rutha                should
consider them
for jobs with
the project
Dec. 1 oth 2005   Meeting with all      * Compensation   It aimed to agree
PAPs (178                before       for over
claimants and the        vacating land  compensation
43 tenants). The                      timetable.
Land Officer and
Ass represented
Paidha Town
council. Chief
Administrative
Officer while
WENRECO was
represented by the
Project
Coordinator.
ema Consult Ltd.                             51



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project    Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
Plate 1. Consultative meeting with Project Affected Persons (PAPs).
ema Consult Ltd.                              52



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
APPENDIX 4:
Focus Group Discussion Guide
Community Focus Group discussion Guide used by the socio-economist
Introduction
Good Morning / Good Afternoon
You are most welcome to participate in this discussion, we are a research team from ema
consult (U) Ltd, and we are doing a baseline survey on communities living near the site of the
construction of the substation. The purpose of this study is to help develop compensation and
resettlement plans of the communities in the villages of Ngia, Gari, Nyagak and Rutha. The
main issues that will be covered in the discussion include:
. Livelihood
* Gender differences
Perceptions of the project
Direct and Indirect impacts
o Positive (e.g. health, education etc)
o Negative
*  Mitigation of negative impacts
In addition, a land survey will be done near the substation to determine property for
compensation.
You are free to say or not to say any thing. You are requested to feel free to discuss among
yourselves without making references to yourself or any person known to you personally. In
the discussion there are no wrong answers and whatever information is gained from the
discussion will be kept completely confidential and will be accessible only by those directly
responsible for the study. You are requested to be audible enough so that we can write down
your views as they come. We also have an audiotape, which we could use to record the
proceeding of the discussion if your group would allow us to do so.
Thank you very much.
ema Consult Ltd.                             53



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Livelihood
1.    What would you say is the main means of livelihood of the communities living
within the radius of 200m from River Nyagak?
Probe:       Crop Production
Animal Husbandry
2.    What is the land ownership system practiced in this area? How does it affect the
livelihoods of individual households?
Probe:       Practice of Crop Production
Practice of animals Husbandry
3.    Is the production practice in this area for household consumption and cash
earnings? What is usually produced for domestic consumption and for income?
Probe:       What and how much was produced for consumption last season?
What and how much was produced for income last season?
How much was sold?
4.    What are the major problems faced by this community in getting access for
markets and services for their livelihood? If not mentioned,
Probe: The nature of the problems
5.    What takes the highest proportion of household income in this community?
6.    What would you like to be done to address these problems? Please emphasis is on
the Nyagak Project
7.    What are you willing to contribute to enable the government or any other party
interested in solving these problems to do; so as to cover part your contribution -
if not mentioned,
Perceptions of the project
8.    The project involves the following activities or components:
Road construction for access
Transmission line
Workers' camp
* Associated civil works
What are the negative impacts, things that may be lost due to the project on the local
communities?
Probe:       Land use changes         Cultural Sites
Education Services       Recreation activities
Health services          Aesthetics and antiquities
Markers
Business place
9     (a)    What are the effects of the project on the community facilities such as:
Health facilities
ema Consult Ltd.                             54



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
Education facilities
Water Facilities
Recreation Facilities
Security
Probe:       The importance attached to each of the above
(b)   What are the mitigation measures for each of the facilities affected in (a)
above?
Health and Safety
10.   What is your level of awareness of HIV/AIDS in this area?
11.   Does the community have the necessary capacity to protect against HIV/AIDS?
12.   What do you think are the negative impacts on the health of the community due to
the project
Probe: HIV / AIDS spread
Effects of high voltage (perceived health effects)
13.   What would you suggest as mitigation measures
o For HIV/AIDS spread
Probe: Among Community members
Construction Workers
Probe: Households affected
Mitigation of negative impacts
14.   What would you like to be done for you in case you lose important services
(Health, Education, etc.) due to the project?
Probe:       Relocation of services
Compensation for lose of personal property
Resettlement
15.   If you are asked to vacate your land and be resettled else where, how and who
would you like to resettle you?
Probe:       Resettlement as communities
Other resettlement systems
Resettlement agency
Positive impacts
16.   What are the positive impacts, the good things that may result from the project?
This will call for extensive probes based on how the initial question is answered.
However, the following probes may be done:
Probe:       Economic benefits including but not limited to
-     Increased business activity
-     Provision of electricity
-     Small scale industries
-     Employment on the project
-     Employment due to increased business activities
Social benefits including but not limited to
-     Increase human mobility due to construction of access road
-     Lighting Services
ema Consult Ltd.                             55



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project     Resettlement Action Plan               May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Easy access to services such as schools and health facilities due
to access road.
Gender based benefits
-      Benefits specifically for males
-      Benefits specifically for females
Impact on poverty reduction ways and meanS
ema Consult Ltd.                               56



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
APPENDIX 5
Results of the Socio-economic survey in the project area  (Chapter four).
Introduction
This section analyses the socio-economic status of the project area, giving the distribution of
household members in both the direct and indirect project impact zones by demographic and
social characteristics. This section also analyses the possible social impacts and their
mitigation measures. As mentioned earlier, a survey was conducted within the radius of 200
m from the edge of the land to be owned by WENRECo.for the proposed minihydropower
project development. The rationale was to assist in determining the present socio-economic
conditions of the people settled within project vicinity, who are likely to benefit from project
development mainly in terms of employment and other related social and economic
conditions. The aim was to enable project benefits be evaluated. This however, does not
mean that everyone within the 200 m radius will lose property due to project development,
rather only those whose property fall within the land required for project development will
receive compensation for loss of his or her properties. In light of this, two focus group
discussion meetings (FGDs) were held in the villages of Ngia and Gira and attended by over
50 residents including women and youth. (See Appendix 4 Residents from Nyagak and
Rutha villages also attended. During each of the meetings, the Team Leader (Socio-
economist) for the RAP explained the need for the survey. A sample of the FGD question
guide used during the meetings is presented in appendix 5.
3.1   Demographic characteristics of household heads
The study covered 111 household heads living within the radius of 200M of Nyagak River, of
which 70 were male headed and 41 female headed. 98% of the household members had spent
the night at the place of the survey in the previous night.
Table 1.     Percentage distribution of household heads by background
Characteristics
Male       Female       Total
(n=70)     (n=41)      (n=111)
Marital  Married     84.4%     68.4%        78.4%
status
Divorced   3.1%       2.6%         2.9%
Widowed    1.6%       18.4%        7.8%
Never      10.9%      10.5%        10.8%
married
Household 15 years and 1.5%     5.3%        2.9%
head age  below
16-25      19.4%      13.2%        17.1%
26-35      22.4%      31.6%        25.7%
36-45      26.9%      18.4%        23.8%
46-55      17.9%      7.9%         14.3%
ema Consult Ltd.                             57



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
56-65      6.0%       18.4%       10.5%
Above 65   6.0%       5.3%        5.7%
Literacy  Literate  72.1%      23.7%        53.5%
Illiterate  27.9%     76.3%       46.5%
Education None      13.6%      68.4%        33.7%
level
Primary    72.7%      26.3%       55.8%
Secondary  13.6%      5.3%        10.6%
3.1.1 Age of Household Heads
Slightly more than a quarter (26%) of the household heads are aged between 26 - 35 years,
24% aged between 36-45 years, 17% of the household heads are aged between 16-25 years
while there were also child headed households those aged 15 years and below (3%).
3.1.2 Level of Education of Household Heads
Regarding the education levels of household heads, the data presented on table 3.1 shows that
14% male and 68% female had no education. About 73% male and 26% female had primary
education and 14% and 5% male and female respectively had secondary education.
3.1.3 Literacy levels of Household Heads
Results from the table 3.1 above further indicates that 54% of the household heads are literate
with the bigger percentage (72%) of them being male compared to the female (24%). The
reverse is true, that is more female household heads are illiterate (76%) compared to the male
(28%).
3.1.4 Marital Status of Household Heads
Data presented on table 3.1 below shows that 78% of the households heads were married,
11% never married, 8% widowed among which 18% were female and only 2% male
widowers.
3.2   Demographic characteristics of Household members
3.2.1 Sex of household members
Figure 1 below shows sex of household members with 53% male and 47% female; this gives
an average household size of 5.4 people per household. This average household size is higher
than the district average household size of 4.8 people (2002 Uganda Population and Housing
Census).
ema Consult Ltd.                             58



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project    Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
52          3
5 a x a ~~Male 
t   Female
4-
Fig. 1 Sex of household members (n=610)
3.2.2 Social characteristics of household members by
Education
Heads of households were also asked to report the social characteristics of household
members. The data presented in Table 3.1 shows that 36% of the household members were
reported to have had no education. About 58% of household members had primary education
and only 6% attained secondary education.
70.0 -
58.2
60.0 -
50.0  -Ii 
40.0         36.0
30.0  -
20.0-
10.0-       ~                     W                   5.8
10.0          -     
0.0
None               Primary            Secondary
Figure 2. Level of education of household members (n=589)
Literacy levels
Data presented on figure 3 Below shows that about 52% of the household members who are
aged 6 years and above are illiterate and 48% are literate.
ema Consult Ltd.                              59



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project     Resettlement Action Plan               May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Literacy levels
54.0 -                                   52.4
52.0 -
50.0 -
47.6
48.0- -___x___
46.0-
44.0
Literate                  Illiterate
Fig. 3. Literacy Levels
3.2.3 Marital status
The majority of the household members in the 200m radius were never married and this
constituted 64%. About 32% of household members were married. The proportion of
widowed and divorced members was found to be low. In the culture of the area, marital
status influences decision making on household or clan property. It is therefore a determinant
of property relations, which is important in matters relating to compensation for land
acquisition for the Nyagak scheme.
70.0-    63.7
60.0 -
50.0 -
40.0 -
32.1
30.0 -
20.0 -
10.0 -
0.0
Never Married   Married      Widowed       Divorced
Figure 4. Household members marital status (n=551)
ema Consult Ltd.                               60



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
3.3   Main source of livelihood
Table 2. Percentage distribution of main source of livelihood by household
No. of Households Percent
Cultivation of  49               44.1
crops
Rearing livestock 1              .9
Trading         61               55.0
Total           111              100.0
Household heads were asked to report about the main source of livelihood, results on table 2
above shows that slightly more than half (55%) of the households derive their livelihood
mainly from trading in agricultural produce and 44% from cultivation of crops. The reason
for trading being the main source of livelihood is because Paidha boarders with the
Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), with a boarder post at some point as near as 2 kms
from Paidha town.
3.3.1 Cultivation of crops
Crop production is the main occupation of the people around the Nyagak River cultivating
mainly on the slopes. Tthe main crops grown include: coffee, bananas, sweet potatoes, Irish
potatoes, onions, yams, millet, beans, maize, cassava, vegetables, groundnuts, sugarcane and
fruits. Most of the crops are grown for consumption and the balance is traded for purchase of
essential commodities such as salt, soap, clothes etc.
Asked where crops are usually grown, data on table 3.3 below shows that majority of the
households (58%) grow crops in the homestead backyard; while 32% of the households grow
crops on farms and 46% grow crops along Nyagak River.
Table 3. Percentage distribution of Place were the crops are grown
No. of households Percent
(n=l 1)
Household backyard  64               57.7
Farm                35               31.5
Along the river     51               45.9
3.3.2 Land ownership on which crops are grown
Results on table 3.4 below indicate that two thirds of the households around Nyagak river
(67%) grow their crops on customary land. While 16% of the households grow crops on
privately owned land and the rest grow crops either on public land (10%), borrowed land, or
hired land.
ema Consult Ltd.                             61



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project     Resettlement Action Plan                May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
ema Consult Ltd.                                62



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Table 4. Percentage distribution of land ownership on which crops are grown
No. of        Percent
Households
Privately owned land  18           16.2
Private borrowed land 3            2.7
Customary land       74            66.7
Public land          11            9.9
Hired               4              3.6
Others               1             .9
Total                111           100.0
3.3.3 Land tenure system
Data on table 3.5 below shows that most of the land around Nyagak river (87%) is
customarily owned; other land tenure systems around Nyagak River include freehold 5%,
leasehold and 6% of the households did not know the land tenure system.
Table 5. Percentage distribution of Land Tenure System
No. of          Percent
households
Customary    97             87.4
Freehold     5              4.5
tenure
Lease tenure 2               1.8
Others       7              6.3
Total        111             100.0
3.3.3 Amount of land owned outside the project area
Asked whether they have land outside the project location, 100% of the households replied
that they have more land else where. As shown in Table 5 below all households say 90% of
land they own is outside the immediate project vicinity and that what they have in the project
area constitutes only 10% of land they own. According to them the area is too step that you
cannot afford to own too much land.
Table 5. Percentage of land ownership within the project area.
No.         ofPercent  of Percent of
Households    land within land outside
Number of household  111           10         90
Total                111           100.0      100.0
ema Consult Ltd.                             63



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Details of ownership and amount of land and value for land and crops is presented in
appendices 9 and 10 of this plan.
3.4   Marketing Agricultural Produce
3.4.1 Place of selling produce
Household heads were asked about the place where the agricultural produce is usually sold,
data on table 3.6 shows places where household sell their agricultural produce. Two thirds of
the households (67%) sell their produce in the local market that is within Paidha, while only
26% sell their produce in the outside market Arua, Pakwach and other parts of the country),
as well as in the DRC. About 2% of the households do not sell their produce at all.
Table 6. Percentage distribution of place of produce sells
No. of          Percent
Households
Don't sell at all  2             1.8
Local market     74              66.7
Outside market   29              26.1
Others           6               5.4
Total             111            100.0
ema Consult Ltd.                             64



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
3.4.2 Means of transportation of produce to the market
Table 7. Percentage distribution of means of transportation of produce to markets:
No. of          Percent
Households
Bicycle          45              40.5
Motor vehicle    4               3.6
On foot          57              51.4
Others           5               4.5
Total             111            100.0
Slightly more than half (51 %) of the households transport produce to the market by foot that
is carrying on their heads and about 41% transport their produce by bicycle and only 4% of
the households use motor vehicles for transportation.
3.4.3 Problems Experienced in production activities
Table 8. Percent distribution of household by problems encountered in production
activities
No. of Household Percent
Drought                  12              10.8
Lack of sufficient land  29              26.1
Lack of tools like hoes  9               8.1
Lack of markets          11              9.9
Lack of good access to   8               7.2
markets
Transportation           26              23.4
Insecurity               1               .9
Others                   15              13.5
Insufficient land is the major problem encountered in the production activities as reported by
26% of the households. This is attributed mainly to the land tenure system, which is
customary land ownership. This has in turn promoted land fragmentation. The other problems
by order of importance include transportation both in terms of means and access due to the
bad bridge which is used as a short cut to the Paidha market (23%), drought (11%), lack of
markets hence limited profits (10%). Other problems mentioned during the focus group
discussions included: wild fire, lack of production tools, plant diseases and pests, predators
like monkeys and reduced soil fertility due to over cropping
3.4.4 Livestock
ema Consult Ltd.                             65



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
Out of the 111 households interviewed, 55 households reported to be rearing livestock, which
accounts for about 60% of the households talked to. The livestock reared include goats,
donkeys, chicken, pigs and cattle.
ema Consult Ltd.                            66



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
3.4.5 Place of grazing
Results on table 3.9 below indicate that slightly more than half (70%) of the households who
have livestock graze their livestock on customary land. Other grazing land includes privately
owned land (20%), private borrowed (5%) and public land (7%).
Table 9. Percentage distribution of Households by place of grazing
No. of Households  Percent
Private own land      11                 20
Private borrowed land  3                 5
Customary land        39                 70
Public land           4                  7
Others                9                  8
Total                 55                 100.0
3.4.6 Livestock problems
Table 3.10 below shows problems encountered in livestock rearing which include; lack of
sufficient grazing land (67%), lack of markets (9%), transportation (6%), drought (6%) and
animal diseases.
Table 10. Percentage distribution of Household by Problems encountered in livestock
rearing
No. of Households  Percent
Drought               3                  5.5
Lack of sufficient land  37              67.3
Lack of markets       5                  9.1
Transportation        3                  5.5
Insecurity            1                  1.8
Others                6                  10.8
Total                 55                 100.0
3.5   Social services in the proposed project area
The social assessment also addressed the type of social services in the area that may be
directly or indirectly affected by the Nyagak power development project.
3.5.1 Health Facilities
There is no health facility located within the 200M radius of River Nyagak. However, the
community has access to health center IV in Paidha township and Health center 111 in
ema Consult Ltd.                             67



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project    Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
Nyapea. Data on table 3.1 1 shows that more than three quarters (69%) of the households are
located less than 5KM away from the nearest health facility.
ema Consult Ltd.                              68



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project    Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
Table 11. Distance from nearest health facility to household
No. of        Percent
Households
Less than 5km   77            69.4
5-10km          20            18.0
10 or more km   14            12.6
Total           111            100.0
How health facilities will be affected if required to settle somewhere else
Table 12. Percentage Distribution on how Households may be affected if required to
resettle somewhere
No. of HouseholdsPercent
Hard to access health services 52          46.8
Depends on the place       6               5.4
New Diseases               5               4.5
Food and land shortage     4               3.6
Can't leave                3               2.7
No problem                 41              36.9
Total                      111             100.0
Respondents were asked how health facilities will be affected if they are to be resettled
somewhere else. Results on table 3.12 indicate that 47% of the households indicated that it
would be hard to access health services while 37% of the households said they would find no
problems. Others reported that it would depend on the place; new diseases and others said
they were not willing to leave does it would not matter to them.
3.5.2 Education Services
There are no educational institutions located within the 200M radius of Nyagak River.
Nevertheless households access nursery, primary and secondary schools with 76% of them
located within less than 5 KM of the project site.
Table 13. Percentage distribution of households by Nearest Distance to school from
household
No. of       Percent
Households
Less than 5km 84          75.7
5-1Okm       20           18.0
10 or more km7           6.3
Total        111          100.0
ema Consult Ltd.                              69



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
3.5.3 Essential Commodities
Sources
The main source of essential commodities is Paidha market. 71% of the households reported
so, 18% of the households get their essential commodities from nearby lockups.
Table 14. Percentage distribution of the main Source of essential commodities
No. of Households   Percent
Market     79                  71.2
Shops      20                  18.0
Kiosks     6                   5.4
Others     6                   5.4
Total      111                 100.0
Distance
Respondents asked about distance to main supply of essential commodities indicated that
most goods are located within 1-5 KM as reported by (68%)  of the 111 households the
study team talked to.
Table 15. Distance to main supply of essential goods
No. of Households Percent
Less than a      18                16.2
kilometer
1-5 km           75               67.6
More than 5 km   18                16.2
Total            111               100.0
Mode of transport
The main mode of transport for essential commodities from the suppliers is by foot (69%)
and 25% by bicycle respectively. Goods are purchased by petty traders in wholesale and
retailed to the communities in the project area.
Table 16. Mode of transport to supply areas
|  o. of       Percent
ouseholds    |
ema Consult Ltd.                             70



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Foot             77            69.4
Bicycle          28            25.2
Others           6             5.4
3.5.4 Social services that may be affected by the project
Household heads were asked about social services that may be affected by the power project,
data on table 3.17 below shows that 25% of the households indicated that health services will
be far, 24% of the households feared that the community road will be taken by WENRECO,
while 22% reported that education services will be far and 20% mentioned that they might
lose church services.
Table 17. Percentage distribution of social services that may be affected by the power
project
Service                         No. of           %
households      (n=106)
Church displacement             21               19.8
Education services will be far  23               21.7
Loss of Community road          25               23.6
Health services will be far     26               24.5
Market place will be far        2                1.9
Destruction of crops             8               7.5
None                             1               0.9
3.5.5 Property and Services to be lost because of the power project
There are no social services located within the 200M radius of Nyagak River that would need
relocation as a result of the establishment of the power project.
However, 92% of the households reported that they will lose land for cultivation, 45% of the
households mentioned they would lose land for grazing and 34% of the households would
lose their valuable trees.
Table 18. Percentage distribution of property to be lost
No. of        Percent
Households
Settlement houses 45           40.5
Land for cultivation 102       91.9
Land for grazing  15           13.5
Trees            38            34.2
Business premises 1            .9
ema Consult Ltd.                             71



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project    Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
3.6   Resettlement
Respondents were asked to suggest the place they would like to be relocated incase the need
arises. Results on table 3.19 below shows that a third (33%) of the households are willing to
be relocated to any free land, 19% of the households mentioned near town and similar
percentage also mentioned near Paidha town, while 12% of the households are willing to be
relocated near Nyapea sub-county, others (10%) of the households wish to be relocated to
areas where land for agriculture is fertile, (5%) want to be relocated to places where they can
access health and education services and the rest of the households prefer areas where
transport is good.
Table 19. Percentage distribution of households by Place of choice of to be resettled
No of          Percent
Households
Near town                     21             18.9
Any free land                 37             33.3
Were transport is good        2              1.8
Access heath and education    6              5.4
services
Fertile land for digging      11             9.9
Near Paidha                   21             18.9
Near Nyapea Sub-County        13             11.7
Total                         111            100.0
Asked by whom the households would like to resettle them, 65% wished for self-
resettlement, 16% of the households by local government and only 11% of the households
wished to be resettled by WENRECO.
Table 20. Percentage distribution of Households, Choice of party to resettle them
No. of        Percent
Households
Central Government     1             .9
WENRECO                12            10.8
Local government       18            16.2
Self                  72             64.9
Others                8              7.2
Total                  111           100.0
3.7   Economic and social benefits of the project
Table 21. Percentage distribution of expected economic benefits to the area
[No. of        Percent
ema Consult Ltd.                              72



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Households
Power supply                   9              8.1
Business boom                   13            11.7
Area development               42             37.8
Employment                     47             42.3
Total                           111           100.0
The development of the Nyagak power project is expected to come with some economic and
social benefits. Data on Table 3.21 above shows that, 42% of the households expect to get
employment from the project, 38% of the households expect the area to develop in terms of
industry and market, 12% expect business boom in terms of hotels, bars, lodges and 8% of
the households expect to get power supply for domestic use. Other economic benefits
mentioned during the FGDs included: improved standards of living, provision of markets for
their produce, improved health services and enhancement of educational services.
3.7.1 Problems expected from the power project
The biggest social problem expected include: displacement, theft, insecurity, increased deaths
due to electrocution, increased spread of diseases especially malaria and HIV AIDS
3.8   Community and district leaders' Perception about the power project
There were mixed feelings about the commencement of the construction of Nyagak power
project. All the district officials both at Nebbi district headquarters and Paidha Town Council
expressed disappointment at the slowness in the commencement of the development. To the
extent that they wonder if it will ever take off after seeing so many consultancies (whitemen
and blacks since early 1990s). The Nyagak power project is regarded as a very sensitive issue
with both district leaders and community members living with very high expectations such
that the delay in starting construction has sometimes led people to issue very hostile
statements. It has created a misunderstanding that government might have the intentions of
diverting the development from West Nile to other region. Its implementation is largely
believed to take the region to another hight of development by for example opening it up the
interior, bringing about improvement in agricultural production, improvements in forest
products in terms of processing and bringing about social and economic transformation in the
West Nile region.
All the district leaders expressed the fear that Nyagak power project has been conceived in
the minds of the people as a campaign gimmick.
"Population views are that whenever elections are about to take place people of your caliber
come, we one time told WENRECO that we no longer want to hear about Nyagak unless they
are coming to start work "(district leader Nebbi)
Some of the district leaders even feared that the social economic survey would not go well
and expected communities to be hostile because the whole population especially in project
area is fed up of the Nyagak power project particularly due to the unnecessary delays.
ema Consult Ltd.                             73



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
"I thought the survey was done several times, people come for two weeks and go- who are
those people? We have not seen any report! Why? Should another survey really be done?
What has been the cause of the delay, the project was supposed to be completed in the year
2000 now its 2005? We as leaders have to keep explaining to the people all the time!!
People have seen so many white and yellow people more than the Africans how will they
believe in you?" (District leader Nebbi)
"I don't believe that the construction work is not politically motivated, because unless you brief a
friend he/she will not discuss your family affairs. For that reason one can conclude that
WENRECO did not come independent of the government" (Focus group discussion male
respondent)
On the acceptability of the project, the district leaders mentioned that people are crying and
asking what is happening despite the fact that compensation for the old UEB line were not
paid yet property was destroyed. However they feared that acceptability might be hard due to
different teams coming without implementation of the project
"The issue of Power in this district is not a new one, in 1966 the paramount chief asked
government to bring power, now even up-to tomorrow people are still asking what has
happened to the many promises made earlier? The district is still backward due to lack of
power, if you are not fast enough they will think you have come because of the 2006
elections. There is therefore, need to speed up the implementation process to avoid different
perception especially before elections"(Local Council leader Paidha)
On the issue of compensation, local council leaders expressed worries resulting from lack of
compensation caused by loss of properties by the construction of the transmission line from
Nebbi to Paidha by the then UEB. That no compensation was effected. They had the
following to say:
"This time compensation should be effected promptly, timely and fairly and should be according
to international rates especially the World Bank rates but not at a local rate and if money is
more it should be added." (Local council leader Paidha)
The community members expressed similar views on the issue of compensation,
"In 1992 a similar thing was done, people's crops, bananas, were slashed down. They were to be
paid by cheque but after some time the matter just died like that. How will you (the RAP
team) deal with that?" (Community member around Nyagak River)
"In 2000 you, the same men came and stopped us from using our land eventually the crops
planted got destroyed. How will you compensate for those crops" (community member
around Nyagak river)
Another one said; "Government processes are always slow, for how long shall we wait to use our
gardens"
"Time and again days in days out, months in months out we have been told lies, garden owners
have been stopped from using their gardens, since almost 5 years back and they are not using
their gardens why? Until when are we going to stop hearing this kind of stories/none sense!"
(Focus Group Discussion male respondent)
ema Consult Ltd.                             74



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
"Payment was promised and not paid, why towards campaigns that you come asking similar
questions we do not want to be lied to any longer. It is either the project or not at all so that
we can forget up it" (FGD participant)
3.9   Conclusion
From the above analysis, it can be concluded that the project is largely accepted and therefore
its development can go ahead. The major impact of project development is land take. This
can however, be mitigated by a timely and fair compensation to the owners of the land who
are holding the land mainly customarily.
ema Consult Ltd.                             75



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
APPENDIX 6
Legal Framework which govern compensation/resettlement
The legislative framework for the resettlement and compensation of affected persons is
complex. The Nyagak mini-hydropower project is the first major rural electrification scheme
project to be initiated under the 1995 Constitution, the new Land Act 1998 and within the
liberalized environment of privatisation by government. There is no established practice
under these new conditions and the relevant authorities are currently grappling with the
correct procedures to be followed. The following sections describe the legal framework
within which resettlement and compensation should take place, according to our
understanding at this stage.
The 1995 Constitution
The 1995 Constitution restored all private land tenure regimes (which had previously been
abolished under the Land Reform Decree 1975), divested the state and the Uganda Land
Commission of radical title to all land and vested this directly in the citizens of Uganda, and
prescribes more or less in absolute terms, the tenure regimes in accordance with which rights
and interests in land may be held. These are listed as customary, freehold, mailo and
leasehold. It also creates for the government and local authorities a statutory power of
compulsory acquisition in accordance with procedures set out in a law which makes
provision, inter alia, for the prompt payment of fair and adequate compensation prior to the
taking possession or acquisition of the property. It imposes upon the government and local
authorities a duty of trusteeship in respect of certain categories of natural resources. These
include lakes, rivers, wetlands, forests, game reserves, national parks and ecologically
sensitive areas.
Parliament has enacted a law to regulate land acquisition. Relevant parts of the clauses are as
below:
. Regulating the relationship between the lawful or bonafide occupants of mailo freehold or
leasehold land and registered owners of that land;
. Providing for the acquisition of registrable interests in the land by the occupant;
. It is in accordance with this mandate that Parliament enacted the Land Act No. 16 of 1998
The Electricity Act (1999)
The Electricity Act (1999) is a principal applicable law in respect to the construction
and operation of the power station. Part VIII of the Act provides for acquisition of
land and requires the "prompt payment of fair and adequate compensation" to all interested
parties on the land. Section 71 of the Electricity Act (1999) deals with compensation for
affected people to be determined in accordance with the Land Act (19998) and Land
Acquisition Act (1965). The Act gives the Electricity Regulatory Authority powers to handle
claims for compensation for land acquired.
ema Consult Ltd.                             76



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project    Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
The Land Act 1998
The Land Act is an act to provide for the tenure, ownership and management of land;
to amend and consolidate the law relating to tenure, ownership and management of
land; and to provide for other related or incidental matters.
It is thus cast in terms that go much further than the constitutional mandate set out above.
Specifically, the act addresses four issues namely, tenure, control, administration and
dispute processing. As regards tenure, the Act repeats, in section 3, the provisions of
Article 237 of the Constitution which vests all land in the citizens of Uganda, to be held
under customary, freehold, mailo or leasehold tenure systems (much of the affected land
in the Nyagak project area is held under customary tenure system). It then proceeds to
define the incidence of each tenure regime (s.4), provide mechanisms of acquisition of
certificates of customary ownership (ss.5-9), or the conversion of customary tenure to
freehold (ss. 10- 15), or collective management of land held under customary law (ss. 16-
27), the protection of land rights of women, children and persons with disability (s.28), the
conversion of leaseholds into freehold (s.29), the security of occupancy for 'tenants by
occupancy' (ss.30-39) the prohibition of certain types of dispositions (ss.40-41), and the
creation of Land Fund to assist various categories of people wishing to obtain secure rights
in land (s.42).
Regarding control of land use, the Act addresses three issues. First it reaffirms without
elaboration, the statutory power of compulsory acquisition conferred on the government
and local authorities under articles 26 (2) and 237 (2) of the Constitution (s.43). Since the
article does not repeal the Land Acquisition Act No. 14 of 1965, it is assumed that this
legislation, with appropriate modification, meets the requirements of article 26 (2) of the
Constitution, which requires that a law be in place for the payment of compensation and
access to the courts. Second, the Act requires that landowners manage and utilize in
accordance with any law relating to land use and land use planning (ss.44 and 46). These
include the Forest Act (Cap 246), the Mining Act (Cap 248), the National Environment
Act (No.4 of 1995), the Water Act (No. 9 of 1995), and the Uganda Wildlife Act (No. 14
of 1996) and the Town and Country Planning Act (Cap 30). And third, it reaffirms, again
without elaboration, the trust obligations of the government and local authorities in respect
to certain natural resources under Article 237 (2) (b) of the Constitution (s.45).
The provisions regarding land administration (referred to in the Act as 'management') are the
most elaborate. The Act is at pains to create a series of land administration institutions
consisting of parish land committees, District Land Boards and Uganda Land Commission
(ULC). Each of these levels is by and large autonomous of one another and is entrusted with
functions that range for the holding of lands not subject to private ownership, the
management of land thus held, the processing of applications for various grants and
certificates, the registration and transfer of interest in land, and the performance of such other
functions as are connected with these specific activities (ss.47-74). The ULC is, in addition,
charged with the management and administration of the Land Fund.
An equally decentralized system is created for purposes of processing land disputes in the
country (ss. 75-90). The Act requires that Land Tribunals be established at all local
government and that all land disputes be first processed through them before any resort can
ema Consult Ltd.                              77



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
be made to ordinary courts. This arrangement exists in Nebbi district. No other organ, except
informal traditional authority mediators (s.89) will henceforth have jurisdiction over land
disputes (s.98). Thus the Act has opted for a process that is both localized and free from the
formalities associated with judicial proceedings.
It is worth noting that, although the Land Act came into effect on July 2nd 1998, presently all
infrastructure facilities necessary for its operation are in place, The facilities are of two sets:
the first are the actual institutions, land boards, land tribunals, the land fund, land registries
and land offices created by the Act together with the personnel needed to run them. Many
districts including Nebbi have put in place Land Boards. Tribunals are also in existence at
various levels.
The second set of facilities required are very basic but essential resources such as rules and
regulations, model instruments, application forms, various proforma notices and certificates,
and other registry records.
Land Acquisition Act (1965)
This Act makes provision for the procedures and method of compulsory acquisition of land for
public purposes whether for temporary or permanent use. The minister responsible for land
may authorise any person to enter upon the land and survey the land dig or bore the subsoil or
any other thing necessary for ascertaining whether the land is suitable for a public purpose.
The Government is supposed to pay compensation (cash) to any person who suffers damage as a
result of any action. Any dispute as to the compensation payable is to be referred by the
Attorney General to court for decision.
The Land Acquision Act stops at payment of compensation. It is not a legal requirement to
purchase alternative land for the affected people by the project. Once they are
promptly/adequately compensated, then the obligations stop there. The Government through
the Ministry of Lands, Water and Environment, will pay the compensation to the affected
persons.
There is no requirement or provision in Uganda law that people need to be moved or that
alternative land be made available or bought. Each affected person entitled to be
compensated in cash only, on receipt of his/her compensation is expected to move and has no
further claim.
World Bank Group Safeguard Policies and Guidelines
OP 4.12 and OP 4.30 "Involuntary Resettlement" require that displaced persons should be
compensated at full replacement cost, assisted with relocation/resettlement and during
transition period. The developer should be encouraged to offer replacement land rather than
cash compensation when the residual land holdings are not economically viable. In addition,
the WB guidelines stipulate that the resettlers should not be worse off after the move and that
there should be measures to restore livelihood to a t least the former (preferably a higher)
standard of living. This implies that a livelihood restoration program, long-term support and
monitoring are essential.
ema Consult Ltd.                             78



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
Difference between Uganda Laws and the World Bank Policy
*   There are some differences between the World Bank Policy and the Ugandan Laws
on this matter. The apparent difference is on the modality of implementation. While
the Ugandan Laws restrict themselves to fair, adequate and prompt compensation
(which is interpreted to mean cash for land), the WB policy extends it to providing
alternative land and resettling the persons. While, when there is discrepancies
between the Bank policy/law and local laws, the Bank policy prevails. However, the
Bank respects the decision of the people during consultation process. In the case of
the Nyagak project the people have expressed the need for cash for land. As
discussed above, when residual land holdings are economically viable and where
land takes is less than 10 % of the holding. For households who lose assets / income
large enough to make the remainder unviable, compensation should be provided as if
entire holdings had been taken. The developer is advised to adapt the World Bank
policy compared to the Ugandan policy on this matter.
In any case it is necessary that the WB and the funding mechanism reach an agreement for the
ERT and existing Uganda law and procedures to the satisfaction of both parties. Since the Bank
will need to approve this report (resettlement and compensation plans) at least for those affected
by a loss of more than 20% of property and production) that costs for additional programs aimed
at income restoration and livelihood development and monitoring be covered in developers
budgets for this ERT project.
Compensation Rates
Land
Land management and control of its transactions are decentralised at District and Parish
levels through District Land Boards and Parish Land committees respectively.
Fixing value for land in Uganda depends on whether it is public (Government owned) or
privately owned according to land tenure types indicated in the section of land acquisition. If it is
public land, the Chief government Valuer's office fixes the rates of compensation. However, if it
is owned privately, the developer will negotiate with the owner and agree on the amount to pay
for the land to be acquired.
In both instances, the value for land varies from one location to another. For example in
Nebbi district where the Nyagak project is located, does not have the same value as that in
another district say Mukono district largely due to land availability and usage and population
density which is quite high in Paidha. For the purpose of this project the Valuer will use
compensation rates for Nebbi District.
Structure and assets
In Uganda, it is the responsibility of the developer to engage a professional valuer to carry
out an assessment of all structures and assets in the affected area. However, rates for
structures/buildings in urban areas are fixed by the Chief Government Valuer's office.
ema Consult Ltd.                             79



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
In Uganda, rates of structures, which are located on land, which has Title Deed, are normally
negotiated with the owner of the structure. Rates for structure on land that lack title deeds are
fixed by the District Land Board just like crops and trees. However, in WB funded projects,
ownership and occupancy are treated equally, therefore in both cases the affected people are
entitled to the same compensation and have the same opportunity to negotiate. This should
be the procedure adapted for ERT projects such as this, in conformity to WB requirements.
The affected people should be provided with full replacement cost for the lost structures so
that they are able to build their own houses without difficulties. When valuation of individual
structures is completed, detailed compensation rates for different structures will be included
in the RAP, which will include income restoration and long-term monitoring of adjustments.
Fortunately for WENRECO no structures will be affected by the project development.
Crops and Trees
The affected communities may leave a number of trees and crops when they move to other
areas due to displacement. Crops and trees will also be damaged during feasibility studies in
preparation for ERT projects. These (young and mature) will be compensated for in Uganda,
each District Land Board adopts its own compensation rates. As a result, variations exist
among different districts for compensation rates.
These rates are reviewed every year. They could either be higher or lower depending on the
demand of such crop/tree type. However, it is very rare for these rates to be lower than
previous year due to inflation. Again in the case of resettlement or replacement for loss over
20% additional livelihood support and follow-up may be required for ERT projects.
Strategies for income restoration
Resettlement plans must target restoration of lost incomes for Energy for Rural
Tmasformation projects such as Nyagak. In densely populated areas, again as it is the case in
Paidha, costs for compensation and resettlement could be substantial because such areas may
be densely populated and the people may have limited number of income generating
activities. The plan to restore lost incomes for affected persons must include livelihood
restoration. Since the majority of people in the Nyagak area depend on the land for income
and subsistence, agricultural extension, interventions should form part of a comprehensive
livelihood plan. Monitoring beyond the project construction period will be necessary in order
to ensure income restoration targets are met.
Land rights for the Nyagak Scheme.
This section considers four issues: what proprietary interests does the developer require, what
process should be adopted in acquiring that interest, how are then land rights of affected
communities to be determined and how is the issue of compensation to be resolved.
The Developers Land Requirements.
According to the EIS 2002, the Nyagak minihydropower scheme will require approximately
362.4 acres of land. However, the exact land size will be known as soon as the land survey exercise
is completed. The initial step, which is already in process, is to zone the area needed, for
ema Consult Ltd.                             80



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
hydropower development uses. A proposal to that effect has been accepted by the Town and
Country Planning Board of Nebbi. Typically, the area required for project development will be
fenced off once compensation is completed. Clearly, the recognition is in conformity with the
provisions of any land use plan, which NEMA has drawn up pursuant to its power under section 49
of the National Environment Act.
For successful and responsible execution of its obligations under the Memorandum Of
Understanding (MOU), the Power Development Agreement and The Draft Implementation
Agreement, the developer require such quantity in proprietary rights and interest as would confer
full and an encumbered and control over the physical solemn, the river bed, the geological
formations, and such fixtures as may be subsequently affixed to the area covered by the scheme.
This means that in addition to the secure tenure, the developer needs such easements and profits as
will facilitate to the site, the construction of physical structures on land not owned by them and the
excavation of materials needed for scheme construction. It is understood that the developer, like
any other land user in Uganda, will not, in virtue of whatever proprietary rights it may achieve, be
exempted from the exercise of the police power of the state and local authorities under article 245
of the Constitution and section 44 of the Land Act.
As the developer is a non-citizen of Uganda, there are limitations as to the quantity of tenure
rights it may receive. Under Article 237 (2) (c) of the Constitution and section 41 of the Land
Act, non-citizens cannot acquire or hold mailo or freehold land. This means, inter alia, that not
only non-citizen forbidden to purchase freehold or mailo interest but also they may not accept
such interest by way of assignment or devolution. The maximum interest that a non-citizen can
receive under those provisions is therefore a ninety nine-year lease (subsection 3 of section 41).
WENRECO has been granted a lease period of 20 years not 90 years as stipulated by the
constitution.
ema Consult Ltd.                             81



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
1) The Process of Acquisition
There are three alternative routes for the developer to proceed for abating a leasehold interest free
of any encumbrances or limitations of a proprietary nature, together with all necessary rights and
interests appurtenant to it. The first is to proceed through private market negotiations, the second
through compulsory acquisition, and the third through a hybrid mechanism consisting of the two.
Private Market Negotiations
Private Negotiations will involve several categories of people in the project area, it will involve
individuals and families occupying land under customary law, the District Land Board which will
hold but not own the land for as long as customary occupants do not take steps to formalize their
rights through either application for certificates of customary ownership (section 5 of the Land
Act), or conversion of customary rights to freehold tenure (section 10), the Nebbi District Council
which may have trusteeship obligations in respect of certain natural resources in the area and the
government, which may also have similar obligations. now (designated by the Land Act as tenants
by occupancy), individuals and families occupying land under customary law, the District Land
Board, the Nebbi district council and central government. It is assumed that none of the tenants by
occupancy will have sought to reinforce their security of tenure through the procurement of
certificates of occupancy (section 34), or to transform the same into full customary or freehold
title through purchase or assignment (sections 36, 37 and 39).
Although, from a political viewpoint, private market negotiation is the most acceptable route to
follow, it is fraught to uncertainties and legal problems for any developer seeking a secure basis of
tenure. In the first instance all a developer is likely to be offered at the end of the exercise is the
maximum quantity of interest vested in each party to the negotiation. Consequently, the developer
will end up with the mixed bag containing customary, freehold, leasehold secure occupancy
customary occupancy and customary ownership interests. Consolidating this into a single category
of property rights may well be impossible. Besides, since a non-citizen developer cannot own
customary, or freehold, it would have to negotiate for and purchase something less than these
estates. In the second instance, it is not clear whether the purchase of rights under customary law
can yield anything more than further customary tenure rights, even if all necessary consents
required by section 40 (1) are obtained. It is doubtful therefore that leasehold, as defined under
section 4 (5) of the Land Act can be created out of customary law unless conversion to freehold
under section 10, will have taken place. The actual quantities of property rights a developer can
acquire under customary law are therefore difficult to quantify.
2) Compulsory Acquisition
Eminent domain or compulsory acquisition is of respectable antiquity. It was originally available
by reason of the fact that because the State held radical title to all land is the realm, it was entitled,
at any time, to resume occupation if public interest or purpose required it. In the case of Uganda,
the power of compulsory acquisition is purely statutory, hence does not derive from state
ownership of radical title, which has in any event, been abolished. Instead the Constitution and the
Land Act give power of compulsory acquisition to the central and local governments. That power
may be exercised only in the public interest and as long as:
ema Consult Ltd.                             82



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project    Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
* The acquisition is necessary for a "public use" or is in the interest of defence, public
safety, public order, public morality or public health and;
* There is law in place, which makes provision for "prompt" payment of fair and
adequate compensation prior to taking of possession or acquisition (articles 237 read
subject to article 26).
That formulation raises to, not necessarily insurmountable, problems. The first concerns the
meaning of expressions "public interest" (Article 237) and "public use" (Article 27), and the
second, the Constitutional status of the Land Acquisition Act 1965.
As regards the former, it must be stated at the outset that if those two expressions indeed have
different legal, connotations, the formulation in Article 26 ("public use") will over ride that in
Article 237 ("public interest"). Indeed it is conceivable that action that is in public interest could
fail to satisfy the public use requirement and vice versa. Established jurisprudence in the common
wealth suggests, however, that apart from recognized public uses, any action or activity, which is
likely to confer benefits to a broad section of the public, would satisfy both expressions.
Hydropower is therefore as much as "public use" as it obviously is in the "public interest".
The latter issue, namely the Constitutional status of the Land Acquisition Act, is slightly more
tricky. The fact that the Land Act does not only appeal it but expressly mentions it, means that
generally speaking, Parliament considers it good law for purpose of compulsory acquisition. That
Act of section 6 is, however, inconsistent with article 26 (2) (b) (i) of the Constitution in that it
provides for compensation after acquisition and the taking of possession. That inconsistence
nonetheless does not, in our view, make void the entire Statute. For the Constitution it self provide
at article 2 (2) that:
"If any other law or any custom is inconsistent with any of the provisions of this
Constitution, the constitution shall prevail, and that other law or custom, shall, to the
extent of the inconsistency, be void".
In short, the Land acquisition subject to that qualification remains good law for purposes of article
26 (2) (b) of the Constitution.
That conclusion raises a further question: since the Constitution confers the power of eminent
domain in both central and local governments, which of these organs is competent to exercise it in
this particular case? The answer to that question lies in whether all constitutional requirements
necessary for the exercise of that power are available to either agency. Those requirements are
only two, namely that:
*  There should be land over which the agency has jurisdiction.
*  There should be law made by parliament setting procedures for the exercise of that power
by a particular agency.
Until Parliament passes new legislation or amends the Land Acquisition Act, the authority of local
government agencies to exercise the power of eminent domain remains in chaos hence not capable
of valid exercise.
ema Consult Ltd.                              83



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
Indeed all pointers are that local authorities are not competent to exercise that power. For example:
* Under Article 189 and the sixth schedule of the Constitution, and section 31 (1) (b) and the
second of the Local Government Act, land matters, unless expressly delegated, are the
responsibilities of the central government.
* Land acquisition Act itself confers powers on the Minister.
* The land Act (section 74), the Water Act (section 84) and the Electricity Act (section 10),
among others, make reference only to the Minister; and
* The Local Government Act confers no such powers on local authorities.
In effect only the central government can, as the law presently stands, evoke compulsory
acquisition powers in respect of any land in Uganda whether owned, held or merely protected by
an individual, community or agency.
That being the case, the central government, through the Minister for Water, Lands and
Environment, can acquire any amount of land in Nebbi district needed by the developer in
accordance with procedures set out in the Land Acquisition Act. Those procedures are that:
*  A statutory declaration that the land is required for public use must be made in terms of
section 2;
* A copy of the declaration should be served on all stake holders including District Land
Boards, Tribunal and Local governments;
* An assessment of the value of the land rights and interest of various categories must be
made;
* "Fair and adequate" compensation must be paid in respect of the land to be acquired and
assessed, prior to extinguishments of rights therein and finally
Possession can then be taken of the in respect of which compensation has been paid.
The effect of the possession is to divest on existing rights and interests from the present
- owners and holders, and to vest the same in the Uganda Land Commission. That includes
any reversionary right and interest in such land. In other words, the effect of acquisition is
to transfer radical title in respect of all land affected to the Uganda Land Commission. The
commission can then grant "(any) estate, and create, (any) rights or interest in land
management, dispose, of and otherwise deal with the estate or interest in relation to (the)
land vested in it" (section 70 of the Land Act). Only the exercise of eminent domain, it
should be noted, has that divertive and versitive effect.
3)   Private Negotiation and Compulsory Acquisition
Because private negotiations are sought with great difficulties and could be lengthy, and
compulsory acquisition procedures may be politically unsavoury; a third route, which
ema Consult Ltd.                             84



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
combines and draws on the strengths of the two, can be followed. This will involve, inter
alia, the mobilization of all stakeholders (including land administration and dispute
settlement institutions and traditional authorities) in consensus building in favour of the
scheme, informal (i.e. private) adjudication of rights, agreements on what is fair and
adequate compensation, and processing of compensation payments and or/settlement,
without formal resort to the principles and procedures provided for in any legislation. The
Land Acquisition Act will then be applied for the sole purpose of transferring radical title to
the Uganda Land Commission in the manner already outlined.
To reassure district land boards and local government authorities that compulsory
acquisition procedure will not be used to expropriate resources to central government
agencies, the Uganda Land Commission can enter into separate agreements assigning either
the title or the reversion, in common ownership to the two and Land Boards involved. In
the one case the Boards can then execute a single lease to the developer, and in other
reassert their legal authority over their respective banks after severance upon the reversion
falling due. Either way, the developer will not be affected by or otherwise involved in those
conveyance procedures.
Determination of Land Rights
An accurate mechanism of determining land rights and interest, and in whom they rest, is
fundamental to the enterprise. The first step towards this is to examine land registry records
and to interpret this in the light of the constitution and the land act provisions already
examined. The next step is to conduct a consensus of all individuals or agencies owning,
holding or occupying land in the area, with a view to ascertaining the exact nature and
quantum of tenure rights they claim or are entitled to, hence which of these are
compenstable. The developer has taken both of these steps:
*   All land in the proposed power project is now held by the Nebbi District Land Board
*  Such leaseholds as may have been issued out of whatever was public land before the Land
Reform Decree can now be converted into freehold; and
*  Occupiers of land without ownership occupy under Alur Customary tenure and may apply
for certificates of customary ownership or convert these to freehold tenure
Data from the baseline survey shows that the majority of the residents in Ngia, Nyagak, Gira and
Rutha villages hold land on customary land tenure system. The valuation exercise classifies, in
respect of each family or individual, the proximate quantum of customary rights they hold, and in
what category of land or fixture.
The Issue of Compensation
The primary reason why land rights must be determined is to facilitate prompt, fair and adequate
compensation (Article 26 of the Constitution). There are three issues to consider, namely, for what
should compensation be made, what principle should govern assessment and who may receive
compensation.
ema Consult Ltd.                            85



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
1) Compensation for what?
Logically, compensation is payable only for what is acquired whether through
compensation or by way of compulsory purchase. Under section 26 (2) of the Constitution,
any property or interest in or right over property of any description acquired must be
compensated. This formulation, which appears in virtually every constitutional provision
in Common Wealth in Africa, is generally regarded as encompassing any act, which
adversely affects the rights or interests of individuals in, and/or communities to or which
otherwise deprives them of the enjoyment of rights or benefits from the land and
associated resources. There will be an acquisition even if no corresponding or any
quantifiable benefits accrues to any other agency as a result of the interference or
extinction of such right or interest. Compensation must also be paid for injury to or loss of
rights or interest in incorporeal entitlements such as land based cultural and religious
values.
In other words, what may be acquired and is therefore compenstable could include any or
all of the following:
*  Individual or family rights or interests in specific parcels of land and the products of the soil
such as crops, trees, fodder, grass and the expectation of extracting similar products for a
reasonable period in the future.
*  Individual or family rights or interest in building and other structures whether or not used for
residential purposes;
*  Community interests in such items as graveyards, village grounds, community assemblage
points, path ways, schools and other public amenity and ritual or religious structures;
*  Rights, interest or benefits in associated natural resources such as access to water, fishing,
firewood, recreation, building materials and medicinal plants.
2)    Principles Governing Assessment
The term compensation may be used to refer to one or other or all of the following actions;
*  Cash payment at an agreed or stipulated rate;
*  Value-substitution involving benefit attribution in terms not necessarily identical to the
nature or magnitude of the injury or loss suffered; and
*  Reparations, which imply restoration, to the extent practical, or physical or similar,
facilities acquired or taken.
All indications are that the law leans heavily towards cash payments as the primary mode of
compensation. The Land Act at section 42, 60, 77 and 78 suggest no other mode of compensation.
Indeed the whole scheme of the Land Acquisition Act is designed around an assessment and award
of compensation involving value-substitution or reparations would have to either derive from
agreement, or be of an ex gratia nature.
That being the case, it is necessary to consider the principles guiding the assessment of
compensation. There are two possibilities here. Where land rights are acquired (initially at any
rate) through private market negotiation, one must look to the Land Act as guiding principles.
These means the base value of any land to be acquired is its fair market (value) assessed on a
ema Consult Ltd.                             86



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project    Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
willing seller, willing buyer basis. Compensation for crops and buildings of a non-permanent
nature is to be determined in accordance with a list of rates of compensation to be compiled and
maintained by District Land Boards (section 60) in this case Nebbi District Land Board. Using the
compensation rates obtained from Nebbi District Land Office, account is to be taken of the
following:
* For urban buildings, the open market value;
* For rural buildings, the depreciated replacement cost; and
* For standing crops, their open market value excluding annual crops which the owner can
harvest (section 78)
5.42  In addition, the Act directs that there shall be paid, as a disturbance allowance,
15% or if less than 6 months notice to give up vacant possession is given, 30% of any
sum assessed (subsection 2 of section 78). This principle is reproduced by from the
Public Lands (compensation for resumption) Act, 1965 (now repealed).
5.43  Where land is acquired under the Land Acquisition Act, more or less similar
principles will apply. Under the Act, an assessment officer is required to summon all
persons having an interest in the land to appear personally or by agent to state:
* The state of their respective interests;
* The particulars of compensation claims being made;
* Objectives, if any, to the plan outlining the area to be acquired
In practice, that process has generally followed the market principle:
3)    Who may receive compensation?
Once assessed, it is important to determine who is entitled to receiving compensation. The first
point to make in this respect is that compensation is payable for the rights or interests in land
associated with the acquisition not for numbers of people displaced or affected. Since disturbance
payment is a function of land value, the size of the population residing on the land does not matter.
Secondly, a distinction must be made between individual, family and community entitlements.
Thirdly, it is perfectly possible that certain injuries or losses may not be compenstable in cash
terms either because they cannot be assessed or because there is no person to receive such
compensation. Classification is therefore required indicating who may receive payment in respect
of what right or interest in what category of land, structure or associated resource.
Another important issue to consider is the point at which, in law, compensation once assessed,
becomes payable. While the constitutional requirement is clear that this must take place before
those entitled to receive it are required to vacate the land, there is some confusion in respect of
acquisitions under the Land Acquisition Act, as to when that point is. The Constitution talks of
prior to the taking or acquisitions of the property (section 26, subsection 2, clause 9.1). On the
assumption that the probation was intended to distinguish between the legal procedure involved in
acquisition, and the factual reality of taking possession, it is suggested that all processes under
that Act, except the latter, can be put in place without payment of compensation. Otherwise there
would be no legal way in which assessment of value in the light of recalcitrance could be affected.
ema Consult Ltd.                              87



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
Some consolation for this perspective may be drawn from section 42 (7) of the Land Act which
provides, inter alia that:
"Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary in the Land Acquisition Act-
(b)   no person from whom land is to be acquired under this section shall be
required to vacate that land until he or she has received compensation warded to, or
agreed to, by them".
That provision applies to acquisitions for the enfranchisement of tenants by occupancy in any part
of Uganda.
ema Consult Ltd.                             88



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
APPENDIX 7
Compensation Payment Documents and Forms
8.5 Payment Documents and Forms
* The developer shall print the following documents to be used for compensation
payment.
Form (A): Verification Identity Document
* For those persons who do not have reliable identification documents, the beneficiary
shall fill Form (A) at the LC 1 village sitting where the person resides.
The Verification Identity Document, in book form, should have three carbon copies as
follows:
*  Original (white): to be issued by WENRECO, duly signed, to the affected population
identified by the Valuer and at LC 1 level
* Copy (pink): to be retained by the LC I office, Ngia and Gari villages; and
* Copy (blue): to be retained by the developer's cashier for accountability to
WENRECO and any relevant donor organisations
Form (B): Payment Voucher
The book of the Payment Vouchers should have three carbon copies for distribution as
follows:
* Original (white): to be taken by Payee;
* Copy (pink): to be kept by the District Land Officer/Paidha Town council for the
District Local Government; and
* Copy (blue): to be retained by the developer's cashier for accountability.
ema Consult Ltd.                             89



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan          May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
APPENDIX 8
List of Claimants and Compensation Values
NYAGAK HYDRO POWER PROJECT: CLAIMANTS AND COMPENSATION ASSESSMENT.
Sr.No   Name of         Village  Land      Type of      Value of     Value of    Disturbance  Total      Remarks
Claimant                 Size      crops        crops        land        allowance   value
(Acres)                                         15%
1.      Atimango Santa  Ngia     0.36                   84,700/=     720,000/=   120,705/=    925,405/=
2.      Ngukadho                  0.56                  64,500/=     1,120,000/=  177,675/=   1,362,175/
Charles
3.      Onyothi Clavier  "        1.28                  599,650/=    2,560,000/=  473,950/=   3,633,600/
4.       Ozelle Isaih            2.95                   2,604,300/=  5,900,000/=  1,275,645/=  9,779,945/
5.      Omani Drazalo   "         0.38                  649,000/=    760,000/=   211,350/=    1,620,350/
6.       Bikethonga               0.24                  140,000/=    480,000/=   93,000/=
Yowani                                                                               713,000/=
6(a)     Suzan Fualing  "                               7,000/=                   1,0501=     8,050/=
7.      Omirembe                 0.46                   519,000/=    920,000/=   215,850/=    1,654,850/
Franco
8.      Onega Gilbert   "         0.38                  316,400/=    760,000/=    161,460/=   1,237,860/
9.      Omani Manuel    "         1.52                  1,144,000/=  3,040,000/=  627,600/=   4,811,600/
10.     Onyuthi Pacotho  "       0.88                   83,000/=     1,760,000/=  276,450/=   2,119,450/
ema Consult Ltd.                                               90



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan        May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
11.     Wakunga                  0.44                  16,700/=     880,000/=   134,505/=   1,031,205/
Gabriel
12.     Jackelene Tiiti  "       1.71                  1,250,200/=  3,420,000/=  700,530/=  5,370,730/
13.     Openjuru Francis "       0.92                  586,950/=    1,840,000/=  364,040/=  2,790,990/
14.     Opoki Stephan  "         1.27                  761,300/=    2,540,000/=  495,195/=  3,796,495/
15.     Akello Jerose            0.90                  406,300/=    1,800,000/=  330,945/=  2,537,245/
16.     Thomas Fuanga  "         0.26                  328,150/=    520,000/=   127,220/=   975,370/=
17.     Beatrice                 0.72                  2,091,000/=  1,440,000/=  549,650/=  4,080,650/
Acokotho
18.     Omirambe                 0.53                  132,000/=    500,000/=   94,800/=
Daniel                                                                              726,800/=
19.     Fauliera Grace  "        0.19                  186,500/=    1,060,000/=  186,975/=  1,433,475/
20.     Pifua Milka              0.17                  89,900/=     380,000/=   70,485/=    540,385/=
21.     Hassan Opio              0.15                  158,800/=    340,000/=   74,820/=    573,620/=
22.     Ayolitho                 0.21                  657,900/=    300,000/=   143,685/=   1,101,585/
Leonard
23.     Sika Bakit               0.009                 282,100/=    420,000/=   105,315/=   807,415/=
24.     Cosma Yonikani "         0.73                  187,500/=    18,000/=    30,825/=    236,325/=
25.     Valeryano                0.38                  2,000,000/=  1,460,000/=  519,000/=  3,979,000/
Oryem
26.     Birema Bibiana  "        0.52                  760,000/=    760,000/=   228,000/=   1,748,000/
27.     Jawiyarwoth              0.52                  903,200/=    1,040,000/=  291,480/=  2,234,680/
ema Consult Ltd.                                             91



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan         May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
Desmond
28.     Ovoya Paskwale  "        0.19                   1,372,000/=  1,040,000/=  316,800/=  2,728,800/
29.     Kasamba                  0.79                   15 1,000/=  380,000/=    79,650/=
Mohammed                                                                             610,650/=
30.     Diponega Bosco  "        0.31                   793,200/=    1,580,000/=  355,980/=  2,729,180/
31.     Shaban Oryem    "        0.47                   287,695/=   620,000/=    136,155/=   1,043,850/
32.     Wetmbo                                          113,500/=   940,000/=    158,025/=   1,211,525/
Teodoro
32(a)   Shaban Oryem    "        0.29                   165,750/=                24,860/=    190,610/=
33.     Angala Galdino  "        0.07                   125,000/=   580,000/=    105,750/=   810,750/=
34.     Okathi Lazaro   "        0.08                                140,000/=   21,000/=    161,000/=
35.     Beatrice Zuza            0.05                                160,000/=   24,000/=    184,000/=
36.     Ajugo Lusiano   "        0.52                                100,000/=   15,000/=    115,000/=
37.     Rwoth Okongo    "        0.18                   240,000/=    1,040,000/=  192,000/=  1,472,000/
38.     Ozelle Isaih             0.06                   44,525/=     360,000/=   60,675/=    465,200/=
39.     Anwangkane               0.13                   48,000/=     120,000/=   25,200/=
Charles                                                                              193,200/=
40      Olama Florence  "        4.32                   62,000/=     260,000/=   48,300/=    370,300/=
41      Jupani Group                                    230,000/=    8,640,000/=  1,330,500/=  10,200,500
farm
41(a)   Acanda                                          40,000/=                 6,000/=
Paskalina                                                                           46,000/=
41(b)   Anirwoth Scovia  "                              434,000/=                65,100/=    499,100/=
41(c)   Manuela Anefua  "                               248,000/=                37,200/=    285,200/=
41(d)   BinegaNighty    "                               210,800/=                31,620/=    242,420/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                              92



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan         May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
41(e)   Oyera Rozala                                    220,000/=                33,000/=    253,000/=
41(f)   Beatrice Akumu  "                               60,000/=                 9,000/=     69,000/=
41(g)   Florence                                        377,000/=                56,550/=
Nyalweny                                                                            433,550/=
41(h)   Oroma Jenti                                     30,000/=                 4,500/=     34,500/=
41(i)   Okethiwengi                                     59,200/=                 8,880/=
Alex                                                                                 68,080/=
41(k)   Denis                                           160,000/=                24,000/=
Mungujakisa                                                                          184,000/=
42.     Kizito Alleyensa  "      0.112                  31,750/=    224,000/=    38,360/=    294,110/=
43.     Beatrice Zuza            0.023                              46,000/=     6,900/=     52,900/=
44.     Oketcho Kizito  "        0.07                   60,000/=     140,000/=   30,000/=    230,000/=
45.     Ongei Richard   "        0.19                                380,000/=   57,000/=    437,000/=
46.     Rwoth Okungo    "        0.3                                 600,000/=   90,000/=    690,000/=
47.     Anefua Manuela  "        0.044                  23,250/=     88,000/=    16,690/=    127,940/=
48.     Aleg Luka and   "        0.082                  76,500/=     164,000/=   36,075/=
Owagi Krisanto                                                                      276,575/=
49.     Kasamba Silvio  "        0.083                  215,500/=    166,000/=   57,225/=    438,725/=
50.     Orom Samuel              0.05                                100,000/=   15,000/=    115,000/=
51.     Okello Jerose            0.04                   92,500/=    80,000/=     25,875/=    198,375/=
52.     James Oneki              0.071                  128,750/=    142,000/=   40,610/=    311,360/=
53.     Alega Wilfred   "        0.046                  105,000/=   92,000/=     29,550/=    226,550/=
53(a)   Pifua Milka              0.046                  448,750/=   92,000/=     87,110/=    627,860/=
54.     Charles                  0.109                  129,400/=   218,000/=    52,110/=
Ngukadho                                                                             399,510/=
55.     Ongiera Stella  "        0.039                  189,000/=    78,000/=    40,050/=    307,050/=
56.     Openji                   0.10                   60,000/=    200,000/=    39,000/=
Emmanuel                                                                            299,000/=
57.     Kerutung Gilbert "       0.213                  204,500/=   426,000/=    94,575/=    725,075/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                              93



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan          May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
58.     Titirac Jackaline  "      0.164                               328,000/=   49,200/=     377,200/=
59.      Wakunga                  0.137                               274,000/=   41,100/=
Gabriel                                                                               315,100/=
60.      Onyuti Clavier  "        0.165                               330,000/=   49,500/=     379,500/=
61.      Keronega                 0.08                   42,700/=     160,000/=   30,405/=
Simeon                                                                                233,105/=
62.      Acokoho                  0.08                   15,000/=     160,000/=   26,250/=
Beatrice                                                                              201,250/=
63.      Richard Obeling  "       0.181                               362,000/=   54,300/=     416,300/=
63(a)    Charles                                         222,500/=                33,375/=
Anwagkane                                                                             255,875/=
64.      Thomas Fanga   "         0.093                  135,000/=    186,000/=   48,150/=
and Umani
Drazolo                                                                               369,150/=
65.      Nyadea sub     "                                355,200/=                53,280/=
county forest
land                                                                                  408,480/=
66.      Adrogo Enock   "                                46,750/=                 7,010/=      53,760/=
67.      Okello Rosco                                    69,000/=                 10,350/=     79,350/=
68.      Onecan Agnes   "                                41,000/=                 6,150/=      47,150/=
69.      Celino Pacolyera  "                             50,000/=                 7,500/=      57,500/=
70.     Jennifer lutung  "                               126,000/=                18,900/=     144,900/=
71.      Mohammed                                        10,000/=                 1,500/=
Dhedone                                                                               11,500/=
72.      Onyuti Stephen  "                               198,500/=                29,775/=     228,275/=
73.      Owinja Leonard  "                               126,000/=                18,900/=     144,900/=
74.      Onegarac Yunes  "                               194,500/=                29,175/=     223,675/=
75.      David Ocwala   "                                598,000/=                89,700/=     687,700/=
76.      Oryem Celestino  "                              786,450/=                117,970/=    904,420/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                               94



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan          May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
77.     Chrisanto Kertoo  "                             292,700/=                43,905/=     336,605/=
78.     Dokcen Paskha   "                               258,400/=                38,760/=     297,160/=
79.     Okecha Jacob                                    444,600/=                66,690/=     511,290/=
80.     National Forest  "       7.36                                14,720,000/  2,208,000/=  16,928,000
Authority
81.     Local admin     Gira      1.19                  570,505/=    2,380,000/=  442,575/=   3,393,080/
prisons
81(a)   Jatho Albert    "                               40,000/=                 6,000/=      46,000/=
81(b)   Okello Simon                                    35,000/=                 5,250/=      40,250/=
81(c)   Lukanda Stephen "                               89,100/=                  13,365/=    102,465/=
81(d)   Isabirye Caesar  "                              38,000/=                 5,700/=      43,700/=
81(e)   Okethwengu                                      32,500/=                 4,875/=
Wilfred                                                                              37,375/=
81(f)   Aciro Kemisa                                    63,450/=                 9,520/=      72,970/=
81(g)   Olandi Raphael  "                               14,700/=                 2,205/=      16,905/=
81(h)   Okwaimungu                                      18,000/=                 2,700/=
Wilfred                                                                              20,700/=
82.     Gilbert Onega   "        0.06                   15,000/=     120,000/=   20,250/=     155,250/=
83.     Kasamba Hillary  "       0.04                   12,000/=     80,000/=     13,800/=    105,800/=
84.     Cwatho Santo    "        0.09                   33,300/=     180,000/=   31,995/=     245,295/=
85.     Ocamkere                 0.04                   21,500/=     80,000/=     15,225/=
Stephen                                                                               116,725/=
86.     Ovoya Paskwali  "        0.04                   379,500/=    80,000/=    68,925/=     528,425/=
87.     Thereza Tikendo  "       0.07                   135,000/=    140,000/=   41,250/=     316,250/=
88.     Ozelle Peter             0.10                   277,000/=    200,000/=   71,550/=     548,550/=
89.     Onencan                  0.05                   2,000/=      100,000/=    15,300/=
Christopher                                                                           117,300/=
90.     Odhur Geoffrey  "        0.06                   63,000/=     120,000/=   27,450/=     210,450/=
91.      Upenyzuru               0.09                    101,500/=   180,000/=   42,225/=     323,725/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                               95



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan        May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
Andrew Angala
92.     Oyirwoth Bicala  "       0.09                  117,000/=    180,000/=   44,550/=
Gilbert                                                                             341,550/=
93.     Odoma Frank              0.07                  17,000/=     140,000/=   23,550/=    180,550/=
94.     Ocamker                  0.07                  85,500/=     140,000/=   33,075/=
Stephen                                                                            258,575/=
95.     Upenyzuru                0.06                  58,000/=     120,000/=   26,700/=
Robert                                                                              204,700/=
96.     Pirwoth Geoffrey "       0.07                  513,000/=    140,000/=   97,950/=    750,950/=
97.     Nyipir Gabriel  "        0.15                  295,000/=    300,000/=   89,250/=    684,250/=
98.     Janet Akello             0.08                  79,200/=     160,000/=   35,880/=    275,080/=
99.     OcamkerNorret  "         0.06                  3,300/=      120,000/=   18,495/=    141,795/=
100.    Onyai Sonzi              0.07                  28,500/=     140,000/=   25,275/=    193,775/=
101.    Ozelle Peter             0.41                  170,000/=    820,000/=   148,500/=   1,138,500/
102.    Odur Geoffrey  "         0.09                  92,000/=     180,000/=   40,800/=    312,800/=
103.    Cwothum Santo  "         0.21                  120,000/=    420,000/=   81,000/=    621,000/=
103(a)  Victor Okwayi  "                               50,000/=                 7,500/=     57,500/=
104.    Bidongo Okun   "         0.69                  3,212,700/=  1,380,000/=  688,905/=  5,281,605/
Andrew
105.    Zollo Manano   "         0.45                  1,667,000/=  900,000/=   385,050/=   2,952,050/
106.    SiporaAgudi              0.08                  186,000/=    160,000/=   51,900/=    397,900/=
107.    Esther Agudi             0.46                  45,350/=     92,000/=    20,600/=    157,950/=
108.    Owila Agudi              0.04                  11,000/=     80,000/=    13,650/=    104,650/=
109.    Hellen Agudi             0.06                  50,000/=     120,000/=   25,500/=    195,500/=
110.    Ocwala Daniel            0.04                               80,000/=    12,000/=    92,000/=
111.    Dujanga Simon            0.12                               240,000/=   36,000/=    276,000/=
112.    Ocida Mary               0.047                 444,305/=    94,000/=    80,745/=    619,050/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                             96



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan          May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
113.    Odongo Albert            0.193                  581,900/=    386,000/=   145,185/=    1,113,085/
Odokoyot
114.    StanleyPenjunga          0.075                  590,450/=    150,000/=   111,070/=    851,520/=
115.    Paskalina Adubu          0.044                  60,000/=     88,000/=    22,200/=     170,200/=
116.    Okungali Ronnie          0.18                   242,000/=    360,000/=   90,300/=
and Fabio
Okuangali                                                                            692,300/=
117.    Anyoli Peter    Nyagak   0.7                    54,000/=     1,400,000/=  218,100/=   1,672,100/
118.    Owonda Lazaro   "        0.29                   96,000/=     580,000/=   101,400/=    777,400/=
119.    Okecha Gerald   "        0.52                   451,250/=    1,040,000/=  223,690/=   1,714,940/
120.    Chombe                   2.4                    1,826,150/=  4,800,000/=  993,920/=   7,620,070/
Quintino
120(a)  Olongo Alex                                     346,500/=                51,975/=     398,475/=
120(b)  Oboko Amoja     "                               91,000/=                 13,350/=     104,350/=
120(c)  Oboko Jenaro                                    371,250/=                58,690/=     429,940/=
121.    Onega Geraldo   "        0.28                   140,000/=    560,000/=   105,0001=    805,000/=
122.    Oker Celestino  "        0.968                               1,936,000/=  290,400/=   2,226,400/
122(a)  Oneganach Safi  "                               520,000/=                7,800/=      527,800/=
123.    Anyi Isaac               5.3                    4,462,000/=  10,600,000/  2,259,000/=  17,321,000
=                 /~~~~~~~=
123(a)  Onyirwoth Peter  "                              693,000/=                103,950/=    796,950/=
123(b)  Omikuru                                         558,000/=                83,700/=     641,700/=
123(c)  Oeaki                                           360,000/=                54,000/=     414,000/=
123(d)  Paska Monango   "                               62,000/=                 9,300/=      71,300/=
123(e)  Oketh Wengu                                     480,000/=                72,000/=     552,000/=
124.    Owonda Joseph   "        0.48                   300,000/=    960,000/=   189,000/=    1,449,000/
ema Consult Ltd.                                               97



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan          May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
124(a)  Onegarach Safi  "                               150,0001=                22,500/=     172,500/=
124(b)  Okumu Caesar    "                               44,000/=                 6,600/=      50,600/=
125.    Ozunga Simbala  "        1.11                   15,000/=     2,220,000/=  335,250/=   2,570,250/
125(a)  Nyamundu                                        125,000/=                18,750/=     143,750/=
125(b)  Masendi Magret  "                               250,000/=                37,500/=     287,500/=
125(c)  Angeya Anyi                                     148,750/=                22,310/=     171,060/=
126.    Vicent Anyi              0.84                                1,680,000/=  252,000/=   1,932,000/
126(a)  Kasemba                                         158,250/=                23,740/=
Consolata                                                                            181,990/=
126(b)  John Opoti                                      464,500/=                69,675/=     534,175/=
127.    Ozunga Simbala  "        1.3                    243,500/=    2,600,000/=  426,525/=   3,270,025/
128.    Anyi Isaac                1.83                  1,173,000/=  3,660,000/=  724,950/=   5,557,950/
128(a)  Okwai Victor                                    503,900/=                75,585/=     579,4851=
129.    Okecha David    "        0.3                    287,500/=    600,000/=   133,125/=    1,020,625/
129(a)  Consolata                                       149,500/=                22,425/=
Kasamba                                                                               171,925/=
130.    Onyona                   0.26                   145,350/=    520,000/=   99,800/=
Valeriano                                                                            765,150/=
131.    Ozinda Peter             0.56                   589,900/=    1,120,000/=  256,485/=   1,966,385/
132.    Olweny Steven   "        0.79                   535,000/=    1,580,000/=  317,250/=   2,432,250/
133.    Binega Night             0.75                   816,500/=    1,500,000/=  347,475/=   2,663,975/
ema Consult Ltd.                                              98



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan          May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
134.    Muberi Christine  "      0.93                   650,000/=    1,860,000/=  376,500/=  2,886,500/
135.    Oker Celestino  "        0.80                   332,000/=    1,600,000/=  283,725/=  2,215,725/
135(a)  Adhimar Odongo "                                141,900/=                21,285/=     163,185/=
Total                                           56,653,880   123,920,000  26,992,445  207,566,32
5
ema Consult Ltd.                                              99



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
APPENDIX 9a
Claimants and Compensation Crop Assessment Schedule
No.   NAME                    TYPE OF CROP       NO.         VALUE
1.   AYOLITHO LEONARD        Banana plantation   7           31,500/=
Sugar cane         33           33,000/=
Avocado             10          160,000/=
Tomatoes            1300        325,000/=
Eucalyptus         42           8,400/=
Timber tree         1           100,000/=
Total                           657,900/=
2.    SIKA BAKIT              Banana plantation  13          58,500/=
Sugar cane         375          73,600/=
Avocado             5           50,0001=
Timber tree         1           100,000/=
Total                           282,100/=
3.    COSMA YONIKANI         Banana plantation   7           31,500/=
Avocado             5           150,000/=
Paw Paw             1           2,000/=
Bush trees          4           4,000/=
Total                           187,500/=
4.    YALERYANO ORYEM         Banana plantation  19          85,500/=
Jack fruit          1           40,000/=
Sugar cane          1200        240,000/=
Yams                200         40,000/=
Avocado             112         1,412,500/=
Paw Paw             45          120,000/=
Back cloth trees    1           50,000/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 100



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan           May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Eucalyptus poles   1           2,000/=
Castor oil         20          10,000/=
Total                          2,000,000/=
5.   BIREMA BIBIANA          Banana plantation  15          67,500/=
Jack fruit         2           80,000/=
Avocado            41          490,000/=
Paw Paw            8           40,000/=
Castor oil         25          12,500/=
Nsambya trees      2           10,000/=
Cassava            200         60,000/=
Total                          760,000/=
6.   JAWIYARWOTH             Banana plantation  15          67,500/=
DESMOND                Jack fruit         9           240,000/=
Sugarcane          60          60,000/=
Avocado            17          314,000/=
Paw Paw            3           31,000/=
Bush trees         20          20,000/=
Nsambya trees      3           15,000/=
Cassava            516         103,200/=
Castor oil         30          15,000/=
Eucalyptus         70          14,000/=
Cypress            47          23,500/=
Total                          903,200/=
7.   OYOYA PASKWALE          Banana plantation  22          99,000/=
Jackfruit          6           210,000/=
Sugarcane          27          27,000/=
Avocado            33          846,000/=
Paw Paw            8           31,000/=
Timber tree        1           100,000/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                               101



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan           May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Nsambya trees      6           30,000/=
Pumpkins           10          20,000/=
Castor oil tree    18          9,000/=
Total                          1,372,000/=
8.   FAULIERA GRACE          Banana plantation  3           13,500/=
Sugarcane          I           1,000/=
Yams               50          10,000/=
Paw Paw            1           5,000/=
Nsambya trees      1           5,000/=
Pumpkins           4           24,000/=
Castor oil plants  50          25,000/=
Bush tree          1           3,000/=
Timber tree        1           100,000/=
Total                          186,500/=
9.    PIFUA MILKA            Banana plantation  7           27,900/=
Sugarcane          3           3,000/=
Avocado            19          24,000/=
Nsambya trees      6           30,000/=
Maize              0.1 Acre    5,000/=
Total                          89,900/=
10.  HASSAN OPIO             Banana plantation  12          54,000/=
Sugarcane          450         88,800/=
Avocado            32          16,000/=
Total                          158,800/=
11.  ONEGA GILBERT           Banana plantation  10          45,000/=
Sugarcane          52          52,000/=
Yams               7           1,400/=
Avocado            20          200,000/=
Eucalyptus         1           3,000/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                               102



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Eucalyptus pole size  1         2,000/=
Maize               500         5,000/=
Firewood trees      8           8,000/=
Total                           316,400/=
12.  OMIREMBE FRANCO         Banana plantation   22          99,000/=
Sugarcane          400          320,000/=
Timber trees        1           100,000/=
Total                           519,000/=
13.  OMANI MANUEL            Banana Plantation   8           36,000/=
Avocado             20          600,000/=
Cassava             2,540       508,000/=
Total                           1,144,000/=
14.  OMANI DRAZALO           Banana Plantation   8           36,000/=
Avocado             4           120,000/=
Maize               300         63,000/=
Cassava             525         105,000/=
Timber trees        3           300,000/=
Bush trees         5            25,000/=
Total                           649,000/=
15.  OZELLE ISAIH            Banana plantation   40          180,000/=
Sugarcane           1.25 acres  1,000,000/=
Yams                9           1800/=
Avocado             10          220,000/=
Paw Paw             3           15,000/=
Eucalyptus poles   2            60,000/=
Timber trees        2           200,000/=
Bush trees          10          50,000/=
Cassava             300         877,500/=
Total                           2,604,300/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 103



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
16.  ONYOTHI CLAVIER         Banana plantation   9           40,500/=
Sugarcane           4           1,400/=
Pineapple           25          12,500/=
Yams                3           250/=
Avocado             10          100,000/=
Cassava             1625        325,000/=
Timber tree         1           100,000/=
Bush trees          4           20,000/=
Total                           599,650/=
17.  NGUKADHO CHARLES        Jackfruits          10           10,000/=
Sugarcane           I           1,000/=
Avocado             15          7,500/=
Eucalyptus          2           4,000/=
Beans               1,200       42,000/=
Total                           64,500/=
18.  ONYUTHI PAZOTHO         Banana plantation   2           9,000/=
Sugarcane           80          48,000/=
Cassava                         26,000/=
Total                           83,000/=
19.  WAKUNGA GABRIEL          Sugarcane          2            700/=
Cassava             80          16,000/=
Total                           16,700/=
20.  JACKELENE TIITI          Banana plantation   10          45,000/=
Sugar cane          500         400,000/=
Mangoes             3           120,000/=
Avocado             2           60,000/=
Eucalyptus (poles)  1           30,000/=
Timber tree         2           200,000/=
Cassava                         385,200/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                  104



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Bush trees         2            10,000/=
Total                           1,250,200/=
21.   OPENJURU FRANCIS        Pineapple          20          6,000/=
Avocado            2            20,000/=
Sweet potatoes     320 heaps   256,000/=
Sisal               15          3,750/=
Cassava                         301,200/=
Total                           586,950/=
22.   OPOKI STEPHEN          Banana plantation   63          233,100/=
Coffee              50          10,000/=
Jackfruit           10          10,000/=
Pineapple          30           12,200/=
Avocado            44           92,000/=
Paw Paw            27           90,000/=
Fire food poles    4           4,000/=
Cassia              10          50,000/=
Tomatoes            800         200,000/=
Cassava             600         60,000/=
Total                           761,300/=
23.   THOMAS FUANGA          Mango               1           5,000/=
Avocado             5           50,000/=
Maize              2            150/=
Cassava            600          120,000/=
Irish potatoes                  153,000/=
Total                          328,150/=
24.   AKELLO JEROSE          Jack fruit          10          250,000/=
Sugarcane           10          10,000/=
Yams               4            800/=
Avocado             15          7,500/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 105



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
Eucalyptus          250         50,000/=
Nsambya trees       15          45,000/=
Maize               0.5 acres   40,000/=
Bush tree           1           3,000/=
Total                           406,300/=
25.   BEATRICE AZOKOTHO       Banana plantation  0.5 acre     1,016,000/=
Coffee              1000        200,000/=
Yams                200         40,000/=
Avocado             52          720,000/=
Paw Paw             33          66,000/=
Nsambya trees       9           45,000/=
Sisal               8           4,000/=
Total                           2,091,000/=
26.   OMIRAMBE DANIEL         Banana plantation  6           27,000/=
Avocado             10          100,000/=
Paw Paw             1           5,000/=
Total                           132,000/=
27.   OVOYA PASKWALI          Banana plantation  1           4,500/=
Mango               16          8,000/=
Orange              1           10,000/=
Avocado             33          330,000/=
Paw Paw             12          24,000/=
Vanilla seedlings   3           3,000/=
Total                           379,500/=
28.   ANWANGKANE              Cassava            60          48,000/=
CHARLES                 Total                           48,000/=
29.   OLAMA FLORENCE          Bush tree         |2           2,000/=
Cassava(young)      300         60,000/=
Total                           62,000/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 106



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
30.   ONEGA GILBERT           Bush tree           3            15,000/=
Total                            15,000/=
31.   KASAMBA HILLARY         Cassava             40           12,000/=
Total                           12,000/=
32.   KASAMBA MOHAMED         Castor oil          2            1,000/=
Timber trees        2            100,000/=
Bush tree           10          50,0001=
Total                           151,000/=
33.   DIPONERA BOSCO          Banana plantation   30                 90,000/-
Jackfruit           18                  18,000/=
Sugarcane           1600               240,000/=
Yams                21                 4,200/=
Avocado             8                   100,000/=
Bush tree           45                 225,000/=
Timber tree         1                  100,000/=
Nsambya trees       8                   16,000/=
Total                                  793,200/=
34.   SHABAN ORYEM            Yams                15                 3,000/=
Cassava/Maize       136                42,200/=
Cassava young       232                46,500/=
Cassava medium      784                196,000/=
Total                                    287,700/=
35.   ANGALA GALDINO          Timber tree         1            100,000/=
Beans               0.25 acres  25,000/=
Total                            125,000/=
36.   CWATHO SANTO            Jackfruit seedlings  4           4,000/=
Mango               3            1,500/=
Orange              2           20,000/=
Avocado seedlings   15          7,500/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                  107



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Maize               27          300/=
Total                           33,300/=
37.   OCAMKERE STEPHEN       Mango               3           1,500/=
Orange              2           20,000/=
Total                           21,500/=
38.   RWOTH OKONGO           Jackfruit           8           200,000/=
Cassava             200         40,000/=
Total                           240,000/=
39.   OZELLE ISAIAH          Banana plantation   1           4,500/=
Cassava             200         40,000/=
Total                           44,500/=
40.   THEREZA TIKENDO        Jackfruit           1           25,000/=
Mango (ordinary)    1           40,000/=
Avocado             4           60,000/=
Cassava             50          10,000/=
Total                           135,000/=
41.   OZELLE PETER            Mango              2           20,000/=
Avocado             9           110,000/=
Cassava             300         75,000/=
Sweet potatoes      90 heaps    72,000/=
Total                           277,000/=
42.   ONENCAN                 Guava              1           2,000/=
CHRISTOPHER             Total                           2,000/=
43.   ODUR GEOFFREY           Coffee             10          20,000/=
Sugarcane           3           3,000/=
Mango               1           20,000/=
Cocoa               2           20,000/=
Total                           63,000/=
44.   OPENYZURU ANDREW        Mango seedling    113.         6,500/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 108



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
ANALA                   Avocado            5            50,000/=
Paw Paw             1           5,0001=
Eucalyptus          20          40,000/=
Total                           101,500/=
45.   OBOMA FRANK            Mango seedling      2           1,000/=
Avocado seedling    2           1,000/=
Cassava             50          15,0001=
Total                           17,000/=
46.   OYIRWOTH BICALA        Nsambya tree        1           2,000/=
GILBERT                 Mango seedling     4            2,000/=
Avocado             1           10,000/=
Cassava             370         92,500/=
Sorghum             10 x 30     10,500/=
Total                           117,000/=
47.   OCAMKER STEPHEN        Avocado seedlings   5           2,500/=
Bush tree           10          30,000/=
Eucalyptus          24          48,000/=
Total                           80,500/=
48.   UPENYZURU ROBERT       Mango seedling      10          5,0001=
Avocado seedlings   1           500/=
Eucalyptus          25          50,000/=
Guava               5           2,500/=
Total                           58,000/=
49.   PIRWOTH GEOFFREY       Coffee              101         303,000/=
Mango seedling      3           1,5001=
Orange seedling     5           2,500/=
Avocado seedling    12          6,000/=
Back cloth trees    4           200,000/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 109



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Total                          513,000/=
50.  NYIPIR GABRIEL          Banana plantation   1          4,500/=
Jack fruit seedlings  7        7,000/=
Avocado seedlings  7           3,500/=
Cassava            10 x 61      122,000/=
Bark cloth tree    9           58,000/=
Oak tree           4            100,000/=
Total                          295,000/=
51.  JANET AKELLO            Sorghum            6 stews     200/=
Cassava            320         64,000/=
Bush tree          5            15,000/=
Total                          79,200/=
52.  OCAMKER NORBERT         Pineapple           1          300/=
Avocado seedling   4           2,000/=
Pine tree seedling  1           1,000/=
Total                          3,300/=
53.   ONYAI SONZI            Banana plantation  3            13,500/=
Bush tree          5            15,000/=
Total                          28,500/=
54.   OZELLE PETER           Avocado             1          30,000/=
Cassava            560          140,000/=
Total                          170,000/=
55.   ODUR GEOFFREY          Mango               1           10,000/=
Avocado (young)    7           70,000/=
Bush tree          4            12,000/=
Total                          92,000/=
56.   CWOTHUM SANTO          Cassava            600          120,000/=
Total                          120,000/=
57.  ONEGA GERALDO           Bush trees         28           140,000/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                110



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Total                           140,000/=
58.   SIPORA AGUDI            Sweet potatoes     7.5 x 31     186,000/=
Total                           186,000/=
59.   ESTHER AGUDI            Sugarcane           1           350/=
Sweetpotatoes       50 heaps    40,000/=
Bush tree           1           5,000/=
Total                           45,3501=
60.   OWIKA AGUDI             Sugarcane           I Cluster   1,000/=
Flower tress        2           10,000/=
Total                           11,000/=
61.   HELLEN AGUDI            Cassia              1           2,000/=
Sweet potatoes      60 heaps    48,000/=
Total                           50,000/=
62.   OCIDA MARY              Coffee trees       33           99,000/=
Sugarcane           2 clusters  2,000/=
Yams                            1,200/=
Avocado             6           60,000/=
Sorghum             60 plants   2,100/=
Sweet potatoes      350 heaps   280,000/=
Total                           444,300/=
63.   ODONGO ALBERT           Banana plantation  4            18,000/=
ODOKOYOT                Coffee trees        109         327,000/=
Jack fruit          2           50,000/=
Mbeni               15          7,500/=
Paw Paw             1           5,000/=
Cassava             122 stems   24,400/=
Bark cloth trees    3           150,000/=
Total                           581,900/=
64.   STANLEY PENJUNGA        Pineapple          4            1,200/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 111



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan           May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Mbeni              2           10,000/=
Ordinary mango     1           40,000/=
Orange trees       2           60,000/=
Orange young       1           10,000/=
Bush tree          4           12,000/=
Cypress mature     6           300,000/=
Maize              10 x 20     2,000/=
Sisal              35          11,250/=
Sweet potatoes     180 heaps   144,000/=
Total                          590,450/=
65.  PASKALINA ADUBU         Orange tree         1          10,000/=
Eucalyptus poles    20         40,000/=
Nsambya tree        2          10,000/=
Total                          60,000/=
66.  ANYOLI PETER            Banana plant        8          21,000/=
Bush trees          11        33,000/=
Total                          54,000/=
67.  OWONDA LAZARO           Banana plant        2          6,000/=
Bark cloth tree      1         50,000/=
Bush trees           8         40,000/=
Total                          96,000/=
68.  OKEC1HA GERALD          Banana plant        8          24,000/=
Yams                 50 plants  3,750/=
Bark cloth tree      1         50,000/=
Bush tree           4          20,000/=
Sorghum             30x5m      5,250/=
Sweet potatoes      0.6 acres  192,000/=
Cassava              625        156,250/=
Total                          451,250/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                               112



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
69.   DAVID OCWALA           Maize medium         600         6,000/=
Cassava young        1272       254,400/=
Cassava just planted  14 x 32m  89,600/=
Cassava medium       31 x 32m   248,000/=
Total                           598,000/=
70.   CHRISANTO KERTOO       Cassava/Maize        41 x 34     292,700/=
Total                           292,700/=
71.   DOKCEN PASKHA          Rice                  38 x 68m   258,400/=
Total                           258,400/=
72.   OKECHA JACOB           Maize                20 x 78m    15,600/=
Groundnuts           20 x 78m   117,000/=
Cassava              20 x 78m   312,000/=
Total                           444,600/=
73.   ONEGARAC YUNES         Avocado               6          60,000/=
Cassava              15 x 20m   60,000/=
Maize                I Y4acre   62,500/=
Pumpkins             6 stems    12,000/=
Total                           194,500/=
74.   THOMAS FANGA AND       Cassava               400        20,000/=
OMANI DRAZOLO           Irish potatoes       110 heaps  55,000/=
Bush trees           20         60,000/=
Total                           135,000/=
75.   NYAPEA SUB-             Sorghum medium       108 x 40m  151,200/=
COUNTY FOREST           Cassava              34 x 30    204,000/=
LAND                    Total                           355,200/=
76.   ADROGO ENOCK           Yams                  10 heaps   750/=
Field peas           10         1,000/=
Goyi (clinical food)  20        4,000/=
Cassava              20         5,0001=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 113



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Sorghum              800         36,000/=
Total                            46,750/=
77.   OKELLO BOSCO            Banana plants        5          22,500/=
Irish potatoes       60 heaps    30,000/=
Maize                1/4 acre    12,500/=
Pumpkins             2           4,000/=
Total                            69,000/=
78.   ONENCAN AGNES           Irish potatoes       20 heaps    10,000/=
Maize                1/4 acre    25,000/=
Pumpkin               1          6,000/=
Total                            41,000/=
79.   CELINO PACOLYERA        Maize                1 acre      50,000/=
Total                            50,0001=
80.   JENNIFER IUTUNG         Cassava/Maize        600         126,000/=
Total                            126,000/=
81.   MOHAMED DHEDONE         Cassava              50 stems    10,000/=
Total                            10,000/=
82.   ONYOTI STEPHEN          Irish potatoes       185 heaps   92,500/=
Sweet potatoes       20 heaps    16,000/=
Maize                 1 acre     50,000/=
Pumpkins             5 stems     30,000/=
Egg plants           20          4,000/=
Cassava              30          6,000/=
Total                            198,500/=
83.   OWINJA LEONARD          Cassava young        270         54,000/=
Cassava medium       9 x 26      58,500/=
Maize                30x9        13,500/=
Total                            126,000/=
84.   KERONEGA SIMEON         Banana plant         1          2,700/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                  114



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Cassava              50          10,000/=
Bush trees           10          30,000/=
Total                            42,700/=
85.   ACOKOTHO                Bush trees           5          15,000/=
BEATRICE                Total                            15,0001=
86.   CHfARLES NGUKADHO       Banana plantation    2 stems    5,400/=
Bush tree            10          30,000/=
Eucalyptus            18         18,000/=
Cypress              28          76,000/=
Total                            129,400/=
87.   ONGIERA STELLA          Banana plant         3          13,500/=
Coffee trees         3           7,500/=
Avocado              15          150,000/=
Bush trees           6           18,000/=
Total                            189,000/=
88.   OPENJI EMMANUEL         Avocado              5          50,000/=
Bush trees           2           1 0,000/=
Total                            60,000/=
89.   KERUTUNG GILBERT        Mango young          3          30,000/=
Avocado young        2           20,000/=
Cassava              665         154,500/=
Total                            204,500/=
90.   KIZITO ALLEYENSA        Yams                 10         750/=
Sweet potatoes       20 heaps    16,000/=
Cassava              60          15,000/=
Total                            31,750/=
91.   OKETHO KIZITO           Cassava              300        60,000/=
Total                            60,000/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                  115



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
92.   ANEFUA MANUELA         Avocado              1          10,000/=
Cassava              50         11,250/=
Guava                1          2,000/=
Total                           23,250/=
93.   ALEGA LUKA AND         Avocado              1          10,000/=
OWACI KRISANTO         Cypress              30          15,000/=
Cassava              5 x 32     48,000/=
Bark cloth tree young  1        5,000/=
Guava                6          12,000/=
Total                           90,000/=
94.   KASAMBA SILVO          Banana plants        8 heaps    36,000/=
Coffee trees         20         40,000/=
Mango                1          10,000/=
Bark cloth trees big  2         100,000/=
Maize young          100        1,000/=
Cassava              129        28,500/=
Total                           215,500/=
95.   AKELLO JEROSE          Banana plants        5          22,500/=
Mango                1          10,000/=
Avocado young        4          40,000/=
Cassava young        100        20,000/=
Total                           92,500/=
96.  JAMES ONEKI             Banana plants        2          9,000/=
Avocado              10         100,000/=
Cassava medium       15         3,750/=
Guava                2          4,000/=
Bush trees           4          12,000/=
Total                           128,750/=
97.   ZOLLO MANANO           Banana plants         12        6,000/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 116



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
Jack fruit             6        150,000/=
Mango                  7        70,000/=
Mango ordinary         11       240,000/=
Avocado                33       900,000/=
Avocado young          15       150,000/=
Bush trees             12       36,000/=
Guava                  21       105,0001=
Aunt hill active       1        10,000/=
Total                           1,667,000/=
98.   BIDONGO OKUN           Banana plants          44      132,000/=
ANDREW                 Coffee trees           240      360,000/=
Jack fruit             8        230,000/=
Sugar cane             6        6,000/=
clusters
Pineapple plants       8       4,000/=
Mbeni                  22       60,000/=
Mango ordinary         13      420,000/=
Orange tree            2       30,000/=
Paw Paw                2        10,000/=
Avocado    -young      18       180,000/=
-seedling   50       2,500/=
-Bearing    40       1,200,000/=
Cassava                0.25     50,000/=
acre
Mango Dodo             4        80,000/=
Okra                   4        800/=
Sorghum                168     5,900/=
plants
Sisal                  1       500/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                117



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Cypress                2        27,000/=
Pine trees             8        200,000/=
Tidu mahogany          1        50,000/=
Bush trees             23       69,000/=
Nefule(fruit tree)seedling  150  }  95,000/=
-Bearing  1
Total                           3,212,700/=
99.   ORYEM CELESTINO        Maize                  99 x 80  9,900/=
Groundnuts             11 x 34  28,050/=
Groundnuts                      46,100/=
Sorghum                11 x 34  13,100/=
Cabbage                150      37,500/=
heads
Cassava young          21 x 23  96,600/=
11 x 12  26,400/=
11 x 34  74,800/=
1/4 acre  254,000/=
Maize young            1 acre   200,000/=
Total                           786,450/=
100. VICTOR OKWAYI           Cassava young          250     50,000/=
Total                           50,000/=
101  WATEMBOTEODORO          Banana plant           3        13,500/=
Timber tree           1        100,000/=
Total                           113,500/=
102  SHABAN ORYEM            Sugarcane     - mature  150    }   165,750/=
-young   350
Total                           165,750/=
103  OZUNGA SIMBALA          Bush trees            l5       15,000/=
Total                           15,000/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                118



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
104  NYAMUDU                 Yams                   230      46,000/=
Bananas                 12      54,000/=
Sugarcane              25       25,000/=
clusters
Total                           125,000/=
105  MASENDI MARGRET         Cassava                25 x 50  250,000/=
Total                           250,000/=
106  ANGEYA AMPI             Cassava medium         17x35    148,750/=
Total                           148,750/=
107  OZUNGA SIMBALA          Bananas                3        13,500/=
Cassava young          40 x 55  230,000/=
Total                           243,500/=
108  ANYI ISAAC              Yams                   8        1,600/=
Avocado                3        90,000/=
Cassava     -mature    18x25      1,031,400/=
-young     28 x 28
Maize young             15 x 20
Beans/Cassava young    30 x 32
Maize                  25 x20   5,000/=
Bush trees             15       45,000/=
Total                           1,173,000/=
109  OKWAI VICTOR            Avocado                14       210,000/=
Banana                 12       32,400/=
Yams                   20       1,500/=
Sugarcane              0.2acres 160,000/=
Jackfruit              4        100,000/=
Total                           503,900/=
110  OKECHA DAVID            Cassava medium         44 x 52  266,500/=
Bush trees             7        21,000/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 119



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
Total                           287,500/=
111  CONSOLATA               Cassava                 26 x 23  149,500/=
KASAMBA                 Total                           149,500/=
112  ONYONA VALERIANO        Banana plants           10      45,000/=
Sugarcane               8       2,800/=
clusters
Yams                    10      750/=
Cassava                 36      91,800/=
Bush trees                      5,000/=
Total                           145,350/=
113  OZINDA PETER            Banana plantation       3       8,100/=
Cassava                 10x36   81,000/=
Bush tree               7       35,000/=
Cassava/Beans           31 x 36  208,400/=
Cassava mature          21 x 26  163,800/=
Cassava young           18 x 26  93,600/=
Total                           589,900/=
114  OLWENY STEPHEN          Jack fruit              2       30,000/=
Sweet potatoes         300      240,000/=
heaps
Cassava young           600     120,000/=
Avocado                 3       45,000/=
Eucalyptus seedlings    350     70,000/=
Bush trees              10      30,000/=
Total                           535,000/=
115  BfNEGA NIGHT            Jackfruit               1       40,000/=
Banana plantation      6        27,000/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 120



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Mango ordinary         4        80,000/=
Avocado young          10       100,000/=
Tomatoes               15 x 22  82,500/=
Sweet potatoes         20 x 16  256,000/=
Eucalyptus seedlings   150      30,000/=
Cypress seedling       75       75,000/=
Mbeni seedlings        180      90,000/=
Bush trees             12       36,000/=
Total                           816,500/=
116  MUBERI CHRISTINE        Banana plantation      10      45,000/=
Jack fruit             4        160,000/=
Avocado     -seedlings  30      }  165,000/=
-medium    10
Cypress seedlings      200      200,000/=
Sweet potatoes         100      80,000/=
heaps
Total                           650,000/=
117  OKER CELESTINO          Banana plantation      10      45,000/=
Paw Paw                3        15,000/=
Eucalyptus pole        1        2,000/=
Cassava                13 x 20  65,000/=
Nsambya trees          1        5,000/=
Timber trees big       2        200,000/=
Total                           332,000/=
118  ADHIMAR ODONGO          Cassava      - medium  130     32,500/=
-young    80       16,000/=
Egg plants             460      92,000/=
Sorghum                40       1,400/=
Total                           141,900/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                121



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
119  OKUNGALI RONNIE         Pine tree              3        150,000/=
AND FABIO               Eucalyptus             42       84,000/=
OKUNGALI                Bush tree              2        8,000/=
Total                           242,000/=
120  BIKETHONGA              Banana plantation      2        9,000/=
YOWANI                  Sugarcane              2       2,000/=
Timber tree            1        100,000/=
Mahogany small         1        25,000/=
Maize                  40       4,000/=
Total                           140,000/=
121  SUSAN FUALING           Beans/Maize           |10 x 20  7,000/=
Total                           7,000/=
122  CHARLES                 Avocado                8        80,000/=
ANWANGKANE              Sisal                  15       3,750/=
Bush trees             15       45,000/=
Cassava/ Maize         10 x 45  37,500/=
Cassava medium         5 x 45   56,250/=
Total                           222,500/=
123  LOCAL                   Banana plantation      1        4,500/=
ADMINISTRATION          Bush trees             2        6,000/=
PRISONS                 Cypress young          18      450,000/=
Eucalyptus poles       3        90,000/=
Eucalyptus young       10       20,000/=
Total                           570,500/=
124  JATHO ALBERT            Cassava young         | 400     40,000/=
Total                           40,000/=
125  OKELLO SIMON            Cassava medium        |140      35,000/=
Total                           35,000/=
126  RUKANDA STEPHEN         Sweet potatoes        |10x 11   89,100/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 122



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
Total                           89,100/=
127  ISABIRYE CEASAR         Cassava young           190     38,000/=
Total                           38,000/=
128  OKETHWENGU              Cassava medium          130     32,500/=
WILFRED                 Total                           32,500/=
129  ACIRO KEMISA            Cassava/Maize/Beans    10 x27  63,450/=
Total                           63,450/=
130  OLANGIRAPHAEL           Cassava/Maize          l10 x7    14,700/=
Total                           14,700/=
131  OKWAIMUNGU              Cassava young           190      18,000/=
WILFRED                 Total                           18,000/=
132  CHOMBE QUINTINO         Banana plantation       2       9,000/=
Maize/ G-nuts          40 x 20  86,400/=
Sweet potatoes         200      160,000/=
heaps
Bush trees             36       180,000/=
Cassava medium         300      75,000/=
Cassava medium          5263    1,315,750/=
Total                           1,826,150/=
133  OLANGO ALEX             Cassava planted        | 35 x 13  91,000/=
Total                           91,000/=
134. OBOKO AMOJA             Cassava medium        1 33 X 42  346,500/=
Total                           346,500/=
135. OMIKURU JENARO          Cassava medium         |        371,250/=
Total                           371,250/=
136. ONEGARACH SAFI          Matooke                 50      225,000/=
Sugarcane              200      70,000/=
Cassava                22 x 60  145,000/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 123



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Yams                   50       10,000/=
Mango                  2        40,000/=
Nsambya trees          6        30,000/=
Total                           520,000/=
137. ANYI ISAAC              Banana plantation      1.5acres 3,048,000/=
Yams                    15 x 6  6,750/=
Mango ordinary         1        20,000/=
Avocado                2        30,000/=
Sweet potatoes         20 x 14  224,000/=
Bark cloth tree        1        50,000/=
Nsambya trees          22       110,000/=
Maize                  0.5acres 25,000/=
Cassava                 I acre  800,000/=
Cassava values         ----     48,750/=
Castor oil             25       12,500/=
Bush trees             21       87,000/=
Total                           4,462,000/=
138  OYIRWOTH PETER          Cassava/Maize          50 x 60  630,000/=
Yams                   5 x 30   30,000/=
Irish potatoes         50heaps 25,000/=
Sugarcane              8        8,000/=
clusters
Total                           693,000/=
139. OMIKURU                 Cassava/G-nuts        | 45 x 50  558,000/=
Total                           558,000/=
140  OCAKI                   Cassava young          40 x 45  360,000/=
Total                           360,000/=
141. PASKA MONANGO           Cassava young         |15 x 20  60,000/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 124



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Castor oil            | 4       2,000/=
Total                           62,000/=
142. OKETHWENGU              Sweet potatoes       | 20 x 30  480,000/=
Total                           480,000/=
143. OWONDA JOSEPH           Field peas            50       5,000/=
Cassava                50 x 60  275,000/=
Bush trees             4        20,000/=
Total                          300,000/=
144. ONEGARACH SAFI          Cassava medium        40 x 15  150,000/=
Total                           150,0001=
145. OKUMU CEASA             Banana stems           10      27,000/=
Avocado seedlings      10       5,000/=
Bush tree              4        12,000/=
Total                           44,000/=
146. ATIMANGO SANTA          Jack fruit seedling    14      14,000/=
Avocado seedling       10       5,000/=
Eucalyptus             1        1,000/=
Maize                  70       700/=
Beans young            16 x 35  14,000/=
Sweet potatoes         50heaps 50,000/=
Total                           84,700/=
147. KASEMBA                 Cassava medium         25x50m  156,250/=
CONSOLATA              Maize young           |200      2,000/=
Total                           158,250/=
148. JOHN OPOTI              Sugarcane             1/4 acre  400,000/=
Cassava young          10 x 15  30,000/=
Avocado                1        30,000/=
Banana                 1        4,500/=
Total                           464,500/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                125



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
149. ALEGA WILFRED           Coffee trees            15       45,000/=
Jack fruit              2       50,000/=
Avocado                         10,000/=
Total                           105,000/=
150. PIFUA MILKA             Sugar cane              I        1,000/=
Mbeni young             3       9,000/=
Avocado                 36      380,000/=
Cassava medium          5 x 79  98,750/=
Total                           488,750/=
151. JUPANI GROUP FARM       Avocado young           9        90,000/=
Guava young             10      20,000/=
Bush trees              30      90,000/=
Passion fruit          4        40,000/=
Total                           240,000/=
152. ACANDA PASKALINA        Cassava young           10 x 20  40,000/=
Total                           40,000/=
153. ANIWOTH SCOVIA          Cassava young          | 35 x 62  434,000/=
Total                           434,000/=
154. MANULA ANEFUA           Cassava young          | 20 x 62  248,000/=
Total                           248,000/=
155. BWEGA NIGHTY            Cassava young           17X62    210,800/=
Total                           210,800/=
156. OYERA ROZALO            Cassava young           20 X 55  220,000/=
Total                           220,000/=
157. BEATRICE OKUMU          Cassava young          | 20 X 15  60,000/=
Total                           60,000/=
158. FLORENCE                Cassava young          | 29 X 65  377,000/=
NYALWENY                Total                           377,000/=
159. OROMA JENTI             Cassava young           15 X 10  30,000/=
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 126



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Total                          30,000/=
160  OKETHIWENYI ALEX        Cassava young          8X37    59,200/=
Total                          59,200/=
161  DENIS MUNGUJAKISA       Sweet potatoes         200     160,000/=
Heaps
Total                           160,000/=
Appendix 9b
Land Holdings
Summary of answers to question 27a of the household questionnaire as extracted from the answered
questionnaires.
Qn27a. Do you have land elsewhere? If yes what percentage is in the project area?
Percentage (%) landholding in the project area
Interviewees       Below   0-10  11-20   21-30  31-40   41-50  51-60   61-70  71-80   81-90  91-100
1%
1. Acanda
Paskalina
2. Acene Roseline  al
3. Acham Roseline  i
4. Adokurach
Beatrice
5. Ajaruva Anican
6. Ajoga Luciano   i
ema Consult Ltd.                                                127



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
7. Alega Wilfred
8. Alfred Nyolitho
9. Alice Ocaya
10. Alinyenga Kizito
11. Aliyenga Kizito
12. Angeyorwoth
Sabela
Interviewees        Below   1-10  11-20   21-30   31-40  41-50   51-60   61-70   71-80   81-90  91-100
1%
13. Anye Isaac
14. Anyi Vincent
15. Atuch-in Agnes
16. Awungepra
Prosper
17. Bidong
Christopher
18. Bidong Patrick
19. Bithum Gilbert
20. Bosco Deronega         .
21. Bruno Owonda   al
22. Celestine Ayane  l
23. Chotham Santos
24. Coombe Yofes
25. Cwinya-ai       1
Winyakali
26. Denis Mungurita
27. Dokotho Irene
28. Fuanga Thomas          '
29. James Okwenuru
ema Consult Ltd.                                                  128



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
30. Jeska Ngwicara. 4
C
31. Juthina Ocuna
32. Kasamba Hillary        4
33. Kercan Alex
34. Kerithum Gilbert
35. Keronega Simeo          4
36. Kertho Chrisanto 4
Interviewees        Below   1-10  11-20   21-30   31-40   41-50   51-60   61-70   71-80   81-90  91-100
1%
37. Kisarach        4
Johnson
38. Kizito Aliyenga  4
39. Martin Nyitho   4
40. Mary Ozelle             4
41. Mohamad                 4
Kasamba
42. Monu Rabaka
43. Mugukende E.    4
David
44. Negwuon Jessica 4
45. Nyamundu                4
Mariana
46. Obedjio Gilbert  4
47. Odaga Santo     4
48. Odanga
Olsowantori
49. Odhur Geoffrey          4
50. Ogen Bosco      4
ema Consult Ltd.                                                   129



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
51. Ogertho Lonjino
52. Okathi Lazarus          4
53. Okecha Gerald           4
54. Okello Leonard 4
55. Okello Leonard
56. Okere Celestine        4
Wegale
57. Okumi Magew
58. Okumu Ceaser            4
Interviewees        Below   1-10   11-20  21-30   31-40   41-50   51-60   61-70   71-80   81-90   91-100
1%
59. Okwetun John    4
60. Olotho Cosmos
61. Omika Benson    4
62. Onega Charles   4
63. Onega Gilbert           4
64. Onega Jeraldo           4
65. Onegaraki Safi          4
66. Onegiu Ajulam   4
67. Onengan Charles         4
68. Onim Geoffrey   4
69. Onyaai Sonzi            4
70. Onyona                  4
Valeriano
71. Onyuti Clavere  4
72. Openjuru Francis 4
73. Opit John               4
74. Oroma Margaret
75. Orombi Philip
ema Consult Ltd.                                                   130



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
76. Oromcan Samuel
77. Oruiya Jampier
78. Oryme Valeriano
79. Ovoya Paskal
80. Owanda Joseph
81. Owathedo
Tadero
82. Owechechan
Bosco
83. Owili Maurine
Interviewees        Below   1-10   11-20  21-30   31-40   41-50   51-60   61-70   71-80   81-90   91-100
1%
84. Oyeke Renzio    i
85. Oyeki James
86. Ozelle Aliphonse i
87. Ozelle Isaiah
88. Ozelle Peter            1
89. Ozinda Peter
90. Paska Moniango
91. Pimer Esther
92. Remijo Kerubedi 1
93. Saban Oriem
94. Samson Odiri
95. Samuel Attonson
96. Sika Bakith
97. Thorach Tenesa
98. Thumbe Peter
99. Tiikendo
Thereza
ema Consult Ltd.                                                   131



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
100. Upar David
101. Utingcwinyu
Gerald
102. ZoloChumpeta i
Note: From the raw data we found out that of the 221 claimants and tenants only 36 have land in the project area while the 185 have land in the
project area but are not resident within the 200 meter zone where the census exercise was conducted. These people come from theirs homes
located outside the 200 meter zone to cultivate land.
ema Consult Ltd.                                                  132



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
Appendix 10
Approved Compensation Rates for Nebbi District for 2004/2005
Land Act, 1998 Sec 60 (E) & (F)
CATEGORY A
NO ITEM                  ASSUMPTION                  PER CLUMP RATE
(Description)                                   PER TREE      PER
PER UNIT       ACRE
(SHS)          (SHS)
I    BANANAS
(a) Mature and good  Three plants per stool, one with
a bunch, well mulched, weed  4,500         1,200,000
free, well pruned, soil and water
conserved
(b) Mature and     4-5 plants per stool, distorted  3,000     750,000
average          spacing, localised sports of
weed, disintegrated mulch,
poorly maintained drainage and
channels
(c) Mature and poor  Abandoned filed, over      1,000         300,000
populated, mixed cropping
population per stool not easily
determined
(d) Young and good  A promising crop, well-spaced  2,500      1,000,000
and treatment
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 133



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
(e) Young and poor  Abandoned, well infected, poor  500          175,000
spacing, pests and disease
infected
ema Consult Ltd.                                                   134



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
2     CASSAVA
(a) Mature and good  Spacing 1.0 m x 1.0 m for mono 800      250,00
crops, mosaic free tubers-
termed
(b) Young and good  Well-spaced, intercropped  600            120,000
(c) Poor           Diseased, weed infected, poor  200        60,000
soils population below optimum
3    COFFEE (Arabica)
(a) Mature and good  Field green, disease and pest
free, manured, soil and water  500         1,500,000
conserved
(b) Mature and good  Field half green/yellow due to
nitrogen deficiency, some
degree of crop husbandry    3,000          800,000
practiced
(c) Mature and poor  Abandoned, weed infected,
umbrella like trees, population  2,000     350,000
per acre not easily determined
(d) Young and good  Field green, disease and pest
(including      free, manured, soil and water  3,500       850,000
clonal)         conserved
(e) Young and poor  Less than 5 years old cover crop
got from seedlings          1,000          100,000
(f) Seedling                                   Per plant 1000
(including clonal)
ema Consult Ltd.                                                135



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
4     SWEET
POTATOES            Pest free, good soils, 400   Per mound 500  200,000
(a) Mature and good  mounds per acre
(if not harvested)
(b) Mature and poor  Not well managed, infected,  Per mound 250  100,000
(if not harvested)  400 mounds per acre
(c ) Young and good  Pest and disease free, good soil  Per mound 200  80,000
(d) Potatoes vines  Healthy looking              Per M2 800
(e) Young and poor  Not well managed and infected  Per mound 100  40,000
5     IRISH
POTATOES            Pests and disease free, good  Per mound 300  600,000
(a) Good and mature  soil, expected yield 3 Kg per
Sq. Km
(b) Poor and mature  Diseased, poor soils, poor  Per mound 200  350,000
spacing agronomy
6     GROUNDNUTS
(a) Mature and good  Well spaced, weeded twice,
well managed, and not        500p/M2         450,00
harvested
(b) Mature and poor  Not well-spaced, poor yield, not
well weeded                   150p/M2        150,000
(c) Young and good                               100p/M2         100,000
(d) Young and poor                               IOOp/M2        50,000
7     MAIZE
(a) Mature and good  Well-spaced, expected yield 15  200 per unit  250,000
bags per acre, weeded twice
(b) Mature and poor  Not well weeded, diseased,  100 unit        100,000
poor soils
(c) Young and good  Well-spaced, pest free       50 unit        50,000
ema Consult Ltd.                                                   136



Nvagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
(d) Young and poor                              20 unit        20,000
8     YAM
(a) Mature and good  One plant per Sq M, 4000 plant  200 per plant  800,000
an acre. Well spaced, weeded
twice
(b) Mature and poor                             100 plant      400,000
(c) Young and good                              75 plant       300,000
(d) Young and poor                              50 plant       200,000
9     SORGHUM
(a) Mature and good  Well managed               100 per M2     150,000
(b) Mature and poor                             50 per M       55,000
(c) Young and good                              35 per M2      35,000
10   COTTON
(a) Mature and good  Pest free, weed high quality
limit expected yield 1000 kg per 100 per M2  300,000
acre
(b) Mature and poor  Weeding, pest infected     75 per M2      105,000
(c) Young and good  Pest free, well weeded      50 per M2      70,000
(d) Young and poor                              25 per M2      30,000
11   MILLET
(a) Mature and good  Weed free, pest free, well
managed                      150 per M2     200,000
(b) Mature and poor  Weedy, pest infected       100 per M2     100,000
(c) Young and good                              50 per M2      50,000
12   BEANS
(a) Mature and good  Weed free, pest free, well
managed, well-spaced         250 per M2     250,000
(b) Mature and poor  Weed, pest infected        100 per        150,000
(c ) Young and good                             75 per M2      75,000
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 137



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project    Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
(d) Young and poor                                  30 perM2        30,000
ema Consult Ltd.                                                    138



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
13   CABBAGES
(a) Mature and good  Pest free, weed free, well-  500 per plant  1,500,000
spaced
(b) Young and good                              250 per plant  800,000
(c ) Mature and poor                            100 per plant  250,000
(d) Young and poor                              50 per plant   50,000
14   TOMATOES
(a) Mature and good  Well-spaced, weed free, staked
and sprayed. 4000 plants per  200 per plants  800,000
acre
(b) Young and good                              100 per plant  100,000
(c) Mature and poor                             50 per plant   50,000
(d) Young and poor                              20 per plant   15,000
15   GREEN
VEGETABLES
(All types)                                     150 per M2     55,000
Mature and good
16   JACK FRUIT
(a) Mature and good                             40,000 per tree
(b) Average                                     25,000
(c ) Mature and poor                            10,000
17   PINEAPPLES
(a) Mature and good  About 1,500 plants place double 500 per plant  750,000
row spacing with coffee husks
clean vigorous suckers
(b) Young and poor                              300 per plant
(c) Mature and                                  100 per plant
poor
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 139



-
Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
(d) Young and poor                              50 per plant
(e) Suckers                                     100 per plant
18   RICE
(a) Mature and good                             200 per M2     350,000
(b) Young and good                              100 per M2     100,000
(c) Mature and poor                             50 per M2      70,000
19   SUGAR CANE
(a) Mature and good                             1000 per       800,000
cluster
(b) Young and good                              3000 per       250,000
cluster
(c) Mature and poor                             350 per cluster  300,000
(d) Mature and                                  6000 per       600,000
average                                       cluster
(e) Young and just                              100 per cluster
planted
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 140



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
20    MANGO
(i) ORDINARY                                    40000 per tree
TREE
(a) Mature and good
(b) Average yielding                            20000 per tree
(c ) Poor and young                             10000 per tree
(ii) "DODO"
(a) Mature and good                             65000 per tree
(b) Average yielding                            35000 per tree
(c) Poor and young                              20000 per tree
21    PAWPAW
(a) Mature and good                             10000 per tree
(b) Young and good                              5000 per tree
(c ) Mature and poor                            2000 per tree
22    PUMPKIN
(a) Mature and
yielding                                     1500 per plant
(b) Poor and young                              200 per plant
23    SIMSIM
(a) Mature and good  Well managed               350 per M2     500,000
(b) Mature and     Pest infected, well spaced   200 per M2     400,000
average
24    PEAS
(a) Mature and good  Climbing species           200 per plant  200,000
(b) Young          Climbing species             50 per plant   75,000
25    LIMA PEAS                                       200 M2         150,000
26    COWPEAS                                         200 M2         200,000
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 141



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
27    FIELD PEAS
(Young )                                          ioo M2         150,000
28    SOYA BEANS                                       200 M2          250,000
29    GRAMS                                                            75,000
30    SUNFLOWER                                         150 per M2     180,000
31    LADY FINGER
(Otigo-Lyeka)       Greens                        200 M2
32    EGG PLANT
(a) Mature and good                               300 per plant
(b) Young and good                                200 per plant
(c) Mature/young                                  100 per plant
and poor
ema Consult Ltd.                                                   142



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
33   SISAL
(a) Mature and young                                       500 per plant
(b) Young and good                                         250 per plant
(c) Mature/young and poor                                  100 per plant
(d) Mature and good              With several young ones   2500 per
shooting                 cluster
34   PASSION FRUIT
(a) Mature and good                                        15000 per
plant
(b) Mature and average                                     10000 per
plant
(c) Hard cover                                             3000 per plant
(d) Exotic breed                                           25000 per
plant
35   ORANGE/LEMON/TANGERINE
(a) Mature                                                 35000 per tree
(b) Average                                                25000 per tree
(c)Young and good                                          10000 per tree
(d) Poor and mature                                        7000 per tree
(e) Seedling                                               1000 per tree
36   GUAVA
(a) Mature                                                 10000 per tree
(b) Young                                                  7000 per tree
37   OVACADO
(a) Mature and good                                        60000 per tree
(b) Average                                                35000 per tree
(c) Young and good                                         10000 per tree
(d) Seedling                                               1000 per tree
ema Consult Ltd.                                                   143



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan            May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
38   VANILLA
(a) Mature and good                                      20000 per
plant
(b) Young and good                                       5000 per plant
(c) Mature and poor                                      1000 per plant
(d) Seedling                                             2000 per plant
39   CHILLIES/PEPPER
(a) Mature and good                                      200 per plant
(b) Young and good                                       100 per plant
40   ONIONS
(a) Mature and good                                      500 M2
(b) Young and good                                       350 M2
(c ) Mature/young and poor                               200 M2
(d) Seedlings                                            150 M2
ema Consult Ltd.                                                144



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
41   JAMBULA
(a) Mature                                           30000 per
plant
(b) Average                                          20000 per
plant
(c) Young                                            5000 per plant
42   CASTOR OIL (Kalambru)                                 500 per plant
43   HERBAL TREES/PLANTS                                   2500 per plant
Batting sponge                                       3000 per plant
44    FLOWERS/GRASS
(a) Rose Flowers                                     3000 per plant
(b) Other Flowers                                     1000 M2
(c ) Improved pasture       Papcalum                  1000 M2
(d) Compound grass          Mothu                    2000 M2
45    CASHEW NUTS
(a) Mature and good                                   10000 per
plant
(b) Average                                          5000 per plant
(c) Young
46    "KUMANYOKO" TREE
(a) Mature                                            18000
(b) Average                                           12000
(c) Young                                            4000
47   YAO TREE
(a) Mature                                           25000 per
plant
(b) Average                                           15000 per
plant
ema Consult Ltd.                                                   145



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
|   (c) Young               I                        | 8000 per plant I      I
ema Consult Ltd.                                                   146



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFTFINAL
CATEGORY B: Forest Products
ITEM                            DESCRIPTION      REMARKS/VALUE
TIMBER
CLASS 1
(a) Hardwoods                                     100,000/= per m3
(b) Hardwoods & Cypress                            45,000/= per m3
CLASS II
(a) Hardwoods & Pines
28,000/= per m3
CLASS III
(a) Hardwoods
17,000/= per m3
POLES
(a) Plantation                  Diameter
CLASS I      05-09 cm                               8,000/= per pole
CLASS II     10-14 cm                                1,400/= per pole
CLASS III     15-19 cm                               1,400/= per running metre
CLASS IV     20-24 cm                                1,800/= per running metre
(b) Natural Forest Bush         (Bush trees)
CLASS I       05-09 cm                                900/= per pole
CLASS II      10-14 cm                               1,600/= per pole
FAGGOTS/WITHES                                       1,000/= per head load
FENCING POSTS
(a) Treated Poles
CLASS II      10-14 cm                               1,400/= per running metre
ema Consult Ltd.                                                  147



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan             May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
CLASS III     15-19 cm                              1,800/= per running metre
CLASS IV      20-24 cm                              2,700/= per running metre
(b) Untreated Poles
CLASS II      10-14 cm                                700/= per running metre
CLASS III     15-19 cm                               1,800/= per running metre
CLASS IV      20-24 cm                               2,700/= per running metre
(c) Palms (Pheonix reclinata)                         400/= per running metre
(d) Barrassus Palms and other palm
trees                                            12,000/= per running metre
FIREWOOD
(a) Plantation                                        6,000/= per stacked m3
(b) Natural Forest              (Bush trees)          7,500/= per stacked m3
ema Consult Ltd.                                                 148



l
Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
BAMBOOS
(a) Mild/Plantation                                      500/= per pole
CHRISTMAS TREE
Below 3m high                                           7,000/= per tree
3-5 high                                               10,000/= per tree
Over 5m high                                           14,000/= per tree
NOTE:
SEEDS AND SEEDLINGS
A:    Seeds minimum .......................   10,000 per kg depending on species
B:    Seedlings/Other planting materials ...... minimum 50/= per kg depending on species and sizes
C:    Fruits minimum 1,000/= depending on species and sizes
D:    Wildings minimum 50/= depending on species and sizes
CATEGORY C:
BUILDINGS AND PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE
ema Consult Ltd.                                                  149



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project   Resettlement Action Plan              May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
(d) GRANARY
(i)   Small                                10,000
(ii)  Big                                 15,000
(e) BATHROOMS/ENCLOSURES
(i)   Grass thatched                       2,000
(ii)  Double type                          5,000
(iii)  GCI type                           10,000
(iv)  Reeds type                           5,000
(f) COFFEE DRYING TABLES
(i)   Cemented                              6,000
(ii)  Wooden/wire mesh                     10,000
(g) ANIMAL ENCLOSURES &
FENCE
(i)   Barbed wires on bus poles          500 per m run
(ii)  Barbed wires on treated poles      1000 per m run
(h) ACTIVE ANT HILL
(i) MURRUM                                     15,000
(j) SHRINES                                       500 m3
(k) DISTURBANCE ALLOWANCES                      50,000
- 3 months or less "Quit" notice
- 6 months or more "Quit" notice                30%
15%
ema Consult Ltd.                                                   150



Nyagak Mini-hydropower Project  Resettlement Action Plan  May 2006
DRAFT FINAL
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ema Consult Ltd.                             15 l



