FILE Coey                  5
Report /02
Environmental
Impact Statement for
Nyagak minihydro
(Revised v.2)



ECON-Report no. /02, Project no. 36200                     <Velg tilgjengelighet>
ISSN: 0803-5113, ISBN 82-7645-xxx-x
e/,, 9. January 2003
Environmental
Impact Statement for
Nyagak minihydro
Commissioned by
West Nile Concession
Committee
Prepared by EMA & ECON
ECON Centre for Economic Analysis
P.O.Box 6823 St. Olavs plass, 0130 Oslo, Norway. Phone: + 47 22 98 98 50, Fax: + 47 22 11 00 80,
http://www.econ.no



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
4.3    Geologic Conditions ..............                                 26
4.4    Project Optimisation ..............                                26
4.5    Diversion Weir and Fore bay ..............                         27
4.6    Regulating Basin and Penstock ..............                       28
4.7 Powerhouse ..............                                             28
5     EXISTING ENVIRONMENTAL BASELINE                    .      ............................ 30
5.1   Physical Environment ..............................                 30
5.1.1    Climate and Weather Patterns ..............................      30
5.1.2    Geomorphology, geology and soils ..............................  30
5.1.3    Hydrology ..............................                         32
5.1.4    Seismology ..............................                        32
5.2    Vegetation ..............................                          33
5.3    Wildlife ..............................                            34
5.3.1    Mammals ..............................                           34
5.3.2    Birds ..............................                             34
5.3.3    Fisheries ..............................                         34
5.3.4    Reptiles ..............................                          35
5.4    Socio-economics ..............................                     35
5.4.1    Ethnicity and community struture ..............................  35
5.4.2    Settlement and housing characteristics ..............................   35
5.4.3    Source of energy ..............................                  36
5.4.4    Infrastructure ..............................                    36
5.4.5    Social Services ..............................                   37
5.4.6    Domestic Water and Sanitation ..............................     38
5.4.7    Land use and land tenure systems ..............................  39
5.4.8    Sources of income and employment ..............................  41
5.4.9     Cultural heritage ...........                     I             41
6     POTENTIAL ENVIROMENTAL IMPACTS                    .       ............................. 42
6.1   Introduction ...........................                            42
6.2    Physical and ecological impacts ...........................        42
6.2.1    Negative Impacts ...........................                     43
6.2.2    Positive Impacts ...........................                     47
6.3    Socio-economic and Cultural Impacts ...........................    48
6.4    Summary of overall impacts ...........................             51
7     MITIGATION MEASURES                   .................... 54
7.1   Introduction .......................                                54
7.2    Physical and Ecological Impacts .......................            54
7.2.1    Land Use .......................                                 54
7.2.2    Surface runoff .......................                           55
7.2.3    Hydrology .......................                                55
7.2.4    Pollution and waste .......................                      55
7.3    Socio-economic Impacts .......................                     56
7.3.1    Land Take .......................                                 56
7.3.2    Borrow Pits and Quarries .......................                 60
7.3.3    Increased Population Size .......................                61
7.3.4    Construction Camps .......................                       61
7.3.5    Project Traffic .......................                          62
7.3.6    Dam safety .......................                                62
7.4   Impact-mitigation matrix .......................                     63
8     ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES                   ..               ....................... 66
3



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
8.1   The "do Nothing" Scenario ..................................   66
8.2   The proposed Development Scenario ..................................   67
8.2.1   Siting of the Power Station ..................................  67
8.2.2   Power Line Routing ..................................        67
8.2.3   Operation and Maintenance ..................................  67
9     ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN                  .      ............................ 68
9.1   Introduction ..................................                68
9.1.1   Mitigation ..................................                68
9.1.2   Monitoring ..................................                68
9.1.3   Measures Specified in the EMP ..................................  69
9.2   Mitigation during construction ..................................  69
9.2.1   Mobilisation ..................................              70
9.2.2    Site Establishment ..................................       70
9.2.3   Quarries and Borrow Areas ..................................  72
9.2.4    Spillway and Power Station Construction .................................. 73
9.2.5    Site Reinstatement ..................................       73
9.2.6   Mitigation during operation ..................................  74
9.3   Implementation of mitigation measures ..................................   74
9.4   Monitoring ..................................                  76
9.4.1   Baseline Monitoring ..................................       76
9.4.2   Monitoring during the construction phase .................................. 78
9.4.3   Monitoring during the operational phase ..................................  79
9.4.4   Monitoring agencies and cost estimates ..................................   82
9.5   Record keeping and reporting ..................................  84
9.6   Review and modification of EMP ..................................  85
9.7   Resourcing and institutional strengthening ..................................   85
9.7.1    Site Environment Officer ..................................  85
9.7.2   DWD & WRAP ..................................                85
9.7.3    District Health Offices/Vector Control Unit .................................. 86
9.7.4   District Environment Officer (DEO) ..................................   86
9.7.5   Forest Departnent ..................................         86
9.7.6    Agriculture Department ..................................   86
9.7.7   NEMA ..................................                      86
ANNEX 1: BIRD LIST .88
ANNEX 2: MAMMAL LIST .94
ANNEX 3: PLANT LIST .................                                      95
ANNEX 4: LIST OF PEOPLE CONSULTED ON EIA FIELDTRIP .98
ANNEX 5: LIST OF AFFECTED PEOPLE .11
ANNEX 6: MITIGATION OBLIGATIONS OF THE DEVELOPER .                        115
ANNEX 7:COMPENSATION RATES                  .         .117
ANNEX 8: EIA ADDENDUM DUE TO TECHNICAL DESIGN CHANGE..131
ANNEX 9: RECORD OF CONSULTATION MEETINGS & DISCLOSURE OF
INFORMATION .156
ANNEX 10: DAM SAFETY ISSUES .168
ANNEX I1: CULTURAL HERITAGE .171
ANNEX 12: COMMENTS REGARDING RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN175
4



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Acknowledgements
The Environmental Impact Assessment study team for the Nyagak Hydropower project
would like to express its sincere gratitude to all those who made it possible. Numerous
people were consulted in Kampala, Nebbi and Paidha towns and at the project site and
their contributions are valued. Particular mention must be made of Mr. Justin Ecaat, EIA
Coordinator, NEMA; Eng. Moses Murengezi, Assistant Commissioner Ministry of Energy
and Mineral Development; Eng Swali Rajab UEB Regional Manager West Nile; Eng.
Mohammed Badaza, Senior Water Officer - Permits, Directorate of Water Development;
Fred Onyai, Nebbi District Environment Officer; and John Wapokurwa Mayor, Paidha
Town Council. Special recognition is also made of the contribution and support given for
the project by a representative of the office of the Rwoth of the Alur people, Nasson
Kerlith, during community discussions at project site. Finally, the EIA team would like to
thank local council officials and the sub-county chief of the project area.
However, while acknowledging the contributions and support received during the course
of the study, the EIA Team assumes full responsibility for any omissions and errors
contained in this Environmental Impact Statement Report.
.ii



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Abbreviations and acronyms
AFRREI         African Rural Renewable Energy Initiative
AIDS           Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CAO            Chief Administrative Officer
CEFORD         Community Empowerment for Rural Development
DEC            District Environment Committee
DEO            District Environment Officer
DWD            Directorate of Water Development
EIA            Environmental Impact Assessment
EIS            Environmental Impact Statement
EMA            Environmental Management Associates
EMP            Environmental Management Plan
ERT            Energy for Rural Transformation
ESMF           Environmental and Social Management Framework
FD             Forest Departmet
GoU            Government of Uganda
HIV            Human Immuno - Deficiency Virus
IDA            The International Development Association
IFC            The Intemational Finance Corporation
Km/s           Kilometre per second
Km2            Square Kilometre
LC             Local Council
MEMD           Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development
m2             Square meter
m3/s           Cubic metres per second
MW             Megawatt
Mwh            Megawatt - hour
NEMA           National Environment Management Authority
NGO            Non-Governmental Organisation
RAP            Resettlement Action Plan
RDC            Resident District Commissioner
SEO            Site Environment Officer
TOR            Terms of Reference
USD            United States Dollar
UEB            Uganda Electricity Board
URECL          Uganda Rural Electrification Company Limited ("the Developer")
USD            United States Dollar
USH            Uganda Shilling
UWA            Uganda Wildlife Authority
VCU            Vector Control Unit
WB             World Bank
_. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Executive Summary
Background and introduction
The Nyagak Hydropower project is in line with the Ugandan Government's plans for the
decentralisation and privatisation of hydropower systems. The proposal also represents a
strategic investment, correcting the shortfall of commercial energy in the West Nile
Region. The project is to be implemented by the private sector. This is in line with
Government policy that encourages private sector participation in the energy sector and
has important implications for rural electrification. The Government of Uganda, through
support from the World Bank, is in the process of implementing the Energy for Rural
Transformation (ERT) through the African Rural Renewable Energy Initiative (AFRREI).
As a requirement of the National Environment Management Policy 1994 and the National
Environment Statute 1995 and accompanying regulations and guidelines, before the
implementation of projects such as the Nyagak Hydropower scheme it is mandatory to
carry out evironmental impact assessment studies. Furthermore, due to the source of
funding for AFRREI, the EIA studies also have to satisfy the World Bank's environmental
and social safeguards. The Nyagak Hydropower project falls within Category 'B' of the
Bank's assessment requirements in that it is expected to generate impacts on both the
social and physical environment. An Environmental and Social Management Framework
was developed especially for the ERT programme to provide guidelines for the application
of World Bank safeguards to the Ugandan context. This EIA study generally follows these
and NEMA guidelines
Project description
The Nyagak Hydropower project is located in Nyapea Sub County, Okoro County, Nebbi
District. The site and the development concept for the project have been extensively
studied, including: detailed feasibility and EIA studies by Harza Engineering 1998; EIA
study by Gissat Technical Consultants Ltd in 1997; and EIA study by NORPLAN in 2001.
This current environmental impact statement report has benefitted enormously from the
previous studies.
The Nyagak Hydropower project is in the first phase, which is considered in this EIS
report, expected to generate 3.5 MW, using a run-of-river scheme. A diversion weir (14m
high) will be constructed about 600 m downstream from the Paidha-Nyapea Road Bridge.
A power intake will be located at the left abutment of the weir. The water conveyance
works comprise a 1 km long pipeline, a surge shaft, and a 400-m long surface penstock.
The powerhouse will be configured to accommodate two 1.5-MW generating units along
with the associated electro-mechanical equipment phase will required the construction of a
dam further upstream from the current proposed location of a resevoir.



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Uganda Rural Electrification Company Limited (URECL) has been chosen by the
Government of Uganda to develop the project.
It is anticipated that power produced from Nyagak will serve a population in excess of one
million people in Nebbi and Arua districts. A powerline connecting the two towns of Arua
and Nebbi is being developed; while another powerline already exists between Nebbi and
Paidha towns and is just a short distance away from the proposed powerhouse. The
environmental impact assessment study which resulted in this EIS Report, clearly indicates
that there are potentially low environmental or social impacts that would result from the
implementation of the first phase of the Nyagak Hydropower project. The main reasons for
this is that the hydro scheme is small and impacts a limited, sparsely populated area with
low aquatic and terrestrial ecological characteristics. Further, the most important impacts
can be avoided or reduced thorugh the use of proper mitigation measures.
This conclusion is based on a synthesis of three previous EIA studies of good quality and
additional and indepentent field studies and analysis carried out for this report. A
reassessment field study was carried out in November 2002 to revise the analysis of
impacts due to a change in hydro design. This reassessment report is reflected in this
summary, and attached as Annex8 to this report.
Negative impacts
Despite the potential low impacts of the project, there are three potential areas of concern
that need extra attention. They are: the hydrological characteristics of River Nyagak
together with the likely impact of the proposed diversions; potential sites of quarries and
borrow pits; and a comprehensive compensation plan for residents who are likely to lose
land.
Firstly, based on analysis of results presented in the earlier studies, while water diversion
would result in reduced flow over a relatively short distance of 200m this will have no
significant impact on any ecological attributes. The river basically runs through farmland
with virtually no natural vegetation left except small patches along the river banks.
Furthermore, there is no aquatic biodiversity of conservation value. In addition, URECL
will be requried to keep a minimum water flow in the river.
Secondly, core drill and geologic log data revealed that suitable sites exist within the
project area for borrow pits and quarries. Good engineering and workmanship should be
able to avoid the generation of any adverse impacts.
Thirdly, the weir and the diversion of water using a surface pipeline and a high pressure
penstock will impact on some land and crops (estimated at 134 acres), and it is likely that
no more than 2 housing units will have to resettle. A preliminary estimate of level of
compensation for crops and land has been made in this report. A Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP) will be carried out in accordance with ESMF by URECL later and well in advance
of construction. Due to the low number of people affected and percentage of land holdings,
an abbreviated RAP should be considered.
There are other potentially adverse impacts but these are minor compared to the above
three. Nonetheless mitigation and monitoring measures have been prescribed for them and
presented in the main text of the EIS Report, as an Environmental Management Plan
(EMP).
2



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Potential benefits
The Nyagak Hydropower project is expected to generate significant beneficial impacts.
Availability of electricity for at least 18 hours a day compared to the present 4 hours will
contribute to increased agricultural activity, the main beneficiary of which will be agro-
processing providing enhanced market opportunites for farmers. The development itself
will also result in increased employment opportunities. Further, it is likely that the
provision of health and educational facilities in Arua and Nebbi Districts will greatly
benefit from longer hours of electricity for equipment and lighting.
Environmental Mangement Plan (EMP)
From the foregoing, it is therefore recommended that the National Environment
Managemet Authority (NEMA) should permit the developer to proceed with the
implementation of the Nyagak Hydropower project as a run-of-river scheme subject to
implementation of the EMP, and adherence to the following terms and conditions:
. a monitoring team consisting of NEMA, Directorate of Water Development,
Electricity Regulatory Authority, the Ministry of Energy ad Mineral Development,
UEB, the District Environmet Office, the District Land Board, the Chairperson of the
District Consessioning Committee and a representative of the developer should be
put in place to supervise implementation of the project;
* The Directorate of Water Development is currently monitoring daily flows in river
Nyagak. If DWD's measuring point is upstream from the site, a hydrological
monitoring scheme downstream should be put in place to record relevant parameters
of the river's flow regime and complement the measurements taken by DWD;
* a detailed survey and valuation of the land and properties that will be affected should
be carried out by the developer in accordance with Government's policy on
resettlement action plans, and as set out in the ESMF, and approved by the Chief
Government Valuer, NEMA, and the District Land Board. This report should be
submitted to relevant authorities and the World Bank for approval;
. any future expansions in generating capacity and any deviations from the current
design should be subjected to new environmental impact assessment studies; and
. the mitigation measures, and monitoring and management plans presented in this
report should form the basis for a post-implementation audit.
Confidence of results
The results presented in this report are based on several high quality EIS reports conducted
by international consultants of high standing (eg NORPLAN). Furher, these reports have
been supplemented by independent assessment and analysis based on several field trips to
the project site for this EIS report. The additional environmental and social assessment
work has revised and updated the previous studies and the combined efforts form a good
basis on which to move forward with the project development.
3



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
1 Introduction
1.1 Background
The Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development (MEMD) as part of its rural
electrification initiative, intends to develop the West Nile (Paidha) Electrification
Scheme in the West Nile Region by offering the implementation of the project to
a private concession holder and service provider.
The West Nile Region comprises of the districts of Nebbi, Arua, Moyo and
Adjumani. Currently the Uganda Electricity Board (UEB) supplies the
Municipalities of Paidha, Nebbi and Arua through isolated diesel stations in the
region, one serving Nebbi and Paidha and the other supplying Arua. All three
municipal areas receive a maximum of four hours electricity every night (from
7.00 p.m. to 11.00 p.m.).
Arua Municipality, served today by less than 700 kW of unreliable UEB diesel
electricity, is the largest town in Uganda not connected to the main grid. The lack
of adequate and reliable electricity supply has seriously constrained the region's
development, particularly in the agro-processing fields like coffee, cotton, tea, and
grain milling.
The West Nile Electrification project will be the first integrated power utility
concession to be granted to a private investor in Uganda under the Power Sector
Restructuring and Privatisation Strategy (PSRPS) in which the govemment is
unbundling the Uganda Electricity Board into transmission and generation
businesses. This will start initially with the electrification of Arua and Nebbi
Districts, where the national state owned power company, UEB, owns and
operates two small grids supplied by diesel generators.
The concession will oblige the developer to build, own and operate a vertically
integrated power system that will involve the construction of the Paidha-Nyagak
hydro power station (about 5 MW run of river potential) on the River Nyagak.
These hydropower generation facilities will supply Paidha and Nebbi
Municipalities through an existing 33 kV sub-transmission line (approximately 22
km from Paidha to Nebbi) through a distribution and sales concession that will
also operate the distribution networks in Paidha, Nebbi and Arua. The
Government of Uganda will inter-connect Nebbi and Arua to integrate the system
through a 33 kV sub-transmission line that is anticipated to run from Nebbi to
Arua via Okollo and Bondo, some 80 to 84 kilometres. 35 km of this has already
been done and the remaining from Bondo - Nebbi is to be completed soon.
4



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
The concession will require the strengthening, rehabilitation and expansion of the
Arua and Nebbi distribution networks, presently served by small diesel
generators. During the initial two years or so, until the mini-hydro plant has been
constructed, two highly efficient heavy fuel oil generator sets will be installed in
Arua. This will provide more reliable, near-around the clock power to the three
load centres until the minihydro on the Nyagak River in Paidha has been
constructed (between 18 months and two years estimated construction time). This
will provide highly reliable and considerably cheaper power compared both to the
current UEB generation, and the more than 200 private diesel and petrol
generating sets (gensets) and diesel-driven mills in the three municipalities. Later,
these two large diesel gensets will serve as both a reserve (for scheduled and
unscheduled down time) and for peaking.
The scheme will be stand alone, and will not be connected to the national grid
until such time that the market load builds up to the point where it exceeds the
installed capacity, and when security between Gulu and West Nile so warrants.
Additionally, the extension of the main inter-connected grid serving central,
eastern and south western Uganda is in the process of privatisation, and it is not
clear when the new main grid concessionaire will set fit, or be required, to connect
West Nile to the main grid system.
Energy for Rural Transformation (ERT) for Uganda is under a large World Bank
initiative known as African Rural Renewable Energy Initiative (AFRREI) whose
objectives include, among others, the facilitation of private sector energy
development schemes in rural Africa and to utilise these schemes as a catalyst for
overall rural transformation. The ERT is a proposed 1 0-year loan programme that
aims to provide rural households with reliable supplies of electricity and the
benefits that come with it. In addition, rural enterprises like the Energy Bakery in
Paidha, which uses a lorry-full of firewood in a fortnight, will have the
opportunity to switch over from other traditional sources of energy. Each
programme will have capacity building aspects and conform to GoU's and WB's
enviromental and social safeguards, as set out in the Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) for the ERT. These projects are rural
electrification in general terms. They fall into category 'B' of the WB's
environmental assessements; that is, projects with some impacts on the social and
biophysical environment.
The first phase of the ERT programme will have the following components:
. main grid-related power distribution and generation, (that is connecting
rural areas to the main grid);
* independent grid systems in isolated areas;
. individual or institutional solar photovoltaic systems (PVs) in dispersed
areas; and
* pilot schemes in scaling up traditional energy uses.
This EIA study is for the proposed first phase of the Nyagak Hydropower scheme,
to assess the potential impacts of the project on biophysical and human
environment of the area which falls under the second component of the ERT
programme.
5



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Staitement for Nyagak minihydro
1.2 Objectives of the study
According to the Terms of Reference (TOR) of this study, the objective is to
ensure that the investments for the first phase of the Nyagak minihydro project in
Nebbi comply with GoU and WB environmental and social safeguard policies as
set out specifically in the Ministry of Energy's Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) for projects under the ERT programme.
At least three Environmental Impact Studies have been carried out since 1997
including the HARZA 1998 study which was part of a Feasibility study, GISSAT
Techno Consult 1997, and NORPLAN (2001). The most extensive of these is
NORPLAN (2000), which is a detailed EIA scoping study carried out for the
Prototype Carbon Fund to World Bank standards. NORPLAN (2001) builds on
the previous reports, but conducts field studies to complement these. All of the
previous studies, most of which are of good quality, find that the potential
environmental and social impacts of the Nygak minihydro are limited, particularly
as compared with the potential benefits of electricity supply in the area. Much of
this report reviews, builds upon and complements the findings from the previous
reports.
1.3 EIA Team
The EIA study was carried out by a multidisciplinary team of consultants with
very rich background in environmental assessments in Uganda and in the region,
and are quite familiar with the World Bank projects and standards.
The team consisted of the following:-
* Dr. Yakobo Moyini - Team Leader
• Dr. Christine Dranzoa - Ecologist (terrestial)
* Dr. Natal Ayiga - Sociologist
* Mr. Henrik Lindhjem - Economist
* Mr. Luka Agwe - Socio economist
* Dr. Akusa Darlington - Public Health
* Mr. Isaiah Owiunzi - Ecologist (aquatic)
* Mr. Stephen Okuta - Hydrologist
1.4 Methodology
Three main methods were used by the consultants in formulating this report:
literature review of reports, documents and other relevant information about
the project;
. Three site visits, including the project area (i.e. the proposed reservoir and
powerhouse, penstock, transmission line and access road locations, and
camp sites) and adjacent towns of Paidha, Nebbi and Arua that would
benefit from the project; and
6



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
consultations with district officials, local leaders and the people who will be
affected by the project at the site (see annexes 4, 5 and 9 for a detailed
description of the consultation process and the list of affected people).
.7



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
2 Policy, legal and institutional
framework
2.1 Policies
This chapter discusses the policy, legal and administrative framework within
which the TOR for the EIA for the Nyagak Hydropower Project has been
prepared. National or local and international environmental requirements and
guidelines are discussed along with relevant international environmental
agreements and conventions.
2.1.1 National Environment Management Policy
The National Environment Management Policy (NEMP) was adopted by Cabinet
in 1994. Its overall goal is the promotion of sustainable economic and social
development that enhances environmental quality without compromising the
ability of future generations to meet their own needs. One of the strategies
identified to achieve this goal is Environmental Impact Assessment. The policy
clearly states that an Environmental Assessment should be conducted for any
policy or project that is likely to have adverse impacts on the environment. This
statement is further embedded in the National Environment Statute No. 4 of 1995
which makes EIA a legal requirement for eligible projects, policies and
programmes. The Nyagak EIS is in line with the National Environmental
Management Policy.
2.1.2 Energy Polcy
A draft Energy Policy has been formulated for Uganda and awaits Cabinet
approval. The policy, once approved, will emphasise sustainable and
environmentally begnin development. At the sectoral level, the policy further
strengthens the provisions of the National Environment Management Policy 1994
for environmental impact assessments.
2.1.3 The National Policy for the Conservation and
Management of Wetland Resources 1995
The National Policy for the Conservation and Management of Wetland Resources
1995 was put in place to curtail the rampant loss of wetland resources and
ensuring that benefits from wetlands are sustainable and equitably distributed to
all people of Uganda. Among others, and in line with the National Environment
Management Policy 1995, the wetland policy calls for the application of
environmental impact assessment procedures on all activities to be carried out in a
wetland to ensure that wetland development is well planned and managed.
2.1.4 Water Resources Policy 1995
The overall water resources policy objective is to sustainably manage and develop
the water resources in a coordinated and integrated manner so as to secure/provide
8



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
water of an acceptable quality for all social and economic needs. To further
elaborate, the National Water Policy states as follows:
* "the first priority in water resources allocation will be the provision of water
in adequate quantity and quality to meet domestic demands; and
. "allocation of water to meet irrigation, livestock, industrial and other
demands will be done considering the economic, social and environmental
value of water".
The foregoing statements mean that meeting the demand for domestic water is the
first priority. Then, when it comes to water for other uses, prioritisation is
dependent on several factors and can be made the subject of tradeoffs between
various social economic and environmental considerations.
Finally, the policy provides that conditions for, and impact of, water supply
project should be assessed considering demographic, environmental and health
aspects in accordance with stipulation for carrying out environmental impact
assesment as given in the National Environment Management Policy 1994 and
prepared within the NEMA guideliens ad regulations. This study is within the
framework of this policy because the impact of water diversion on the biophysical
and human environment has been carefully assessed and presented in the report.
2.2 Legal and Regulatory Framework
2.2.1 The Uganda Constitution, 1995
The Uganda Constitution of 1995, Article 39 and 41 provides that everyone has a
duty to maintain and enjoy a sound environment. Every person in Uganda has a
right to a healthy environment and as such can bring action for any pollution or
disposal of wastes. Chapter three section 245 stipulates that Parliament shall by
law provide measures intended to protect and preserve the environment from
abuse, pollution and degradation. The EIA on Nyagak is within the requirements
of the Uganda Constitution 1995.
2.2.2 National Environment Statute and Regulations
The National Environment Statute, 1995 provides tools for environmental
management that hitherto had not been deployed, including EIAs. The Statute
imposes a mandatory duty on a project developer to have an environmental impact
assessement conducted before embarking on a project.
The EIA Regulations, 1998 specifies the types of projects to be subjected to EIAs.
An EIA should be conducted for planned activities that may, are likely to, or will
have significant impacts on the environment.  The EIA required should be
appropriate to the scale and possible effects of the project, and therefore the
Environment Statute and the Regulations recognise three levels of EIA:
. an environment impact review shall be required for small scale activities
that may have significant impact;
. environmental impact evaluation for activities that are likely to have
significant impacts; and
9



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
environmental impact study for activities that will have significant impacts.
Determination of the level of the EIA required is done through the screening
stage, and the EIA Guidelines provide a checklist where environmental factors
potentially affected are listed. This is a useful tool in the first stage to see which
category the project falls under.
2.2.3 Electricity Regulation
The Electricity Act of 1964, which provides for the legal framework for operation,
further empowers UEB to supply electricity to or take electricity away from any
person inside or outside Uganda was reviewed and the present Electricity Act
1999 removed the monoploy of UEB. Previously, the. Electricity Act, Cap 135
established UEB as a Statutory power to exercise corporate and monopoly
functions relating to the generation, transmission, distribution and supply of
electricity and gave the UEB licensing and other regulatory functions.
The Electricity Act 1999 created the Electricity Regulatory Authoirity (ERA)
which is supported by a Secretariat. The Act also allows for the entry of private
players in the electricty sector through a detailed licensing mechanism overseen
by ERA. The Authority has the power to issue licences to any person intending to
participate in generation, transmission and distribution of electricity. The sale,
import, and export of electricity are also licensable.
However, this Electricity Act 1999 is not yet fully operational until diverstiture of
Uganda Electricity Board (UEB), which is currently under the Parastatal
Monitoring Unit of the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
is complete.
In the case of the Nyagak Hydropower Project any Independent Power Producer
(IPP) can be licensed to generate and sell power in accordance with its
implementation Agreement and the Power Purchase Agreement the company will
have with the Government of Uganda and the regulator. The Electricity Act 1999
requires that the IPP pays royalty to the District Local Government in which the
generating station is located.
Before the Electricity Regulatory Authority (ERA) issues a license for any of the
activities supposed to be licensed under the Electricity Act, it shall require that the
applicant first produces a certificate of approval from NEMA.
2.2.4 Water Act
The Water Act, 1995 (GoU, 1995b) provides for the use, protection and
management of water resources and supply. The objectives of the statute are to
promote the national management and use of waters of Uganda through the
introduction and application of standards and techniques, the coordination of all
public and private activities that may influence water quality and quantity and to
allow for the orderly development and use of water resources for such activities as
generation of hydro-electric or geothermal energy.
10



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
2.2.5 Land Act 1998
The Land Act 1998 provides for the ownership and management of land. It
provides for four different forms of land tenure (customary, leasehold, mailo and
freehold) and the procedure for applying for grant of any of these tenures. The
Act provides that non-citizens of Uganda may only be granted leases not
exceeding 99 years.
The Act inter alia provides that the construction of electric lines, construction of
dams and hydro-power plants are public works and any person authorised to
execute public works on any land may enter into mutual agreement with an
occupier or owner of the land in accordance with the Act.
2.2.6 Local Governments Act 1997
The Local Governments Act 1997 provides for the decentralisation and devolution
of govermment functions, powers and services from the central to local
governments and sets up the political and administrative functions of the latter.
The Electricity Act 1999 authorises the ERA to delegate some of its licensing
functions to local governments - receiving royalities from the IPPs.
2.2.7 Town and Country Planning Act 1964
This act provides for the orderly and progressive development of land in towns
and other rural areas of the country. It defines building operations to include the
making accessible of electrical installation and development in relation to any
land. Any placing of new poles for transmission and distribution of electricity and
construction of substations have to comply with the provisions of this Act.
2.2.8 Investment Code Statute
The Investment Code Statute, sets out the procedure for an investment license and
the kind of information to be included therein. It makes provision for the
Investment Authority as a corporate body and distingushes between foreign and
non-foreign investors.  The Code provides that investment in the energy
conservation industry is priority and requires investor to perform an
Environmental Impact Assessment for approval by NEMA before the project is
implemented.
2.2.9 International Agreements
Uganda is signatory to and/or ratified several intemational agreements relating to
the environment. Both global and regional agreements of potential importance are
briefly discussed below:
The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) was
ratified by Uganda in 1993. The objective of the UNFCCC is to regulate levels of
greenhouse gas concentration in the atmosphere, so as to avoid the occurence of
climate change at levels that would harm economic development, or that would
impede food production activities. One of the ways of doing this is for countries
to work towards greater, energy efficiency and, in the process, saving forests and
II



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
vegetation (which serve. as carbon sinks and reserviors) and turning increasingly
to the use of renewable sources of energy.
The Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) has been ratified by Uganda. A
major objective of the convention is to ensure the conservation of biological
diversity and the sustainable use of its component parts.
The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and
Flora (CITES) has been ratified by Uganda and seeks to ensure that the
international trade in species of wild fauna and flora does not threaten the survival
in wildemess of the species concerned. Species on the CITES lists are considered
of conservation concerns.
Uganda has ratified the African Convention on the Conservation of Nature and
Natural Resources (1968); signed the Protocal Agreement on the Conservation of
Common Natural Resources (1982); and the Lusaka Agreement of Co-operative
Enforcement and Operations Directed at illegal Trade in Wild Fauna and Flora
(1994).
2.3 Institutions
2.3.1 National Environment Management Authority
(NEMA)
Under the National Environment Statute, 1995 (GoU, 1995) the National
Environment Management Authority (NEMA) is the principal agency in Uganda
for the management of the environmet and shall coordinate, monitor and supervise
all activities in the field of the environment (GoU, 1995). NEMA is under the
Ministry of Water, Lands and Environment, and has a cross-sectoral mandate and
is also to review and approve EIS submitted to it.
NEMA has issued guidelines on EIAs (NEMA 1997), and the Environmental
Impact Assessment Regulations (GoU, 1998) was approved by the Ugandan
Parliament. These guidelines are based on World Bank guidelines for
environmental assessment and closely in line with the Social and Environmental
Management Framework for ERT. The actual implementation of the EIA process
remains a function of the relevant line ministries and departments, the private
sector, NGOs and the general public.
The National Environment Management Authority is the institution responsible
for overseeing and conducting all aspects of the environment and in particular the
review of Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) reports.
NEMA reviews EIS reports in collaboration with relevant lead agencies. In the
case of the Nyagak Hydropower Project, the major lead agency is the Uganda
Electricity Board (UEB), which falls under the Ministry of Energy and Mineral
Development. Other lead agencies that would participate in the review are the
Ministry of Lands, Water and Environment and in particular the Departments of
Forestry, Land Administration and the Wetlands Programme; and the Directorate
of Water Development (DWD).
12



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
2.3.2 Electricity Regulatory Authority
The Electricity Regulatory Authority issues licences for generation, transmission
or supply of electricity. It is also provided with the authority to consider the need
to protect the environment and conserve natural resources when granting such a
licence. The application for a license is advertised in the gazette to inform the
public and invite them to make objections if any on personal, environmental and
other grounds, before granting of the application. The licence, after approval of
application, is required to compensate any person affected for damage to the
environment, wildlife, living conditions or property or for relocation due or
caused in the course of the operations of the licence.
2.3.3 Directorate of Water Development
The Water Statute, 1995 (GoU, 1 995b) created the Directorate of Water
Development which provides for the use, protection and management of water
resources and supply.
The objectives of the statute are to promote the rational management and use of
the waters of Uganda through the introduction and application of standards and
techniques, the coordination of all public and private activities that may influence
water quality and quantity and to allow for the orderly development and use of
water resources including such activities as generation of hydro-electric or
geothermal energy.
2.3.4 Town and Country Planning Board
The 1995 Uganda Constitution Cap 30 provides for the formation of the Town
and Country Planning Board. This Board provides for the orderly and progressive
development of land in towns and other rural areas of the country. It defines
building operations to include the making accessible of electrical installation and
development in relation to any land. Any placing of new poles for transmission
and distribution of electricity and construction of substations would have to
comply with the provisions of this Act.
2.3.5 District Level Institutional Structure
The district level institutional structure is described in this section as follows:
Nebbi District Administration
Nyagak Hydropower Project is located at River Nyagak, Paidha, Nyapea
Subcounty, Okoro County in Nebbi District. The district is created under the
Local Governments Act 1997. Its top administration includes the Chairman Local
Council Five (LC V) and the Chief Administrative Officer (CAO).
The Departments at the District level which are directly involved in the project as
a whole include the District Environment Officer, the District Medical Officer, the
District Fisheries Officer, the District Security Officer, the District Water Officer,
Community Development Officer, District Forest Officer, District Agriculture
Officer, District Education Officer, and District Engineer.
13



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Although technical expertise for hydropower project may not exist among the
district officials, their proximity to, and knowledge of, the project area facilitate
their participation especially if they are requested by the Ministry of Energy and
Mineral Development for technical input.
The Local Councils at the village level (LC I and LC 11) and the villagers are
well organised. During the site visits, the LC officials mobilised villagers for
consultations and they seem to have established good co-operative arrangements
and therefore the capacity to deal with resettlement issues at the time of project
implementation or even before construction work begins.
Private Sector and Civil Society Institutions
Interested private sector institutions and NGOs have been given an opportunity to
participate in this study (see Annex 9). A number of NGOs exist in Nebbi District
including CEFORD (Community Empowerment for Rural Development) a local
initiative in the District that was identified in the project area. They are involved
in social community development work. These and other NGOs have relevant
experience in the district and could play an important role in carrying out some of
the mitigation and monitoring activities, in particular those related to social,
health and educational issues.
2.3.6 Donors and Financing Institutions
This EIA follows international EIA standards and procedures. It will therefore be
possible, upon approval from NEMA, for developers to seek financing and donor
support from private and government organisations.
The World Bank, and its private sector arm IFC, apply the same social and
environmental safeguard policies:
* OP 4.01 Enviromental Assessment
* OP 4.04 Natural Habitats
* OP 4.09 Pest Management
* OP 4.20 Indigenous People
* OP 4.1 1 Safeguarding Cultural Property
* OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement
* OP 4.36 Forestry
• OP 4.37 Safety of Dams
* OP 7.50 Projects on International Waterway
* OP 7.60 Projects in Disputed Areas.
The application of these social and environmental safeguard policies in the
Ugandan context for projects under the ERT programme is set out in the Ministry
of Energy's Environmental and Social Mangement Framework (ESMF). This
framework provides detailed guidelines for EIA work for various types of
potential ERT projects.
14



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
In addition, bilateral donors have their specific guidelines for incorporation of
environmental and social concerns into project planning and implemention. This
EIA has paid particular attention to the ESMF, which is based on the safeguards
of the World B3ank.
15



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
3 Area profile, Nebbi district
3.1 Introduction
The Nyagak Hydropower Project is located at River Nyagak, in Nyapea sub-
county, Okoro county, in Nebbi District of the West Nile Region. The project site
is 26km from Nebbi Town. The site can be accessed by gravel road from Nebbi
through Paidha to the Nyagak middle bridge that marks the beginning of the
project site.
See the maps at the end of this chapter for the location of Nebbi District
within Uganda and breakdowns of Nebbi District and Paidha sub-county
where the project is located. On the last two maps of Nebbi District and
Paidha Sub-county, the River Nyagak can be seen flowing (North)-East from
the Democratic Republic of Congo. The river is marked in blue. Just North-
West of Paidha, the river turns directly Nortwards defining the border
between Okoro and Paidha. The power house will be located at this bend in
the river. See also Annex 8 to this report for a detailed and focused map of
the project site.
A further, revised area profile is provided in connection with the
reassessment of the impacts of hydro design changes in Annex 8.
3.2 Location and Size
Nebbi District is located in northwestern Uganda between 2°300' and 2045' north
of the equator and 30°45' and 31°10' east of the prime meridan. Arua District
borders to the north, Gulu District to the east, Masindi District to the south-east
and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) to the west and south-west. River
Nyagak is believed to have its source from the neighbouring DRC.
The District covers a total area of 3,288sq km, which is 1.2% of the national area
with a perimeter of 353km. The area is sub-divided into arable land (62%), game
reserves (29.1%), swamps and open water (6.4%), and forest reserves (2.5%).
The wetlands (permanent is 32.7 sq km, papyrus swamp is 27.7, reed swamp is 40
sq. km; seasonal, 78.6sq km) constitute 111.3 sq km.
16



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
3.3 Topography
Geological activities produced a conspicuous morphology in the District.
Faulting and rifting along the western arm of the East African Rift Valley zone
extends from Panyimur into Jukia hills. Up-arching and tilting affected the Okoro
uplands. As a result, differences in localised diastrophic forces led to a variation
in relief with a marked ascend towards the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Jonam County has a flat relief, Padyere is a raised plateau and Okoro is generally
a highland. Metamorphic rocks are widespread and sedimentary rocks pre-
dominate most parts of Jonam Country along Lake Albert and Albert Nile basin.
Granitic intrusions on the other hand are a common feature in Padyere and Okoro
Counties.
The geographic and environmental differences noted above have produed
different soils. Jonam is dominated with young and immature lithosols unlike
Okoro with intermediate and mature soils. By compostions, soils in Okoro and
parts of Padyere are mainly ferallitic soils. Along the slopes and valleys,
hydromorphic soils exist while vertisols and ferruginous soils of negligible
productivity predominate in Jonam.
3.4 Climate
Nebbi District exhibits a purely tropical climate due to its location within the
eastern topographical rainfall zone. The dry and sub-humid climate is associated
with orographic rainfall and hail/thunderstorms. Rainfall is bimodal in nature with
peaks in May and October. The first short and usually unreliable rainfall is from
late March - May, while the second and more reliable rains fall in the July -
October period. Dry spells are experienced in June - July and December - early
March. Temperature is generally high except in Okoro and parts of Padyere
County.
3.5 Hydrology
Apart from subterranean hydrology, major surface water bodies include Lake
Albert and the Albert Nile with dendrites and parallel patterned tributaries that
originate from the inland upland terrain. Rivers like Nyagak, Ora, Acwera, Ayila
and Namrwodho are permanent although their volume of flow fluctuates
considerably during the seasons. Others such as Korpio, Wangnyang, Oceke,
Cido, Kivunje, are either seasonal or intermittent.
3.6 Biodiversity
Uganda's vegetation is still classified and described based on the concepts of
Langdale Brown and Osmaston (1967). Vegetation is influenced by climate,
settlements and topography. Nebbi District, where the proposed Nyagak
Hydropower project is located, is mostly covered by savannah communities, post
cultivation communities and sites of impended drainage, including seasonal
swamps.
17



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Forestland in the region includes: savannah reserves, softwood and other
plantations. The softwood plantations in Nebbi District are the second largest in
the country as a whole. The remaining forestland consists of scattered fuelwood
and polewood plantations
The project site has a variety of vegetation types on each bank, upstream, down
stream and in all affected areas.
While there are about 380 species of mammals in Uganda and a large diversity of
birds, reptiles and insects, there is no detailed count of wildlife that has been
carried out in Nebbi district as yet. However, wildlife population in the area is
low. This is partly as a result of habitat loss for these animals due to agricultural
encroachment. Wildlife is concentrated mainly in areas that have fairly heavy
vegetation and in many cases thinly populated areas.
Uganda has a large number of fresh water fish in its various lakes and rivers. The
fishery industry in Nebbi District is a very important source of food. However,
River Nyagak contains only mudfish, frogs, and crabs.
3.7 Demography and culture
Nebbi District, formerly known as the South West Nile District until 1979, was
gazetted from the former West Nile District in 1974. Nebbi District is a polyglot
society in which the various ethnic groupings (Alur, Kebu, Lendu and Lugbara)
have diverse origins dating as far back as 1000 AD. The majority of the people in
Nebbi District are of Nilotic origin (98%). Of these 91% are of Alur ethnicity.
The total projected mid 2001 population of Nebbi District is 447,887 composed of
48% males and 52% females. Children under 15 years make up 46.4% of the
population and the elderly (over 65 years) constitute 3%. This makes the
District's total dependency ratio high. The District's population is distributed as
90.2% rural and 9.8% urban. Okoro County, where the Nyagak Hydropower
Project is located has 41% of the total population, primarily due to the favourable
climatic and soil conditions. Subsequently, the population density of Okoro
County is in excess of 200 persons per square kilometre, compared to slightly
over 100 and less than 100 for Padyere and Jonam counties, respectively. The
high population growth rate is due to the combined effect of a high fertility rate
and declining levels of mortality (especially young and childhood mortality). This
means the District's population is predominantly young with a median age of only
16.6 (slightly higher than the national median of 17.3 years). Table 3.1 shows
population trends from 1969 to the present.
Migration out of Nebbi is mainly in the direction of Masindi District. On the other
side of the balance is the immigration from Arua District. Migration seems to be
related to economic motives such as better access to markets for agricultural
produce in Masindi and relatively abundant virgin and productive land.
18



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Table 3.1       Population Trends in Nebbi District
Year                          Total Population
2001         (estimated)      447,900
1998         (estimated)      409,600
1995         (projected)      371,500
1991                          316,826
1980                          273,000
1969                          204,142
Source: Nebbi District Local Government. District Development Plan 2001/02 - 2003/04
The advent of westemisation did influence the rich culture of the Alur society.
Nonetheless, the patri-lineal set up of the society has historically stimulated and
reinforced male dominance in virtually all domains. The right of women to
property ownership, inheritance and divorce is restricted. This segregation is also
reflected in the division of household responsibilities by sex. Gender identity is
rigid as a consequence of parental role models and conspicuous grouping of
children.
The revival of traditionalism ultimately to speed up the on-going community-
based approach to development led to the rejuvenation of powers of the traditional
paramount chiefs (Rwoth) that had hitherto been declining.      As a result,
chieftainship is now firmly established. The chiefs however, now operate
according to 'modernised' traditional roles.
The cultural heritage of the Alur society is replicated in the diversity of
ceremonies practised. These include ceremonies related to births (especially
twins), funerals, marriages, mwaka (during the harvest), tedo kidi (during hunting
season), and ambaya (on errand). The purpose of these ceremonies ranges from
requests for blessing to appeasement of ancestral spirits. There are several sites of
cultural heritage in Nebbi District, as shown in Table 3.2, none of which will be
directly affected by the Nyagak hydro scheme.
Table 3.2       Cultural Sites in Nebbi District
Site                                                    Location
1.    Fort Emin Pasha                                         Wadelai
2.    Tomb of Ubimo Jalusiga                                  Atyak
3.    Tomb of Ubimo Rwoth Umier                               Atyak
4.    Rukidi Scene                                            Atyak
5.    Rateng Shrine                                           Paidha*
6.    Italien Site                                            Erussi
7.    Axe Site (Wade ley)                                     Pakwach
8.    Nduru Rock                                              Nebbi
* Only site in Paidha, but unaffected by the Nyagak
Hydropower Project
Source: Gender and Community Development Office. Nebbi Local District Administration
19



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
3.8 The Economy
Agriculture is the dominant economic activity, employing 85% of the population.
The sector remains subsistence-oriented with less than 40% of the produce sold.
In Okoro County, which has relatively, better conditions for agriculture, cash
crops such as arabica coffee and various fruits are relatively more important.
Table 3.3 shows the main crops grown in the District.
Table 3.3       Principal Crops Grown in Nebbi District
County         Crops Grown
Jonam          cotton, simsim, sorghum, millet, peas, cassava, sugar can, fruits
(citrus), sweet potatoes.
Padyere        Cotton, sisal, arabica coffee, sweet potatoes, beans, groundnuts,
banana, sorghum, maize, and fruits (citrus).
Okoro          arabica coffee, passion fruits, irish and sweet potatoes, beans, onions,
banana, cassava, groundnuts, maize and vegetables.
Source: Nebbi District Local Government 2001. Three Year District Development Plan (2001/02 - 2003/04).
Volume One: District Profile, Situation Analysis and Priorities
Nebbi District, like other rural areas in Uganda suffers serious inadequacies in
infrastructure development, availability of social services, the state of human
development, and living conditions of the people, while productivity,
competitiveness and capital formation is low. Because most rural people depend
on agriculture for their livelihood, their low income levels is a direct reflection of
the underdeveloped nature and low productivity of the agricultural sector.
Characteristically, there is low rate of land use, crop husbandry is poor and yields
have remained very low, while crop losses are high.        Family labour is
predominant, with women contributing 75 percent of the labour force. There is
also high dependence on rudimentary technology, particularly hand hoe that
imposes severe labour constraints on the farmer.
The comparative rate of human development in rural Uganda is certainly low,
given poor education and health indices. These attributes, combined with low
productivity and low income levels, have had a direct bearing on the rudimentary
nature of their possessions, rate of capital formation, food security, availability of
and access to basic necessities, the overall state of rural life, and lack of
standardisation and the desire to act in concert.     Because of the many
inadequacies, most rural communities, including and particularly those in the
West Nile Region, are poorly integrated into the overall national economy, and so
have not been able to respond adequately to market-driven national development
efforts.
For Nebbi District, the marketing situation is a major handicap. Farm gate prices
offered by rural traders is low, partly due to high handling losses, high transport
costs and the costs for licences and taxes. In spite of this, Nebbi District has
considerable potential such as a favourable climate for agricultural production,
fertile soils and vast tracts of arable land as yet unused.
There is also high demand for forest products resulting in a considerable stress on
the available resources. For example, in 1996 alone, 6.9 million head loads or
860,000m3 of firewood and 865,764 bags of charcoal were produced.
20



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
The growth of trade and.industry in Nebbi District is largely dependent on agro-
products. The primary industries in the district, which are expected to benefit
from the provision of hydropower, are: coffee processing, cotton ginning, saw
milling, and cottage industries.
The introduction of hydropower in Nebbi District and other parts of the West Nile
region is expected to contribute to improvements in the economy by allowing the
macro-economy to be internally consistent and stable. Agriculture, manufacturing
and services industries would be complementary and mutually reinforcing.
Forward and backward linkages between agriculture and the manufacturing
industry would also be strengthened with manufacturing depending on agriculture
for its raw materials and the agricultural sector in turn providing a ready market
for manufactured and processed goods. The services sector would also improve,
serving agriculture, industry and commercial sector adequately.
3.9 Social Services
In the education sector major changes have taken place as elsewhere in Uganda,
and mainly at primary level. The introduction of Universal Primary Education
(UPE), supported by a number of other programmes (COPE, EARS and TDMS)
has increased enrolment enormously. New classroom blocks are being built
through the School Facilities Grant (SFG) Programme.
In the health sector, the main progress has been in the domain of curative health.
The promotion of preventive health, where communities can play a substantial
role remains relatively weak. Disease and mortality indicators show a high
incidence of preventable and mainly poverty - and ignorance - related diseases.
3.10 Infrastructure
A considerable part of the road network has been rehabilitated (70%) with 282 km
remaining. The situation of a number of bridges remains a concern, but a
commendable job was done with assistance from EDF. An Airstrip was
constructed at Koch, near Nebbi with regular flights linking the district with
Kampala. Postal services remained unchanged although special delivery services
such as DAKS COURIER and Speed Delivery have started business. Mobile
Telephone Network, MTN, is operational in the District, making it the first
Telephone Communication Company in the District. The private local FM station
is the first mass medium with clear reception covering the whole district and
beyond. Electric power is only available for a few hours in the evening forcing
people to look for private solutions such as generators and solar power. There are
however two potential hydro power points in the District (Nyagak point already
surveyed by government and Namrwodho point which needs to be surveyed by a
responsible private entrepreneur). The Church of Uganda Diocese in Nebbi is
negotiating some grants with some other Church organisations in the State of
Kansas for the possible development of the latter.
21



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Smtement for Nyagak minihydro
3.11 Maps
Maps 1-3: Uganda, Nebbi District and Paidha subcounty
Location Map of Nebbi District - Uganda
Source: Uganda National Biomass Study
| \ | YUM>O NTGMUM 
/  X  | /  7  <               )  ~~~~~~~K0TIDO 
I          L      h       ~~~~~     ~~~GULU   PAE 
| ( V < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MOROTO t
APAC       A   A    W 
NAAIRIPIRITi
|   i O 4              t     \    > §) ~~~~~~~~~KAMULI / -PALLIS
I ~ ~~~                      BOvBA LGA%LWEO2>         I    A      G
] / 8 KENJS ~~~MUBENDE A
|   BUSIHENI  MA      %    ASAA                N ?oCW   MONO'..  ,
Lake Vicorina
K \ABALE1                                               N
| -->9--< ^>Legend 
|n/Vhtemational Boundary
'V District Boundary
l  OpenWater
Nabbi District
22



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Land CosLand Cover (Use) Map- Nebbl District
> ) | 9 / WADE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LEY (j
m Broadleaved Tree Plantadion or Woodlot |  . .  _ Nbb   ow.CunD
Coniferous Plantation                                              _    5(      0   1       . ,N
m Tropical Wigh Forest (Fully Stocked)  /Vklternatlonal Boundary   J                      '    Aj
Troptcal HWgh Forest (Degraded / Encroached)  /\ istrict Bou ndary     ,        
Small-Scale (Non-UnUbormn) Famnland   SmnIl, Permnanent River f 
Uniform or Large-Scale Farmland                                                    ;   /
tNOpen Water                        /\AB Weather Road, Loose Surface /
; hiipedmnents (e.g. Bare Rock. Barren Soie  /\/Dry Weather Road                             Softse:N8b1tkoI mass Study. Foest Dept, P.O BOK 1613, tQa
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PNAG
l~~~~~~~~~~~E                                                                          PAll 1E



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Paidha Sub-County - Nebbi District
.....     ATYAK
NEBBI
OKORO
OTHEKO
NYAPEA                   PAIDHA
PAIDHA
JANGOKORQy-.'.
-~-          g      -PAID
;  XAMITU5/                                 R         U ~~RSS I
DRCONGO
Legend:
NEBBI TOWN COUNCIL
Land Cover (Use) Types                                                                     N
Broadleaved Tee Plantation or Woodlot
Coniferous Plantation
Ui Tropical High Forest (Fully Stocked)  Al   bternatlonal Boundary                     +
Tropical High Forest (Degraded / Encroached) /y' Disbict Boundary
Woodland                             ,A  CountyBoundary
ushsand                                  Sa b-CountyBounde ry
Wetland                              ,   Nfin, Permanent River
Small-Scale (Non-Uniform) Farmland       Snall, Permanent River
Uniform or Large-Scale Farmland
Bullt-Up Area                         .\/Al Weather Roadc Bound Surface
Open Water                           /VAN Weather Road, Loose Surface
hIm pediments (e.g. Bare Rock, Barren Sol)  DA/ ry Weather Road       5: Nm, 6n. 5a.k. F_n Dt P.O. 1613. a.
24



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
4 Project description
NOTE: The environmental impact description below is based on the design
in Harza's report. The developer's choice of final design will be close to that
design, but some minor parts of the design may be different, especially:
* A surface pipeline instead of a tunnel
* 14 meter high dam, instead of llm
The proposed changes in design and the environmental and social impacts of
this change as compared to Harza, are described in an addendum to this
report (see Annex 8).
4.1 Project Layout
In the first phase of the selected project, which this EIA study is concerned about,
a run-of-river layout was selected following economic optimisation studies carried
out earlier and is adapted by this study. A diversion weir will be constructed about
600 m downstream from the Paidha-Nyapea Road Bridge. A power intake will be
located at the left abutment of the weir. The water conveyance works comprise a
900-m long water transfer tunnel, a regulating basin, and a 400-m long surface
penstock. The powerhouse will be configured to accommodate two 1.5-MW
generating units along with the associated electro-mechanical equipment. As
conceived, the project will have relatively low environmental impacts due to the
limited area affected.
The Project will accommodate a future expansion of the power facilities to 6.4-
MW. The environmental and social impacts of such an expansion are not
considered in this report.
4.2 Hydrology
The Nyagak River basin has a drainage area of 602 km2 to the Project site.
Existing hydrological data indicates that the mean annual flow at the site is 5.4
m3/s, although there is a significant variability from year to year and seasonally.
Energy yield was estimated based on monthly flow data recorded near the site for
the period from 1967 to 1979. The record was extended to a period from 1957 to
1981 by correlation with the Ora River and with regional rainfall gauges. To-date
there has been no changes in the hydrological conditions of River Nyagak.
25



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Design flood estimates were determined by a flood frequency analysis of the
available daily flow record. The values were adjusted to account for the
instantaneous peak value. Conservative estimates were obtained by using an upper
confidence limit value. Design flood estimates range from a 10-year return period
flood of 55 m3/s to a 1,000 year return period flood of 105 m3/s.
Comprehensive study to assess river flow reliability, water budget and other water
resource use has been carried out by DWD in 1997 at the request of the Ministry
of Energy and Mineral Development and has indicated good quality water flow
both for a run-of-river scheme and a 'with reservoir' scheme. This data has been
adapted by this EIA study and it does not believe any further hydrological study is
necessary before development of the Nyagak hydropower project (Harza
Engineering Company Int.,1998 pp B1.l-B6).
4.3 Geologic Conditions
Geologic formations in the area comprise Precambrian age gneiss with some
quartzite and amphibolite. Overburden, consisting of colluvial slope wash and
alluvium, occurs throughout the area with thickness in the order of one to five
metres.
Investigations carried out for the Harza Engineering Feasibility Study comprised
eight exploration boreholes with a total length of 16m; four test pits in potential
borrow areas, and geologic mapping. Geologic conditions are judged adequate
for the proposed structures and the water transfer tunnel. Surface weathering of
the bedrock was found in all of the exploration boreholes. Depth to sound rock is
generally in the order of 5 to 10 m, including overburden and weathered rock.
The rock tends to have open joints, especially at the storage dam site and to some
extent at the diversion weir.
Tunnelling conditions are also considered favourable when required in Phase II.
Conventional full-face excavation with placement of rock support should be able
to proceed without problems. Local zones of instability may occur where the
small streams cross the tunnel alignment.
4.4 Project Optimisation
The arrangement of the project was selected based on optimisation analyses that
considered:
* the construction cost of alternative arrangements of the project;
. the firm energy and the expected energy available from the Nyagak
Hydropower project;
. the cost of providing auxiliary energy and capacity to supplement the
hydroelectric project; and
* the cost of providing the same system reliability as the Nyagak Hydropower
project with its auxiliary generators.
In all cases, the analysis used the forecast power system load growth and derived
the energy and capacity required to reliably serve the demand. A monthly
26



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
simulation of hydroelectric energy generation was prepared to provide estimates
of the firm, average, and expected value of the energy available from the project.
The simulation used a 23-year period of monthly flow data for the Nyagak River
and includes conditions that are believed representative of droughts in the region.
The optimum project was found to be the run-of-river arrangement with installed
capacity of about 3 MW. However, the analysis only considered direct economic
costs and benefits. The Nyagak Hydropower project will also have significant
secondary benefits. The larger project with a storage reservoir and an installed
capacity of about 6.4 MW may be the optimum if secondary benefits could be
included. However, this second phase of development is not part of the licensee's
obligations and may be implemented at a later stage.
4.5 Diversion Weir and Fore bay
The diversion weir will be a conventional mass concrete structure with a free
overflow spillway section near the centre of the existing river valley. The
structure will have a maximum height of about 13m, between the expected
foundation level at an elevation of 1432 masl and the selected crest level at 1445
masl.
The spillway section will discharge the 1000-year return period design flood with
a peak instantaneous value of 105 m3/s. The flood surcharge during the design
event will be 1.5 m and a freeboard of 0.5 m was provided for in the design. The
spillway will comprise a free overflow crest with a length of 26 m. The
downstream face of the weir will be stepped to dissipate part of the energy before
a small stilling basin.
The structure will include a bridge crossing to facilitate access for inspections and
for use by the local population. Other aspects of the design include a drainage
gallery in the highest section of the dam, foundation grouting, and foundation
consolidation grouting. The total crest length of the weir will be about 150 m,
after allowance for excavation to sound rock.
Construction diversion will be via open cut channel to be excavated at the right
end of the proposed spillway section. The river will be diverted by cofferdams
while the first stage of the weir is under construction. The gap at the channel
location will be closed by a cofferdam to allow diversion over the weir crest for
completion of the dam.
The full supply level will be at 1443 masl and the low supply level will be at 1440
masl. The 3-m of live storage will provide a regulation volume of about
1 30,000m3. The regulation volume will allow either the 3 MW or 6 MW plant to
be operated at full load through the daily peak period.
The water transfer tunnel will have a nominal D shaped dimension of 3 m and a
total length of 900 m. The cross section is larger than required for hydraulic
conveyance purposes but is limited by the minimum practical size for
construction. The tunnel will be unlined due to the quality of the rock and the
modest head losses with the required size. Rock support is expected to comprise
rock bolts and shortcrete in some reaches of the tunnel. Support will not likely be
required along the full length.
27



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
The tunnel intake will be a conventional reinforced concrete structure with
provision for a closure bulkhead. The bulkhead will be used for dewatering of the
tunnel and is not intended for closure under flowing water conditions. The intake
will have a simple transition from the inlet face to the tunnel dimension. The
transition will have a straight sidewall convergence and a roof curve
approximated by straight segments. Trash struts will be provided at the face of
the intake to prevent ingress of large floating objects such as trees. Trash racks to
protect the generating units will be provided at the intake to the penstocks.
4.6 Regulating Basin and Penstock
A regulating basin is provided as a transition from the water transfer tunnel to the
penstock inlet. The basin will provide some surge control capability for the design
and eliminates the need for a separate surge tank. The basin is a short open-
channel section that extends from the water transfer tunnel outlet portal to the
penstock intake structure. The section will be excavated in sound bedrock and
lined with concrete. The depth of the basin will accommodate the normal
|                 operating range in the fore bay and the submergence required for the penstock
intake. The floor level will be at 1432 masl and the top of the wall will be at 1445
masl. Water levels will normally vary between a full supply level at 1443 masl
(no flow condition) and a minimum operating level at 1438 masl (including tunnel
head losses).
The penstock intake will be a reinforced concrete structure designed with a
transition from the regulating basin to a 2.25 m diameter penstock. The transition
includes converging sidewalls and a roof curve. An intake gate is provided for
emergency closure and for plant shut down.
The penstock. will be a 2.25 m diameter surface steel conduit supported on
saddles. The penstock size was selected to serve the ultimate 6 MW installed
capacity of the powerhouse. The length will be about 380 m and the maximum
steel thickness will be 10 mm. The steel plate was based on the larger of the
normal minimum for handling of stresses due to the intemal pressures plus a
corrosion allowance of 2 mm. The penstock terminates near the powerhouse with
a manifold length providing off takes to the initial two units and a blind end for
future expansion.
4.7 Powerhouse
The generating station will include two 1.65 MW, horizontal Francis turbines.
The units will be obtained as a "water to wire" package including inlet valves,
scroll case, turbines, governor, generators, and associated electrical and
mechanical services. The inlet valves will be Butterfly type and the turbine will
have a 650 mm runner with a speed of about 750 rpm.
The powerhouse will be a simple box structure with the equipment floor set just
above the normal tail water level. The substructure box will extend to the ground
surface, which will be above the estimated 10,000-year return period flood level.
28



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
All electrical equipment, switchgear, and substation will be located indoors. The
superstructure will be a simple building comprised of structural steel with
concrete block walls.
Powerhouse equipment will include cranes for installation and servicing of
equipment. Services will include provision for station service power, drainage,
lighting, water supply, water treatment, and other facilities needed for efficient
operation of the plant.
29



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
5 Existing environmental
baseline
This chapter describes the baseline condition at the project area based on the
district level descriptions in Chapter 3 and additional details obtained from
literature reviews, discussions, and previous studies. The chapter provides
information on the physical, biological and socio-economic environment, to
facilitate the evaluation of potential impacts in chapter 6. Subsequently, the
descriptions are more focused on the project area and put emphasis on resources
most likely to be affected by the proposed development.
Additional information regarding the environmental baseline has been
compiled in connection with a recent reassessment field trip due to changes in
hydro design (see Annex 8).
5.1 Physical Environment
5.1.1 Climate and Weather Patterns
The annual movements of the Inter-Tropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ) influence
the climate in the project area. The ITCZ is a low-pressure zone of moist air
masses characterised by maximum cloudiness and rainfall. Local variations occur
influenced by large water bodies and topographic features. Mean annual rainfall
over the Nyagak River basin is believed to be about 1400 mm. Rainfall variability
across the drainage basin is low, although there are insufficient gauging stations to
accurately define basin isohyets. Mean annual minimum temperature in Nebbi
District is 17.50 C whereas the mean maximum annual temperature is 300 C.
Relative humidity is high during the rainy seasons reaching its maximum in
February. Evaporation rates are also relatively high in Nebbi District as a whole
with lower levels recorded in the project area.
5.1.2 Geomorphology, geology and soils
Geomorphology
Generally, Nebbi district lies in the Madi Plateau, which is about 1100 masl. This
plateau is part of the African surface and varies in height from a few metres in the
Nile Valley to thousands in Okoro County. Found in the district also are traces of
older Gondwana surface, sediments of the Westem Rift Valley and fault scarps.
30



EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact StAtement for Nyagak minihydro
The fault scarps are arranged in such a way they demarcate boundary between the
Rift Valley plain and the Madi Plateau.
The most notable geomorphologic feature at the storage dam is the narrow
swampy basin that extends upstream to the Uganda/DRC border. This swampy
basin constitutes a wetland as defined by the national wetlands policy. The swamp
may be part of the subsidiary or minor, local erosion surface described as having
very low relief which have a light downstream slope and bound at the upstream
end by a low soil scarp.
Around the weir site, there are a number of valleys that slope gently to the main
Nyagak River valley with the highest scarp rising to over 1450 masl. Most of the
slopes downstream from the weir are generally steeper compared to upstream of
the weir axis.
The Penstock/tunnel portal site is situated on a steep slope/scarp of the ridge that
runs gently to the north. This scarp is a dip slip step fault face that decreases in
slope gradient towards the valley bottom/power house site.
The powerhouse site is generally flat, lying on the northern bank of the river. The
southern bank is relatively steep and does not have any natural flat surface that
could have been used as alternative site for the powerhouse.
Geology
The study area is underlain by what is known as the Western Group Gneiss, which
is one of the oldest groups comprising the greater part of the Basement Complex
of the South West Nile. It consists largely of gneiss of granite and granodioritic
composition. There are also some rocks bearing distinctive mineral assemblages,
typomorphic of the granulite and amphibolite facies too. The component rock
types include grey gneiss, quartzite, amphibolite, silicate schist, and phyllite
schists.
Foliation in the western grey gneiss is usually distinct, consisting of a preferred
orientation in the dark minerals. Extreme folding with approximately synchronous
recrystallisation produces a characteristic texture consisting of leucocratic, spear-
shaped, squeezed-off fold closures of homogeneous granitic gneiss.
Soils
The district has seven soil units in which the greyish-brown sands over weathered
rock predominate especially in the western areas. Highly leached red soils and
loamy sands are found along the Nile Valley. The northern parts of the district
have the dark grey, calcareous clays (Ora series) while alluvial soils are found in
most valley floors. The deep lateritic reddish brown and red sandy-clay-loams
over gneiss also exist in the district. They are derived from amphibolites of the
Zeu catena.
Most soils found in Okoro County where the project is located especially Paidha
Sub County are of high productivity but susceptible to erosion. Productivity
rating of soils found elsewhere in the district ranges from low in Jonam to
medium in Padyere. Despite their relative poor productivity rating, these soils are
generally stable because they experience low erosion hazard.
31



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
5.1.3 Hydrology
Like other districts in the West Nile region of Uganda, most of Nebbi district
lacks adequate surface and underground water resources. The district is, however,
endowed with small portions of Lake Albert and the Albert Nile, which cover
about 82sq. km or 2.5% of the total district area. Even then, these water resources
are not centrally located to benefit all communities in the district. The Nile is,
however, a very reliable water source and has attracted a very significant
settlement pattern along it. The Albert Nile flows through an area of low rainfall
and high evaporation. Wetlands in the district cover about 1 10sq.km, which
represents 3.8% of the total area of the district.
The district has several river systems most of which originate from the western
highlands. For example, rivers Katole, Dei, Angwara and Nyahumba drain from
Padyere County through Jonam County into the Albert Nile. And so is River
Nyagak, which originates from the Congolese highlands of Aburo (2,400 masl) to
be joined by rivers Aji, Nyaro and Nyorwodho in Madi Okollo. Later, it becomes
R. Ora before it pours into R. Nile near Wadelai.
The quality of ground water can be considered suitable for domestic use except in
the rift valley areas where it is reportedly saline most probably due to restricted
ground water movements and low rainfall/high evaporation. Estimates of 1963
(Uganda Atlas) showed that Pakwach, which lies nearer to the Nile, receives an
average of about 800 mm of rain per year while Zombo in the west receives an
average of 1800 mm. On average, rainfall is more reliable in the west, that is,
Okoro County, than in the east i.e. Padyere and Jonam counties.
However, over the past years, a decline has been recorded in rainfall amounts and
reliability over the entire district with a corresponding decline in water resources
availability.
5.1.4 Seismology
The project area is located near the Western Rift Valley, which is one of the
world's seismic, or earthquake zones. The Rift Valley, a deformation of the
earth's crust producing trench-like depressions bounded by faults, is considered to
be formed when compressional or tensional forces act on the underlying mantle of
the earth. The current terrain in Okoro County and Nebbi district in general is a
result of those forces and tremors continue to be experienced in the area according
to the residents of Jangokoro Sub County.
The last tremor, though minor, occurred in 1996 and the last major one took place
in 1961. Between 1925 and 1966, a number of tremors were recorded in various
towns of Uganda including Paraa, which is not very far from Nebbi Town. At
Paraa, the intensity of the tremor was over 5.0 on the Richter Scale. The
epicentres of these stocks lie mainly between Fort Portal and Bundibugyo, which
are on the same side of the Western Rift Valley as the project area.
Since the western links of the African Risft System is by for the controlling source
of seismic hazard at the Paidha Dam site, a deterministic approach was used to
determine the design level of ground motion for the project site.
32



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Earlier studies by Acre International (1990) recommended a maximum credible
earthquake (MCE) of M=7.5 for this source. This approximately one-half
magnitude interval greater than the largest event record for the western rift land is
considered an appropriately conservative value. Assumming the MCE can occur
anywhere within this zone and that closed distance between the zone to the site is
Zoku, peak ground acceleration values were computed using several recent
attention relationships crustal earthquakes in active tectonic regions, the
attemation relations of Sadgh - el al (1993), Idriss (1987) were selected.
For Project feasibility or prefeasibility, a single prendostatic coefficient is
typically used for the sesmic stability evaluation of structures. Exceptions to this
are the evaluation of major embarkment dams or structures to be founded on
materials susceptible to liquefaction under earthquakes close to the site, a single
cycle of acceleration at high frequency can occur.
Since the controlling seismic source zone for Paidha Dam is capable of large
earthquakes (MCE Ms - 7 - 5), a pseudo static coefficient equal to two - thirds
the PGA is considered approximately conservative. Taking the average of the
above three PGA values therefore and applying a factor of 0.67 tio this average, a
preudostatic coefficient equal to 0.18 is obtained. This value is recommended for
the seismic stability analysis of the proposed Paidha Dam.
5.2 Vegetation
The vegetation of Nebbi district can be categorised into three broad types:
savannah communities, post-cultivation communities and sites of impeded
drainage including seasonal swamps. Combretum-Acacia-Hyparrhenia is the most
dominant vegetation type consisting of mixed deciduous trees with both annual
and perennial grasses. It is dominated by Acacia hockii and Terminalia molliis.
Vitellaria (originally known as Butyrospermum) Hyparrhenia dissolute forms the
drier savannah community interspersed with both perennial and annual grasses.
The grass savannah popularly known as grasslands is dominated by species of
hyparrhenia. In the post-cultivated communities tree cover is sparse and consists
of remnants of previous climaxes.
The proposed Nyagak power site lies within the Hyperrhenia-Pteridium post
cultivation community, cultivation sites of impended drainage, and Eucalyptus
plantation. The total number of species recorded is given in Annex 1. The
riverbank is lined by Pennisetum purpureum (Elephant grass) and Arundinaria
alpina that dominates the course of the river. Cordia millenii a protected species
of conservation concern occurs in the grassland areas adjacent to the riverine
areas. Alongside the Cordia millenii were mature and impressive stands of
Syncephalum obrata, which was one of the dominant relic forest trees lining the
river course and in the cultivated areas in the project area. A plantation of
eucalyptus borders the project site on the western end upstream. This eucalyptus
plantation appears to be mixed species of varying ages, majority being mature
trees while others are pole size. The plantation is a district forest reserve.
33



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact StAtement for Nyagak minihydro
5.3 Wildlife
5.3.1 Mammals
There are no available records indicating detailed survey of wildlife in Nebbi
district by the time this report was prepared. Available information showed that
generally wildlife population is low partly due to habitat loss for these animals as
a result of agricultural encroachment (NEMA nd,). In other parts of the district,
wildlife is confined to the lake and wetlands.
The proposed project area is mainly a cultivated area with the natural vegetation
only lining the riverbank. The most abundant mammals found in the area
therefore are the common small mammals (rats, shrews and bats) that are
widespread and common. However the local communities also reported the
presence of Baboons, Colubus monkeys, cane rat and civet (see Annex 2). The
larger mammals are mobile species with a large home range and are unlikely to be
affected by the disturbance.
5.3.2 Birds
Nebbi district has a number of savannah and wetland species of birds but again
there is no available record showing their presence. Although not heavily forested,
the district also has some forest bird species.
During the surveys of the project area and its surroundings, 52 bird species were
recorded (see Annex 2) compared to 7 recorded by the NORPLAN study. Three
species of birds recorded in the NORPLAN study were not recorded by this team
and these were the Red -headed Malimbe Malimbus rubricollis, Crested Malimbe
Malimbus malimbus, and Black-billed Dove Turtur abyssinicus. The total list of
birds for the area therefore is now 55. With the exception of the Black-crowned
Crane Balearica regulorum which is confined to this region and is rare and
therefore listed regionally as near threatened, majority of the species recorded in
the project area are common and widely distributed and occur in scrubland and
open cultivation. The Black-crowned Crane is a wetland species and prefers
natural habitat for its breeding but it is unlikely that it will be affected by the
development.
5.3.3 Fisheries
The fishery industry in Nebbi District is a very important source of food but not a
major economic activity. The main fisheries are on Lake Albert and the Albert
Nile. Other small rivers with some fisheries activity are Aruza, Amba, Omol and
Awangkwar but not Nyagak in particular. River Nyagak is reported to contain
some mudfish and some species of tilapia that are caught by children on a
haphazard basis mainly during the dry season. The Nyagak River at the project
site is a narrow, fast flowing river and fishing is not an activity undertaken by
villagers. No reports of fish migration or other species were reported during
interviews.
34



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
5.3.4 Reptiles
Villagers reported few snakes in the area. Some mentioned the presence of the
black water cobra Naja melanoleuca and the Nile Monitor Naranus niloticus.
During the survey one snake was encountered Dasypeltis atra (Egg Eater) and one
lizard Agama agama (Orange-headed Agama). These reptiles are common and
widely spread and unlikely to be negatively affected by the project.
5.4 Socio-economics
5.4.1 Ethnicity and community struture
There are 5 ethnic groups in Nebbi district namely; the Alur , the Okebu, the
Lendu, the Lurgbara and the Madi. The Alur are the predomniant ethic group,
who form 91% of the total population of the district. The Alur people can be
found in Jonam and Padyeri counties while the largest number are found in the
highland county of Okoro. The Alur people speak the same "Alur" language,
however, different dialects are spoken in the 3 different counties. For example the
Okebu (number unknown), the Lendu (forming 1% of the population of the
district) and the Lugbara also (1%) live in the western part of the district (towards
the Democratic Republic of Congo) and at the border with neighbouring Arua
district. The Madi live in central and north eastern parts extending towards the
neighbouring Arua district that is Nebbi sub-county, Wadelai and Kucwiny).
As a consequence of inter-marriages among tribes, most people in Nebbi district,
now speak Alur and the other languages especially "Kilendu" and a bit of
Lugbara. The Alur, like their neighbours the Madi and Lugbara, have the
horizontal social structure.
5.4.2 Settlement and housing characterisfics
The population in Nebbi district is mainly rural with clustered settlements in a
linear arrangement. However, settlements in Okoro County, that is the project
area, are concentrated mainly on the hilltops and hillsides while the valleys are
deliberately left for cultivation of both subsistence and cash crops. Most of the
rural settlement lack clean water, and have poor sanitary provisions, with most
homesteads without pit latrines.
Up to (92%) of the entire population of the district live in grass thatched huts
made from mud and wattle although, use of bricks is becoming popular. A few
people in the project area have managed to put up semi - permanent and
permanent residential and commerical premises despite the fact that cultural
attitudes towards such houses remain negative. Most educated elites and one
elder in Afere village in Nyapea Sub County, who have land in the project area
contended that many people do not construct permanent houses because of the
fear of being bewitched or dying before completing such a house. Most grass
thatched huts are often poorly ventilated thus enviromentaly unhealthy.
Settlements in the district are not properly planned including even those in Nebbi
town. This has had a negative effect on the provision of services and improved
environmental management programmes.
35



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Consultation with the communities indicates that some households are using water
from River Nyagak for drinking and other domestic uses. Livestock, especially,
cows also depend on this river for their water requirements. However, that
section of the river between the Weir and the Powerhouse, which is likely to
experience frequent low water levels in the channel, is not inhabited at all.
5.4.3 Source of energy
The people in Nebbi district as a whole depend heavily on wood fuel for their
energy requirements. Approximately, 99% of the population uses wood fuel for
cooking. Twelve percent of the population uses wood fuel for lighting. This is
particularly common amongst poor families in rural areas who cannot afford
paraffin. Wood fuel is used by a section of wealthy people for burning bricks.
For example an Energy Bakery in Paidha uses a lorry full of wood fuel in a
fortnight to bake bread. Some households use grass for fuel. Only a small
proportion of the urban population (4%) uses charcoal as an altemative to
firewood. A head load of firewood ranges between Ushs.500 and 800, while a
sack of charcoal is between shs.2, 500 and 3,000 in rural areas but Ushs.6, 000 in
Paidha Town, mainly due to its scarcity in this part of the district.
In rural areas, energy saving stoves (locally made out of mud, stone, bricks) are
becoming common. The idea to use alternative, cheap and sustainable energy
saving stoves was conceived in seminars and workshops. In Nebbi district,
ACORD - a United Kingdom based NGO and the Mother Union have been the
promoters of energy efficient technology.
While fuel wood supply in Padyere and Jonam counties is still adequate, it is
becoming increasingly scarce in Okoro County. The main source of fuel wood in
the latter is the eucalyptus woodlots usually planted around homesteads by
households. Due to scarcity of arable land, woodlots compete for land with food
and cash crops in Okoro County. In Padyere and Jonam counties, fuel wood is
collected from naturally regenerated vegetations especially the acacia and dry
combretum species.
Paraffin is used for lighting by 87% of the population, in both urban and rural
areas. A litre of paraffin costs Ushs.800 in Nebbi Town and Ushs. 900 in other
urban centres like Paidha; but it becomes ever more expensive further away from
the town centres. Sometimes paraffin is not available in some trading centres. A
thermal generator owned by the Uganda Electricity Board (UEB) provides
electricity in Nebbi and Paidha Towns for four (4) hours a day that is from 7.00
pm to 11:00pm when there is no load shedding. The number of households and
enterprises, which utilise this facility, is quite limited though.
5.4.4 Infrastructure
The road network within the project area is generally good (Table 5.1). However,
there will be need to expand the access road from Paidha Town to the
Powerhouse. Other additional access routes may also be required for inspection
purposes. Likewise, the current electricity transmission line stops in Paidha Town.
Therefore, there will also be a need to extend this transmission line to the
Powerhouse.
36



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Table 5.1      Distribution of Road Network in Okoro County and Nebbi
District, 1999
Feeder Roads    Community        Total (km)
(km)            Roads (km)
Okoro County
Atyak                     32              0               32
Jangokoro                 39              0               39
Kango                     32              12              44
Nyapea                    45              0               45
Paidha TC                 0               0                0
Paidha                    32              15              47
Zeu                       24              15               39
Sub-total Okoro County    204             42              246
Nebbi District Total      594             74              668
Source: Nebbi District Administration Local govemment 3-Year Development Plan (2001/02 - 2003/04).
Volume One: District Profile, Situation Analysis and Priorities.
5.4.5 Social Services
Within the whole district, Okoro County, where the project is located, had the
highest illiteracy rate as of 1991 (Table 5.2). Currently, the district has a general
literacy status of 46.7%. The literacy status of women is much lower at 29%
compared to 67% for men.
Table 5.2      Illiteracy Status Per County (Census 1991)
County/District            Men             Women           Total
Jonam                      26.7            69.9            50.1
Okoro                      29.8            76.4            55.5
Padyere                    24.8            70.3            49.3
Nebbi District             27.5            72.7            51.9
Source: Nebbi District Local Govemment (2001)
Currently formal education in the district is provided by 16 pre-primary schools
(that are urban concentrated), 188 primary schools (of which 184 are government
aided), 16 secondary schools (9 government aided and 7 privately owned) and 5
tertiary institutions (3 technical schools, 1 teacher training college, and I business
institute).
Where health facilities are concemed, as of 1998, the entire district had 44
operational health facilities (41 health units + 3 hospitals), excluding private
clinics (18 + 7 matemity homes). The facilities are owned by govemment (60%),
NGOs, and religious organisations (33%) and the communities (7%) as shown in
Table 5.3.
37



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Table 5.3      Distribution of Health Facilities in Nebbi District and Okoro
County, 1998.
Okoro County
Nebbi    Atyak  Jangokoro   Kango    Nyapea   Paidha  Paidha  Zeu
District                                              TC
Hospital             3                                   1
Health Centre        5        1                  1
Dispensary/Maternity
U nit                13                                  ________          _______   1
Dispensary           2        1
Sub Dispensary       19      1       2           2                1                I
Aid Point            I
Source: Nebbi District Local Government (2001)
5.4.6 Domestic Water and Sanitation
Water and environmental sanitation encompasses aspects of access to safe water;
isolation of excreta from the environment; maintenance of personal hygiene; safe
disposal of solid and liquid waste; and vector (including rodent and vermin)
control. It is known that isolated water supply interventions are not effective in the
prevention of diseases and that sanitation alone has a higher impact on health than
does water alone.
The 1996 Nebbi District Rural Infrastructure Inventory estimated that 52.3% of
the population (50.8% in Okoro) had access to safe water sources such as
boreholes, protected springs and wells, and rainwater catchment facilities. Of the
remaining, 17.6% use unprotected springs/wells and 30.1% use ponds, rivers and
lakes. Access to other basic hygiene facilities such as drying racks, garbage pits,
bathing shelters and latrines is slightly less developed. Latrine coverage for
example was estimated at 36% of households (Table 5.4).
Table 5.4       Water and Sanitary Facility Coverage, 1998
Area                  Safe Water
Coverage      % Households with
Pit Latrine  Bath Water   Dry Racks
Okoro County
Atyak                 46.4          39.3         24.1         31.7
Jongokoro             26.2          47.9         31.0         37.3
Kango                 31.8          29.4         23.7         27.5
Nyapea                71.0          62.8         24.5         50.0'
Paidha                22.9          44.5         32.0         33.3
Zeu                   32.0          36.4         27.4         26.3
Nebbi District        54.8          36.1         27.2         29.4
Source:         Nebbi District Local Government Administration (2001)
38



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
5.4.7 Land use and land tenure systems
Note has been taken that land use in Nebbi district is not planned but is
determined by its availability, fertility and to a greater extent, clan decision.
Agriculture is the major use to which land is put as can be seen in Table 5.5
below.
Table S. 5     Land use in Nebbi District.
Land use                                           Total area
(Sq. Km)
Broad leaved plantation                            2.0
Conifer plantation                                 2.1
Tropical high forest                               2.1
Woodland                                           244.0
Bushland                                           22.90
Grassland                                          62.8
Papyrus/read swamp                                 32
Small scale subsistence farmland                   16.77
Large-scale uniform farmland                       1.0
Built up area                                      1.0
Open water                                         8.2
Source: Statistical Abstract, 1996
Agriculture is mainly subsistence with very few commercial farms. The average
size holding ranges between 0.2 and 1.6 ha for both lowlands and highlands. The
district keeps a small number of livestock, which is on a decline. A few farmers
in Nyagak, Ngia and Isiru villages talked to, reported grazing their livestock in the
valleys of River Nyagak, including the valley where a small reservoir will be.
Fishing activities are major in Jonam County and almost insignificant in the
project area.
The people in the project area grow coffee as their main cash crop, while cassava,
bananas, and millet constitute food crops. Due partly to labour constraints and
lack of productivity increasing  technologies, inter-cropping  is the main
agricultural practice found here.
For most families, the average size of land base is so inadequate that even a small
loss will create hardship in the struggle for survival. This implies that those
farmers who will lose some of their farmland to the reservoir, below the Nyagak
Bridge will have also lost a significant source of income because the valleys are
usually used for growing cash crops. One of the women who attended our focus
group discussions expressed regrets for the land take. Due to the scarcity of land
in the area, she can never find an alternative land, which she is afraid, will affect
her source of income and livelihood. She wonders if government will help them in
their new life in terms of providing credit facilities for engaging in other
economic activities.
39



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Animal husbandry in the project area is almost insignificant. People keep 2 - 10
cows and a few goats. The practice is for the members of one clan to gather all
cows together and entrust them with one individual to look after.
Besides cattle, sheep, pigs and a few chickens are reared. The grazing of livestock
is done in the valley bottom especially during dry season. But during the rainy
season, livestock is grazed on high ground near homesteads. Although livestock is
kept, integration of this activity within farming systems is minimal. That means
that no manure is used to improve soil fertility for cultivated areas.
In addition to grazing, the valley bottoms are also used to cultivate seasonal
vegetables such as cabbages, tomatoes, and onions. Some perennial crops such as
sugarcane are also planted here. In fact, more than 3 acres planted with sugarcane
is likely to be taken by the reservoir and the construction of a tunnel. In addition,
maize is grown. Much of the produce from the valley bottoms is for sale.
The project site lies within the highlands of Nebbi District, which receives more
rainfall than the lowlands. The land seems to be very fertile. Hence, agricultural
output in the area is higher than that in the other parts of the District. In fact, this
area is the food basket of Nebbi District. Apart from isolated cases of prolonged
droughts, the area generally does not experience food insecurity. It only
experiences transitory food shortages during the planting periods, which normally
falls between the months of March - June. This period is, however, covered with
cassava that is usually stored in the field.
As in other parts of the country, extension services to this area are intermittent and
poor. Agricultural commodities, particularly food crops, are sold in makeshift
markets, which are held once or twice a week. The major market is in Paidha
Town. This is also a makeshift market and is held twice a week. The main mode
of transport for these agricultural produce to these markets is by head. It is often
the women who are seen carrying the food produce and usually move long
distances of up to 10 kms.
The main cash crop, which is coffee, was being purchased by the cooperatives in
the pre-liberalisation era. However, Kyagalanyi - a private coffee buyer and
processor -has closed down while the new buyer of the company has not yet re-
opened the coffee processing plant. Farmers, therefore, sell their coffee to other
buyers who come mainly from Kampala. A certain Sentongo, who has put up a
new coffee processing plant, will offer a new opportunity to the farmers. In
general, the marketing services in this area are rather poor. This is due mainly to
poor road infrastructure, which will be partially addressed by this project.
A large percentage of land in Nebbi District is held under customary/communal
land ownership. Fewer people particularly in urban areas have freehold tenure.
There are also areas in the district considered as public land. These include forest
reserves and water bodies.
Family members and/or clan leaders administer land but women are customarily
not allowed to own land. This is why the Gissat Techno-consult team that carried
out an EIA study in the same area in 1997 had to call on the paramount chief of
the Alur, Rwot Obino Valente Ker Oyania Jobi II to consult him over land likely
to be affected by the proposed hydroelectric power project in Nebbi District.
40



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Indeed land in the District is rarely sold or bought and access to land is usually
through inheritance. This control has contributed to the high rate of land
fragmentation, over - exploitation and inadequate conservation of natural
resources especially wildlife.
5.4.8 Sources of income and employment
Households are predominantly active in growing food and cash crops, and
therefore, derive their source of livelihood from subsistence farniing.. Agriculture,
which is supplemented by livestock, especially in Okoro County, is the main
source of income. Other economic activities in Nebbi district include fishing,
petty trade and to a small extent, pit sawing. Quarrying is also done near the
Paidha Government Prison. Women contribute significantly in the production
process even though they have limited or even no control over the means of
production. Where cash is involved, men dominate, usually to the disadvantage
of women whose labour is often used in the process.
5.4.9 Cultural heritage
As discussed earlier, while Nebbi District has a large cultural base, the only site of
significance in the Paidha area is the Pateng Shrine in Paidha Sub County
However, the Rateng Shrine is not located anywhere near the project site and
construction, nor its operation.
During discussions with the Rwoth's representative it became apparent that some
of the area that will be affected by the project is royal farmland. The traditional
leaders in the area have approved the use of royal farmland for project
development and have pledged to assist affected people in the location of
alternative farmland, if necessary. No known area of cultural value will be
affected by the hydro project of Nyagak.
However, the Commissioner for Uganda Museum and a Professor of History at
Kyambogo University, Kampala, have recently conducted a reconnaissance
survey of the project site to assess the archaeological potential (see Annex 11).
The result of the study is that the project is likely to have relatively low impacts
on archaeology, since large parts of the area are steep and unsuitable for human
settlements. The recommendation is that a further archaeological excavation is
carried out in parallel with construction of the project.
41



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
6 Potential enviromental impacts
NOTE: The environmental impact description below is based on the design
in Harza's report. The developer's choice of final design will be close to that
design, but some minor parts of the design may be different. The proposed
changes in design and the environmental and social impacts of this change as
compared to Harza, are described in an addendum to this report (see Annex
8).
6.1 Introduction
Hydroelectric projects include dams, reservoirs, canals, penstocks, powerhouses,
transmission lines, and switchyards for the generation of electricity. The principal
source of impacts in a hydroelectric project such as Nyagak mini hydro is the
construction and operation of a dam and a reservoir. Large dam projects cause
irreversible environmental changes over a wide geographic area and thus have the
potential for significant impacts (World Bank 1991). While there are direct
environmental impacts associated with the construction of the dam (e.g., dust,
erosion, borrow and disposal problems), the greatest impacts result from the
impoundment of water, flooding of land to form the reservoir, and alteration of
water down stream. These effects have direct impacts on soils, vegetation, wildlife
and wildlands, fisheries, climate and human populations in the area (World Bank
1991). Since the first phase of the Nyagak hydropower scheme does not involve a
large dam, but a relatively small regulating basin (app. 15m long, 12m deep and
9.5m wide), the impacts will be low and can easily be mitigated.
This chapter identifies and evaluates the potential environmental consequences of
the construction, operation and maintenance of the first phase of the proposed
mini-hydropower scheme on River Nyagak in Nyapea sub-county, Okoro County,
Nebbi District in the West Nile Region. The chapter discusses impacts on the
physical, biological, socio - economic and visual environment respectively.
6.2 Physical and ecological impacts
The major sources of ecological impacts of this project were assessed under the
following: surface runoff; land use changes; hydrology; quarries/borrow pits;
pollution; workers camps, and road safety.
42



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
6.2.1 Negative Impacts
Construction Phase
Surface runoff
During construction, project activities like vegetation clearing, dredging,
quarrying and compaction of soil due to movement of heavy machinery will
increase the rate of surface runoff especially during torrential rains. This will
cause gullying, siltation and increased sediment loads in watercourses. Project
activities may also cause change in local terrain.
Change of land use
During construction work part of the land will be used for construction of the
reservoir, canal, penstock, powerhouse, transmission lines, and switchyards for
the generation of electricity. Part of the work will include road construction or
realignments, quarries, deviations, workmen's camps, storage of plant equipment
leading to change in land use. During the process there is the destruction of the
remaining vegetation lining the riverbank and changes in the scenic view.
However, this impact will not be major given that this is largely a farmland area.
It is anticipated that when the project is being implemented, there will be some
influx of people seeking employment and other opportunities in association with
the project. These people will need food, water, energy and shelter, which will
increase the pressure on various natural resources by direct harvesting of natural
resources and changes in land-use (e.g. collection of wood fuel, increase in and
intensification of subsistence cropping). However, the impacts are expected to be
small to medium negative and short-term.
Vegetation
No areas of high ecological value will be affected during construction but
vegetation clearance of approximately 1 km2 is anticipated. The reservoir will lead
to some inundated area upstream land (see annex x for a map of the inundated
area). In addition to areas of construction, the area along the transmission line will
be affected. Some of the nearby eucalyptus production forest may be inundated.
Further vegetation clearance may lead to soil erosion and hence soil degradation,
especially along the riverbanks. However, no significant impacts are anticipated.
Wildlife
During the construction period there will be some habitat destruction and general
disturbance causing the displacement of some species. However, since the area for
the proposed project is already highly cultivated and large mammals are very rare,
impacts due to change of land use will be small negative but long-term. In
general, animals which are less mobile (often small animals) or species requiring
habitat types with limited distribution will be more seriously affected than larger
and often more mobile species. For instance some bird species will migrate to
other areas.
43



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Pollution
Dust is likely to be generated from quarrying, site clearance, and general
construction activities. Other possible sources could be local modification of
water quality as a result of suspended soil particles and other pollutants associated
with construction and increased vehicular use. Servicing activities that come with
wastes such as used oils, scrap material, dirty cloth and irresponsible dumping.
There will be some noise disturbance during project construction that will affect
nearby communities and wildlife. The impact is considered little-medium negative
during construction. Water quality changes will also mostly have short-term
duration during and soon after the construction phase.
Hydrology
During the development of Phase I of the Nyagak Hydropower scheme an intake
tunnel will be constructed at a point below the Nyapea bridge to the outlet point.
This will run parallel to the river through which the river water will be diverted.
The construction of the regulating basin will result in reduced river flow along the
2-km stretch between the intake and the outlet. Depth, cross sectional area and
velocity will be changed. The changes will be most pronounced in the dry season
when the largest proportion of the river flow will be diverted. The exact amount
of water in this section of the river will be dependent on the future hydrology of
the river. Some areas of the riverbed will become dry at least during parts of the
year, reducing potential available habitat for aquatic life. There will be a decrease
in available aquatic habitats and aquatic life in the short river section under
consideration. The magnitude of these impacts will be small negative since there
is after all a low aquatic life existing in this part of river Nyagak.
According to an assessment of river flow reliability carried out by DWD at the
request of the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development in 1997, and adopted
by this study, the conclusion drawn was that water level data for the rest of the
period after 1984 appeared to be of a good quality with no significant anomalies.
Despite the irregular discharge measurements during the period of record, the
rating curve appeared to be good, achieving a close fit to almost all the gauging
points.
On this basis, the report observes that the range of water levels covered by the
discharge measurements is from 4.09 to 5.09m. This compares with minimum
and maximum record water levels over the entire period of record of 4.03 and
6.89m, respectively. Hence, the rating curve has a good range of validity for low
flows but may be less accurate for high flows, which are outside its range of
validity.
Furthermore, the double mass plot of Nyagak flows against those at Ora II gauge
for the period from 1967 to 1984 indicates that the quality of the river flow data is
generally good with no significant inconsistencies apparent in either record.
The DWD report concludes that the available flow record is of high reliability,
particularly for low and medium flows, which are the areas of interest for their
assessment. The DWD report further observes that the 16-year flow record
provides a good basis from which to compute available flow for the hydropower
scheme.
44



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
However, this seemingly negative river conditions will be arrested with a flow
contribution from the unregulated tributaries joining the Nyagak River between
the intake point and outlet point gives an estimate of a reliable flow at the intake
site for somehow normal flow in this section of the river.
The DWD study indicates that with the computation of the historic inflow series
at the dam site, the contribution from the unregulated sub-catchment was
computed by factoring the gauged record according to the relative catchment
areas. This would provide reliable flows at the intake point of 2.2 m3/s, 2.8m3/s or
3.1m3/s for 99% and 90% reliability, respectively. Accordingly, the impact.of the
intake to the ecology is considered to be minimum and almost insignificant to the
aquatic life and vegetation downstream the intake point.
The DWD study further notes that these flows are of the order of 70% higher than
the corresponding reliable flows for the run-of-river scheme. That this indicates
the substantial benefit, which can be obtained in terms of regulating flows from
even a diverted river flow where daily flow variations are naturally high.
DWD, report therefore concludes that an assessment based on a 16-year flow
record of daily flows for the river Nyagak, flow rates are considered to be of good
quality. That there is a 95%, reliable river flows estimated as 1.6m 3/s and 2.8m
3/s for the run-of- river scheme and the 5Mm 3storage scheme respectively.
Therefore, this EIA study has reason to believe that the situation of the river flow
of the River Nyagak has since not significantly changed and could not change
over such a short period. This means that the Harza Engineering Report together
with that of DWD are valid not only for Phase I of the project but also Phase II if
it becomes necessary. Therefore, further hydrological assessment may not be
required before the development of the Nyagak hydropower project. This EIS
study has adopted both the HARZA and DWD water flow study for River
Nyagak. Hence the impact of both the run-of-river and 'with reservoir' to the pre-
existing ecosystem will be low and almost insignificant.
Consultations with DWD officials as part of the EIS study process indicated that
their regulation on the amount of water to be retained in the river after diversion
and/abstraction is determined by the kind of aquatic situation assessed during a
study like this. Ordinarily, DWD requires that 15% of the long-term mean flow of
water remains in the portion of the river affected by the said abstraction. In the
case of River Nyagak, the long-term mean flow, as found out by DWD, in 1997,
was 5.7 cubic metres per second and so 15% of this is 0.863//s. However, this
requirement may be confirmed by DWD after it has studied this report.
Water use
Local health authorities recommend not to drink the water in river Nyagak and
most people appear to follow this recommendation by instead using wells.
However, the river is used for washing clothes, making bricks and brewing local
beer etc. Most people live and use water upstream or downstream of the project
site. The project area is sparsely populated and relatively steep thus not suitable
for settlement. The hydropower development should not in the long term represent
a hindrance to using water for the people living there, but their water use may be
somewhat restricted during the construction phase. Further, the condition from the
45



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Ugandan Directorate of Water is to retain 10% of the average long-term water
flow between the intake and outlet as a minimum. This level even in the dry
season should secure the people necessary amount of water for washing and other
uses.
Quarries/Borrow Pits
Extraction of materials from quarries/borrow pits and canals involves site
clearance and movement of large construction materials from local sources to the
construction site, and will result in significant quantities of wastes or eroded
materials, and possible changes in topography or ground surface relief features.
Mounds of excavated materials present visual obstruction and an unpleasant site.
Where the excavated pits are deep they present a risk to both animals and human
beings.
Workers' Camps
The establishment of workers' camp requires on-site energy generation,
accommodation, and potable water supply or sanitation facilities and will
therefore increase demand on wood fuel and water for domestic use. The camp
could easily be located near a marginal area or surface rupture that might be
related to a fault. The proposed site for the workers' camp is near Paidha Town,
in a settled area with no major ecological impacts.
Operational Phase
Hydrology
The weir at the intake will increase the water level. The reservoir area will be
inundated, and the water will have reduced velocity in the reservoir. Increased
evaporation is expected.
Downstream the reservoir the flow pattern will change with the regulation, and
the variation in flow will not be similar to the natural seasonal variation, but will
be dependant on the regulation of the reservoir. The impact of the regulation is
dependant on how the dry season regulation will be done. The magnitude of
impacts on river flow is expected to be minimal during project construction and
medium negative during project operation. The situation may be improved by the
unregulated flow from the tributaries of Nyagak River, particularly, downstream
of the intake point.
Water quality
The reservoir will have some long-term impacts on water quality as the inundation
reduces the velocity of the water and will cause sedimentation in the reservoir.
This will in turn reduce the lifetime of the reservoir. The stillwater may also cause
increased salinisation in the event of increased agrochemical use in the
neighbouring farmlands, europhication from biomass, turbidity and pollution.
Downstream the reservoir less sediments are expected which implies improved
water quality. The magnitude of impacts on water quality is expected to be
medium negative during the construction phase and minimal during long-term
46



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
operation. During the operational phase, people's water use will therefore be very
little affected.
Soil degradation and erosion
All areas disturbed during construction phase (roads, garages, storage areas and
camps) are likely to experience some soil degradation (compaction, erosion).
Increased economic activity in the area might also lead to changes in land use and
greater erosion in the catchment areas. The sedimentation of the reservoirs and the
reduction in life span will be affected. The magnitude of impacts on soil
degradation and erosion is expected to be medium negative during the
construction phase and minimal during long-term operation.
Vegetation
No areas of high ecological value will be affected during operation of the power
plant. There could be some changes in species composition towards more drought
tolerating plant species along the river as a result of reduced flow. However,
since cultivation is close to the riverbank already, this impact is of little
consequences.
There is some concern that the water hyacinth, which is already found in parts of
the district, will find its way into the reservoir at some point in the future.
Although this is not a serious impact in itself it could cause problems in running
the plant, by large biomass of the water hyacinth leaning against the walls of the
reservoir thereby weakening it and leading to structural damage.
Aquatic ecosystem
Impacts on aquatic ecology will arise from changes in the natural flow regime in a
short section of the river and water quality changes. These changes are likely to
favour certain vectors e.g. Schistosomiasis.
Spills of liquid hydrocarbon fuel from trucks and the transfer from trucks to
storage facilities pose a hazard. Other petroleum products associated with
equipment maintenance (e.g. hydraulic fluids, oil, solvents) and chemicals are
used in relatively small quantities. These fuels and chemicals, as a rule, are
damaging to aquatic organisms. They can also pollute surface and groundwater
sources.
The most important changes in water quality in terms of aquatic life are increased
sediment load and pollution during the project construction phase. This will result
in temporary avoidance by aquatic life of some areas just downstream of
construction activities in the river. Macro and microorganisms are likely to be
particularly affected. Water quality impacts on aquatic life are likely to be small
and short-term.
6.2.2 Positive Impacts
Creation of a small reservoir will favour some aquatic species (for instance
invertebrates and fish) and birds adapted to a slower flowing river. Species that
47



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
thrive in small water will be promoted and others such as Tilapia spp. may be
introduced. These impacts are considered small and positive for these species.
6.3 Socio-economic and Cultural Impacts
Displacement of households//families
With the exception of one homestead, which lies on the route of the in-take tunnel
and one or two along the access road to the same in-take point, there will be no
other significant displacement of people by the project to call for a plan for
involuntary resettlement programme. Most of the settlements in the affected areas
are restricted to the hilltops and project activities, which would have otherwise
caused the displacements, are all based in or close to the river valley. Widening
of access roads and construction of transmission lines could affect a few buildings
and trees especially in Nyagak village but this can be easily avoided by re-routing
the line and restricting the road to the existing one constructed by UEB in 1997, in
order to minimise damage to people's property. The developer will draw up a
resettlement action plan in accordance with ESMF, based on the preliminary
survey of affected people and land (provided in Chapter 7 of this report).
Effects on aesthetic and scenic qualities
All structures that will be built including transmission lines will change pre-
existing aesthetic and scenic qualities of the area and potential for certain
recreational uses.
But since much of the work will take place in the river valley and will be
generally small structures, their visual impact will be insignificant.  The
transmission lines will use wooden poles and if the penstock is not made of shiny
materials, the scenic qualities of the area will not be affected very much.
Construction traffic and access roads
In an area that is rarely traversed by vehicles, extra traffic that will be generated
by the construction process will be moderately significant, especially close to
borrow areas and/or camps. With the traffic will come increased noise and dust
nuisance as well as possibly increased safety hazards. With less proper control,
construction.traffic may destroy crops and cause other problems while travelling
off-road for short cuts to and from borrow areas and construction sites.
Effects of increased population size
When construction activities of the Paidha/ Nyagak hydropower scheme begins,
there is a likelihood that Okoro County and more specifically Paidha Town will
experience an influx of an unspecified number of outsiders. Most will be working,
some relatives, while others will be coming to provide various auxiliary services
to project workers. Such an influx of outsiders will have social impacts on the
local (host) population including the following:
. pressure on existing resources and infrastructure e.g. competition for fuel
wood, housing and housing materials, transport, water supply, waste
disposal, and land areas diverted for shops/markets or housing;
48



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
pressure on existing institutions e.g. a small town such as Paidha or village
institutions such as LCs wili be unable to handle the increased incidence of
violence, crime, and any other disputes over resources in scarce supply, or
to take over more sophisticated planning functions;
. increased pressure on health and sanitary facilities due to an increased
incidence of contagious diseases or pest outbreaks;
* breakdown of traditional methods of social control and discipline and social
dis-orientation of the local population, resulting from the rise in social
disorders, changes in the values of children and adolescents and the possible
rise in the cost of living due to inflation or an unusual volume of cash;
* increased marginalisation of the minority groups such as women, widows,
orphans and disabled persons in the local population and widening of the
poverty gap, since the more vulnerable groups in the population especially
the aged and women, must compete both with the outsiders who may have
more advantages; and
. boom towns, which are associated with construction projects, will develop
in the project area. Such towns have particularly dramatic effects on the
nearby environs since prices of local commodities will rise and the normal
mechanisms for natural resources management may breakdown, leading
both newcomers and long-term residents to exploit their environments for
short-term gains.
Effects on cultural property
The only cultural site of significance in the project area is the Rateng Shrine,
however, this is not located in the project zone. Part of the project development,
especially the diversion canal passes through royal farmland. However,
discussions with the Rwoth's representative suggest that no special or abnormal
value will be attached to the part of the farmland that will be affected.
It has been established through consultations with local people that other sites of
cultural significance, such as burial grounds or sacred bushes, are not present in
the immediate project area.
As stated in Chaper 5, the Commissioner for Uganda Museum and a Professor of
History at Kyambogo University, Kampala, have recently conducted a
reconnaissance survey of the project site to assess the archaeological potential (see
Annex 11). The result of the study is that the project is likely to have relatively
low impacts on archaeology, since large parts of the area are steep and unsuitable
for human settlements. The recommendation is that a further archaeological
excavation is carried out in parallel with construction of the project.
Visual intrusion
There will be some minor alterations in the topography of the area at the weir,
surge tank and dam site as a result of constructing new structures. At the surge
tank and weir in particular, a lot of earthworks will be done resulting in visual
intrusion.
49



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Improvement in the education sector
Presently, most schools including Government run schools like Warr Secondary
School lack lighting systems thus forcing students to strain their eyes by studying
using hurricane lamps. They study for few hours at night unlike their counterparts
in other parts of the country, which use electric light for reading. This has partly
contributed to poor performance and quality of education in the project area.
Once the Nyagak hydropower scheme is developed it will supply electricity,
which will result in improved study environment thus better quality of education
in Nebbi and Arua districts.
Availability of essential commodities
Lack of essential commodities has been reported in the project area. This has
been attributed to a number of things including poverty, lack of access roads and
transport. This situation will evidently improve as many traders who will be
driven by rise in demand for essential commodities will set up small shops in the
neighbourhood for supply of required goods. Market for those goods will increase
as incomes of the local people improve. With improved road network in the area,
the transport of goods from Paidha or even Kampala or Arua should be less
burdensome.
Improved industrialisation and market
Although the second largest softwood plantation in Uganda is found in Nebbi
District, there is hardly any sawmill in the area. Lack of market for agricultural
products has also been reported. Energy Bakery, in Paidha, depends entirely on
wood fuel for baking bread thus contributing to environmental degradation
through deforestation. Coffee processing plants such as the one owned by
Sentongo in Paidha use thermal generators and because of lack of sufficient diesel
oil in Paidha, it operates under capacity. The presence of hydropower in the area
will stimulate industrial development especially agro processing. Local business
entrepreneurs are looking forward to setting up fruit factories.  Therefore,
improved road infrastructure and increased population of those who will have the
ability to pay will create market for both food and cash crops. There are huge
markets lying in DRC and Southern Sudan awaiting processed industrial products.
This will become feasible once industries for locally processed goods are set up as
a result of hydropower generation in the region. Agro-processing industries will
be developed thus boosting the economy of the region. Establishment of factories
for fruit canning, cotton ginning, coffee curing, and cassava starch making will
become apparent. Most people this study team talked to expressed the same
sentiments. If done, this could create a lot of employment especially for young
people thus improving their quality of life.
Political and international relations
On the national political scene, the present Government which people in West
Nile feel has been neglecting their area for long, will gain popularity for taking
electricity to an area, which is currently isolated and marginalised. Generally,
development of hydropower potential in any part of Uganda is a pre-requisite for
further economic development while at the same time easing pressure on other
sources of energy, particularly biomass.
50



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Fishing as new economic. activity
Discussions with the communities around River Nyagak indicate that children
practice fishing employing artisanal and traditional methods of catching small
fish. While this was done mainly for domestic use, with the emergency of a new
market, not only the children but even adults could get involved in fishing which
will improve their income. Moreover the creation of a reservoir and later a dam,
if stocked, will increase fish population thereby offering alternative income
generation opportunity and contributing to greater food security.
Increased incomes
Increased incomes due to employment opportunities and market for agricultural
produce will empower many families in the project area. The additional income
will make it possible for parents in the area to send their children to higher levels
of education. This will, in turn, improve the educational levels and the general
well being of the people in the project area.
Danger of drowning in the reservoir
The proposed reservoir will represent a significant body of open water to which
residents are not accustomed. As such curiosity may lead to temptations that
could result in fatalities as a result of drowning.
Dam safety issues
Even though the first phase of Nyagak hydro does not involve a large dam, there
will be a relatively small reservoir with some storage. The operation of the
reservoir may represent a risk of flooding areas downstream unless proper dam
safety measures are put in place. The developer submitted in its technical proposal
an assessment of dam safety issues and ways of responding to risks (see Annex
10).
6.4 Summary of overall impacts
The table below summarises the overall impacts.
51



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Table 6.1 Overall Impact Assessment
Aspects            Value        Magnitude of Impacts    Overall impact
Assessment
Biophysical        Medium       Little/no               Medium
environment                     Medium negative         Negative impact
River flow         Medium       (i) Medium negative     Medium
(ii) Medium negative    Negative impact
Water quality      Medium       (i) Medium negative     Small
(ii) Little/no          negative impact
Water quality      Medium       (i) Medium negative     Small
(ii) Little/no          Negative impact
Soil degradation/  Medium       (i) Medium negative     Small
erosion                                                 Negative impact
Air pollution/     Medium       (i) Medium negative     Small
Noise                           (ii) Small positive     Negative impact
Air pollution      Medium       (i) Medium/small negative  Minimul/
Noise                           (ii) Small negative     No impact
Wildlife           Low          (i) Small negative      Minimal /no
(ii) Little/no          impact
Aquatic ecology    Low          (i) Medium/small negative  Small negative
(ii) Little negative    impact
Biodiversity       Low          (i) Little /no          Minimal/no
impact
52



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Table 6.2 Overall Impact Assessment (continued)
Aspects            Value        Magnitude of Impacts     Overall impact
Assessment
Potential benefits  Medium      Little/no                Small
high         Small positive           positive impact
Human environment
Agricultural       Medium       (i) Medium negative      Medium
high         (ii) Small negative      negative impact
Resettlement       Medium       (i) Medium /small        Small
high         negative                 negative impact
(ii) Small negative
Population influx  Medium       (i) Medium negative      Medium
(ii) medium/small negative  Negative impact
Health             Medium       (i) Medium negative      Medium
(ii) Small negative     Negative impact
Visual aspects     Medium       (i) Small negative       Medium
(ii) Small negative     Negative impact
Potential medium   Medium       (i) Medium positive      Medium
benefits                        (ii) Medium/ small       Positive impact
positive
Magnitude is in terms of         (i) Construction phase
(ii) Operational phase
53



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
7 Mitigation measures
NOTE: The mitigation measure description below is based on the design in
Harza's report. The developer's choice of final design will be close to that
design, but some minor parts of the design may be different. The proposed
changes in design and the environmental and social impacts of this change as
compared to Harza, are described in an addendum to this report (see Annex
8). Generally, the mitigation measures will be the same regardless of the
small changes of design. However, Chapter 9 of this report provides a revised
Environmental Management Plan, which tailors the mitigation measures and
their implementation to the design as recently proposed by the developer.
7.1 Introduction
Virtually all the undesirable impacts identified in the previous chapter can be
minimised by implementing appropriate measures. There are a few that can be
avoided altogether without having to change the fundamental design and/or
location of the project. An impact would have to be very serious for such changes
to be made. It is our considered view that this Nyagak hydropower project is not
likely to cause any serious impacts. This is because all potential impacts can be
mitigated and below are such measures as recommended by this study.
7.2 Physical and Ecological Impacts
7.2.1 Land Use
Overall, some land cover will be lost during construction phase especially by the
reservoir, access roads and construction materials sourcing. Where possible,
removal of large trees should be avoided. Places to take note of are between the
weir and powerhouse sites and where all road works will take place. There should
be establishment of long-term procedures for reducing soil erosion around the
reservoir. For example, proper terracing would reduce erosion of topsoil from the
farmlands on the steep banks.
The destroyed sites should be restored through tree planting to replace all the trees
and any other vegetation that will be lost during the project activities. Clearing for
construction activities and roads should be confined to those areas designated and
marked.
54



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
The construction area should be clearly marked or fenced off to avoid any
unplanned encroachment on additional land. This would also reduce the risk of
accidents.
7.2.2 Surface runoff
In order to reduce erosion and sedimentation caused by the project activities it is
recommended that there should be minimal site disturbance, establishment of
controlled/check drainage, protection of drainage at soft spots, reforestation of
exposed surfaces especially along the affected parts of Nyagak River. If clearing
of sensitive slopes and land adjacent to the river is necessary, it should be done by
hand clearing. The current methods of farming practiced by the local communities
along the river are poor and the farmers should be persuaded to change their
methods of farming. Soil and water conservation methods should be introduced by
the District Agriculture office. Digging of trenches, agro-forestry practices can be
used for sustainable agriculture.
7.2.3 Hydrology
There will be loss of water through evaporation especially at the reservoir that
could be reduced by protection of the catchment areas through tree planting. It is
also recommended that a tree-planting programme be undertaken for fuel wood
and poles, on both sides of Nyagak. Water for construction could also be drawn
from down stream instead of upstream especially if the construction will be done
during the dry season. There should also be provision of adequate drainage during
construction, culverts, spillways and embankments to avoid pollution.
It is acknowledged that the construction of the reservoir will result in reduced
river flow along the 2-km stretch between the intake and the outlet. The changes
will be most pronounced in the dry season when the largest proportion of the river
flow will be diverted. Parts of the riverbed will become dry at least in the dry
season reducing potential available habitat for aquatic life. There will be a
decrease in available aquatic habitats and aquatic life in the short river section
under consideration. However, this section is currently a cultivated area and
Nyagak has very low aquatic life. Nevertheless, leaving a reasonable amount of
water flowing through the river course could reduce the impact on the minimal
aquatic life that is present. Using the assessment report on the water flow
reliability by DWD in 1997, and adopted by this study, the situation can be
normalized by the inflow from the unregulated tributaries joining the Nyagak
River between the proposed dam site and the intake point, giving a reliable flow at
the intake site for the 'with reservior' scheme. This will greatly minimize the
danger to the aquatic life, which could have otherwise been affected by the
reservoir and the intake. 10% water flow retention recommended by DWD must
be observed by the developer.
7.2.4 Pollution and waste
The most likely source of watercourse pollution is sedimentation. In the reservoir
the still water may also cause increased salinisation, eutrophication from biomass,
turbidity and pollution. If the contractor exercises good environmental practice
most of the risk including fuel and oil spillages into watercourses would be
55



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
avoided. Construction camps, stores, vehicle repair workshops and other possible
sources of pollutants should not be sited near watercourses. Any removable
material, which falls into a watercourse, should be removed immediately. All
scrap and solid waste materials should be incinerated. Fuel should be transported
in tanks instead of drums and stored in specified places. Refuelling, oil changes
and lubricating mobile equipment should be done on a pad that drains into a
temporary retention pond. This pond should be incinerated.
7.3 Socio-economic Impacts
The most signifiacnt socio-economic impact is the impact on land and land-use, as
identified in chapter 6. A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) will be drawn up in
accordance with ESMF by the developer in cooperation with central and local
government. A preliminary survey of affected people for the original Harza design
is provided below. The developer will be able to build on the preliminary survey
when finalising the RAP.
An update to this survey taking changes of design into account is provided in
Annex 8, and the main conclusion repeated here: The main conclusion from
the reassessment is that the design changes, esp. a slightly higher dam and a
lkm surface pipeline instead of a tunnel, will affect more people and land
than the original design. However, the impacts will still be relatively small,
since the main project area is steep and unsuitable for human settlements. It
is likely that only 2 homesteads will have to relocate because of the pipeline,
while landowners in the area affected will lose less than 25% of their land
and may therefore be compensated in cash. Around 60 people have reported
that they own land in the area, and an estimate of the affected land is 134,5
acres (as opposed to 82,5 acres with the original design).
URECL will carry out a RAP in accordance with ESMF, which will have to
be reviewed and approved by the World Bank and Ugandan Authorities,
before construction can commence.
7.3.1 Land Take
There are two basic issues regarding the mitigation against land loss. The first is
to minimise the amount of land taken by construction activities, and the second is
to mitigate the effects on the owner, or user of such land.
Regarding the first, all access roads construction and road detours to and from
sources of materials, must stick to the alignment of the existing road or track. In
case of a completely new road such as the one to the in-take point from the
Nyapea - Nyagak Bridge, meandering and direct contact with existing structures
such as houses should be avoided.
With compensation for land that has to be taken either permanently or
temporarily, the overriding goal is for the process to be fair transparent and
complete. It will be logical to apply the precautionary rule that no individual or
family should be worse off after the project than before it. After all, the landowner
never planned for the project and may never have had the dream to leave the land.
Moreover, there is no guarantee that the affected person or persons will benefit
56



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
directly from the project compared to a businessman who is waiting to get his/her
house supplied with power or build a coffee processing factory, once power
becomes available in Paidha. This could be the only asset of the farmer who will
lose it permanently to the project. This should therefore be the basis for
compensation of land lost as a result of the project.
Whatever the case, the developer must explain to the affected people in detail the
reasons for the land taken or land loss or both. It is recommended that a
provisional sum item be included in the contract document between Ministry of
Energy and Mineral Development (MEMD) and the developer for tihe payments
of all compensations in order that this is done promptly. Since no accurate
measurements for permanent land loss has been prepared and surveyed,
compensation should be made at the site after verification on a one-by-one basis.
Permanent Land Take
For land taken permanently especially upstream the reservoir and by the
construction of the in-take tunnel, compensation should not be less than the
market value of the land, any standing crops, buildings or fruit trees. For
plantations, such as coffee, an allowance should be made for loss of income until
alternative plants are established and are bearing fruit. There is justification for
hardship or resettlement grants to permit families with non-viable remaining land
to re-establish themselves elsewhere. This option seemed to be the most preferred
from community consultations carried out by the study team around the project
site (see Annex 4 for list of people contacted).
Temporary Land Take
For land to be used temporarily, it is recommended that the developer make all
necessary arrangements subject to the following:
* agreement with the terms of land lease and the amount of compensation by
the developer;
* the inclusion of full reinstatement of land as a condition of the land lease;
. that any compensation payment made be not less than the value of the
agricultural produce which would otherwise have been produced from the
land, until the developer hands it back, reinstated; and
* payments to the affected persons should be made in regular installments.
Compensation Procedure And Consideration
These conditions are to protect farmers from exploitation by the developer. Poor
farmers are often easily swayed by a wad of cash, without calcuating that over the
time the land is to be out of production, the cash is less than the value of potential
crops. A one off payment is likely to be squandered rapidly, leaving nothing over
for the remainder of the lease period.
It suffices to mention that presently, there are long delays in the payments of
compensations, creating major hardhips for farmers. If there is ready money for
the project to cover this component, one of the best ways to deal with the problem
of project impact would be mitigated to a large extent.
57



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Compensation plan
As discussed in chapter 7.2.1 some people who cultivate below the Nyapea bridge
are likely to be affected as this area is likely to flood as a result of the project. A
number of crops are cultivated in this valley. A few eucalyptus trees have been
planted here as well. It was also noted that about 8 housing units of temporary
nature may be affected due to access road construction. These people have to be
compensated for the property they are likely to lose due to project development.
Below are the details of crops and other property likely to be compensated. The
rates of compensation were obtained from Nebbi District Land Board.
The calculations indicate a total of 82.5 acres (or 33 ha), which will potentially
be affected. However, this estimate should be regarded as an upper case since the
run-of-river design being proposed is likely to impact less area than what the
communities perceive. Secondly, except for the perennial ones, some of the crops
presented for compensation are annual and by the time project implementation
begins would have been harvested. There were no estimates of bare land rates.
However, from discussions with area residents, an acre of bare farmland was said
to be in the range of Ushs.500,000 t Ushs.1,000,000 in the project area, the
highest in the rural parts of Nebbi District. An average of Ushs. 750,000 per acre
was, therefore, considered reasonable for purposes of indicating the possible
magnitude of compensation. Subsequently, compensation for bare land would be
about Ushs. 62 million. In addition, compensation would also be required for
improvements and crops on the land. These estimates are presented in Table 7.1
and a detailed list of potential claimants presented in Annex 5 6 In summary,
therefore, an upper case provision for compensation has been estimated as
follows:
Table 7.1      Compensation estimate
Amount
Ushs           USD
Land                                       61,875,000     36,397
Category A (Crops)                         64,345,500     37,850
Category B (Forest Products)               116,200         68
Category C (Buildings and Physical Infrastructure  7,300,000  4,294
Total allowance for compensation            133,636,700   78,609
* I US Dollar equivalent to Ushs. l,700
58



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Table 7.2        Compensation Estimates Excluding Land
CATEGORY A: Crops
No.   Item                              Quantity       Rate (shs)   Amount (shs)
I.   Bananas                            465 plants     4500        2,092,500
2.    Cassava (mature and good)         27 acres                    6,750,000
3.    Coffee (arabica)                  2,000 trees    5,000        10,000,000
4.    Sweet Potatoes                    2.5 acres      200,000      500,000
5.    Ground nuts                       I acre         450,000      450,000
6.    Maize                             11 acres       250,000      2,750,000
7.    Yam                               2 acres        800,000      1,600,000
8.    Sorghum                           I acre         150,000      150,000
9.    Beans                             16 acres       250,000      4,000,000
10.  Jack-fruit                         41 trees       25,000       1,025,000
11.  Pineaple                           16 plants      500          8,000
12.   Sugar cane                        22 acres       800,000      17,600,000
13.  Mango                              8 trees        40,000      320,000
14.  Pawpaw                             18 trees       10,000       180,000
15.   Passion fruit                     20 plants      15,000       300,000
16.  Ovacado                            227 trees      60,000       16,620,000
Sub-total                                                     64,345,500
CATEGORY B:Forest products
17.  Eucalyptus                         22 trees/poles
______ _____ ______ _____ _____ Class  III  1,400     30,800
15 - 19 cm
18.  Other (sambiya trees)              61 trees/poles  1,400       85,400
Class III
(15 - 19 cm)
Sub-total                                                      116,200
59



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
CATEGORY C. Buildings and Physical Infrastructure
No. Item                          Quantity    Rate (shs)  Amount (shs)
19.  Grass-thatched roof/rough    8/5mi2      6.500 = m2  7,300,000
mud/wattle walls
Sub-total                                           7,300,000
GRAND TOTAL (A, B and C)                            71,761,700
7.3.2 Borrow Pits and Quarries
To minimise land take and its effects, operational nuisance, post closure hazards
and health and visual impacts, it is recommended that all borrow pits and quarries
be operated in accordance with a plan to be agreed upon between the developer,
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development and NEMA. Each plan should
include:
* plans for consultation with the farmer/land user, and other stakeholders;
* the extent of each pit/quarry should be clearly marked on the ground;
* a compensation agreement, to be signed with the farmer;
• access arrangements must be agreed;
. a workpan giving an outline of the direction, timing and depth of work
prepared; and
* a site restoration plan, giving details of final shape, method of achieving it,
drainage and sediment control re-soiling and revegetation measures.
Borrow pits and quarries should be sited such that they cause minimum
environmental damage. They should not be within 100 m of a watercourse, nor of
human habitation. If possible, they should not be in conflict with existing land
use and should be hidden from the main road. There must be only one agreed
access to each site.
When transporting mateirals to and from the construction sites, there should be
minimum disturbance by the haul traffic. They should observe set speed limits
and the materials should be securely coverd by tarpaulines to reduce the amounts
poured along the road. Otherwise, this can become a nuisance to other road users.
Before extending an existing pit or opening a new one, top soil should be stripped
and stockpiled separately for eventual use in site restoration. Edges should be
restored to a shallow slope and top soiled to ease vegetation re-establishment.
Slopes should be monitored to see whether natural vegetation occurs and if not,
appropriate species should be planted. Pits should be regraded to a shape that will
not hold water.
Special care must be taken with blasting and the siting of quarries. The developer
should be responsible for compensating the owners of affected structures or
property should their blasting cause any damage. All potentially dangerous, loose
60



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
forces must be controlled by the contractor to minimise health hazards to the local
community.
In summary, the main intent of the above suggestions is to ensure that the
environment is left close to its state as the project found it. No wastelands should
be created as a result of this project because if no satisfactory restoration is done,
the National Environment Standards (NES) will be involved and the developer
penalised. All procedures regarding penalisation are now in place and effective
unlike before.
It is likely that most construction materials apart from sand, cement, timber and
iron bars will be secured from the power house, tunnel and weir sites. If this is so,
then the effect of borrow pits and quarries on the environment will be minimal.
7.3.3 Increased Population Size
Mitigation measures to address increased human population in the area should
address problems related to spontaneous immigration and minimise the need for
masses of temporary workers from outside Okoro County or Nebbi District.
Nebbi District Local Government should undertake most of the activities
recommended below:
. Train local people before hand, especially for less skilled jobs, and improve
transport facilities to and from the site to enable them to work at those sites.
. When budgeting for new infrastructures and services, plan adequately for
the voluntary immigrants as well as the known numbers of construction
workers.
i  Promote investments in local resources (e.g. fish ponds, vegetable growing)
to improve local resources base and capacity to produce food and services
for sale to the immigrants; to reduce pressure during boom period; and to
buffer the population against subsequent economic slowdown after the
construction boom.
. Locally, strengthen existing institutions or develop new ones to undertake
long term development and planning that addresses changes, to handle an
increased number of social problems and to accommodate much more
diversified population
* Plan adequate health, drinking water and sanitary facilities to deal with the
un-expected rise in the incidence of diseases and health problems.
. Provide the necessary social, psychological and counselling services to old
and new residents to enable them cope with the socio-economic changes
particularly for vulnerable groups including the aged. This can be done
specifically by the Department of Social Development of the district.
7.3.4 Construction Camps
Many potential impacts related to such camps can be mitigated. The contract
document must make it clear that for all construction camps, the developer is
responsible for undertaking the following to the satisfaction of the MEMD,
NEMA and DEC.
61



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
. The land must be acquired in accordance with specified guidelines including
requirements for full restoration unrless the developer requires the camp to
be left. In which case, land take, and this must be clarified in the agreement
with concerned parties at the outset, must be comprehensively compensated.
. Adequate supply of water, treated to WHO standards.
|  An effective sewage disposal system, either water borne using septic tanks;
or for very small camps, pit latrines.
I  A continuous electricity supply and/or supply of cooking fuel for workers
and the means to use it. No wood and charcoal except when derived from
eucalyptus plantations or woodlots.
|  A waste disposal systems which separates oils and grease from other wastes
must be put in place.
|  All oil and vehicle fuel must be stored in a banded enclosure of a capacity
such that the complete contents of the tanks can be contained with no
leakage, seepage or fire break disasters.
When restoring campsites, special attention should be paid on all concrete surface,
open pits, septic tanks and other non-biodegradable material whose traces must be
removed.
The developer should establish an open system for dealing with local health
authorities to extend their services to camps. Such an arrangement should be
established with the aim of controlling rampant diseases such as HIV/AIDS.
Provision of condoms, awareness building programmes on how to use them and
general hygiene measures must be part of the services to be provided.
All workers should be provided with protective wear where applicable in order to
ensure their safety. These will include head protectors, noise and mouth masks
and water proofs. The developer should ensure that all workers are safe while at
work.
7.3.5 Project Traffic
If not properly organised, the construction process itself may create traffic
hazards. Any such hazards must be reduced by sensible forward planning, of
designed features proposed to improve safety on the roads. Examples include:
* erection of visible and well-printed road signs before every hazard such as
settlements, sharp bends, bridges, bill crests, cattle farms etc. Marker posts
should be used;
* before settlements and at any danger point, a combination of rumble strips
and road humps should be used in conjunction with warning signs, to ensure
that speeds are reduced; and
* the developer should ensure that all these measures are adhered to.
7.3.6 Dam safety
Strict dam safety measures have been proposed by the developer. These are
outlined in Annex 10 to this report.
62



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
7.4 Impact-mitigation matrix
Table 7.3 Impact - effect mitigation/enhancement matrix
SECTOR             POTENTIAL        EFFECTS             MITIGATION MEASURES            RESPONSIB
ACTIVITY           IMPACTS                                                             ILITY
A.                 Negative
Impacts
Hydroelectric      l.Surface Runoff  Soil Erosion       Minimal site disturbance       Developer
project:                            Gullying            Controlled/check drainage
Equipment                           Siltation           Protect drainage in soft spots
mobilisation
Construction of                    Increased                                           Developer
Channel,                            sedimentation       Slope control                  Developer
powerhouse and                                          Re-forestation of exposed
transmission line                                       surfaces                       Developer
Establishment of                                        Maintenance of suitable drainage
workers' camp                                           networks
Access road                                             If clearing of sensitive slopes and  Developer
construction:                                           land adjacent to the river is  Developer
necessary, it should be done by
hand clearing.
Bush clearing, Road  2. Land Use    Vegetation          Restore some of the destroyed  Developer
widening                            destruction         sites.
Surface                             Destruction of      Establish long-term procedures  Nebbi
compacting,                         wildlife habitats   for reducing soil erosion around  District
reshaping,                                              the reservoir e.g. modem methods
regravelling and                                        of farming
excavating.
The construction area should be
Establishment of a                                       fenced off to avoid any
reservoir                                               unplanned, additional grabbing of  Developer
land and reduce the risk of
accidents.
Clearing for construction
activities and roads shall be
confined to those areas designated
and marked.
Developer
3. Hydrology     Loss of available   Draw water away from settlement  Developer
surface water        and animal watering holes
Protection of surfaces prone to  Developer
submersion by water.
63



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
4.Quarries       Large quantities of  Site restoration after construction  Developer
/Borrow Pits     materials removed
Sites used for quarries, borrow
Vegetation          pits and rock and soil disposal  Developer/Ne
destruction          sites should be identified and  bbi District
Large gaping holes  discussed before hand.         Authority
Visual nuisance     Guard protection thereafter site
restoration.
Locate pits away from main roads
Developer
5. Pollution     Dumping-            Dump used oil outside park     Developer
Dust
Water pollution     Bury scrap and solid waste
Oil spills          materials or incinerate them.  Developer
Noise pollution
Transport fuel in tankers instead
of drums.
Developer
Fuel shall be stored in specified
areas.                         Developer
Refuellilng, oil changes and
lubricating mobile equipment will
be done on a pad that drains into a
temporary retention pond, which
is incinerated.
6. Workmen's     Firewood extraction  Draw water away from          Developer
Camp                                 settlements and animal watering
holes
Organic
pollution/garbage                                   Developcr
l_________________   Bury solid waste
7. Road Safety  Improved road safety  Access roads should be designed  Developer
Greater traffic     with gentle curves for safe
efficiency           movement of large vehicles
Reduced vehicle
operating costs      Speed limits should be clearly
Accidents            posted and enforced and speed
bumps constructed.             Developer
8.Flora          Loss of indigenous  Plant indigenous species to-   Nebbi
species             restore destroyed sites         District/
Developer
9. Aquatic       Possibility of      No foreign species of fish should  Developer
Ecosystems       introduction of alien  be introduced into the reservoir
fish and plant species  and the river.
to reservoir
Monitor for the possibility of
Increased sediment   introduction of the water hyacinth  Nebbi
load                                                District
Environment
Office
64



EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Powerhouse,         10. Health and   Reduced safety risks  Provision of adequate safety   Developer
transmission line,  safety of public                      measures and supervision
establishment of    and construction
workers'scalp,iwormersLA               w areness  program m es  for
sensitisation
DEO Nebbi
Access roads
widening,           B1. Land take   Change in land use   Fair and appropriate            Developer
compacting,                                               compensation at favourable
reshaping etc.                                            intervals
Change in land terms
12. Visual       Minimal              Landscape enhancement through   Developer
intrusion and                         planting of hedges
aesthetics
Buildings to be finished with   Developer
bricks and appropriate roofing
Creation of         15. Un-expected  Pressure on meagre   Most employment opportunities   Developer
employment during   population influx  resources.         should be given to Okoro county
project construction  to Paidha and                       residents.
phase               Okoro county in
general.         Altered social order
population increase  Plan for them especially workers:
infrastructure such pit latrines,
safe water, security measures etc.
B) Positive
Impacts
Project development  16. Improved    Easy access          None
road
communication
17. Enhanced     Easy access to       None
energy source    hydropower
18. Employment   Increased income and  Give jobs to those in the project  Developer
creation         better quality of life  area
19. Emergence    High value for       None                            Developer
of agro          agricultural produce
processing small  and employment
scale industries  creation
65



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
8 Analysis of alternatives
The analysis of alternatives is part of the EIA process. The purpose is to ensure
that the best among all possible options is selected. However, analysis is based on
the chosen option made by the Government of Uganda for which a bidding
process to select a private developer is underway. The alternatives being analysed
include the siting of works and power line routes, technology selection,
construction techniques, and operating and maintenance procedures. The
alternative of not carrying out the proposed project is discussed (as required by
World Bank OP 4.01 and NEMA Guidelines) in order to demonstrate
environmental conditions without the project.
8.1 The "do Nothing" Scenario
The 'Do Nothing' scenario is assessed under three headings, namely: source of
energy, scheme characteristics, and choice of the site.
Uganda is a low commercial energy consumer, despite the fact that the country
has substantial hydropower potential. Currently, Uganda's total energy
consumption is overwhelmingly based on biomass resources.  This over
dependence on biomass is already causing severe land degradation through
deforestation. Furthermore, the current electricity being generated in Nebbi and
Arua towns use fossil fuel, which is very expensive and not environmentally
friendly in the long run. Therefore, without this project, there is no other better
source of energy given the current situation.
The scheme characteristics of Nyagak are the most appropriate given the existing
environmental setting in this project phase. At its maximum development (Phase
II), the proposed dam height of lOm at the site would allow for an installation
capacity of 6.4 MW without any major adverse impacts on the environment. The
current proposed run-of-the-river scheme (Phase I) is relatively environmentally
benign.
Currently, the five districts of the West Nile region (Adjumani, Arua, Moyo,
Nebbi and Yumbe) are not connected to the national power grid. A number of
mini and micro hydropower sites have been identified with Nyagak presenting the
biggest potential and hence its development represents an optimum choice.
66



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
8.2 The proposed Development Scenario
NOTE: As stated elsewhere in this report, the final design has changed in
certain respects (see Annex 8), but this section has not been revised to take
account of these changes.
The second alternative is to implement the proposed development. This
alternative is described under the headings: siting of the power station; siting of
the storage dam; power line routing; and operation and maintenance.
8.2.1 Siting of the Power Station
The siting of the power station on Nyagak River was extensively discussed with
project engineers to establish the criteria used to choose the site. Based on
previous reports, photographs and maps plus data from drill hole cores and
geologic logs, the feasibility assessment team was able to confirm the present site
as the most suitable. In addition to having a strong bedrock foundation, the station
is close to Paidha Town thus requiring a short distance for extending the existing
transmission line to the site. The site selected is currently an open area of grass
with some mature trees and no settlements. There are a few gardens of mainly
seasonal crops such as beans, and sweet potatoes. Alternative sites for the power
station were discussed within the area and this one was selected because it
provided the best gradient at which to receive water from the upsurge tank and be
able to generate up to 6.4 MW (maximum installed capacity) in a second phase.
However, landscaping will be required to minimise adverse visual impact.
8.2.2 Power Line Routing
There is a very short distance from Paidha Town to the Powerhouse, which will
require installation of a power line. The line will follow the existing road and
placed within the road reserve to minimise temporary disruptions to settlements.
8.2.3 Operation and Maintenance
The contract for the construction works should ideally be let out to a single
contractor rather than being split into several parts. This would ease supervision.
The same contractor would be responsible for all development works up to the
powerhouse. On the other hand, any widening of the road from Paidha Town to
the powerhouse and the installation of the remaining transmission line along the
same distance is the responsibility of Government.  It is likely that local
workforce will be used for the works, with import of labour where necessary.
This will further reduce the size of the labour camps and also provide badly
needed local employment in the project area.
67



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
9 Environmental Management
Plan
This chapter has been revised in light of changes in hydro design (see Annex
8).
9.1 Introduction
The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the Nyagak hydropower project
consists of the set of mitigation measures detailed in chapter seven of this report,
monitoring of the mitigation measures recommended in the same section and
institutional measures to be taken during implementation and operation in order to
eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them
to acceptable levels. Further, Annex 8 to this report provides an assessment of the
impacts of two important changes in hydro design, and updates the mitigation
measures in light of these changes.
The EMP also includes the action needed to implement the mitigation measures.
This EMP is drawn up in accordance with ESMF for ERT and World Bank
guidance (EA Sourcebook Update 25 1999).
9.1.1 Mitigation
A number of impacts have been identified by this study and subsequent mitigation
measures recommended as outlined in the earlier sections of this report. Below is
a summary of the mitigation measures including types of impact to which they
relate and the conditions under which they are required ie. continuously or in the
event of contingencies. Cost estimates of mitigation measures are also presented.
9.1.2 Monitoring
Environmental monitoring during project implementation provides information
about key environmental aspects of the project, particularly the environmental
(residual) impacts of the project and the effectiveness of mitigation measures.
Such information enables stakeholders to evaluate the success of mitigation as
part of project supervision, and allows corrective action to be taken when needed.
Therefore, this EMP for the Nyagak hydropower project identifies monitoring
objectives and specifies the type of monitoring with linkages to the impacts
assessed by this EIS study and the mitigation measures outlined:
68



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
. a specified description, and technical details, of monitoring measures,
including the parameter to be measured, method to be used, sampling
locations, frequency of measures, detection of thresholds that will signal the
need for corrective actions, and
* monitoring and reporting procedures to
ensure early detection of conditions that necessitate particular
mitigation measures, and
> furnish information on the progress and results of mitigation.
9.1.3 Measures Specified in the EMP
In chapter 6 and 7, and in Annex 8, the positive and negative impacts of the
proposed scheme were identified and assessed in relation to their magnitude.
Potential mitigation measures were examined. This Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) recommends mitigation measures that should be implemented in
order to eliminate or reduce significant adverse environmental or socio-economic
impacts to acceptable levels. The EMP is intended to be implemented in
conjunction with the recommendations in the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP),
which will be drawn up by the developer in accordance with ESMF (as outlined in
its table 5-1).
Mitigation measures are discussed with reference to both the construction and
operational phases, including costs estimates, schedules, and the agencies
responsible for their implementation. Finally, this chapter outlines areas where
institutional strengthening, technical assistance or training, or additional human
and financial resources may be required, and provides estimates of the scale of
support required.
The main social impact arising from the establishment of the project will be the
displacement of 2 housing units and loss of 134 acres of land owned by
approximately 60 persons. These displaced families will be compensated in
accordance with World Bank (ESMF) and Uganda Government guidelines, and it
is recognised that compensation by provision of alternative land, housing and
income sources is preferable to cash payments in the case where more than 25%
of a person's land is taken. The programme for compensation will be outlined in
the RAP prepared by the developer (URECL), with the assistance of local and
central authorities and a resettlement expert.
9.2 Mitigation during construction
The following sections outline actions to be carried out before and during the
construction phase of the project. The environmental actions are broken down into
five sub-phases of construction, as follows:
. Mobilisation;
• Site Establishment;
* Quarries and Borrow Areas;
. Embankment, spillway, headrace pipe, penstock and power station
construction;
69



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Site Reinstatement.
9.2.1 Mobilisation
Appointment of Site Environment Officer
We recommend that the first step towards comprehensive environmental
management of the scheme is the appointment by the developer of a suitably
qualified field Environment Officer. The duties of the Environment Officer will
include the following:
* Co-ordination of implementation of recommended mitigation measures;
* Co-ordination of specified monitoring programme and compilation external
reports to NEMA;
Act as a point of contact for residents, via Distric Environment Officer
* Liaise with NEMA on all aspects of mitigation and monitoring
The Environment Officer shall ensure through the site engineers that the site
activities are in compliance with the agreed environmental requirements.
It should be borne in mind that any Environment Inspector appointed under
Section 80 of the National Environmental Statute 1995 may enter the site for the
purpose of determining how far the activities carried out on that land or premises
conformn with the statements made in the Enviromnent Impact Statement.
Therefore the Field Environment Officer should ensure that the site activities are
in compliance with the agreed environmental requirements.
The Site Environment Officer should be appointed prior to the commencement of
the land acquisition process, so that any environmental issues arising can be
immediately acted upon.
9.2.2 Site Establishment
Access to Water Supplies for Residents
The developer should ensure that any disturbances in access to water supplies are
adequately catered for.
During the construction phase, this will mean that suitable water access points are
provided for at a safe distance from construction activities. During the operational
phase, this will mean that previous access routes to the river are restored.
Site Drinking Water Supply
It is important that a supply of drinking water suitable for site workers is
provided, particularly for outside workers who may not have resistance to
pathogenic micro-organisms present in River Nyagak or other locally exploited
water supplies. This will require either the installation and maintenance of a
suitable water treatment plant and a distribution system on the site, or bringing in
bottled water from outside. The latter option is likely to be cheaper.
70



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Liquid Waste and Water Pollution
Pollution from sewage and accidental spillage of construction-related chemicals
poses hazards to the aquatic environment and to water resources downstream of
the site.
Although the National Water and Sewerage Corporation (NWSC), Uganda
National Bureau of Standards (UNBS) and DWD are responsible for ensuring that
the people of Uganda have access to good quality drinking water, the discharge of
effluent into water bodies is outside their domain. As a result, NEMA has drafted
quality standards for effluent to be discharged to surface waters (NEMA, 1997a);
which have been released for consultation purposes. Relevant requirements are:
* All fuel tanks installed on the site should be double shelled and bunded, and
kept locked when not in use.
. Within the constraints imposed by river flow, areas in which fill will be
placed for coffer dam or embankment construction should be sheet-piled in
order to prevent erosion and migration of suspended matter away from the
site.
* An emergency plan should be prepared and operated in the event of a spill
explosion or other accident.
Solid Waste
While most of the cut during construction will be used in fill, the project may still
generate solid waste from construction activities in general, which will need to be
disposed of in a suitable landfill site. Part of the site establishment process will be
the designation of collection areas for solid waste, establishing a regime for its
collection and transportation, and identifying a suitable site for disposal.
This site should be selected in consultation with the District Environmental
Officer.
Lighting
Site lighting should be directed and adequately screened such that residential
properties near the site will not be affected, particularly those settled on the
adjacent hills of the project area.
Worker Public Health Facilities
The project is expected to make use of local labour, and so influx of workers and
their families to the area is likely to be small. Nevertheless, liaison will be
required with the Nebbi District Health Officer to ascertain the need for
strengthening the public health facilities to cope with the increased population,
and the possible increase in occurrence of vector-borne and communicable
diseases.
It is recommended that any immigrant workers be provided with anti-malarial
prophylaxis for the entire time that they are working on the site.
Communicable, especially sexually-transmitted, diseases pose a real risk to the
construction workers who are brought into the area, particularly as sex workers
71



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
are attracted to construction camps in search of business. Awareness of the risks
of communicable diseases should be raised by implementing a worker and public
awareness programme and other measures such as the provision of condoms to
staff at the existing health facilities in the project area, and concomitant
institutional strengthening should include assistance in improving resources at
these facilities.
Traffic Management
At this stage, detailed information is not available about origins and destinations
of site traffic, and we have only been able to make broad estimates of traffic flows
to and from the site during construction and operations. URECL plans to ferry
borrow materials from Arua-Nebbi road.
When sources of raw materials and manufactured equipment have been finalised,
a Transport Plan should be prepared, which contains appropriate strategies for
moving these materials to the site. The Transport Plan should also contain
strategies for monitoring abnormal loads, monitoring site-generated traffic
movements, and environmental problems arising therefrom. Consideration should
also be given to the preparation of a site traffic management and safety plan in
respect of on-site parking and traffic movements within the site.
Recommendations, which can be made at this stage are:
. Adequate training to be given to drivers of heavy equipment, and training
records kept.
* Provision of workers' transport between Nebbi/Paidha and the construction
site, in order to prevent extra pressure on public transport such as matatus.
* Adequate maintenance of vehicles
* Restrict hours of access by heavy vehicles to reduce noise impacts
• Speed limits should be imposed and enforced on the site. As a guideline, the
site speed limit for all vehicles should be 20 km/h. Responsibility for
policing this would lie with the Site Health and Safety Officer.
9.2.3 Quarries and Borrow Areas
Habitat Preservation
For purposes of costing the Paidha HEPP report assumed that stone for concrete
would be sourced from the Mugoya granite quarry on the Nebbi road 33km
outside Arua.
In establishing the borrow areas, reminants of native forest should be left
untouched wherever possible in order to facilitate re-forestation at the end of
construction, and to conserve habitat for wildlife. Generally, these reminants are
limited to Nyagak eucalyptus plantation that have been conserved by Nyapea sub-
county to provide timber.
72



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
9.2.4 Spillway and Power Station Construction
Construction Noise
The predicted construction noise levels in the direct impact zone are generally
low. Effort should be made when setting out the construction site to locate noisy
equipment as far away from receptors as possible. Much construction noise is
associated with ill-maintained vehicles and machinery such as generators. All
vehicles and machinery should be regularly maintained to ensure that noise
emissions are minimised. Particular attention must be paid to rectifying faulty
exhaust systems, silencers and mufflers.
Intermittent noisy activities, such as the issue of rock drills for quarrying and
foundation excavations and blasting especially the routing of the headrace
pipeline and site of surge tank should be restricted to day time hours. Although
the limited blasting is unlikely to be major source of community annoyance, they
should also be restricted to the daytime period and carried out at regular times.
The public should be informed of these times, and access controlled in the project
area.
Air Quality
The main factor impacting on air quality in the vicinity of the site is expected to
be dust generated by earthmoving activities and by traffic moving to and from the
site.
Access roads should be regularly wetted in order to prevent mobilisaton of dust
particles from the road surface. This will require one water truck to be on site
throughout the construction period, although its use will be determined on a day-
to-day basis according to weather conditions. In addition to this measure, trucks
carrying material should be covered or wetted in order to prevent dust generation.
Water Quality
The main measure to be taken in order to prevent deterioration of water quality
during the construction phase is outlined under Site Establishment. However,
measures to prevent deterioration of water quality in the section of the channel
downstream of the embankment should be implemented during the construction
phase.
9.2.5 Site Reinstatement
Borrow Areas
The intended use for borrow areas after the completion of construction has not
been finalised and the options, which have been suggested by Harza study are
restoration to agriculture, development of social infrastructure and afforestation.
The decision as to which options will be selected should not be made until
specific discussions have been held with all stakeholders. It should be noted that
stakeholders' preferences may change during the construction phase of the
project, depending on the degree of satisfaction with the resettlement and
compensation package. Ultimately the decision as to the final use of borrow areas
may require a directive from GoU, or local authorities in the project area,
particularly Nyapea Sub-county and Paidha Town Council.
73



I EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
As an interim measure, it is recommended that the borrow areas are restored at the
end of construction in such a way that any of the suggested options may be
pursued. A minimum of a 600 mm subsoil base, covered by a 200 mm layer of
topsoil is required. Borrow areas should be reinstated in levelled and terraced
manner suitable for value of the land would be greatly increased by provision of a
gravity irrigation system.
Repair of Damage to Public Highways
At the end of the construction phase, the developer should make good any damage
to public highways, which has arisen as a result of movement of construction
traffic. This is particularly true about the road vehicles carrying quarried
materials.
Transport Infrastructure
No decision has yet been made as to the reinstatement or otherwise of the
temporary site access roads. It is possible that Paidha Town Council may adopt
these roads as public roads and therefore assume responsibility for their
ownership and ongoing maintenance. If this eventually does not arise, the
developer should restore the roads in the same manner as is agreed for the borrow
areas. If it is agreed between the developer and local stakeholders to leave the
roads such that they can continue to be used by residents, they should ensure that
they are left in a safe condition.
Support to Farmers
The local agricultural departments are already providing extension advice to
farmers to minimise soil losses from steep gradient land. This programme should
be supported by the developer for those farmers engaged in agriculture on the
slopes where the penstock is routed.
9.2.6 Mitigation during operation
The mitigation measures listed above are structured under the various stages of
the construction phase of the project. However, most of the mentioned mitigation
measures will extend into the operational phase of the project. Such measures are
eg the prevention of excessive erosion, site reinstatement, replanting, rerouting of
roads, the potential extension of operation of health facilities etc. In addition to
these, the most important mitigation measure the developer will have to adhere to
during the operational phase, is the compliance with strict maintenance and safety
procedures for the whole hydro scheme, and for the dam in particular. The
developer is aware of its important responsibility in this regard and has outlined
such procedures (to be further elaborated), in Annex 10 to this report. Other
mitigation measures during operation would involve limiting noise from normal
operations, clear water hyacinth from dam and adhering to water flow standards
from DWD.
9.3 Implementation of mitigation measures
Responsibilities and cost estimates for implementation of each of the mitigation
measures outlined in the EMP are recommended in Table 9.1. A breakdown of the
74



*EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
figures contributing to these cost estimates is also provided in the same table. All
the cost estimates are preliminary and approximate.
Funding and resourcing for the EMP are discussed at the end of the following
chapter.
Table 9.1 Responsibilities and Costs Estimates for Implementation of
Mitigation Measures.
Issue             Mitigation Measure           Suggested          Estimated      Estimated
Responsibility    One-off costs    recurrent
for                  (USS)           costs
implementation                    (USS)/year)
Construction      Implement RAP                Developer        See RAP (to be   See RAP (to
Phase                                                              prepared)     be prepared)
Resettlement and
Compensation
Environment       Appoint Site Environment     Developer            4,000          20,000
Management        Officer
Access to water   Water collection platforms   Developer            5,000           1,000
resource
Site drinking     Provide clean drinking water on  Developer        10,000            -
water             site
Foul sewage from  Treat sewage to NEMA         Developer            25,000
construction site  standard
Solid waste       Dispose to approved landfill  Developer             ?
site
Cultural heritage  Test excavation and relocation  Developer        18,000
if any remains are found
Worker health     Provide anti-malarial        Developer             1,000
prophylaxis
Worker health     Communicable disease         Developer             2,000
education/prophylactics
Road safety       Traffic managment plan       Developer             2,000
Road safety       Driver training              Developer             2,000
Road safety       Maintenance of access road to  Developer           1,000
keep safe, Site speed limits
Traffic noise     Restrict hours of access for  Developer          Negligible
heavy vehicles
Blasting noise    Restrict hours of blasting,   Developer            1,500
operate waming system
General           Restrict hours of noisy activties  Developer     Negligible
construction      e.g. pilling, gravel crushing
noise
Air quality       Water  access  roads, cover   Developer            2,000
trucks and stockpiles
Reinstatement of  Conserve and re-lay subsoil and  Developer         6,000
borrow            topsoil; plant trees
Reinstatement of  To be decided                 Developer                              ?
access roads
75



!  EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Public highways  Repair damage caused by  Developer          15,000
construction vehicles
Operational
phase
Disease vector  Clear water hyacinth from  Developer         2,000        2,000
habitat         human contact points in
impoundment
Downstream river Maintain 10% of River Nyagak  Developer   Negligible
flows           discharge down-stream as a
minimum/fill reservoir in stages
Noise control                             Developer            ?         Negligible
Safety          Comply with safety procedures  Developer    Normal        Normal
for dam and hydro scheme                   engineering  engineering
practice      practice
9.4 Monitoring
A number of mitigation measures were recommended above, which when
implemented will eliminate or reduce to acceptable levels the negative
environmental impacts of the project. In order to assess the effectiveness of these
measures, or to identify further corrective action and to detect any impacts that
may not have been identified during the EIA process, it is essential that an
Environmental Monitoring Plan is put in place and implemented. This is also one
of the World Bank requirements.
The monitoring plan defines the scope and schedule for monitoring, assigns
responsibilities for each of the monitoring activities and provides cost estimates so
that the plan will receive funding along with the other investment components. It
also highlights any technical skill shortages that require filling and institutional
strengthening, which will be required for successful implementation. Finally, it
provides a framework for reporting and review, in order that stakeholders are kept
appraised of the actual impacts of the project, and modifications can be made to
the EMP as necessary.
A summary of recommended baseline and ongoing data collection exercise is
provided in Table 9.3 at the end of this chapter.
9.4.1 Baseline Monitoring
Although the EIA study required collection of large amounts of baseline
environmental data for the project area, it also identified areas where baseline data
are insufficient or non-existent. In order for the EMP to be effective, it is essential
that certain baseline data are obtained before the commencement of the project,
which will provide a reference point against which any environmental impacts of
the project can be measured. These data requirements are discussed in the
following sections.
Water Quality
The main area where baseline data are lacking is river water quality. Since one of
the potential environmental impacts is likely to be altered water quality in the
76



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
river downstream and possibly upstream of the embankment, it is essential that
baseline water quality data are collected prior to commencement of construction.
The recommended parameters for monitoring purposes are as follows:
• Dissolved oxygen;
. Temperature;
* Suspended solids (SS);
. Plant nutrients (ammonium, nitrate and phosphate, total nitrogen and total
phosphorus);
Chlorophill a;
* Oil and grease
Sampling sites to be used throughout the monitoring programme should be
defined prior to construction. As an indicator, it is recommended that two sites be
defined for use throughout the monitoring programme, which will allow time
series analysis to identify trends in suggested sampling (Table 9.2).
Table     9.2 Suggested site for Water Quality Monitoring
Site       Location
A         0,5 km upstream of embankment
B         2,5 km downstream of embankment
Vector-Borne Diseases
Schistosomiasis
Since an increase in habitat for schistosomiasis vectors (Biomphalarial and
Bulinus snails) has been identified as a potential impact of the creation of the
impoundment, it is important baseline data are collected to allow future
monitoring. The incidence of disease will not be possible to monitor without
expensive epidemiological studies, and these will be compounded by immigration
of workers into the area during and after construction of the scheme. It is therefore
recommended that quantitative data on disease vector incidence be collected.
A quantitative systematic survey of the snail vectors of schistomiasis be carried
out, which should cover those areas assessed as part of this study, and any other
risk areas which have been identified by the Distruct Health Officer. A suitable
approach would be replicated transect/quadrat surveys or 'unit' counts. This
survey should be carried out by staff from the DHO with support from the
developer.
Malaria
It is not considered feasible to monitor any changes in the incidence of malaria
against background levels, which are already hyperrendemic, especially as such
data will be confounded by immigration of workers from other areas. Monitoring
of the malarial risk aspects of the project will be limited to monitoring the success
of the improved healthcare resources and the resulting education and awareness
77



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
campaigns. This should be carried out by DHO staff from Nebbi district and/or
Paidha Town Council, although the small amount of effort required will mean that
it is likely that one representative from either Nebbi District Health Office or
Paidha Town Council office could carry this out.
9.4.2 Monitoring during the construction phase
Monitoring of the impacts of the project should commence as soon as construction
starts. Monitoring requirements are discussed below and summarised in Tables
9.3 to 9.6
Water Quality
Suspended sediment levels in the river downstream of the site should be
monitored by daily visual inspections of water clarity, which should be
supplemented by photographic records of any sediment 'plume'. In addition,
monthly samples should be collected from the specified sampling points and
analysed for Total Suspended Solids (TSS), and there should be provision for
collection of additional samples should unusually high TSS levels be detected.
Based on 'natural' TSS data collected during baseline survey, a trigger level
should be set, above which measures should be taken to reduce emissions from
the site, such as clearing sediment traps and setting ponds or increasing scour
protection. Such a trigger level is likely to be around 100 mg/l (Alabaster &
Lloyd, 1980).
The daily visual inspection should also include oil and grease contamination, and
if any surface slick is apparent, the cause should be immediately identified and
rectified. Monthly samples should also be analysed for oil and grease, along with
ad hoc tests for other potential contaminants as dictated by their usage and any
observed spills.
Construction Noise
So far Uganda has no statutory noise standards, but measures have been
recommended in order to minimise noise disturbance to residents. Records should
be kept of the hours over which noisy activities such as blasting and piling are
carried out, and action taken where necessary to ensure that these activities are
confined to the times specified in the EMP.
In addition, records should be kept of residents' complaints. The Environmental
Review Panel should be asked for advice as to when changes should be made to
working practices to reduce noise impacts.
Air Quality
As for noise, Uganda so far has no statutory air quality standards although a draft
has been prepared. It is, however, recommended that daily visual inspection of air
quality with relation to airborne particulates be made, and measures taken to
prevent dust emissions when such levels are excessive. Note should also be taken
of residents' complaints, with the Environmental Review Panel to decide when
corrective or preventative measures should be taken.
78



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Communicable Diseases
The influx of immigrant workers and long-distance transport operators will bring
the risk of increased incidence of communicable diseases such as STDs and
HIV/AIDS. The incidence of such diseases should be monitored by checking
records kept by Nebbi and Nyapea Hospital. In addition, incidence of HIV/AIDS
should be monitored in all personnel as well as their families. If possible, records
from clinics such as those at Nebbi and Paidha should also be accessed.
Vector-Borne Diseases
It is recommended that Paidha Dispensary and Nebbi Hospital continue to keep
accurate records of schistosomiasis and malaria incidence throughout the
construction phase. These data should be collected by DHO staff annually, and
included in annual reports to NEMA.
Archaeology
The unearthing of archaeological remains should be monitored during excavation
if at all. A recent reconnaissance survey of archaeological concern was carried
out. While the likelihood of remains was identified as being low, the survey
recommended a test excavation of project site. The Archaeologist recommended
that this be undertaken during the ground opening period just before full
construction activity begins. It is recommended that an archaeologist is at the site
to check the site soon after the stripping off of the top soil.
Traffic Safety and Highway Inspections
In order to reduce the risk of traffic accidents, it will be necessary for drivers to be
properly trained in the operation of their vehicles, and for these vehicles to be
properly maintained. Driver training and vehicle maintenance records should be
kept by site supervisory staff, along with records of site-related traffic accidents.
The movement of construction vehicles along public highways to the site will
accelerate the deterioration of the conditions of these roads. In particular, the risk
will be greatest along the unpaved sections from Paidha Town and from the
Nyagak Bridge to Nyapea College. Supervisory staff should monitor the condition
of these roads, including photographic records, and where deterioration occurs
which is attributable to site traffic, repairs should be effected or paid for by the
developer.
9.4.3 Monitoring during the operational phase
Water quality
Monitoring of water quality especially downstream of the hydropower facility
should continue after completion of construction. The same monitoring sites as
specified for baseline and construction phase monitoring should be used, and the
following determinants measured on a quarterly basis.
* Dissolved oxygen;
. Temperature;
* Suspended solids (SS);
79



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
a Plant nutrients (ammonium, nitrate and phosphate, total nitrogen and total
phosphorus);
* Chlorophill a;
In the short to medium term, sampling and analysis should be carried out by
DWD, WRAP.
Vector-Borne Diseases
Screening of health records for malaria, schistosomiasis, onchocerciasis and other
vector-bome diseases should continue after the impoundment has been filled.
Health officers should examine records from Nyapea Hospital and Paidha
Dispensary to determine whether there has been any change in disease incidence
arising from the project. Particular attention should be paid to disease incidence
in the villages Ngia, Nyagak and Gira which are near the weir.
Disease vector and habitat surveys
Surveys of disease vectors and their habitat should continue after construction of
the diversion pipeline. Disease vectors and habitats to be monitored should
include:
* Biomphlaria and Bulimus snail surveys;
* Surveys of macrophytes which form snail habitat;
* Surveys of mosquito habitats;
* Continued monitoring of tsetse fly populations using pyramidal traps;
* Simulium surveys-limited to areas of likely infestation such as the spillway;
These surveys should be carried out and reported annually for the operational life
of the scheme.
Re-afforestation
After replanting of the trees in the valley between the Bridge and the proposed
intake point with native trees and medicinal species, the success of this
programme will require monitoring by staff of the Forest Department or from the
new Forest Authority. The monitoring required will not be extensive, and could be
limited to visual inspections of the performance of trees, and photographic records
of the tree cover. This should be carried out at three-monthly intervals during the
first two years of operation, and annually thereafter.
Monitoring of restored borrow areas on the river banks will depend on the final
use which is agreed for these areas. It is decided that the area be re-afforested,
monitoring should be carried out in the same manner as specified above.
Monitoring of restored agricultural land will need assistance from the District
Agriculture Officer.
Below are tables detailing monitoring measures during construction and
operation.
80



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Table 9.3 - Baseline Monitoring Requirements
Potential Issues  Recommended Action        Monitoring       Frequency &
Requirements     Period of
Monitoring
Water quality    Baseline samples          Indicators as     Three samples at
listed           monthly intervals
Increase in      Vector control, prophylaxis,  Detailed vector  Once prior to
schistosomiasis  strengthen health services  survey          diversion
Table 9.4 - Monitoring Requirements during Construction
Potential Issues  Recommended Action       Monitoring        Frequency &
Requirements      Period of
Monitoring
Downstream flow  Controlled/staged filling of  Monitor       Daily checks
regime           reservoir                 dowstream flows   during reservoir
and water level  filling
Water Quality    Monthly samples           Indicators as     Daily visual
listed            inspection;
Monthly lab
samples upstream
and downstream
Construction     Timing of noisy activities,  Monitor working  Monthly checks
noise            traffic routing           hours; Monitor    on working
residents'        hours; Monthly
complaints        collation of
complaints
Degradation of   Prevent dust emission -   Visual assessment  Daily visual
air quality      water roads and cover     of air quality and  assessements;
trucks and stockpiles to  dust on crops;    Monthly
prevent wild erosion      Monitor           collation of
complaints        complaints
Communicable     Health                    Check health      Quarterly
diseases         education;distribution of  facility records for
prophylactics             increased
incidence
Vector borne     Habitat clearence, pesticide  Continued     Annually
diseases          dosing, prophylaxis      monitoring of
Health Centre
records
Traffic safety    Drive training;defined   Train and         Monthly checks
routes and speed limits; site  maintainance  of training,
road maintenance; vehicle  records; Visual  maintenance and
maintenance               checks of driver  accident records
hehaviour;        Random checks
Accident records.  of driver
behaviour
Deterioration in  Maintenance to existing  Visual inspections  Monthly
condition of      standard                 with photographs  inspections
public highways
81



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Table 9.5 - Monitoring.Requiremnents during Operational Phase
Potential Issues           Recommended        Monitoring       Frequency of
Action              Requirements    Monitoring
Water quality:             Monitor            Temperature/DO   Quarterly
Euthrophication/stratification                profiling;
nutrient and
chlorophyll
measurements
Disease vector habitat     Eradicate vector   Visual habitat   Six monthly
habitats           assessments;
Disease vector incidence   Presticide dosing  Disease vector   Annually
surveys
Vector borne diseases      Remove vector      Monitor health   Annually
habitat, pesticide  centre records
dosing, prophylaxis
Re- establishment of       Re-lay topsoil and  Visual          Three monthly
forest/agriculture in borrow  plant           inspection and   for first two
areas                                         photographic     years,
record           annually
thereafter
9.4.4 Monitoring agencies and cost estimates
Monitoring responsibilities and cost estimates are provided in Table 9.6 below.
Cost estimates for the operational phase are based on the first two years of scheme
operation. Further details of cost estimates are provided below.
82



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Table 9.6 - Responsibilities and Cost Estimates for Estimates for Monitoring
Programme
Potential Issues           Monitoring         Suggested               Estimated
Requirements       Individual/Organisation  Costs
(US$)
Immediate Monitoring
Water Quality              Sampling and       DWD WRAP, Entebbe       1,000
measurements of
TSS, nutrients and
chlorophyll
Schistosomiasis incidence  Detailed vector    Nebbi                   3,000
survey
Monitoring During                                                     Estimated
Contruction Phase                                                     monitoring
Water Resources            Liase with residents  Environmental Officer  costs/a
and keep complaint                         1,000ear
records                                    I,000
Flow Regime                Monitor            DWD/Environmental       2,000
downstream flows   Officer
and water levels
Water Quality              Visual SS          Environmental Officer   4,000
assessments and    using DWD labs
laboratory analyses
Noise                      Monitor noise      Environmental Officer   Negligible
levels, working
hours, complaints
Air Quality                Visual assessments  Environmental Officer  Negligible
of air quality and
dust on crops
Communicable Diseases      Monitor health     DHO, Nebbi              Negligible
centres' records for
disease incidence in
staff and families
Traffic Safety             Check training,    Environmental Officer.  Negligible
maintenance and
accident records;
visual checks of
driver behaviour
Condition of public        Visual inspections  Environmental Manager  Negligible
highways                                      (+Highway Inspector?)
83



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Monitoring During                                              Estimated
Operational Phase                                              monitoring
cost
Water Quality:                                                 (US$/year)
Do profiling,    DWD WRAP
nutrient and
chlorophyll                            4,000
measurements
Disease vector habitat  Visual habitat    MUIENR/VCU           2,000
assessments
Disease vector incidence  Vector surveys  VCUNebbi             3,000
Vector-borne diseases   Monitor Health    DHO, Nebbi           2,000
Centre Records
Re-establisment of      Visual/photographic FD, Nebbi          3,000.
forest/agriculture      surveys           and/or DAO
TOTAL                                                          25,000
The monitoring.costs, which are preliminary and rough, up to the end of the
second year of operations are estimated at approximately US$ 25,000
9.5 Record keeping and reporting
Section 23 (3) of the National Environment Statute 1995 states that 'The owner of
the premises or the operator of a project for which an environmental impact
statement has been made shall keep records and make annual reports to the
Authority describing how far the project conforms in operation with the
statements made in the environmental impact statement'.
The monitoring programme specified in Tables 9.3 - 9.6 requires daily, weekly
and monthly and ad hoc inspections and surveys for different parameters. It is
recommended that a set of pro forma report documents be drawn up and refined;
and thereafter used by the Environment Site Officer for recording the findings of
these, and if necessary reporting any exceptions. These documents may be
inspected and/or audited by NEMA from time to time, in accordance with the
above statute.
The Environment Officer will also be required to produce quarter-yearly
environmental reports from the above data, which would be circulated to all
members of the Review Panel.
It is NEMA's requirement that annual environmental reports ('self-auditing') are
submitted for review. The Environment Officer would also be responsible for
compiling and submitting these reports, and liaison with NEMA to determine any
additional mitigation measures or monitoring that is considered to be required.
The individual would also liaise with NEMA to determine any additional
mitigation measures or monitoring that may be required. It should be noted that
the EIA Regulations require the names and qualifications of persons carrying out
84



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Srtement for Nyagak minihydro
'self-auditing' should be approved by the Executive Director of NEMA for this
purpose.
All documents should be kept on file of the project, and not disposed of without
permission from NEMA.
9.6 Review and modification of EMP
Section 23 (4) of the National Environment Statue 1995 states that 'The owner of
the premises or the operator of a project shall take all reasonable measures to
mitigate any undesirable effects not contemplated in the environmental impact
statements and shall report on those measures to the Authority annually or as the
Authority may, in writing, require'.
NEMA will review annual environmental reports, and determine during the
operational phase whether monitoring for any of the specified impacts can be
terminated.
Cost estimates for the monitoring extend to the end of year 2 of scheme operation.
This is suggested as a natural 'break point' at which the monitoring results are
subjected to review by NEMA. The monitoring for Year 3 onwards should then
be revised in order to address environmental issues and impacts, which have been
identified.
9.7 Resourcing and institutional strengthening
9.7.1 Site Environment Officer
It is essential to the success of the EMP that a suitably qualified and experienced
Site Environment Officer is appointed by the developer to oversee the
implementation of these measures and to provide a point of contact for NEMA,
ERA, NGOs and local residents (via the District Environmental Officer) via the
grievance procedure.
9.7.2 DWD & WRAP
DWD has been the beneficiary of European Union funding which has supported
the Water Resource Assessment Programme. While primarily concerned with
compiling a national inventory of surface and ground water resources, this project
has also funded the establishment of an international -standard testing laboratory
at Entebbe. DWD now has the capability to carry out all of the monitoring
exercises that have been assigned to it under the EMP. The laboratory operates on
a semi-commercial basis, and would require payment per sample for the specified
analyses. The estimated costs presented in the EMP are based on quotations for
analyses provided by WRAP management.
85



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
9.7.3 District Health Offices/Vector Control Unit
In Nebbi District, screening of patients for schistosomiasis and other vector-born
diseases is currently carried out at Nyapea and Nebbi hospitals. The DDHS in
Nebbi has indicated that it would like to take over this screening role as part of the
EMP, but is precluded from doing so by lack of a few basic pieces of equipment
(e.g. a microscope). It is suggested that Nebbi DHO be assisted in doing this, and
an allowance for the necessary equipment is included in the cost estimates for
disease and monitoring.
The Vector Control Unit in Nebbi works closely with the DDHS in monitoring
vector and disease incidence in the district. No additional staff resources will be
required to undertake the monitoring recommended in this EMP, however there is
a requirement for a small amount of financial assistance to obtain field equipment
and for fuel costs. This has been allowed for in the cost estimates, which have
been presented.
9.7.4 District Environment Officer (DEO)
The DEO in Nebbi has sufficiently qualified senior staff to deal with the
environmental aspects of the project.
9.7.5 Forest Department
The Forest Department offices in Nebbi have adequate number and quality of staff
to advise on conservation and restoration of forest areas associated with the
project. However, FD would expect the developer to meet the cost of planting
borrow areas with native trees. The cost for these has been incorporated into the
cost estimates presented in the EMP.
9.7.6 Agriculture Department
The District Agriculture Office in Nebbi is running extension services covering
both Nebbi and Paidha. Of particular importance for the project are the SOR
erosion control programmes which will be able to assist the project in this area. In
the longer term the Department will be able to advise on land restoration and
possible use of irrigation.
9.7.7 NEMA
NEMA has a dedicated Environmental Assessment group, which has full
capability for assessing EIAs, and for monitoring the compliance of projects with
environmental regulations. Consultation with NEMA has indicated that no
strengthening of its capabilities will be required in order to oversee the
environmental aspects of this project.
86



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
REFERJENCES
2001  District Planning Unit. Nebbi District Local Government.  3 year
Development Plan (2001/02 - 2003/04). Volume one, 2001.
1998 Harza Engineering Company International. Feasibility Study of the Paidha
Hydroelectric Project. Vol. I
1998 Harza Engineering Company International L. P. Feasibility Study of the
Paidha Hydroelectric Project. Executive Summary, Volume I of III.
1998 Harza Engineering Company International. Feasibility Study of the Paidha
Hydroelectric Project Volumes II and III.
International Centre for Hydropower and The Environment Training Course
Documentation Trondheim, Norway, 2000.
1995  Ministry of Natural Resources.  Directorate of Water Development.
Uganda  Water Action   Plan.   Water Resources Development and
Management: International Aspects. (Doc. 009)
1994 The National Environment Management Policy for Uganda
NEMA (1997) District Environment Profile, Arua District.
NEMA (1997) guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessment in Uganda.
NEMA (2000/01) State of Environment Report for Uganda
NORPLAN (2001) Environment Impact Assessment Report.
The Republic of Uganda (1995). The National Environment Statute.
The Republic of Uganda. National Policy for the Conservation and Management
of Wetland Resources (1995).
United Nations (1990). Environment Impact Assessment. Guidelines for Water
Resources Development. ESCAP. Environment and Development Service.
U.N. New York.
World Bank (1999b): Bank Procedures 4.01; Environmental Assessment. World
Bank, Washington D.C. USA.
World Bank (1999c): Good Practices 4.01: Environmental Assessment. World
Bank, Washington, D.C. USA.
World Bank (1991) Environmental Assessment Source book.    Volume III
Guidelines for Environmental Assessment of Energy and Industry Projects.
World Bank (1990). Operational Directive 4.01: Environmental Assessment.
World Bank Operational Manual. World Bank. Washington, D.C.
87



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Annex 1: Bird list
The list of birds recorded at proposed Nyagak Power Station on 14th Dec. 2001.
The species are arranged taxonomically according to Britton (1980) with habitat
category and scientific names given. Threat category for Red-Data-listed species
both globally (Collar et al) and regionally (Bennun and Njoroge 1996) are given
where it applies.
Accipitridae Vultures, Hawks and Eagles
120   Augur Buzzard Buteo augur
Recorded twice one at the intake area and another record was where the proposed
power station will be located. Since it has large home range, possibly this species
may not be affected by degradation.
130   Long-crested Eagle Lophaetus occipitalis                f
Sighted only once but this is a common and widespread species not affected by
disturbance.
138   Black Kite Milvus migrans
Very common and wide spread.
Numidae Guineafowls.
190 Helmeted Guinea fowl Numida meleagris
This is a common savannah gallinaceous species, a feaher was seen but was also
reported present by local people.
Gruidae Cranes Black-crowned Crane Balearica regulorum
Reported to be around by the local communities but was also recorded during the
NORPLAN study.
Scolopacidae      Sandpipers and snipes
252 Common snadpiper Actitis hypoleucos                        PW
This is a palearctic migrant water bird specialist, sighted once along the river
Nyagak.
88



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Columbidae Pigeons, Doves
350   Red-eyed Dove S. semitorquata
315   Common and wide spread around the settlements and in the project area.
351   Laughing Dove Streptopelia senegalensis. Common dry country species,
widely spread.
355   Blue-Spotted Wood Dove Turtur afer
It was locally common and was sighted several times feeding under cover
near  the villages.
357   Tambourine Dove T. tympanistria
Same as the preceding species.
Musophagidae      Turacos
377   Ross's Turaco Musophaga rossae
It was recorded only once but it is a common and widespread species
Cuculidae Cuckoos, Coucals
391   Klaas' Cuckoo C. klaas
Common at the forest edge, degraded forest and the settlements but prefers
thick cover
394   Levaillant's Cuckoo Clamator levaillantii
Less common. Intra-African migrant along forest edges and skulks in thick
leafy cover and parasitic.
406   White-browed Coucal C. superciliosus
Quite common and wide spread in the dense under growth of the degraded
forest and in the tall grass along the pylon road.
Apodidae    Swifts, Spinetails
443   Little Swift Apus affinis
They were sighted flying over the settlements where they were common.
452   Palm Swift Cypsiurus parvus
Commonly sighted flying over tall remnant trees.
Colliidae   Mousebirds
89



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
459   Speckled Mousebird Colius striatus
Very common and wide spread.
Alcedinidae Kingfishers
472   Stripped Kingficher Halcyon chelicuti
Wooded grassland species sighted twice in the project area.
475   Woodland Kingfisher H. Senegalensis
Common but confined mainly to the settlements and along the road.
Capitonidae Barbets and Tinkerbirds
549   Yellow-fronted Tinkerbird Pogoniulus pusillus
A common and widely spread species ranging within wooded areas.
Hirundinidae Swallows, Martins, Rough-wings
624   Lesser Striped Swallow Hirundo abyssinica
They were common, gregarious and flocks were observed
627   Angola Swallow H. angolensis
Same as the preceding species.
634   Eurasian Swallow H. rustica
Palearctic migrant and water bird species, fairly common along the water
banks.
643   Sand Martin Riparia riparia
Palearctic migrant and water bird species, fairly common along the water
banks.
Corvidae Crows, Ravens and Piapiac
654   Pied Crow Corvus albus
A group of about ten birds was observed near the villages surrounding the
project area.
Pycnonotidae Bulbuls
728   Leaflove Phyllastrephus scandens
This is commonly found alongside the riverine bushes
732   Common Bulbul Pycnonotus barbatus
90



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Very common and wide spread in variety of habitats
Turdidae Thrushes, Robins
751   White-browed Robin Chat Cossypha heuglini
Sighted once within the bushes, but generally widely spread
Sylviidae Warblers
837   Grey-backed Camaroptera Camaroptera brachyura
It was heard calling several times, it loves bushes, common and widely
spread
857   Red-faced Cisticola C. erythrops
Common in the tall grass along the river
888   Olivaceous Warbler Hippolaisepallida
Palearctic migrant seen twice in thickets
908   Willow Warbler P. trochilus
One individual was noted feeding in the trees.
Muscicapidae Flycatchers
963   Blue Flycatcher E.longicauda
Same as the preceding species
Motacillidae Wagtail, pipits, Longclaw
991   African Pied Wagtail Motacilla aguimp
Mainly around the river
996   Yellow Wagtail M.flava
Common but along the river.
Malaconotidae Bush Shrikes
1022  Brown-headed Tchagra Tchagra australis
Common in the cultivations
Laniidae Shrikes
1035 Fiscal Shrike Lanius colarsi
Same as the preceding species
91



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Nectariniidae Sunbirds
1130 Green-headed Sunbird Nectarinia verticalus
Zosteropidae White-eyes
1133  Yellow White-eye Zosterops senegalensis
Quite numerous in surrounding settlements.
Ploceidae Weavers, etc
1140 Yellow Bishop Euplectes capensis
This species was sighted once in the elephant grass.
1159  Baglafecht Weaver Ploceus baglafecht
1165  Black-headed Weaver P. cucullatus
Common in the surrounding villages where it is breeding
1177  Spectacled Weaver P. ocularis
Observed in two locations during this survey.
1206  Grey-headed Sparrow Passer griseus
Associated with settlements
1216  Pin-tailed Whydah Vidua macroura
Common and wide spread
ESTRILDIDAE Waxbills, etc
1226  Waxbill Estrilda astrild
Common and wide spread
1230  Black-crowned Waxbill E. nonnula
Same as the preceding species but was confined to the forest edge
1239  African Firefinch Lagonosticta rubricata
Common in the settlements
1246  Grey-headed Negrofinch N. canicapilla
Only one individual was recorded near the Eucalyptus plantation.
1265  Black and White Mannikin Lonchura bicolor
Common in the cultivations
92



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
1266 Bronze Mannikin.L. cucullata
Common and wide spread
Fringillidae Buntings, Canaries, Seed-eaters
1283  African Citril Serinus citrinelloides
Common in shrubby vegetation along the road and the degraded forest
1290 Yellow-fronted Canary S. muzambicus
Common and wide spread
93



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Annex 2: Mammal list
The list of mammals/reptiles reported to occur at proposed Nyagak Power Station
by 14h Dec. 2001
Common/Scientific name
Black and White Colobus Monkey
Hare Lepus sp
Ground Squirrel Euxerus erythropus
Vervet Monkey Cercopithecus aethiops
Baboon Papio anubis
Cane Rat Thryonomys swinderianus
Nile Monitor Lizard
94



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Annex 3: Plant list
The list of plants recorded at proposed Nyagak Power Station on 14th Dec. 2001
Acanthuceae Acanthus pubescens
Occurs in the cultivated areas and fallows.
Anacardiaceae Mangifera indica
Found in the areas where there is settlement
Bignoniaceae Kigelia Africana (sausage tree)
Boraginaceae Cordia millenii
A forest species, but also occurs in the grassland areas adjuscent to the riverine
areas. A few of them were encountered within project area.
CombretatceaCombretum sp
Caricaceae Caricapapaya (Pawpaw)
A short-lived tree, grown for it's food and medicinal values. Found within the
cultivated areas along the edge of the river.
Compositae Vernonia amygdalina
A common shrub along edges of forests
Compositae Syncephalum obrata
This was one of the dominant relic forest trees in the cultivated areas within the
project area.
Draceanaceae Draceana spp
This monocot is an under storey shrub of forests.
Euphorbiaceae Croton silvaticus
95



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
A forest edge species, isqlated in the project site
Graminae Arundinaria alpina
This a grass species which dominates the course of the Nyagak river and is
instrumental in the prevention of the erosion of the riverbank
Graminae Pennisetum purpureum
The second dominant grass species after the preceding speciesalong the river
course.
Graminae Hyparrhenia sp
A common grass in the areas designated for the powerhouse and water tunnel.
Lauraceae Persea Americana (Avocado)
Found in the cultivated areas. At least three trees were encountered.
Leguminosae Erythryna abyssinica
There was a stand within the project area. This is a savannah species widely
distributed.
Leguminoceae Milletia sp
Tree species useful for control of snail vectors, in the cultivated area
Loranthaceae Cyperus papyrus
Meliaceae Melia azadarach
Found in the cultivations within the project area.
Meliaceae Trichilia dregeana
A widely distributed tree species.
Mimosaceae Albizia grandibracteata
A typical riverine forest species, fairly common in the fallow areas.
Moracae Ficus brachypoda
Widely distributed species of ficus that can grow up to 20m, seen in the farmland.
Myrtaceae Eucalyptus spp.
A plantation of eucalyptus borders the project site on the westem end. This
eucalyptus plantation is mixed species of varying ages, majority being mature
trees while others are pole size.
Rubiaceae Gardenia tarnifolia
96



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Verbenaceae Vitex doniana
This is a deciduous forest tree found in wooded grassland and woodland. Two
isolated stands were encountered in the project area.
Zingiberaceae
Costus dubius
Afromomum angiotifolium
Cox-jobii latifolia
Pseudorthria hookeri
Polygonum stosum
Erlangea tometosa
Ricinus communis
Dombeya sp
Trumfetta marcorohylla
Polyrorum stosum
Huslundia opposita
Pinus sp
97



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Annex 4: List of people consulted on
EIA rieldtrip
Name                                  Position
Eng. Moses Murengezi                  Assistant Commissioner (Electrical Power)
Eng. Fred W.Kyosingira                Principal Hydrologist (DWD)
Orombi                                District Planner - Nebbi District
Eng. Badasa M.                        Senior Hydrologist (DWD)
Fred Onyai                            District Environment Officer
Nathan Ahimbisibwe                    Assistant CAO - Nebbi
Sam Ogeny                             CAO - Nebbi
Wapokurwa John                        Mayor - Paidha
Charles Ngukatho                      LC I - Chairman
Ovoya Paskwale                        LC I - Chairman
Ozele Isaiah                          LC I - Chairmnan
Omani Drasolo                         Farmer
Claver Onyuthi                        Farmer
Openjuru Francis                      Farmer
98



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Jackeline Tiitii                     Farmer
Omim William                         Farmer
Paccitho Joyee                       Farmer
Onegi Jasinto                        Farmer
Wakunga Gabriel                      Farmer
Omirambe Franco                      Farmer
Leonard Anyoli                       Farmer
Lwongu - Nyinga Night                Farmer
Manguela Anefuka                     Farmer
Uvoya Paskal                         Farmer
Christopher U.                       Farmer
Bikethunga Jowani                    Farmer
Kerunegu Simeo                       Farmer
Thomas Fuwanga                       Farmer
Sika Bakit                           Farmer
Jatho Albert                         Trader
Atimango Santa                       Trader
Charles Ngukadhu                     Farmer
Okathi Lazaro                        Farmer
Angala Galdino                       Farmer
Ogen Lonjino                         Farmer
99



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Obedigui Gilbert                      Farmer
Aliyenga Kizito                       Farmer
Onega Gilbert
Ajoga Lusiano                         Farmer
Kasamba Franco                        Farmer
Okumu Juma                            Farmer
Luka Alega                            Businessman
Valeriano Oryem                       Businessman
Sater Habina                          Customs Officer Goli
* Luciano Ajoga                       Household head
* Kerlith Nasson                      Rep. Sub-count Chief Nyapea
Martin Owodha                         Opinion Leader
Luciano Ojoga                         Opinion Leader
Celecina Ayamy                        Widow
100



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Annex 5: List of affected people
LIST OF THOSE WHO ARE LIKELY TO BE AFFECTED BY THE NYAGAK
HYDROPOWER PROJECT
Ozele Isaya
Omani Drasolo
Claver Onyuthi
Openjuru Francis
Jackeline Tiitii
Onim William
Pacutho Joyce
Onegi Jasinto
Wakunga Gabriel
Omirambe Franco
Leonard Anyoli
Lwongu - Nyinga Night
Manuela Anefuka
Uvoya Paskal
Uribotogu Christopher
Bikethunga Jowani
Kerunega Simeo
Fuwanga Thomas
Iii



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Sika Bakit
Jathco Albert
Atimango Santa
Ngukadhu Charles
Okathi Lazaro
Angala Galdino
Ogen Lonjino
Obedgiu Gilbert
Onencan Ocibire
Alifredi Oryem
Kizito Aliyenga
Onega Gilbert
Ajoga Lusiano
Kasamba Franco
Okumu Juma
Bosco Dipchunega
Luka Alega
Valeriano Oryem
Florence Nyalwiny
Scovia Awino
Nyatigu Sezerena
Bibiana Biryema
Liberita Ubotha
Opoki Stephens
Denis Opoki
Gladies Akikii
Celestina Ayany, Luciano Ajoga
112



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Additional List of people likely to be affected by the project
/No         Name                   Acreage          Type of Crop     Quantity
Okathi Lazro           4 acre           Banana           10 stark
Sugar cane       50 stark
Yams             I line
Trees            3
2           Cwombe Junga           3 acre           Cassava          I acre
Beans             I acre
Sorghum         1/2 acre
Ovacado          7 starks
3           Jajoga Lusiano        2 acre            Banana           I acre
Pineapples       55 stark
Trees            4 stark
Jack fruit       2
Coffee           750
Burial place     13
Houses           3
4           Onen Geofrey           2 acre           Cassava          I acre
Avocado          16 stark
Jack fruit       12
Coffee           200
Banana           100 stark
Pineapples       500 stark
Beans             1 acre
Sugar Cane       750 stark
5           Bakit Sika            4 acre            Sugar cane       2 acres
Cassava          2 acre
Banana           50 stark
Avocado           10 stark
Yams              100 stark
House            2
6           Awunge Prosper         2 acre           Cassava          I acre
Beans             1 acre
7           Okumu Gilbert          1 acre           Cassava          I acre
8           Anwang Kane            3 acre           Cassava          1 acre
Okra             1/4 acre
Banana           2 stark
Avocado          4 stark
9           Abekane Sizario       1/2 acre          Banana            11 stark
Yams             50 stark
Avocado          2 stark
Coffee           55 stark
10          Ozelle Jackson         2 acre           Beans            I acre
Cassava           I acre
Banana            120 stark
IOkra              100 stark
113



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
11         Kasamba Silvio                       Avocado          6 stark
Mango            5 stark
Coffee           50 stark
Eucalyptus       20 trees
12         Oryeda Serafino                      Avocado          6 stark
Mangoes          5 trees
Coffee           6 stark
Banana           3   Stark
Eucalyptus       4  6 stark
13         Onegiw Dominic                       Eucalyptus       3 stark
Mangoes         5   trees
Avocado          6   6 stark
Coffee           7   10 stark
14         Oweka Benson         2 acre          Cassava          2 acre
Sugar cane       I acre
Banana           200 stark
15         Beatrice Ziza        3 acre          Groundnuts       I acre
Pineapples       30 stark
Banana           15 stark
Sweet potatoes  1/2 acre
Sorghum          I acre
Tomatoes         350 stark
16         Kasamba Silvio                       Avocado          6 stark
Mango            5 stark
Coffee           50 stark
Eucalyptus       20 trees
17         Oryeda Serafino                      Avocado          6 stark
Mangoes          5 trees
Coffee           6 stark
Banana           8   Stark
l________                                        Eucalyptus       9   6 stark
18         Onegiw Dominic                       Eucalyptus       3 stark
Mangoes         10 trees
Avocado          11 6 stark
Coffee           12 10 stark
19         Oweka Benson         2 acre          Cassava          2 acre
Sugar cane       I acre
Banana           200 stark
20         Beatrice Ziza         3 acre          Groundnuts       I acre
Pineapples       30 stark
Banana           15 stark
Sweet potatoes  1/2 acre
Sorghum          I acre
. ________  ___________________   ______________   Tom atoes      350  stark
114



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Annex 6: Mitigation obligations of
the developer
Potential Impacts        Effects                          Mitigation measures
1. Surface Run-off       Soil erosion                     Minimise site disturbance
Gullying                         Construct control/check drainages
Siltation                        Protect drainage in soft spots
Increased sedimentation          Control slopes
Undertake reforestation of
exposed surfaces
Maintain suitable drainage
network
Clearing of sensitive slopes and
land adjacent to the river be done
by hand not graders.
2. Land use              Vegetation destruction           Restore destroyed sites
Destruction and/or disturbance of  Fence off construction area to
habitats                         avoid unplanned, intrusions onto
additional land and reduce risks of
traffic accidents
Confine clearing for construction
activities to designated and
marked areas
3. Hydrology              Loss of available surface water  Draw water away from
settlement and animal watering
areas
Protect surfaces prone to
submersion by water
4. Quarries/borrow        Large quantities of materials    Site restoration after construction
pits                      removed                          Identify and discuss site to be
Destruction of vegetation        used for quarries, borrow pits and
Large gaping holes               rocks and soil disposal before
hand.
Visual nuisance
Protect areas of visual /scenic
interests
restore sites
Locate pits away from main
roads
115



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
5. Pollution             Dumping                          Used oil be safely disposed of
Dust                            Bury scrap and solid waste
Water pollution                 materials or incinerate them
Oil spills                      Transport fuel in tankers not
drums
Noise pollution                 Store fuel in specific areas
Refuelling, oil changes and
lubricating mobile equipment
should be done on a pad that
drains into a temporary retention
pond
6. Workers' Camp         Firewood extraction              Supply electricity
Organic pollution/garbage       Bury solid waste
7. Road safety             Improved road safety               access roads should be designed with
Greater traffic efficiency         gentle curves for safe movements of large
vehicles.
Speed limits should be clearly posted and
enforced and speed bumps constructed.
8. Aquatic ecosystems      Possibility of introducing alien fish and  No foreign species of fish or/plant to be
plant species to the reservoir     introduced into the reservoir and the river.
Increased sediment load
9. Health and safety of the  Increased safety risks            Provide adequate safety measures
public and construction
workers
10. Land take              Change in land use                 Fair and appropriate compensation at
Change in land tenure              favourable intervals.
11. Visual intrusion and   Minimal                            Land enhancement through planting of
aesthetics                                                     hedges
Building to be finished using bricks and
appropriate roofing.
12. Displacements at dam   Minimal                            provide timely, fair and adequate
site and those who remained                                    compensation
with non viable plots when                                     provide hardships/resettlement allowance
parts of their land is taken
permanently
13. Unexpected population  pressure on natural resources and   give most employment to residents of
influx to Hydropower scheme  facilities                        hydropower scheme area
areas                                                          plan for workers infrastructural facilities
such as pit latrines, safe water and
. _____________________________   _______________________________________   security  m easures.
116



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Annex 7:Compensation rates
APPROVED COMPENSATION RATES FOR NEBBI DISTRICT FOR 200112002
Land Act, 1998 Soc 60 (e) & (f)
CATEGORY A
117



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
NO    ITEM (Description)  ASSUMPTION                 PER CLUMP     RATE PER
PER TREE       ACRE
PER UNIT      (SHS)
(SHS)
I     BANANAS
(a) Mature and good  Three plants per stool, one
with a bunch, well mulched,  4,500        1,200,000
weed free, well pruned, soil
and water conserved
(b) Mature and     4-5 plants per stool, distorted  3,000    750,000
average            spacing, localised sports of
weed, disintegrated mulch,
poorly maintained drainage
and channels
(c) Mature and poor  Abandoned filed, over     1,000         300,000
populated, mixed cropping
population per stool not easily
determined
(d) Young and good  A promising crop, well-spaced  2,500      1,000,000
and treatment
(e) Young and poor  Abandoned, well infected,  500            175,000
poor spacing, pests and disease
infected
2     CASSAVA
(a) Mature and good  Spacing 1.0 m x 1.0 m for  800           250,00
mono crops, mosaic free
tubers-termed
(b) Young and good  Well-spaced, intercropped  600            120,000
(c) Poor            Diseased, weed infected, poor  200        60,000
soils population below
optimum
3     COFFEE (Arabica)
(a) Mature and good  Field green, disease and pest
free, manured, soil and water  500        1,500,000
conserved
(b) Mature and good  Field half green/yellow due to
nitrogen deficiency, some
degree of crop husbandry
practiced                  3,000          800,000
(c) Mature and poor  Abandoned, weed infected,
umbrella like trees, population  2,000    350,000
per acre not easily determined
118



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
(d) Young and good  Field green, disease and pest
(including clonal)  free, manured, soil and water  3,500      850,000
conserved
(e) Young and poor  Less than 5 years old cover
crop got from seedlings    I ,000         100,000
(f) Seedling                                   Per plant 1000
(including clonal)
4     SWEET POTATOES
(a) Mature and good  Pest free, good soils, 400  Per mound    200,000
(if not harvested)  mounds per acre            500
(b) Mature and poor  Not well managed, infected,  Per mound   100,000
(if not harvested)  400 mounds per acre     250
(c ) Young and good  Pest and disease free, good  Per mound   80,000
soil                       200
(d) Potatoes vines  Healthy looking            Per M2 800
(e) Young and poor  Not well managed and       Per mound     40,000
infected                   100
5     IRISH POTATOES
(a) Good and mature  Pests and disease free, good  Per mound  600,000
soil, expected yield 3 Kg per  300
Sq. Km
(b) Poor and mature  Diseased, poor soils, poor  Per mound    350,000
spacing agronomy           200
6     GROUNDNUTS
(a) Mature and good  Well spaced, weeded twice,
well managed, and not      500p/M2        45000
harvested
(b) Mature and poor  Not well-spaced, poor yield,
not well weeded            15Op/M2        150,000
(c) Young and good                             100p/M         100,000
(d) Young and poor                              lOOp/M2       50,000
7     MAIZE
(a) Mature and good  Well-spaced, expected yield  200 per unit  250,000
15 bags per acre, weeded
twice
(b) Mature and poor  Not well weeded, diseased,  100 unit     100,000
poor soils
(c) Young and good  Well-spaced, pest free      50 unit       50,000
(d) Young and poor                             20 unit        20,000
8     YAM
(a) Mature and good  One plant per Sq M, 4000  200 per plant  800,000
plant an acre. Well spaced,
weeded twice
(b) Mature and poor                             100 plant     400,000
(c) Young and good                              75 plant      300,000
119



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
(d) Young and poor                             50 plant       200,000
9     SORGHUM
(a) Mature and good  Well managed              100 per M2     150,000
(b) Mature and poor                            50 per M2      55,000
(c) Young and good                             35 per M2      35,000
10   COTTON
(a) Mature and good  Pest free, weed high quality
limit expected yield 1000 kg  100 per M2  300,000
per acre
(b) Mature and poor  Weeding, pest infected    75 per M2      105,000
(c) Young and good  Pest free, well weeded     50 per M2      70,000
(d) Young and poor                             25 per M2      30,000
11   MILLET
(a) Mature and good  Weed free, pest free, well
managed                    150 per M2     200,000
(b) Mature and poor  Weedy, pest infected      100 per M2     100,000
(c) Young and good                             50 per M2      50,000
12   BEANS
(a) Mature and good  Weed free, pest free, well
managed, well-spaced       250 per M2     250,000
(b) Mature and poor  Weed, pest infected       100 per M2     150,000
(c ) Young and good                            75 per M2      75,000
=___ (d) Young and poor                              30 per M2      30,000
13    CABBAGES
(a) Mature and good  Pest free, weed free, well-  500 per plant  1,500,000
spaced
(b) Young and good                             250 per plant  800,000
(c ) Mature and poor                           100 per plant  250,000
(d) Young and poor                             50 per plant   50,000
14   TOMATOES
(a) Mature and good  Well-spaced, weed free,
staked and sprayed. 4000   200 per plants  800,000
plants per acre
(b) Young and good                              100 per plant  100,000
(c) Mature and poor                            50 per plant   50,000
(d) Young and poor                             20 per plant   15,000
15   GREEN
VEGETABLES
(All types)                                     150 per M2    55,000
Mature and good
16   JACK FRUIT
120



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
(a) Mature and good  ||40,000 per tree|
(b) Average                    L                    :25,000= 
(c )Mature and poorl   X       f                10,000 
1 7   PINEAPPLES
(a) Mature and good  About 1,500 plants place   500 per plant  750,000
double row spacing with
coffee husks clean vigorous
suckers
(b) Young and poor                              300 per plant
(c) Mature and poor                             100 per plant
(d) Young and poor                              50 per plant
(e) Suckers                                     100 per plant
18    RICE
(a) Mature and good                             200 per M2     350,000
(b) Young and good                              100 per M2     100,000
(c) Mature and poor                             50 per M2      70,000
19    SUGAR CANE
(a) Mature and good                             1000 per       800,000
cluster
(b) Young and good                              3000 per       250,000
cluster
(c) Mature and poor                             350 per cluster  300,000
(d) Mature and                                  6000 per       600,000
average                                         cluster
(e) Young and just                              100 per cluster
planted
20    MANGO
(i) ORDINARY                                     40000 per tree
TREE
(a) Mature and good
(b) Averdge yielding                             20000 per tree
(c ) Poor and young                              10000 per tree
(ii) "DODO"
(a) Mature and good                              65000 per tree
(b) Average yielding                             35000 per tree
(c) Poor and young                               20000 per tree
21    PAWPAW
(a) Mature and good                              10000 per tree
(b) Young and good                               5000 per tree
_ (c ) Mature and poor                            2000 per tree
121



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
22    PUMPKIN
(a) Mature and
yielding                                       1500 per plant
(b) Poor and young                             200 per plant
23    SIMSIM
(a) Mature and good  Well managed              350 per M2     500,000
(b) Mature and      Pest infected, well spaced  200 per M2    400,000
average
24    PEAS
(a) Mature and good  Climbing species          200 per plant  200,000
_____ (b) Young           Climbing species           50 per plant   75,000
25    LIMA PEAS                                      200 M2         150,000
26    COWPEAS                                        200 M2        200,000
27    FIELD PEAS
(Young )                                       loo M2         150,000
28    SOYA BEANS                                     200 M2        250,000
29    GRAMS                                                        75,000
30    SUNFLOWER                                      150 per M2     180,000
31    LADY FINGER
(Otigo-Lyeka)       Greens                     200 M2
32    EGG PLANT
(a) Mature and good                            300 per plant
(b) Young and good                             200 per plant
(c) Mature/young                               100 per plant
and poor
33   SISAL
(a) Mature and young                                 500 per plant
(b) Young and good                                   250 per plant
(c) Mature/young and poor                            100 per plant
(d) Mature and good            With several young    2500 per
ones shooting         cluster
34   PASSION FRUIT
(a) Mature and good                                   15000 per
plant
(b) Mature and average                                10000 per
plant
(c) Hard cover                                       3000 per
plant
(d) Exotic breed                                     25000 per
plant
122



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
35   ORANGE/LEMON/TANGERINE
(a) Mature                                             35000 per
tree
(b) Average                                            25000 per
tree
(c)Young and good                                      r0000 per
tree
(d) Poor and mature                                    7000 per tree
(e) Seedling                                           1000 per tree
36   GUAVA
(a) Mature                                             10000 per
tree
(b) Young                                              7000 per tree
37   OVACADO
(a) Mature and good                                    60000 per
tree
(b) Average                                            35000 per
tree
(c) Young and good                                     10000 per
tree
(d) Seedling                                           1000 per tree
38   VANILLA
(a) Mature and good                                    20000 per
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ p la n t
(b) Young and good                                     5000 per
plant
(c) Mature and poor                                    1000 per
______ ______ ______ plant
(d) Seedling                                           2000 per
____   _ _____________________________                       plant
39   CHILLIES/PEPPER
(a) Mature and good                                    200 per plant
(b) Young and good                                     100 per plant
40    ONIONS
(a) Mature and good                                    500 M2
(b) Young and good                                      350 M2
(c ) Mature/young and poor                             200 M2
(d) Seedlings                                           150 M2
41    JAMBULA
(a) Mature                                            30000 per
plant
(b) Average                                           20000 per
.__ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _p la n t
123



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
.__=  (c) Young                                               5000 per plant
42    CASTOR OIL (Kalambru)                                  500 per plant
43    HERBAL TREES/PLANTS                                    2500 per plant  .    -
Batting sponge                                         3000 per plant
44    FLOWERS/GRASS
(a) Rose Flowers                                       3000 per plant
(b) Other Flowers                                       1000 M2
(c ) Improved pasture        Papcalum                   1000 M2
r(d) Compound grass            Mothu                     2000 M2
45    CASHEW NUTS
(a) Mature and good                                     10000 per
.__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _p la n t
(b) Average                                            5000 per plant
____ (c) Young                                         .
46    "KUMANYOKO" TREE
(a) Mature                                              18000
(b) Average                                             12000
(c) Young                                              4000
47    YAO TREE
(a) Mature                                              25000 per
plant
(b) Average                                             15000 per
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ p la n t   _ _ _
(c) Young                                               8000 per plant
124



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
CATEGORY B: Forest Products
ITEM                          DESCRIPTION     REMARKS/VALUE
TIMBER
CLASS I
(a) Hardwoods                                   100,000/= per m3
(b) Hardwoods & Cypress                          45,000/= per m3
CLASS 11
(a) Hardwoods & Pines
28,000/= per m3
CLASS II1
(a) Hardwoods
17,000/= per m3
POLES
(a) Plantation                Diameter
CLASS I      05-09 cm                             8,000/= per pole
CLASS 11     10-14 cm                             1,400/= per pole
CLASS III    15-19 cm                             1,400/= per running metre
CLASS IV     20-24 cm                             1,800/= per running metre
(b) Natural Forest Bush       (Bush trees)
CLASS 1      05-09 cm                               900/= per pole
CLASS 11      10-14 cm                             1,600/= per pole
FAGGOTS/WITHES                                     1,000/= per head load
FENCING POSTS
(a) Treated Poles
CLASS 11      10- 14 cm                            1,400/= per running metre
CLASS III     15-19 cm                             1,800/= per running metre
CLASS IV      20-24 cm                             2,700/= per running metre
(b) Untreated Poles
'CLASS 11     10-14 cm                               700/= per running metre
CLASS III     15-19 cm                              1,800/= per running metre
CLASS IV      20-24 cm                             2,700/= per running metre
(c) Palms (Pheonix reclinata)                        400/= per running metre
(d) Barrassus Palms and other
palm trees                                         12,000/= per running metre
125



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
FIREWOOD
(a) Plantation                                     6,000/= per stacked m3
(b) Natural Forest           (Bush trees)          7,500/= per stacked m3
BAMBOOS
(a) Mild/Plantation                                    500/= per pole
CHRISTMAS TREE
Below 3m high                                         7,000/= per tree
3-5 high                                             10,000/= per tree
Over 5m high                                         14,000/= per tree
NOTE:
SEEDS AND SEEDLINGS
A:     Seeds minimum .............................. 10,000 per kg depending on species
B:     Seedlings/Other planting materials ...... minimum 50/= per kg depending on
species and sizes
C:    Fruits minimum 1,000/= depending on species and sizes
D:     Wildings minimum 501= depending on species and sizes
CATEGORY C:
BUILDINGS AND PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE
126



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Key
Depreciation is as follows:                     M/W               Mud and wattle
GCI               Galvanized
Corrugated
New and good                            0%                       Iron Sheet
Fair condition                          25%
Poor                                    50%
Very poor                               70%
A     TEMPORARY                                      (SHS)
Grass thatched roof/rough , mud and wattle      6,500 per M2
walls, earth floor
Grass thatched, roof/smooth mud and wattle
wall/earth floor                                9,000 per M2
Grass thatched roof/plastered mud and
wattle walls/cement floor
Grass thatched roof/unburnt brick
walls/earth floor                               15,000 per m2
Grass thatched roof/unburnt brick
walls/cement floor
Grass thatched roof/burnt brick walls/earth     10,000 per M2
floor
Grass thatched roof/burnt brick
walls/cement floor
20,000 per m2
25,000
230,000
B     SEMI PERMANENT
GCI roof, rough M/W walls, and floor             20,000
GCI roof, smooth M/W walls cement floor
GCI roof, plastered mud and wattle walls,        25,000
cement floor
GCI roof, unburnt brick walls, earth floor       40,000
GCI roof, unbrick walls, cement floor
30,000
______________________________ _____ 35,000            _______
C     PERMANENT BUILDINGS
(This is to be determined by Government
Valuer or registered valuation surveyor)
127



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
D     OTHER STRUCTURES:
(a) PIT LATRINES
Grass thatched                                   30,000           Per stance pit
GCI roof                                         45,000           Per stance pit
GCI roof, cemented plastered walls               50,000           Per stance pit
Pit Depth per foot   (unfilled)
1,500
(b) GRAVES
Earth (uncemented)
Cemented
Marble                                          100,000
150,000
(c) PLATE RACKS                                 450,000
Kitandalo
Reeds/sticks
Poles/timber                                       2,000          Per unit
GCI                                                5,000           Per unit
7,000           Per unit
l___________________________________         _ I  {|  |10,000      Per unit
128



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
(d) GRANARY                                               10,000
Small                                             15,000
Big
(e) BATHROOMS/ENCLOSURES                           2,000
Grass thatched                                     5,000
Double type                                       10,000
GCI type                                           5,000
Reeds type
(f) COFFEE DRYING TABLES                           6,000
Cemented                                           10,000
Wooden/wire mesh
(g) ANIMAL.ENCLOSURES & FENCE
Barbed wires on bus poles                        500 per m run
Barbed wires on treated poles                    1000 per m run
(h) ACTIVE ANT HILL
(i) MURRUM                                          15,000
(j) SHRINES                                           500 m3
(k) DISTURBANCE ALLOWANCES                          50,000
- 3 months or less "Quit" notice
- 6 months or more "Quit" notice                     30%
15%
129



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
130



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Annex 8: EIA addendum due to
technical design change
WEST NILE ELECTRICITY SUPPLY PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT RE-ASSESSMENT REPORT
Part I: Report on impacts of the Nyagak mini-hydro power project on the physical,
ecological and socio-cultural environment.
By ema consult limited
November, 2002
131



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
1.0   Introduction
Following a successful concession advise provided by ECON, (Centre for Economic
Analysis)/ema consult limited, a developer has been selected to generate and
distribute hydropower in the West Nile districts of Nebbi and Arua. The hydropower
will be generated from River Nyagak in Paidha. The company that has been selected
to develop the Nyagak mini hydro-project is Uganda Rural Electrification Company
Limited (URECL). Initially URECL will generate 3.5 MW electricity and supply to
the two districts of West Nile, with the potential to increase it to 6MW if demand
increases.
Although URECL used the HARZA Technical Engineering report of 1997 to bid for
the power project, it has made some changes to the technical design of the project, the
most important or which are:
* Instead of constructing a 11 metre dam, URECL plans to build a 14 metre high
Weir.
. The energy company also plans to construct a pipeline instead of a tunnel
proposed by the HARZA Engineers.
Clearly, the higher dam will result in further environmental impacts, which did not
arise from the HARZA design. The pipeline instead of a tunnel has some advantages
and some disadvantages for the environment. The changes in design called for a
reassessment of project impacts on the bio-physical and socio-cultural environment in
the project area. This reassessment report focuses on those two major changes in
design from the original EIS report. Many of the environmental and social impacts
described in the original report (eg hydrological) are still relevant for the overall
assessment of the project.
Additionally, reconnaissance to assess the potentials of cultural property in project
area was undertaken (see annex x to the main report). Possible impacts and
mitigations recommended for the project will be presented later in this report.
The reassessment field study was carried out by three EIA team experts during the
period of 6. - 12. November 2002.
A map detailing the components of the hydro scheme including text boxes with the
key impacts, is included at the end of chapter 3 of this annex. Drawings of the
individual components of the scheme and a draft construction plan are provided at the
end of this annex.
2.0   Project description
The proposed Paidha Hydro-Electric Power Project (Paidha HEPP) comprises the
following main components:
*  A 14m high (height above river bed) weir constructed in mass concrete,
including a reinforced concrete inlet, equipped with trash racks, screens and
gates, which diverts flow into the headrace pipe conduit. The weir FSL sill
will be at RL 1446.5m
*  A 10OOm-headrace pipe conduit comprising a steel pipe of 1.7m diameter at a
grade of I in 500. The pipe will be supported on pedestals, above ground.
132



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
* An 8m high surge shaft at the transition between the low-pressure headrace
pipe and the high-pressure penstock. The main operating level of the surge
chamber will be RL 1444.50m, while the crest will be located at RL 1449.00m
* A 1.5m diameter steel penstock pipe of 420m length at RL 1449.00m.
*  A power station building and an excavated tailrace canal.
However, before the impacts of the new design are discussed, below is a brief
presentation of the baseline of Nyapea Sub-County which is the home of the Nyagak
mini-hydropower project.
3.0   Baseline Data of the Project Area - Nyapea Sub-County
The Nyagak mini hydropower project is a run-of -river scheme which will be located
on River Nyagak in Nebbi district. The project is located within the villages of Ngia,
Nyagak and parts of Gira village. These villages are in Nyapea Parish, in Nyapea
sub-county, Okoro County in Nebbi District
3.1   Physical Features
Nyapea Sub-County is one of the 19 sub counties including 3 Town Councils in
Nebbi District. It is one of the 7 Sub-counties in Okoro County. It lies in the West of
Nebbi district.
Nyapea sub-county is bordered by Atyak Sub-County in the North, Jang Okoro to the
west and south east and Paidha Town Council to the east.
The sub-county occupies an area of 123.4 Km2. There are four parishes and 72
villages in Nyapea Sub-County.
The project area lies in a cool part of the district, the Okoro up land, where rain occurs
in two seasons of March - May and July - October. The area receives good, well-
distributed rains over the year. The soils are fertile, and especially on the hill slopes
and river valleys and swamps where crop production is practised.
Nyapea Sub-County has both natural and man-made vegetation covers.
There are the Nyagak, & Zumbu, plantations, which are under the Sub-County local
government and many individually owned woodlots.
3.2   Finance
Nyapea Sub-County is a poor Sub-County with very low revenue base. The main
revenue sources are: graduated tax, market dues licenses, permits (live-stock
movements), education tax, health tax, transfer fees, registration fees, appeal (tax)
fees, slaughter fees, charges and sales. Additionally, revenue accrues from donors,
which presently makes the highest proportion of the total council revenue.
133



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
This can be illustrated by the table below.
Table:    I Summary of revenue estimates 1999/2002.
Code           Item                    1999/02                     2000/2002                    2001/2002
Expected       Actual       Expected        Actual       Expected
1000110       Graduated tax            28,610,000     10,012500    31,002500       16,663,750   15,365,000
1000120        Property tax            90,000         -            101,000        -             113,000
1100130        User fees / Charges     960,000        1189,900     1,210,000       1,544,000    1,640,000
1000140        Departmental Revenue    560,000        -            221,000         140,500      1,651,000
1000160        Other charges           2,285,000      1,549,900    2,946,000       1,205,000   2,770,000
800415         LGDP/DANIDA             -              -            9,836,958       12,500,000   12,500,000
800418         LGDP/IDA                11,922,958                   11,619,790     12,692,466   20,706,466
800419         WES/UNICEF                             -             1000           -            1000
800420         RNE                                    -            -               -            37,636,052
800421         DFID/NARO                              -            -               -            3,808,500
800422         PMA                                    -            -               -            14,364,327
800425         EDF/EU                                 -            -               -            1000
Total                   44.427.958      13.795.600   56.938.248     44.765.716   110.556.345
135



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
According to the above illustration graduated tax accumulated for 64.4% and 13.8%
of the total revenues. In 2000/2001, FY, 1929 people were assessed to pay graduated
tax but only 867 paid while 1062 defaulted. This means out of 16,210,000= expected
from Graduated Tax, from the parishes, only 7,343,000 was realized reflecting a
percentage of 45.3% only. With average taxpayer paying only 8,400=. Poverty is
perhaps the single most important reasons for the low revenue base.
3.3   Physical Infrastructure
Nyapea sub-county has no trunk roads. There are feeder roads with total stretch of
about 34 km. The roads include the one from Nyagak bridge (Border with Paidha
Sub-County) to Zumbu trading centre where it branches into two; one stretching to
Atyenda centre up to Zeu border while another stretches up to border with Atyak Sub-
County.
There are 9 primary schools, 1 vocational training centre and one post primary
school. However, all the schools have inadequate, poor infrastructure. There are two
health units in Nyapea sub-county that is Nyapea hospital and Nyapea DMU (attached
to Nyapea Mission Church of Uganda health unit at Zumbu). There is a new
Maternity centre, Dispensary under construction at Atyenda Nyasonga (Atyenda East
Village, Abira parish).
However, the health units lack proper infrastructure and equipment. There are many
unprotected water points (Springs) spread all over the Sub-County.  There are
however, well over 80 protected springs, 5 boreholes, 3 rainwater tanks. About 81%
of the total population (25,553) is served with safe water while 19% (4,802) remain
unserved.
3.4 Demography
The projected population of Nyapea sub-county, which is the project area of the
Nyagak mini hydropower scheme, is 25,553. (1991 Population Census). Of this the
figure for women stands at 13,211 (51,7%) while that for men is 12,342 representing
48.3% of the total population of the area.
Tables   11. Population of Nyapea Sub-county
Parish            Male              Female            Total
ABEJU             2345              2510              4855
ABIRA             3332              3567               6899
OYEYO             2592              2774               5366
PALEY             4073              4359               8432
4                 12342             13210              25552
Note: Projected population distribution by parish, by sex.
136



I EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Table III:  2001 Projected population distribution showing number of expecting
mothers and infants below I year by parish
Parish              Expecting mothers       Infant below the age of 1 year
ABEJU               252                     228
ABIRA               359                      324
OYEYO               279                     252
PALEY              438                      396
TOTAL               1328                     1201
Table IV:  Projected population distribution by parishes and age brackets
Parish     Below 1 yr   1 - 29     30 - 49   50 - 75    +80        Total
Abeju     228           3389       779       408        34         4855
Abira      324          4816       1131      580        48         6899
Oyeyo      252          3746       881       451        38         5366
Paley      396          5886       2383      708        59         8432
Total      1201         17809      5155      2122       179        25552
Out of the total projected population, infants below I year are 1,200, while those in
the age group of 1-29 years are 17,837 (69.4); and those above 80 years are only 179
representing (0.7%). This means that the project can find adequate manpower for
semi skilled and unskilled labour from within the sub-county.
3.5   Economic Structure
The economy of the project area is dominated by peasant agriculture. Agriculture
accounts for over 83% of the income per household. Crop farming is the main
practice. Livestock and fish farming contribute so little to the household economy.
Cattle, sheep, goats, pigs and poultry are the main animals kept.
The number of shops in the sub-county is steadily increasing, besides other petty
businesses. Drug shops are also increasing in number in the area.
Table V:  Numbers and types of businesses by parish, by centre and types.
Parish    Trading   Shops Dawa shops  Road  Fish  Oven  Eating  Bar   Woodwork
Centre                   side   seller        house
Paley     Ajei        5      2        3      4      2            2
Sub total  I         5       2        3      4      2     =      2
Abira     Atyenda     I      I        -      -      -             -       -
Zumbu      3       2        2      1      1         -
Subtotal  2          3       1        2      3             -      2       -
Oyeyo     Akwanji     3       1       2      3      1             2       1
137



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
1      ~   ~3  1       2      3     1      -     2       1
Abeju    Akwanji    5       I      2      2     -      -      I      -
Sub Total  (I)      5       1      2      2
Grand total  4      17     7       9            4            5       3
Only a very small percentage of the population is engaged in Business Enterprises.
About 70 people (0.2%) own businesses.
Agriculture
The population of the sub-county practice subsistence agriculture using traditional
simple hand tools. Crops grown in the area include coffee, groundnuts, maize, beans,
onions, irish potatoes, bananas, cassava, vegetables and fruits. However, farmers lack
proper market for their produce.
Perhaps, the Nyagak project will improve this aspect by creating market for farm
products in the area.
Animal Husbandry
Like agriculture, animals are reared for subsistence and paying dowries.
Forestry
Forest plantations exists at Nyagak, Ajei and Zombo Vocational Technical College.
(V.T.C). Some farmers own woodlots in their locations. However, natural woods are
faced with the problem of destruction by both fire and human activities. Humans
who use forests for wood fuel and construction.
3.6   Social Infrastructure
Nyapea sub-county has limited recreation or community centres. The few facilities
for recreation are football pitches in educational institutions.
3.7 Environmental Quality
Environmental quality in Nyapea sub-county is not up to standards. Waste disposal in
institutions like, hospitals or health units, and schools need to be seriously addressed
or improved.
Similarly, in the growing trading centres and homes, management of polythene
materials is not given the concems they deserve. Very few households have rubbish
pits as such polythene bags are becoming major environmental concem.
The quality of rural water still faces problems. Although a number of water springs
have been developed, water quality in the project area is still poor. A number of
households do not have pit latrines hence contributing greatly to water pollution.
138



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
3.8   HIV/AIDS
HIV/AIDS is a threat in Nyapea sub-county. While no figurative data is available,
cases of the disease have been noticed especially among young people. The data from
Nyapea DMU (Zumbu) indicate that (19.1%) recorded deaths occur from HIV/AIDS
related infections.
The sub-county is making efforts to educate the population about the danger of the
disease through drama and other medium of communication. Nyapea Motherhood
and Childcare Association - a CBO, with support from ACTION AID Nebbi Branch
is playing a major role in this respect.
3.9   Health Indicators
There are two health centres in the sub-county and one under construction that is
Atyenda health centre grade II. There is Nyapea hospital (Health Centre Grade IV),
which is less than 5 kilometres from the project site and Zumbu health centre (Grade
III).
Table     VI:     Distribution of health centres by parish and grade.
Parish           Name of centre             Grade
ABEJU
ABIRA            Atyenda (Under construction)  II
OYEYO            Nyapea hospital            IV
PALEY            Zumbu                      III
The ratio of health centre to the population stands at 1:12775.
3.10 Gender Issues
The involvement level of women in economic activities is still low. However,
progress is being registered in this regard.
Men take most employment opportunities, while women occupy a little portion. Most
schools lack female teachers, which has slackened the process of girl child education
in the area.
Available data indicate that from 7 primary schools (out of the 9 in the sub-county)
with enrolment total of 3,993, 2,398 are boys while 1,595 are girls.
3.11 Poverty Indicators
There is relative poverty in the project area of the Nyagak mini hydropower project.
This can be attributed largely to a high level of illiteracy and lack of employment
opportunities. The Nyagak hydro project will minimise unemployment problems thus
enhancing poverty conditions.
3.12 Education
The literacy rate in the project is ranked as fair. The literate male population out
numbers that of their female counterparts.
139



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
There are 9 primary schools, 1 Vocational Training Centre, I - Day Care Centre and I
Secondary School in the project area. However, the distribution of education facilities
is not even.
Table      VIII.   Distribution of education institutions by parish and types.
Parish      Day care   Nursery     Primary     COPE       Vocational  School for
school      Centre      sch.        CWD
Abeju                  I
Abira                  1           I
Oyeyo        1         4 
P aleyo     __ _ _ _ _ 3           _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
The current school enrollment stands at about 5803 (2002). The projected enrolment
rate by 2003 is 6731 representing an increment of 16.0%. This is expected to further
rise to 9,060 by 2004/5. (Nyapea Sub- County Three-year Development work plan
FY 2001 to 2005).
140



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Table XI: Enrolment data for 2000/20002 and estimated enrolment 2003/2005 by parish and by sex.
Parish       School             2000         2001         2002         2003         2004        2005
m      f     m     f      m     f      m     f      m     f     m      f
ABEJU              MITAPILA                               185    182   216   211    250   244    290   283
SUB TOTAL                              185   182    216   211   250    244   290    283
ABIRA        ZUMBU UPPER         786   441   607    434   61     470   709   545    822   632    955   733
SUB TOTAL           786   441   607    434   61     470   709   545    822   632    955   733
OYEYO        GUNA                            282   224    281   243    326   282    378   327    486   379
NYAPEA BOYS                     624          832          965          1119         1298
NYAPEA GIRLS              730          751          716          830         963         1117
PATEKAJJA           159   98    129     82   192    131   223    152   159    176   300 204
SUB TOTAL           159   828   1035   1057  1305   1090  1514   1264  1656   1466  2084 1700
PALEY        AJEI               432    440   535    373   474    415   550   481    638   558    740   647
PALEYYUGU          196    133   172    144   166    110   193    128   234   148    270   172
ZUMBULOWER         286    251   327    270   436    359   506   416    587   483    681   560
SUB TOTAL          914    824   1034   787   1076   884   1249   1025  1459  1189   1691  1379
Grand total        1859   2093  2676   2278  2627  2626   3688  3045   4187  3531   5020  4095
141



4.0 Methodology
The EIA team used three main ways for the re assessment of environmental
impacts of the Nyagak mini hydropower project following a more advanced
design of the project. Methodology used included the following:
4.1   Review of Related Literature
The Consultants reviewed the EIS report prepared earlier. The technical design
report by URECL was critically studied as this formed the basis for the
reassessment. Literature about the project area including Nyapea Sub-county
three-year development plan were reviewed together with other data deemed
necessary for the study.
4.2   Consultation with lead agencies
Before going for the reassessment, meetings were held with officials in Ministry
of Energy and Mineral Development regarding the progress of the West Nile
Electricity Supply Project. Discussions were also held with officials from the
Electricity Regulatory Authority, (ERA) the agency that commissioned the
project. Road Agency Formation Unit (RAFU) officials were also met to clarify
on the issue of compensation of affected people by the Arua-Nebbi Transmission
Line Project.
4.3   Field Assessment
The ElA team visited the project area to reassess additional impacts that may
result from the new design of the Nyagak mini hydropower project.
Reassessment of the Bondo-Nebbi Transmission Line was also conducted in view
of determining the issue of compensation and resettlement.
The team consulted various stakeholders in Arua and Nebbi Districts.
5.0   Potential impacts of design changes
Potential impacts on the physical, ecological and socio-cultural environment of
the new URECL design have been identified by this study. Below is a
presentation of the impacts.
5.1    Physical & ecological environment
Diversion Weir
The height of the weir has been increased by 3m to make the proposed new height
to 14m as opposed to 11 m proposed earlier on by Harza. Accordingly the total
volume of water stored in the weir will also increase resulting in the possibility of
submerging the current Nyagak Bridge and the areas below it being inundated.
The lower parts of the Eucalyptus plantation between the Nyagak Bridge and the
proposed weir are likely to be submerged as well.



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
The construction of the 14m high weir will involve excavation work and creation
of inlet area to divert water into the headrace pipe. Some of the lower parts of the
Eucalyptus plantation will be graded to give room for the weir and the inlet area
for the headrace pipe resulting into the loss of some parts of the plantation.
Headrace Conduit
The construction of the lOOOm headrace pipe forming a 6m wide cut and fill
platform on the cross-slope of the hillside will require earth movement and
potential erosion in the project area. The trees between intake area'and the pipe
bridge will be removed to create a platform for the headrace pipe.
Cut slopes during the construction phase on very steep slopes may cause erosion
and other related instabilities in the long-term especially at the end of the headrace
pipe length which is believed to relate directly to a geological faulting system
identified by Harza.
The developer has proposed that Viking-Johnstone couplings will be incorporated
to accommodate thermal expansion and contraction and corrosion protection will
be provided in the form of a 300micron Copon coating inside and outside. Since
the headrace pipe is low pressure, risks from pipe leakages or bursts are low.
Surge Shaft/Regulation Basin
The Surge Shaft/Regulation Basin has been moved from an area that was thought
to have experienced a landslide in the past. The Harza report suggested that a fault
was associated with this past ground movement. The change in location reduces
risks of further landslides.
Penstock
The penstock will comprise a 420m long 1.5m diameter welded steel pipe
mounted on reinforced concrete saddles on an excavated and protected foundation
profile. The Paidha HEPP Engineering report suggested that there could be the
presence of significant faulting downstream portion of the valley and that the
penstock could pass through colluvial landslide material. However, the stability of
the residual landslide material through which the penstock will pass is not known
at the moment.
The immediate impact of the penstock in the area is the blockage of the
road/footpath that connects Paidha town and its surroundings to Nyapea Sub
County for those living in the west of the town.
Power station
The report indicated that the power station would be constructed at a site with
significant depths of alluvium, which could result into sedimentation into the river
and a dumping problem. The report did not identify dumping sites although it
suggested that some materials could be used for their proposed construction work
143



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Sedimentation
Steep cultivated hillsides without proper drainage contouring or basic erosion
protection measures coupled with earth movements may increase the sediment
load into Nyagak River.
Quarry site
For purposes of costing the Paidha HEPP report assumed that stone for concrete
would be sourced from the Mugoya granite quarry on the Nebbi road 33km
outside Arua. However, the report also stated that there could be sources of river
sand closer by the construction site and an appropriate large rock quarry site for
masonry plums. Extraction of materials from quarries/borrow pits involves site
clearance; movement of large construction materials from local sources to the
construction site, resulting in significant quantities of wastes or eroded materials,
and causes changes in topography or ground surface relief features. Mounds of
excavated materials present visual obstruction and an unpleasant site. Where the
excavated pits are deep they present a risk to both animals and human beings.
5.2   Socio-cultural environment
This section discusses the impacts of the 14m dam, the construction of a 1000
metre long head race pipeline, a 420 metre long high pressure penstock and access
road construction on the human environment. Impacts will result from rise in the
level of the Nyagak River downstream and a little upstream, routing of pipeline
and penstock construction as well as the creation of a 6-metre corridor along the
pipeline.
Land Take
The area where inundation will occur is heavily cultivated with crops of various
types. Crops cultivated on the Nyagak hill slopes include cassava, avocado,
pawpaws, jack trees, cabbages, beans, maize sugar canes and bananas. While
during the earlier assessment, 46 people were identified as owning gardens in the
affected area, the number has risen to 57 people as they were recorded by the
Local Council I chairmen of the affected villages. The recording was done after a
Focus Group Meeting held at the sub-county. The community meeting was one of
the methods used for data collection, and chaired by the Sub-county Chief of
Nyapea and attended by 31 persons including women. The meeting was
moderated by one of the EIS team members.
The estimated cultivated size of land is 134.5 acres as opposed to 82.5 acres
recorded during the earlier assessment. The difference in size could have resulted
from a wider consultation held this time round where more people were involved
in identifying land ownership. Apart from perennial crops, annual crops such as
pawpaws, ovacados, and bananas are found in the affected area. While perennial
crops would have been harvested by the time the project work take off, the annual
crops together with the 134.5 acres of land will be permanently lost, largely due to
inundation. Communities indicated that they own other pieces of land outside the
project. It was indicated that land loss will typically be less than 15% of their land
holdings.
144



EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Other effects of the 14 metre dam are. on the Nyagak bridge on the road to
Nyapea, which was referred to as the Nyapea bridge in the earlier report. This
bridge is likely to be submerged. Besides, about two acres of land presently
cultivated with cassava and beans will also be flooded, due to increased volume of
water upstream. The construction plan makes provision for raising the level of the
raod and bridge so that transportation is not affected.
Impacts ofpipeline construction
Uganda Rural Electrification Company Limited (URECL) has chosen to construct
a 1000 metre long pipeline as water intake mechanism. To URECL this is
technically more feasible than the tunnel proposed by the HARZA Engineering
Company. The proposed pipeline will follow the contours running almost parallel
to the River Nyagak from the Weir to the Surge Tank, which is located on the hill
overlooking the proposed powerhouse. From the surge tank the water will flow
through a 420-metre long high-pressure penstock to the powerhouse to turn the
turbines.
Impacts of the pipeline will result from the clearance of the corridor. During
clearing, crops and trees will be cut down. Apart from passing through cultivated
area, the head race pipe will pass through two homesteads. This will result in the
demolition of eight grass-thatched huts thus displacement of people.
Compared to the original design, the pipeline will potentially affect more people
and land since it runs above ground. However, the tunnel that was originally
planned would have been a riskier and more expensive undertaking, required
more sophisticated engineering and involved a more extensive movement of soil
and earth from the tunnel digging.
Impacts of the Penstock
A 420-metre long, high-pressure penstock will be constructed to take the diverted
water from the surge tank to the powerhouse. The penstock will run on the
surface in an elevated manner. Impacts will result from its construction and
maintenance.
The penstock will run across an existing path. This path is a shortcut to Paidha
market used by the residents of Nyapea sub-county. A detour path around the
powerhouse will be required.
Impacts of Borrow Pit
Uganda Rural Electrification Company Limited (URECL), proposes to use the
borrow pit presently used by Sole Bone Intemational (SBI), the Israeli Company
that is upgrading the Arua - Nebbi Road. This site is 35 kms from Arua and 80
kms from the Nyagak project site. URECL also plans to get much of its
construction material from Nyagak itself due to the good nature of granite existing
there.
145



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
I~~~~~~~~~ Iti 
146



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
5.3   Mitigation measures
Most of the unwanted impacts identified in the Paidha HEPP can be minimised by
implementing appropriate measures. Our considered view is that the Paidha HEPP
will unlikely cause any serious impacts. This is because all potential impacts can
be mitigated by the developer in collaboration with the district or the sub-counties
of Nyapea and Paidha, and Paidha Town Council authorities. Given below are
measures recommended by this study for mitigation against the impacts identified.
5.3.1 Physical and Ecological Impacts
Land Use
There will be a significant volume of vegetation or land cover that will be lost
during construction. The lower parts of the Eucalyptus plantation between the
Nyagak Bridge and the proposed weir will be lost. Some of the lower parts of the
eucalyptus plantation will be lost to form the inlet area for the headrace pipe. The
trees between intake area and the pipe bridge will be removed to create a platform
for the headrace pipe. There should be establishment of long-term procedures for
reducing soil erosion around the reservoir e.g. modem methods of farming. Some
parts of the Eucalyptus plantation that will be lost should be compensated by
through tree planting to replace the trees and any other vegetation that will be lost
during the project activities. Clearing for construction activities and roads shall be
confined to those areas designated and marked.
Surface runoff
In order to reduce erosion, landslides and sedimentation during the construction of
the platform for the headrace pipe, regulation basin and the penstock it is
recommended that there should be minimal site disturbance especially at the
sensitive slopes at the end of the headrace pipe and the site where the regulation
basin will be located since faulting system was identified by Harza near this spot.
The floor of the 6m wide cut and fill platform on the cross-slopes to accommodate
the 1000m headrace pipe should be planted with grass to reduce erosion and the
walls protected against both erosion and possible landsides.
Pollution
The most likely source of watercourse pollution is sedimentation resulting from
earth movements during construction. This can be minimised by establishment of
controlled/check drainage, protection of drainage at soft spots, and possible
reforestation of exposed surfaces especially along the Nyagak River up to the
border.
5.3.2 Socio-cultural
Land take
The 14 metre high dam will result in the flooding of the valley east of the Nyagak
Bridge. This will cause loss of farmland where both perennial and annual crops
are cultivated. To mitigate this, full compensation according to both Ugandan and
World Bank standards should be affected. The farmers should be given six
147



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
months notice to harvest their crops. Additionally, there will be need for income
restoration, compensation of land for land so that the farmers can re-establish
annual crops immediately.
Discussions with the communities indicate that, Nyapea sub-county can find
alternative land for the farmers provided that the project can pay for the land on
behalf of the affected people.
The dam will also result in the Nyagak bridge being submerged. This can be
mitigated by raising the height of the bridge. This has been included in the
developer's plans.
Additionally, some land should be identified upstream for reforestation to replace
the Nyapea forest part of which will be inundated.
Construction of the headrace pipeline
During the construction and operation phases of the project, an estimated 135
acres of farmland will be lost. To mitigate this, the farmers will have to be fully
compensated for both perennial and annual crops they have been growing in the
area. It is recommended that crops be compensated according to both Ugandan
laws and World Bank, and as set out in the Environmental and Social
Management Framework for projects under the ERT programme.
Communities Consulted have presented a list of estimated land size they are likely
to lose as well as crops they expect to lose. They have indicated willingness to
accept compensation for their losses.
Since two homesteads will be affected by the construction of the pipeline, which
is likely to pass through the compound of one of the homes and quite close to the
second homestead, relocation of the two families is recomnmended. Local
authorities are willing to identify land for possible resettlement. Again both
Uganda and World Bank safeguard policies on Involuntary Resettlement need to
be applied, as set out in the Environmental and Social Management Framework
for the ERT programme.
Construction ofa penstock
The penstock passes through some farmland and a crossing path. The developer is
advised to explore the option of constructing a footbridge to keep this important
access route open. If this is not possible, an alternative short cut route may have to
be explored.
Transport of construction material
Mitigation measures should range from use of speed limit, provision of humps in
major trading centres and settlements while taplines should be used for covering
of vehicles carrying such materials from the borrow pit 80 Kms along the Arua -
Nebbi High Way.
148



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
5.3.3 Additional mitigation. measures
The table below summarises a set of additional mitigation measures due to
changes in hydro design:
Table Xll Mitigation measures
Sector       Potential Impacts           Effects     Mitigation    Responsibilities
Activity
Construction  I.Land use                 Inundation  Compensation  Developer
of dam                                               Aforestation
2.1nfrastructure/Communicatiori Submersion  Raising of  Sub-
of bridge   bridge        county/Developer
Construction  3. Land use                Land take   Compensation  Developer
of pipeline  4. Settlements              Destruction  Relocation   Developer
of 2
homesteads
Construction  5. Communication           Closure of  Construction  Nyapea Sub-
of Headrace                              access path  of alternative  County
& Penstock                                           pth between   Paidha Town
Paidha and    Council
Nyapea        Deeor
shorter route.  Developer
149



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
6. 0 Implementation plan and design drawings
PAJMO HEPF
I~~~~h  Pwp..Ww ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ &1h                     &
Dsarrni  2022       2003                     2054d
I _  2  3  4  5  6  _  e  6   10  11  12  13  U  15  1t  17  It  16  28  21  22  a  2  25
0  12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1           4112             11   12
J.,O  b   FbD  v   An  Urt Ju   JJt Aug Sna  OctNw  Ds _ m  bn   Mu 14r  br y t   A_   A   Sa Oc  N_
*28I#w~  8w
AW.N        2 
DT&W180  0MI  IUUUZOUNOt ;~
7 6Sci        4  = = = = = * = == = = = = = = =       = = = ===1=0
i hzmxt      2   ==  ==  ==   ==  = ]   - 1   - 
'2 t.i   6*_<          _ _           <<<--        =__v_===_=
'3~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ Isrr@     F   F   I  I 
'7r EWW_V= <<<  1 _W<0X= " -< 
_rWxpmwWzx* fl'2====      ====            ====2 
~ n        =    =   =   =    =   =   =    =   =    =   =   = 



w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NE
o -  9
U
^                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORLM SeAE 1:D
ARQ           kw    1   tTl ET URECL  WEST NtE ELECTRICITY GENERATION '/
GJ{N        PI).BD  7xX3  AN   DISTFBT   COCESSIO
M~~~~~~O 
19    h   T  + V2 ft38M  LYNWOD RIDGE  PAT   3,5MV NEPP       SAW
,,t,+VN1,  on   02 4        LAY0XT OF DIVERSION WEIR L 0 7FFTAK E2210



_                 ~   ~   ~~~~~~~~~~rA  re             t1 48iO' 
* 1450  -  Ls5n     1446.5O         r *                    ^  I .  / _ h41
e   >    a|~ ~  ~~~~~~5000        iTEcK    61000 C  r£00                R=  85
144
0        4|5                                                   /no C  ic io  R
O8      -14,50                                              2= RlETECdW: 1:1000  E AVT   /R C   \D.
z           O L  S:4E  : 1: 1Scale 1:400
_u                                                                    2 4 0Ka-wEaNssslarGeENo/ bsIE 7
RPM ~ ~IWR~N 113  HAI#E  VITIIo~jPL.  pwo713  ciD c Sjoo8rI: 0  * CS9O  YsTCO ,2
t      ~~~Ti:  4 D12 M11 suenDRIG       PAIDHA 3,5MV/ HEPP       QHW gSAW
tR=o"6emsaTa r  272 4US  X4V            LAYOUT OF ]IVERSI  VEIR  02 2342 02



53000-                                                                              3
§ 1460- p>S
kV   14-55                                                             V//tEATHE 3Ee       1-
1450-                                                    4          ROCK             ----- Li
d, ^   |   _   ^   ~     4   t\CEMPETENT                    WVEATHERED
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Or                                       ,e CK  $gpg     °RO
2       "     Scde 1:1000llt :00                                                                  ctt :o
Smk 1:S1000                                                        Scd. 11:.0 S:10K 1:1000
3500
U                                                                                                 1:
On  100m 20MDA40    50  ge  w  ffi so  l
*~~~~~~OIIA Sctft 1:1000
2                                                           1MM- t   N  UELETh Gd PREwlrGN   N0.
K                                                    Sccd 71320          A     N SRBlO OcSifNXt!0
~~~DEESEE PP
<  In                                                                                      P I N2 SID PD  3, HP  10
ENGRINI; OF           _                                                         D 1G  XDE  5
cID~1: ~jp~                     ECScYNERAilON
-ARQ                   nw0210/03
am                 P.u B    713         AND DISTRIBUTION CONCESSION         :
IV        ~~~Tat + 27 12 34 OMU  LYNNVOMD RIDGE       PAIDHA 3.SMV H-EPP                01WSHAW
r            Foc~~~r +27 12 348 5880  0040              HEADRACE CONVEYANCE~ 11FTAIL S     N
puanuEss    [~mr* oimij41.jq.j                                                           022342/03



-                              - - - - - - - 
ISL                                       LiS82 Li
w:                              0
z
<1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~urL VALVEs        
Z~~~~~~~~ue2           S                         eNwmRCEPDH ,11 HPOC
0
-n. 
I.
- Cinqjlw kw                       WVRa.R  NLE EIEUCI1CY GENERA1ON 
mmN MA           P.O. BOX. 7,3130  AND DISRBULMON CONCESSION
r*k mlM m w       LYNNWOOD RaDGE   PADHA 3,5MW HEPPDC
~~=mw  ~~~~        0040            Ji~~~~~~ANK LAYOUT OF POWJO HOUSE2  0



e
2 mq  a
*0
.' E
z
_ARQ         Is .mpmtw%-     L                    =RECL           <2 
LV am         P.O. BOX 7310  AN DSRUTO N CMESIO
v~~~~T 1e2 30 u     -LYNNWDO RaDE     PAO 3,5MW HEPP_E
20                                                                                                       I



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Annex 9: Record of consultation
meetings & disclosure of
information
Description of the consultation process
The West Nile hydropower project has a long history, at least back to 1995, but
possibly before that. The previous three environmental and social assessment
studies that have been carried out have involved public consultations, both locally
and with central authorities. NORPLAN (2001), for instance, conducted its own
extensive consultations. A list of people consulted is provided in the appendix C
to that report. Further, NORPLAN (2001) identified and reviewed two important
consultation studies conducted earlier.
The first, conducted by a local NGO, CEFORD (Community Empowerment for
Rural Development), involved discussions with local and district officials,
communities and consultants involved in the project. The CEFORD consultation
report clearly outlines the demand and eagerness of the people of the West Nile
for a reliable electricity supply (NORPLAN 2001: p3-11). Further, NORPLAN
(2001 :p3-11) sums up the results of the report: "There are high expectations from
the district government level to stakeholders on the ground although there are
certain steps in coordination and planning that need to be carried through for a
successful project outcome. Interviews with affected persons at the site revealed
that those interviewed welcomed the project as a development opportunity. Those
in the way of the proposed access roads did not mind relocating in other fields in
the vicinity so long as they received adequate compensation. It appears that the
people prefer to remain in the project area since they expect employment,
electricity and a general economic development from the project."
The second consultation study, included specific questionnaires about the project
included in the surveys undertaken by the District Planning Unit, as part of the
District Development Report (June 2000).
Further, several World Bank and PCF teams have visited the districts of Nebbi
and Arua over the last few years as part of the project appraisal processes. These
visits have, as far as ECON understands, involved both site visits and consultation
meetings with local authorities and representatives.
156



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Sthtement for Nyagak minihydro
ECON first got involved in the West Nile project in November 2001, and has
maintained a close and frequent liason'with local people in Nebbi (and Arua)
since then. As part of ECON's team Mike Bess, a rural energy expert who had
been involved in consultation processes in connection with PCF, has represented
the continuity in our relationship with local stakeholders. Our Kampala-based
project coordinator, Henrik Lindhjem, has frequently visited the area for
consultation and information purposes with representatives from the Ministry of
Energy, Electricity Regulatory Autority, members of the transaction advisor team
and on one occasion with potential investors. Further, EMA, the Ugandan
consultants that have been in charge of carrying out a proper EIA process, have
actively consulted with local and central (NEMA and other) stakeholders
throughout the EIA process.
The Local Councils at the village level (LC I and LC II) and the villagers are well
organised. During the site visits, the LC officials mobilised villagers for
consultations and they have established good co-operative arrangements. The
visits to the area have involved both meetings with local government and
administrative representatives in Nebbi and Paidha, site visits accompanied by
local stakeholders, but also included open meetings with representatives from
traditional community structures (e.g. village chiefs), women groups, NGOs, local
religious leaders (e.g. bishop), business community etc.
Most people speak English well in the area, which has facilitated communication
and consultations enormously. In the cases where people have not spoken English
well, translations were conducted by local officials or communication was done
by local Ugandan members of the transaction advisor team  (EMA) with
knowledge of the language of the area.
Further, ECON subcontracted EMA to carry out the necessary EIA work for the
project. This work, which included two fieldtrips to the area, has involved
extensive consultations with affected local people in the immediate project area
(reg. compensation and mitigation issues) as well as local government and
traditional village representatives. EMA has also thoroughly consulted and
requested advice from central authorities relevant to the project, particularly
NEMA and DWD.
In addition, Electricity Regulatory Authority and the Ministry of Energy and
Mineral Development have organised public meetings in the area, independently
of ECON's involvement.
Lastly, communication has been frequent with the local UEB representative who
is in charge of running the present electrical system in Arua and Nebbi Districts.
He has been an important source of information for local people and has
facilitated consultation and information sharing all through the project. Since the
project has a high profile and is generally considered important to the two
districts, the local governments in the two districts have chosen their top
representatives/officals to be in charge of project liason (eg. The Assistant Chief
Administrative Officer (CAO) in Nebbi and the Deputy Chairman in Arua).
157



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Assessment of the need for further consultations
It is ECON and EMA's clear view that the consultation before ECON started its
involvement had already been extensive and thorough. ECON continued the close
and frequent liason from the start of our involvement in November 2001. There is
an enormous interest in the project locally and the clear message conveyed
through the consultation process is a strong eagerness to see the project go ahead.
The consultation saturation point for local people may, in our opinion, be
exceeded.
The development of the resettlement plan, and the strengthening of the EMP,
should, in our view, conclude the pre-project-development consultation process.
Record of local meetings
The first section of this annex provided a general description of the consultation
process regarding the West Nile Electricity Project, as far back as is known by
ECON. To our knowledge there are no offical records of the meetings that have
taken place before ECON's involvement commenced in November 2001, except
for what is documented in the various EIA studies. Further, official minutes of
meetings and detailed lists of participants since Nov. 2001 have not been written
down by ECON. These records may, however, be kept locally.
Below is provided the record of local meetings since Nov. 2001; the date, place,
duration, types (and if avaialable, names) of participants and purpose of visits to
West Nile. In addition to the physical meetings, which are presented below, local
government and administrative officals were frequently consulted over the phone
(the mobile phone operator MTN has transformed communication to the area) or
through written communication. Only meetings of relevance to the Nyagak
project are listed, and the range of meetings/consultations with central
stakeholders (NEMA, Directorate of Water, MEMD and others) are not
mentioned here.
158



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Table        Record of local consultation meetings since Nov. 2001
Date       Place        Purpose          Duration   Participants
Nov        Nebbi Town, Site              2 days     Local Council Chairmen,
Local govt.  familiarisation and        Chief and Administrative
main meeting local consultation         Officers, other administrative
room                                    officers (incl.
environmental), local
community representatives,
local UEB representative,
local media, MEMD and
ERA officials.
Transaction advisor team
Nov        Paidha Town, Site             2 days     Town mayor, administrative
Mayor's      familiarisation and        officers, local community
office       local consultation         representatives, local media,
local UEB representative,
MEMD and ERA officals
Transaction advisor team
Nov        Arua Town,   Offical Public    I day     Minister of Public Works
Catholic hall hearing for both          Parliament representatives
Districts
ERA CEO
MEMD officals
Local officals and civil
society
Transaction advisors
Nov/Des    Nebbi Town, EIA field trip incl. 5 day
Local govt   preliminary
main meeting compensation
room         consultation                EMA team
Nov/Des    Paidha Town, EIA field trip incl. Iday
mayor's      preliminary
office       compensation                EMA team
consultation
Nov/Des     Village of  EIA field trip incl.  I day
Nyapea       preliminary
compensation
Ngai consultation           EMA team
Nov/Des    Village      EIA field trip incl. 2 days
ofNgia       preliminary
compensation                EMA team
consultation
Jan'02     Nebbi Town, Bidders'           2 days    Range of stakeholders (see
Local govt   programme, incl.            meeting Nov/Des)
main meeting site visits and             8 representatives from 5
room         meetings between            potential private company
prospective                 investors
investors and local
community                   Transaction advisors
Jan'02      Paidha Town, Bidders'         2 days    Range of stakeholders (see
mayor's      programme, incl.            meeting Nov/Des)
159



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
office          site visits and                   8 representatives from 5
meetings between                  potential private company
prospective                       investors
investors and local               Transaction advisors
community
March'02      Nebbi Town,     Progress status      I day        Range of stakeholders (see
Local govt      and consultation                  previous meetings).
main meeting    reg. Compensation                 Transaction advisors
room
March'02      Paidha Town, Progress status         I day        Range of stakeholders (see
mayor's         and consultation                  previous meetings).
office          reg. Compensation                 Transaction advisors
July'02       Nebbi Town      Site investigations               Local representatives
URECL, the preferred bidder
July'02       Paidha Town     Site investigations               Local representatives
URECL, the preferred bidder
Consultation meetings during reassessment field trip
A field trip was carried out during 6-12 November to reassess impacts of changes
in hydro-design. During this trip several meetings and focus groups were held (see
section 5.2 of Annex 8), see table below.
Table        Record of consultation meetings during reassessmentfield trip
Time      Date    Place        Purpose                                                        No. of
____ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ A ttendants
2.00 pm   6/11/0  Planning      I. Brief District Environment Officers/ about The West Nile   3 people
2       Unit Arua       trip
8.00 pm   1/1 1/0  Paidha     g of Paidha Town Council Officials over purposes of visit.      10 people
2
2. Request local authorities to mobilize communities in project area
3. Consult elders over cultural heritage in the project area
9.00 am   8/11/0  Paidha        I. Held key informant in-depth interviews with professionals in  5 people
2                     Paidha Town Council
3.00 pm   8/11/0  Nyapea        I. Brief Sub-County Chief and LC III Counsillors about our visit  7 people
2       Sub-County    2. To request local authorities to mobilize for a community meeting
Head
quarters
11.00     9/11/0  Nyapea        I. Held Focus Group Discussion with Communities in the Direct  31 people
pm        2       Sub-County      Impact Zone
Head
quarters     2. Held Key Informant in-depth interviews with Nyapea Sub-County  7 people
Officials
5.00Opm  10/11/  Paidha        1.  Held discussions with Sub-County Chiefs of Paidha, Nyapea,  10 people
02    Town          Mayor Paidha,
Council         Town Council Engineer and Sub-County Accountants to discuss
Pertinent issues as the issue of repair of the Nyagak Bridge,
_________                ~~~~~access road, compensation etc
10.00     12/11/  Nebbi         I. Meet Nebbi District Local Govemment Officials to brief them about  10 people
pm        02                    our
field findings, issues of compensation and possible resettlement and
the
need to repair the Nyagak bridge since it might be submerged.
2. Consult over the issue of compensation regarding the Arua-Nebbi
Road
160



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
and its linkage with the Bondo-Nebbi Transmission line.
2.00 pm.  II/II/ Along the   1. Consultation of Communities over compensation of the Bondo-  10 people
02    Arua -      Nebbi Transmission
Nebbi          Line
Highway
4.000    Il/1l/  Camp of     1. Consult them on the progress of Compensation of people affected  5 people
pm       02      SBI near    by the
Bondo         Road project and its implication to the Transmission Line.
9.000    12/11/  Arua        I. Brief Local Government Officials about the trip to West Nile and
02      District    our findings.
Local
Council     2. Consult the Land Officer - Arua over the issue of Compensation
regarding the Arua-Nebbi Road Construction and its linkage with the
Transmission Line
Instruments for EIA re-assessment
Below are provided the interview guides used for consultation meetings and focus
groups during the reassessment of the impacts of changes in hydro design:
Key Informant In-depth Interview Guide: Nyagak minihydropower project -
new design
Introduction
You are most welcome to participate in this short interview. We are making a
followu to earlier studies conducted to determine the impacts on the environment
by the development of the Nyagak mini hydropower scheme. This discussion will
focus on the latest design of the project. The main include:
*   Impact likely to be caused by the construction of a 3m high dam to land,
property and settlement
*   Impact of corridor by the construction of pipeline from the intake point to
the outlet point, to land, crops, homestead etc
*   Impacts of borrow pit on land property health etc
*   The social services that are likely to be affected by access road, borrow pit
land any other construction activity
*   The positive and negative impacts of the new design.
I would like to ask you a few general questions about this community that I expect
from you know very well and about the Nyagak scheme. Please feel free to
answer or not answer any questions that may not be comfortable to you. The
response you give will be treated with outmost confidentiality and will be
accessible only by those directly responsible for the study.
Thank you very much
161



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
1.    What would you say is the population in the project area?
2.    What would you say is the main means of livelihood of the communities
living in the direct impact zone?
3.    What is the landownership system practiced in this area? How does it
affect the livelihoods of individual households?
4.    What services and resources are likely to be lost as a result of the new
design of the project?
5.    List the negative impacts of the new design
Land
Homesteads
Health
Agriculture
Wildlife
Cultural property
Probe:      The importance attached to each of the above
6.    What in your opinion would the community members here like to be done
for them in case they loose their property/services due to the project?
7.    If these people are asked to vacate their land would they be willing to do
so? Where would they want to be resettled, how and by who?
Probe:      Resettlement as communities
Other resettlement systems
Resettlement agency
8.    What are the positive impacts of the development of the Nyagak mini
hydropower project?
This will call for extensive probes based on how the initial question is
answered. However, the following may be done.
Probe:      Economic benefits including but not limited to:
* Increased business activity
* Increased employment opportunities
* Increased income levels
162



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Social benefits including but not limited to
*     Improved education services
*     Improved health services
*     Increased quality of life
9.    Please, kindly avail to us the following information about the project area:
No. of Tax payers in the project area: Paidha Town Council and Paidha
Sub county respectively.
Data on:
o No. Of tax payers/population
o Health services
o No. Of schools and enrollment rates
o Incidence of diseases etc. i.e. prevalence of malaria, waterborne
diseases etc.
o Agricultural production & key crops grown
o Industries available
o Traders and type of trade
o Tourist facilities e.g. hotels and lodges.
Thank you very much
Focus Group Discussion: Nyagak Minihydropower Project
Good morning /afternoon
You are most welcome to participate in this discussion. We are a familiar team to
this community. We were here exactly a year ago and we are making a follow up.
The purpose of this visit is to reassess the impact of the scheme following a new
design for the scheme. The main issues that this study will address are:
*  Impacts of the 3m high dam on the cultivated land, settlements and the
physical and human environment
*  Impacts of a pipeline along the side of the valley - a six-meter corridor
will be created along the pipe. The impacts of this on cultivated land,
settlements and other aspects of the environment.
*  Compensation due to inundated land
*  Impacts caused by access roads.
163



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Positive and negative impacts of the new design.
You are free to say or not to say anything. You are also requested to feel free to
discuss among yourselves without making references to yourself or any person
known to you personally. In the discussions there are no wrong answers and
whatever information is gathered from the discussion will be kept completely
confidential and will be accessible only by those directly responsible for the
study. You are requested to be audible enough so that we can write down your
views as they come. We also have an audiotape, which we could use to record the
proceedings of the discussion if your group would allow us to do so.
1.    What would you say about the process made so far about the Nyagak
project?
Probe: Too much delay
Normal
Eager to see it takes off
2.    What is the land ownership system practiced in this area? How does it
affect the livelihood of individual households?
Probe: Practice of crop production
Practice of animal husbandry
3.    What are the negative impacts, things that may be lost due to the pipeline
running along the valley?
Probe: Land
Crops
Wildlife
Households
4.     What are the negative impacts, things that may be lost due to the
construction of access roads?
Probe: Land
Crops
Wildlife
Homesteads
Education services
Health services
164



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
5.    What are the negative impacts, things that will result from transport of
construction materials?
Probe: Air pollution
Water pollution
Traffic accidents
6.    What are the negative impacts of quarrying?
Probe: Land
Crops
Wildlife
Disease
7.    What would you like the developer to do to the quarry pit once
construction work is finalized?
Probe: Cover
Fence around
Reinstate
8.    What would you like to be done for you in case you lose your home, land,
crops due to the new design?
Probe: Relocation
Compensation for loss of property
9.    If you are asked to vacate your land, home and be resettled elsewhere,
where, how and who would you like to resettle you?
Probe: Resettlement as community
Other resettlement systems
Resettlement agency/developer
10.   What are the positive impacts, the things that may result from  the
development of the Nyagak mini hydropower scheme?
Probe: Economic benefits including but not limited to
Increased business activity
Employment creation
165



-EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Reduced price of goods manufactured in the area
Social benefits including but not limited to:
Higher standard of education
Etc
Thank you very much
List of attendance for focus group discussion
Table       Focus Group Discussion in Nyapea Sub-county, Oloro County, Nebbi
District
S/No.   Name                                  Village           Responsibility
Orathi Stephen                        Ziwa               Secretary Production
2       Okeru Natizo                          Jupakonja         Elder
3       Kertho Chrisanto                      Jupakonja          Chairman LC I
4       Ngakacho Charles                      Ngia               Chairman LC I
5       Onegwa John                           Oyeyo             Chairman LC I
6       Jumasuwa Jackson                      Oyeyo Ajigo        Elder
7       Ocon Victor                           Oyeyo Ajigo        Elder
8       Cwo Mbezenone                         Oyeyo Ajigo
9       Oyanga Naftale                        Alego              Elder
10     Attocon Joseph                         Pyajo Acorko      LC I
I1     Abubango Jassi                                           Assistant Comm. Development
Officer
12     Olwor Samuel                           Alego              LC 1
13     Ajoga Lusiano                          Ngia               Elder
14     Aliyenga A                             Nyapea             LC III Vice Chairperson
15     Jerose Waningoni                       Akwanji T.C
16     Oboko Juliano                          Abeju              Parish Chief
17     Ogen Alfred                            Ajigu              Chairman LC I
18     Okwonga Felix                          Oyejo Guna         Elder
19     Wapokurwa Charles                      Omeyo              Parish Chief
20      Witho Angelo                          Agore              Elder
166



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
21     Cwonga Saverio                  Ringi West Abeju  Elder
22     Oryem Joseph                    Ring West Abeju  Elder
23     Ozulle Angelo                   Abeju Padyere   Peasant
24     Okantho                         Oyejo Parish
25     Oweka Benson                                    Chairman Business Community
26     Gandenson Onyom                 Oyejo Parish
27     Akonjo S.A                       Abeju Parish
28     Ofojumur Gerald                 Patek
29     Odong Harry                     Pei Algu
30     Ozelle Akera Martin             Akwanji
31     Okumu Geofrey
Disclosure of information
Information about all aspects of the project, such as progress reports regarding
project status, the contents of the Electricity Act, bid evaluation process etc, has
been made available through official ERA/MEMD channels to local government
in due course before consultation meetings. In the rare case that this has not been
possible, e.g. due to time or practical constraints, members of the MEMD/ERA
and/transaction advisors have made clear presentations of the issues to be
discussed and what implications they may have for local. people.
The record of disclosure of previous environmental work before ECON's
involvement in the project, is unclear. However, it is likely that NORPLAN
(2001), which is carried out according to World Bank standards, has followed the
standard disclosure procedures.
ECON and EMA have followed the procedures of NEMA for disclosure of
environmental information. A project brief (scoping study) was first submitted to
NEMA for its review. NEMA's review process is unkonwn to ECON, but it is
likely that the project brief was disclosed to relevant stakeholders (eg. District
environmental officer and DWD), before NEMA decided that an EIA was
required. The EMA team conducted the necessary EIA work and submitted a draft
EIA report to NEMA for review. NEMA made this draft available in 7 copies to
local govermnent, represented by the district environmental officer, as well as
DWD in Kampala and other relevant stakeholders. It is our understanding that
local government has procedures for further disclosing information to interested
local people. The local government was then given a reasonable amount of time (
some weeks) to comment on the report. The comments were received and taken
into account in the final version of the EIA report.
167



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact StAtement for Nyagak minihydro
Annex 10: Dam safety issues
The developer has submitted the following assessment of dam safety issues and
how to minimise risks.
PAIDHA HYDRO-ELECTRIC POWER PROJECT, UGANDA (11th
Oct. 2002)
DAM SAFETY ISSUES
1.     BACKGROUND
The proposed Paidha HEPP is to be partly funded by the World Bank and it is
accordingly important that the concession proposal submitted by URECL deal
with dam safety issues on the basis of the related definitions and procedures as
applied by the World Bank.
2.    WORLD BANK DEFINITIONS
2.1   Dam Size
The World Bank distinguishes between small and large dams, whereby:
. A small dam is defined as being a structure normally less than 15m in
height.
* A large dam comprises a structure in excess of 15m in height.
In addition, dams that are between 10 and 15m in height are treated as large if
they present special design complexities, for example unusually large flood
handling requirements, location in a zone of high seismicity, foundation
complexities, retention of toxic materials, etc.
2.2   Dam Safety Requirements for Small and Large Dams
In respect of small dams, generic dam safety measures designed by qualified
engineers are usually adequate.
For large dams, the World Bank requires:
. Reviews by an independent panel of experts of the investigation, design,
construction and commissioning.
* Preparation and implementation of detailed plans.
* Prequalification of bidders for tendering.
168



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Periodic safety inspections after completion.
3.    PAIDHA DIVERSION WEIR
The Paidha HEPP diversion weir will comprise a dam structure of 14m in height.
According to the World Bank definitions, this represents a small dam, as long as
no specific design complexities exist.
The structure to be implemented at Paidha will comprise a concrete, or rubble
masonry concrete wall, with an uncontrolled spillway over the crest, founded
directly on competent rockmass, with all weathered material excavated. This type
of structure is less sensitive than other dam types to extreme flood events and
requires no operational intervention to safely pass floods. While the dam will be
provided with a spillway of adequate capacity, a concrete wall of the type
proposed is much less sensitive than many other dam types to an overtopping of
the non-overspill crests and correspondingly, the dam can be assured of a high
level of safety even in unusually extreme flooding conditions. Accordingly, the
type of structure proposed tends to be very appropriate and durable in the type of
environment that exists at Paidha.
There are no specific design complexities for the Paidha diversion weir;
* the required flood capacity is small,
. the rockmass quality is perfectly adequate for the size of the structure
proposed once the necessary excavations have been completed,
* the applicable regional seismicity is not excessive,
* the liquid to be impounded is rainwater,
* the construction materials proposed have a history of use in the area,
* the hazard potential of the structure is low and there are no inhabitants close
by,
* the construction river diversion requirements are straightforward, and
* the construction technology is well tried and tested.
Accordingly, it can be safely stated that the proposed Paidha diversion weir can be
classified as "Small" in terms of the related World Bank dam size definitions.
4.    DAM SAFETY ASPECTS
4.1   Design
The proposed diversion weir for the Paidha HEPP will be classified as a small
dam and will be designed and constructed in accordance with internationally
accepted standards for safety by well experienced dam engineers. All applicable
South African National Committee on Large Dams (SANCOLD) and
International Commission on Large Dams (ICOLD) guidelines will be followed
and appropriately conservative factors of safety will be applied. The designers
will also take responsibility for quality assurance and quality control supervision
during the course of construction. Their work will be completed with the
169



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
preparation of a construction completion report and an operation and maintenance
manual.
Specific safety features will include:
. An uncontrolled ogee spillway, constructed with crest interrupters to create
adequate aeration.
. A discharge facility that can draw the storage level down by 4m in a very
short time, in the case of an emergency.
. Valve controlled outlets to regulate river flow and allow the impoundment
to be drawn right down over a period of a few days, depending on the level
of inflow.
* The provision of stoplogs and associated slots to allow the isolation of the
headrace inlet gate and the scour release gate.
* Fixed monitoring points to allow deformation surveys on an ongoing basis.
In terms of basic safety, the sediment flushing system of the diversion weir will
allow a rapid drawdown of the impoundment, should this be necessary for safety
reasons, and a small river outlet system will be provided to allow basic releases
back into the rivercourse. The flushing system/headrace inlet will be provided
with the usual trash racks and screens and slots for stoplogs will be provided to
allow isolation and work on the release gate in dry conditions.
5.    OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
A detailed operation and maintenance manual for the diversion weir will be
compiled to be used once the scheme is commissioned.
As such, the Operation and Maintenance Manual and Emergency Plan will set out
the following:
* full details of the dam, including As-Built drawings, etc,
* definition of the responsible organizations, people, with contact information,
etc,
. the necessary routine and extraordinary maintenance, including a
responsibility diagram and valve and gate manufacturer's manuals, etc,
* routine inspections and the qualifications of inspectors,
* normal and emergency operating procedures,
* security issues,
* dam operation log book,
. a comprehensive emergency plan defining emergency situations, areas
affected by a dam break, action plans, warning systems and procedures,
responsibilities, etc.
170



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Annex 11: Cultural heritage
WEST NILE ELECTRICITY SUPPLY PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT RE-ASSESSMENT REPORT
Part II: Report on archaeological reconnaissance survey of the Nyagak Micro-
Hydor power project
Prepared for
ema consult limited
By
D. Kiyaga-Mulindwa
Kyambogo University
November, 2002
171



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
1.0   Introduction
Our team (Dr. E. Kamuhangire, Commissioner Museums and Antiquities and
Professor D. Kiyaga-Mulindwa, Senior Archaeologist Consultant and Professor of
History, Kyambogo University) left for the field in Paidha, via Arua and Nebbi on
the 7th November 2001. We were in company of Mr. Luka Agwe and Dr.Yakobo
Moyini and Mr Isaiah Owiunzi who were also carrying out their environment
impact assessment study. We stayed in the field until 10' November 2002, when
we returned to Kampala, leaving Messers Agwe,Owiunzi and Dr.Yakobo Moyini
in Paidha for another two days.
The object of our visit was to make an assessment of the potential of cultural
heritage resources in the Nyagak Micro-hydro project area and determine the
potential impact of the project on the cultural and archaeological resources in the
area.
2.0 Fieldwork
7th November, 2002
On arrival in Paidha, late afternoon of November 7th 2002, we interviewed the
Mayor of Paidha, a Town Council Concillor and four elders. We explained the
object of our visit and they offered information on the history and settlement of
the Paidha area. They also offered to give us someone to guide us around the
project area.
8th November, 2002
We did reconnaissance surveys in the valley immediately behind the Nyagak
Bridge. The area is currently covered by cassava fields. We recovered no surface
archaeological material at all in this valley, and may call for further investigation.
Walked eastwards covering the area along the banks of River Nyagak into the
eucalyptus forest. We walked beyond the 1445m contour which, it appears,
would be above the new water level mark due to inundation after the construction
of the weir. These are very steep banks and even the area to be inundated still
appears to have been free of earlier settlement. No signs of human activity, other
than approach to the river, were noted.
We then approached the site from the east, off the road to the UEB bridge in Ngia
village, and surveyed the site from the point of the surge tank moving westwards.
The hilltop produced some undiagnostic pot sherds, but the slopes facing due
west produced no surface artefacts or features. These slopes too seemed to be
rather too steep for settlement. Our survey followed the alignment of the
Headrace Pipe across the valley where the pipe will be suspended on an
aqueduct. We thoroughly surveyed the portion where there is going to be earth-
moving along the slopes on the northern bank side of the river, from the weir to
the aqueduct. This area, which currently has a number of homesteads, produced a
variety of sherds mostly with string cord roulette decorations, pointing to more
recent occupation. But it also produced some few sherds with curved-wooden
roulette decoration which may point to settlement in the area during the earlier
centuries of the post 1 OOOAD era.
172



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
Similar ceramics were also noted later in the day, and also from interviews with
residents in the area, in the site of the proposed power station.
We further noted an iron smelting furnace and black-smithing activity area in the
home of Mzee John Ozele of Ngia village. A certain Mr. Ogama is the practicing
blacksmith at this site. This was interesting because the elders we had met the
previous day had informed us that the inhabitants of this area, the Kebu, are well
known as famous iron workers from prehistoric times.
Cultural Beliefs connected with River Nyagak in Ngia Village
From the interviews we carried out with the people of Ngia village, we established
that the Ngia villagers venerate River Nyagak. At the moment one Luciano Ajoga
is accepted as the Jago pa Rwoth (or chief/priest) of the river. He holds
ceremonies and carries out rituals of sacrificing to the river every December.
Sacrifices of a white cock and a ram are made every year.
3.0   Observations and Recommendation
The site of Nyagak Mini-hydro power project does have potential for
archaeological resource, but generally it does not appear as if it will have great
negative impact on such resource.
The main areas, which may face massive disruption are those areas which will be
subjected to earthmoving activity. These include:
a) the area from the weir to the aqueduct (pipe bridge)
b) the area between the aqueduct and the surge tank
c) all areas for the access roads (which were not pointed out to us
on the maps provided)
d) all areas for soil dumping or borrow pits (which too were not
pointed out to us on the area maps provided)
e) the site of the power station.
f) areas behind the weir which will be inundated when the water
level rises an extra 4m above current levels after the weir is put
in place.
We recommend that:
1. Extensive archeological survey be carried out upstream behind Nyapea bridge
covering all the areas which will be inundated.
2. Limited test excavations be carried out in the above areas during the
mobilisation period just ahead of construction works.
3. During construction, an archaeologist should be hired to check the site soon
after the stripping off of the top soil and thereafter (s)he should be available at
short notice to carry out rescue excavation in mitigation of chance finds. It is
estimated that it may require about 30 work days for the archeologist, spread
173



- EMA & ECON -
Environmental Impact Statement for Nyagak minihydro
over the period of initial construction of access roads and other physical
infrastructure for laying of the pipe. It could also take about 15 days to analyse
the excavated material.
Due to the existing political pressure from the people of West Nile on the
government about the delay in the Nyagak project taking off, we advise that the
activities recommended can be undertaken during the ground opening work by the
developer and not before. We think that the World Bank can go ahead and
approve the project as archaeological test excavation awaits the beginning of
ground opening by URECL.
The table below provides details of the budget for a test excavation parallel to the
start of construction of the hydro project.
Table     Budget for the proposed archaeological test excavation for nyagak &
transmission line
Costs                                                            Amount in $
4 Field Assistant                         $5 x 12 x 4 days       240
Transport 3 return air fares              $170 x 3 persons       510
Field vehicle hire                        $5 x 12 days           60
Accommodation                             $10 x 3 x 12 days      360
C14 samples processing                    $500 x 3 samples       1,500
Secretarial services                      $150                   150
Professional Fees
I Senior Archaeologist                    $325 x 22 days         7,150
1 Archaeologist                           $227.50 x 12 days      2,730
I Research Assistant                      $65x 17days            1,105
Total                                                            13,805
We suggest that the money be disbursed as follows:
* 30% on signing and assumption of work
* 30% on submission of the draft report
* 20% on acceptance of the final report
174



Annex 12: Comments regarding
Resettlement Action Plan
This annex sums up important points that need to be taken into account when the
developer draws up a resettlement action plan (RAP).
* The RAP must be drawn up in accordance with World Bank (Operational
Policy 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement) and Ugandan standards, as set out
in the Environmental and Social Management Framework of the Ministry of
Energy and Mineral Development.
* The developer will need to draw up a full (and not abbreviated) RAP in the
case where more than 200 people (not households) are affected. The
requirements for a full and abbreviated RAP are provided in World Bank's
Operational Policy 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement.
* The developer should prepare a socio-economic survey as part of the RAP,
which supplements the preliminary survey of affected people and land
conducted for this EIA report.
* The RAP should be submitted to the National Environmnetal Management
Authorities (NEMA) and the World Bank for review and approval, and
people should be resettled/compensated before any construction work can
begin.
* People should be compensated to the extent possible land for land when
more than 20% of a household's economy (eq. land) is affected. As a
minimum, in cases where households loses all or a large percentage of its
land, land for land should be the compensation. For smaller parts of land,
cash is sufficient.
* In the case where land for land is applied, the developer must identify
together with the project affected person suitable land in exchange for land
acquired.
* The compensation rates used in the RAP should be updated and reflect
market rates at the time for compensation. The compensation rates from
1998 as provided in Annex 7 to this EIA report can therefore not be used.
* As part of the RAP process, the developer should cooperate with local
authorities, and with the District Environmental Officer in particular, to
make sure that public relations are managed properly, i.e. that people
directly and indirectly affected are informed about progress, questions are
answered, and that general information, e.g. about changes in farmland
landscape is provided to the communities.



