                                     Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001288



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (Credit No. 3588A, 35880)

                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$49.15 MILLION

                              AND A GEF GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$12.12 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF UGANDA

                                      FOR AN

             ENERGY FOR RURAL TRANSFORMATION PROJECT

                  IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE

            ENERGY FOR RURAL TRANSFORMATION PROGRAM


                               December 23, 2009




Africa Energy Group
Sustainable Development Department
Africa Region
                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective February 13, 2009)

                  Currency Unit = Uganda Shillings
                      USh1950 = US$1
                       US$1.51 = SDR 1

                          FISCAL YEAR

                         July 1   ­    June 30

              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB     African Development Bank
APL      Adaptable Program Lending
BoU      Bank of Uganda
BUDS     Business Development Support
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CML      Commercial Microfinance Limited
CSF      Credit Support Facility
ERA      Energy Regulatory Authority
ERT      Energy for Rural Transformation
GEF      Global Environmental Facility
GIS      Geographical Information System
GOU      Government of Uganda
HC       Health Centers
HFO      Heavy Fuel Oil
ICT      Information and Communication Technology
IDA      International Development Agency
IFC      International Finance Corporation
ISR      Implementation Status Report
IPPs     Independent Power Producers
IREMP    Indicative Rural Electrification Master Plan
ISP      Internet Service Providers
KWh      Kilowatt hour
LOC      Letter of Credit
MAAIF    Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
MDIs     Microfinance Depository Institutions
MEMD     Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development
MOES     Ministry of Education and Sports
MOFPED   Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development
MOH      Ministry of Health
MOLG     Ministries of Local Government
MTR      Midterm Review
NGO      Non-governmental organization

                                  ii
OED       Operations and Evaluation Department
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PEAP      Poverty Eradication Action Plan
PHC       Primary Health Care
PPA       Power Purchase Agreement
PRDP      Peace Recovery and Development Plan
PREP      Priority Rural Electrification Project
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSFU      Private Sector Foundation of Uganda
PV        Photovoltaic
PVTMA     PV Targeted Market Approach
RE        Rural Electrification
REA       Rural Electrification Agency
REB       Rural Electrification Board
REF       Rural Electrification Framework
SACCOs    Savings and Credit Cooperative Societies
SHS       Solar Home System
SMEs      Small and Medium Enterprises
UCC       Uganda Communication Commission
UJAS      Uganda Joint Assistance Strategy
ULAA      Uganda Local Authorities Association
UML       Uganda Microfinance Limited
WENRECO   West Nile Electric Company


                  Vice President:         Obiageli Ezekwesili
                Country Director:         John McIntire
                Country Manager           Kundhavi Kadiresan
                 Sector Manager:          S. Vijay Iyer
            Project Team Leader:          Paul Baringanire
               ICR Team Leader:           Bobak Rezaian




                                    iii
                                   UGANDA
                   ENERGY FOR RURAL TRANSFORMATION PROJECT




                                                        CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Global Environment Objectives .......... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 7
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 14
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 25
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 26
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 29
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 32
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 35
Annex 2.   Outputs by Component ............................................................................... 39
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 42
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 43
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 46
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 46
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 51
Excerpts from: ................................................................................................................... 51
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY .............................................................................................. 51
CHAPTER ONE: INTRODUCTION ............................................................................... 53
CHAPTER TWO: FINDINGS ......................................................................................... 57
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 67
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 85
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 86
Annex 10: Additional Information (for GEF purposes) ................................................... 87
MAP: IBRD # 36780 and 36816 ..................................................................................... 91

                                                                 iv
Project Data Sheet

A. Basic Information
                                                                   UG-Energy for Rural
Country:               Uganda                Project Name:
                                                                   Transform (FY02)
                                                                   IDA-35880,IDA-
Project ID:            P069996,P070222       L/C/TF Number(s):     3588A,TF-23624,TF-
                                                                   50371
ICR Date:              12/15/2009            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                   GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument: APL                      Borrower:
                                                                   UGANDA
                       IDA:XDR 38.3M;                              IDA:XDR 37.3M
Original Total         (USD 49.1M)                                 (USD: 56.9M)
                                             Disbursed Amount:
Commitment:            GEF: USD 12.1M                              GEF: USD: 11.35M
                       (XDR 9.5 M)                                 (XDR:     M)

Environmental Category: F                Focal Area: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development
 Rural Electrification Agency
 Bank of Uganda
 Private Sector Foundation Uganda
 Uganda Communications Commission (UCC)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates
UG-Energy for Rural Transform (FY02) - P069996
                                                                         Revised / Actual
    Process             Date             Process         Original Date
                                                                             Date(s)
Concept
                     03/03/2000     Effectiveness:        07/30/2002       07/30/2002
Review:
Appraisal:           04/23/2001     Restructuring(s):
                                    Mid-term
Approval:            12/13/2001                                            10/28/2004
                                    Review:
                                    Closing:              08/31/2006       02/28/2009




                                            v
UG-GEF Energy for Rural Transf (FY02) - P070222
                                                                    Revised / Actual
    Process          Date           Process         Original Date
                                                                        Date(s)
Concept
                  03/09/2000    Effectiveness:       07/31/2002       07/31/2002
Review:
Appraisal:        04/23/2001    Restructuring(s):
                                Mid-term
Approval:         12/13/2001                                          10/28/2004
                                Review:
                                Closing:             08/31/2006       02/28/2009



C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes                                 Moderately Satisfactory
GEO Outcomes                             Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome              Substantial
Risk to GEO Outcome                      Substantial
Bank Performance                         Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                     Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank               Ratings           Borrower                 Ratings
                         Moderately
Quality at Entry                       Government:                  Satisfactory
                         Satisfactory
Quality of                             Implementing                 Moderately
                         Satisfactory
Supervision:                           Agency/Agencies:             Satisfactory
Overall Bank             Moderately    Overall Borrower             Moderately
Performance              Satisfactory  Performance                  Satisfactory




                                       vi
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
UG-Energy for Rural Transform (FY02) - P069996
   Implementation                       QAG Assessments
                          Indicators                             Rating:
     Performance                              (if any)
   Potential Problem
                                          Quality at Entry
  Project at any time          No                                 None
                                               (QEA)
       (Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                      Quality of
                               No                                 None
    time (Yes/No):                      Supervision (QSA)
    DO rating before      Moderately
Closing/Inactive status   Satisfactory

UG-GEF Energy for Rural Transf (FY02) - P070222
   Implementation                    QAG Assessments
                        Indicators                               Rating:
     Performance                           (if any)
   Potential Problem
                                        Quality at Entry
  Project at any time        No                                   None
                                            (QEA)
       (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any                    Quality of
                             No                                   None
    time (Yes/No):                   Supervision (QSA)
  GEO rating before     Moderately
Closing/Inactive Status Satisfactory



D. Sector and Theme Codes
UG-Energy for Rural Transform (FY02) - P069996
                                                   Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector      8
General energy sector                                18               84
Other social services                                 8
Power                                                55
Telecommunications                                   11               16

Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for the knowledge economy                   25
Health system performance                             25
Other financial and private sector development        25
Rural services and infrastructure                     25              100


                                            vii
UG-GEF Energy for Rural Transf (FY02) - P070222
                                                    Original        Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector       3
General energy sector                                 36
Health                                                 3
Power                                                 46
Renewable energy                                      12            100



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                         22
Other financial and private sector development         22
Participation and civic engagement                     11
Pollution management and environmental health          23
Rural services and infrastructure                      22            100



E. Bank Staff
UG-Energy for Rural Transform (FY02) - P069996
      Positions                 At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:      Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:    John McIntire                 James W. Adams
Sector Manager:      Subramaniam V. Iyer           M. Ananda Covindassamy
Project Team Leader: Paul Baringanire              Arun P. Sanghvi
ICR Team Leader:     Abdolreza B. Rezaian
ICR Primary Author: Sati Achath
                     Lalith Gunaratne

UG-GEF Energy for Rural Transf (FY02) - P070222
      Positions                 At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:      Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:    John McIntire                 James W. Adams
Sector Manager:      Subramaniam V. Iyer           M. Ananda Covindassamy
Project Team Leader: Paul Baringanire              Arun P. Sanghvi
ICR Team Leader:     Abdolreza B. Rezaian
ICR Primary Author: Sati Achath
                     Lalith Gunaratne


                                           viii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
 (Phase 1 only) Put in place a functioning conducive environment and related capacity for
commercially oriented, sustainable service delivery of rural/renewable energy and
Information & Communication Technologies (ICTs).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)


Global Environment Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
For the Program, remove barriers and reduce implementation costs of renewable energy.
For Phase 1, build in-country capacity for renewable energy.


Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                      Original Target Formally            Actual Value
                                        Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator      Baseline Value
                                           approval        Target         Completion or
                                         documents)        Values         Target Years
              Establishment of a regulatory system for rural electrification, satisfactory
Indicator 1 :
              working of RE Board, REA and REF.
                                                                        ERA, REB, REA,
                                                                        and REF are fully
                                                                        established and
                                                                        are supported by
                                      ERA approval of
                                                                        technical
                                      3 transactions,
                                                                        assistance
                                      one with light-
                                                                        provided by
Value                                 handed
                                                                        various
(quantitative                         procedures
              None in place.                                            consultants and de
or                                    RE
                                                                        velopment
Qualitative)                          Board/Agency/F
                                                                        partners. A RE
                                      und operating per
                                                                        policy was
                                      agreed
                                                                        published to guide
                                      procedures
                                                                        renewable energy
                                                                        investments. The
                                                                        Indicative REMP
                                                                        was developed.

                                            ix
Date achieved 04/23/2001                02/28/2009                      02/28/2009
              To date ERA has issued over 5 rural electrification concessions and
Comments
              permits in this respect. REA was not set up by an Act of parliament and
(incl. %
              hence not fully autonomous to carry out its functions (it is not a legal
achievement)
              entity) which limits its independence. 100 %
              A workable financial intermediation mechanism for rural electrification is
Indicator 2 :
              in place. "Financial sector change"
                                                                        Rural
                                                                        Electrification
                                                                        Fund (REF) is in
                                                                        place.
                                                                        -Re-financing
                                                                        facility in place
Value                                                                   and operational
                                        Two transactions
(quantitative                                                           with one
              None in place.            closed, one with
or                                                                      commercial bank
                                        support of CSF
Qualitative)                                                            and three micro
                                                                        financing
                                                                        institutions
                                                                        participarting.
                                                                        -A credit support
                                                                        facility was
                                                                        established.
Date achieved 04/23/2001                02/28/2009                      02/28/2009
Comments      The three #fast# track projects (WENRECO, Kakira and Kisiizi), Kilembe
(incl. %      Investments Ltd and a number of communities have been fited from
achievement) REF. % achievement (as reported by PCU): 95%
              Satisfactory functioning of two independent grid rural electrification
Indicator 3 :
              operations has been achieved.
                                                                        Four Indepedent
                                                                        grids operational
                                        At least 90% of                 (West Nile Rural
                                        planned annual                  Electrification
              No satisfactory           energy delivered                Company, Kissizi,
Value
              independent grids         (0.9*24,000                     Kalangala and
(quantitative
              operating (West Nile MWh)                                 Ngoma are
or
              functioning poorly        At least 90% of                 operating with a
Qualitative)
              under UEB).               planned                         bout 3400
                                        connections                     consumers and
                                        (0.9*2,250)                     over 10,000MWH
                                                                        generated per
                                                                        annum.
Date achieved 04/23/2001                02/28/2009                      02/28/2009
Comments      High connection fees, high cost of petroleum products and low private
(incl. %      sector capacity in energy investments continues to pos e a challenge.Only

                                           x
achievement) about 50% of the planned annual energy is being generated whereas the
              connections are above 100% the target.
              Satisfactory functioning of 80 percent of the energy systems provided to
Indicator 4 : agriculture-linked users, health clinics, schools, and water facilities
              "Cross-sectoral working".
                                                                        -Installation of
                                                                        371,975 watt
                                                                        peaks geared
                                                                        towards improved
                                                                        service delivery in
                                       At least 90% of                  water, health and
                                       planned new                      the education
Value
              No project-supported connections                          sector
(quantitative
              energy systems in        (0.9*450)                        -supported
or
              place.                   At least 80% of                  installation of
Qualitative)
                                       those connected                  over 1,100,000
                                       are satisfied.                   watt peaks
                                                                        through the
                                                                        private sector
                                                                        through matching
                                                                        grants

Date achieved 04/23/2001                02/28/2009                      02/28/2009
              Over 500 solar systems installed in health centers, 20 systems installed for
Comments
              water pumping, 10 agricultural firms and 94 educational institutions have
(incl. %
              benefited. Number of new connections: above 100%. Beneficiary
achievement)
              satisfaction (as reported by PCU): 90%
              Phase I coverage objectives for rural telephony, internet points of presence
Indicator 5 :
              and rural telecenters has been satisfactorily achieved.
                                                                        -Internet Points of
                                        At least one                    Presence installed
                                        public phone in                 in 32 districts.
                                        all 154 sub-                    -Installation of
                                        counties; Internet              10,393 public
Value
              Non-commercial            points of                       access points in
(quantitative
              unserved areas not        presence in 30                  154 sub-counties
or
              identified by licensees. districts; 2 rural               completed.
Qualitative)
                                        vanguard multi-                 -20 telecenters
                                        purpose                         installed.
                                        community                       -20 MCT
                                        centers.                        operationalised

Date achieved 04/23/2002               02/28/2009                    02/28/2009
Comments      The use of output based aid (OBA) to stimulate investment in underserved
(incl. %      areas resulted in coverage of far more communities than had been


                                            xi
achievement) originally anticipated. Achievement of targets: above 100%.
              Collection of at least 80% of the telecommunications universal service
Indicator 6 :
              levy revenues that are billable by the end of Phase I has been achieved.
Value
(quantitative                          At least 80%                     Collection rate at
              No revenues collected.
or                                     collected.                       more than 95%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/23/2001               02/28/2009                       02/28/2009
Comments
              Collection of at least 80% of the telecommunications universal service
(incl. %
              levy revenues that are billable by the end of Phase I has been achieved
achievement)


(b) GEO Indicator(s)

                                     Original Target Formally         Actual Value
                                      Values (from     Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator     Baseline Value
                                        approval        Target       Completion or
                                       documents)       Values        Target Years
              15 MW of renewable energy power generation facilities constructed or
Indicator 1 :
              under-construction "Renewable power capacity"
                                                                   18 MW (Kakira)
Value
                                                                   operationalised.
(quantitative
              0 MW                   15 MW                         0.3MW (Kisiizi)
or
                                                                   operationalised.
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/23/2001                02/28/2009                      02/28/2009
Comments
              Construction of Mpanga (18MW), Ishasha (10MW) and Nyagak (3.5MW)
(incl. %
              hydropower projects is underway. Achievement of targets: above 100%.
achievement)
              320,000 cumulative Watt-peak sales of solar pv systems to households
Indicator 2 :
              and institutions achieved.
Value
                                        320,000                         597,765
(quantitative No project-supported
                                        cumulative Watt                 cumulative Watt
or            solar PV
                                        peak                            Peak installed
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/23/2001                02/28/2009                      02/28/2009
Comments      Private sector attraction through matching grants initiatives and already in
(incl. %      place institutional arrangements boosted this activity. Achievement of
achievement) targets: above 100%.
              Solar home system price reduction of 30% from June 2000 baseline has
Indicator 3 :
              been achieved
Value                                                                   Prices vary from
(quantitative $20/Watt peak             $14/Watt Peak                   $12-17 $/Wp
or                                                                      depending on

                                            xii
Qualitative)                                                           system
                                                                       configuration.
                                                                       Average price
                                                                       $16/Wp -
                                                                       influenced by
                                                                       international
                                                                       market.
Date achieved 04/23/2001                02/28/2009                     02/28/2009
              Subsidy scheme for solar dealers has been effective in addressing the issue
Comments
              of high initial investment costs. The Photovoltaic Target Market Approach
(incl. %
              (PVTMA) targeting subsidizing systems at consumer level commenced
achievement)
              late and is yet to be evaluated.(100%).


(c) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target Formally          Actual Value
                                           Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
  Indicator         Baseline Value
                                             approval          Target      Completion or
                                            documents)         Values      Target Years
                Finalization and implementation of first phase of long-term renewable
Indicator 1 :
                energy capacity building strategy and action plan.
                                                                         Renewable
Value
                                                                         Energy Policy
(quantitative
                No plan in place.        Full plan in place              approved by
or
                                                                         Cabinet March
Qualitative)
                                                                         2007
Date achieved   04/23/2001               02/28/2009                      02/28/2009
                The renewable energy policy was developed with the aim of attracting
Comments
                private sector investments in the sector. The policy enacted the post of an
(incl. %
                energy officer at local government level to enhance capacity building and
achievement)
                sensitization. (100%).




                                            xiii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

 -
                                                        Actual
         Date ISR                                   Disbursements
No.                     DO          GEO      IP     (USD millions)
         Archived
                                                  Project 1 Project 2
     1   06/14/2002         S         S      S      0.00      0.24
     2   12/16/2002         S         S      S      0.65      0.98
     3   05/30/2003         S         S      S      0.65      0.98
     4   11/19/2003         S         S      S      1.43      1.11
     5   05/28/2004         S         S      S      3.63      1.27
     6   12/15/2004         S         S      S      3.76      1.59
     7   06/09/2005     MS           MS      MS     5.23      1.78
     8   12/21/2005     MS           MS      MS    13.83      3.24
     9   06/30/2006         S         S      S     17.63      3.76
 10      12/22/2006         S         S      S     20.00      5.56
 11      06/26/2007         S         S      MS    27.51      7.00
 12      12/14/2007         S         S      MS    32.15      7.39
 13      05/30/2008     MS           MS      MS    39.59      8.82
 14      10/01/2008     MS           MS      MS    43.82     10.66



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                       xiv
I. Disbursement Profile
P069996




P070222




                          xv
1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Global
Environment Objectives

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country and Sector Background: In 2001, at the time of appraisal, Uganda's economy
had been consistently registering strong economic performance, with an average real rate
of growth of about 6.9 percent since 1990/91 and an average annual increase in real per
capita income of 3.7 percent over the previous decade. At the same time, development in
rural areas had lagged well behind urban areas. Moreover, the quality of rural life was
severely constrained by lack of electricity in rural public institutions.

Uganda's energy sector was also undergoing major structural reform. In 1999, the
government approved a power sector restructuring strategy involving unbundling of its
main utility, the Uganda Electricity Board (UEB) into separate `business' activities:
generation, transmission, and distribution. An independent power sector regulator was
also established. Despite these reforms, there remained growing economic, social and
political pressures to address some of the long-standing issues impeding the development
of Uganda's energy sector:

   (i)     Inadequate and unreliable electricity supply caused by a chronic shortage of
           generating capacity that was stifling economic growth. The government's
           strategy to address these re-occurring shortages was to develop its large
           hydropower potential, in particular the 250 MW Bujagali hydropower project;

   (ii)    Low rural access to electricity. Uganda had one of the lowest per capita
           electricity consumption (44 kWh/year) in the worldi. Grid supplied electricity
           was consumed by 12 % of the domestic population, mostly concentrated in the
           Kampala metropolitan area, while less than 1 % of the rural population had
           access to grid supplied electricity.

   (iii)   Adverse development impact on rural areas. The potential for rapid rural
           economic growth and job creation was seriously constrained by the lack of
           adequate investment in rural infrastructure, of which electricity was a key
           component.

   (iv)    (iv)Renewable energy resource potential was under-utilized. Apart from large-
           scale hydropower schemes, only a small fraction of Uganda's renewable energy
           resource potential had been tapped. Development had been constrained by: (a)
           the legal framework since only UEB was permitted to sell power; (b) lack of
           access to long-term financing; and (c) limited local capacity for planning and
           implementing such projects. The Government's strategy was aimed at


                                            1
              providing adequate incentives to encourage private sector-led investment of its
              renewable energy potential.

Information and Communication Technology (ICT). The main issues facing the ICT
sector were:

    (i)    Low rural access. As a result of telecommunications reform, telephone coverage
           had increased dramatically with the number of lines (fixed plus cellular) more
           than doubling over the two year period from 1998-2000. However, the vast
           majority of these lines were concentrated in the Kampala area.

    (ii)   Internet access. The market for Internet access in Uganda was competitive but
           small, with some 6,000 subscribers and 6 main Internet Service Providers (ISP)
           with ISP services mainly in the Kampala area.

Rationale for Bank Assistance. The Country Assistance Strategy1 (CAS), presented to
the Board in November 2000, sought to build on the 1997-2000 CAS by continuing to
focus on poverty reduction through sustained growth. The Government's Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), which was discussed by the Board on May 2, 2000,
was based on the following four key pillars:

     (i) Directly increase the ability of the poor to raise their income. The PRSP
         explicitly supported the project, by promoting use of smart subsidies for rural
         electrification, which would encourage entrepreneurs to invest in power
         infrastructure in rural areas.

     (ii) Directly increase the quality of the life of the poor. The PRSP targeted improved
          delivery of public education, health, and potable water and sanitation services;

     (iii) Create an enabling environment for economic growth and structural
           transformation. The PRSP was focused on macroeconomic stability, equitable use
           of public resources, and the removal of constraints on private sector investment

     (iv) Ensure good governance and security. Actions included under this pillar were:
          improving public service delivery, decentralization, and reducing corruption.




1
    Document number:2 0886-UG Date of latest CAS discussion Nov. 18, 2000




                                                       2
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Global Environment
Objective (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The main objective of the long-term program was to develop Uganda's rural energy and
Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) sectors, so that they would make a
significant contribution to bringing about rural transformation.

The specific objective of the first phase of this 3-phase APL program (ERT-1), as
described in the PAD, was to put in place, "on-the-ground", a functioning conducive
environment and related local capacity for commercially oriented, sustainable service
delivery of rural/renewable energy and ICTs.

The Global Environment Objective (GEO) was to build in-country capacity for
renewable energy.

The key performance indicators for Phase I of the program were: (indicators related to
GEF-supported activities are shown in italics)

Energy Sector

       Establishment of regulatory system, satisfactory working of Rural Electrification
       (RE) Board, RE Agency and RE Fund, wheeling system and procedures
       Workable financial intermediation mechanism for rural electrification
       Satisfactory functioning of independent grid rural electrification operations
       Satisfactory functioning of energy systems provided to agriculture-linked users,
       clinics, schools, and water facilities
       Amount (MW) of renewable energy power generation facilities constructed, GEF
       share in total cost
       Volume of sales of solar PV(Photovoltaic) systems to households and institutions,
       GEF share in total cost
       Decline in prices of solar PV products

ICT Sector

       Number of public and private telephones installed in previously un-served sub-
       counties
       Number of District Headquarters with Internet POP and public Internet access
       facility
       Number of rural tele-centers established in 'vanguard institutions'.

Following the MTR in October 2004, quantitative end of project targets were specified
for each indicator while only broad end-of-program indicators were specified in Annex 1
of the PAD. Also, the energy and ICT triggers for proceeding with Phase II (and later
Phases) of the Program (including the GEF triggers) were specified in the PAD (pages 23
and 24)



                                           3
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and Reasons/Justification

The PDO and Key Indicators remained unchanged.

1.4.Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
    and Reasons/Justification:

The GEO and key indicators remained unchanged.

1.5 Main Beneficiaries.

The main beneficiaries of the project were to be:

   Rural Households. There would be direct and indirect benefits of increased access to:
   (i) adequate and reliable supplies of electricity from grid supply or solar photovoltaic
   systems; and (ii) ICT services. Indirect benefits would arise from the improved
   services provided by rural public institutions.

   Rural Enterprises. The benefits would be increased productivity and income arising
   from electricity access and/or more efficient use of traditional fuels. Improved access
   to telephones and the internet was intended to: (i) increase the ability of rural
   enterprises to communicate with upstream suppliers, thereby reducing the costs of
   doing business, and (ii) improve linkages with downstream markets, helping
   entrepreneurs identify suitable markets.

   Public Institutions. There would be benefits related to improved service delivery
   arising out of (i) increased working hours; (ii) additional services, such as
   vaccinations, lab tests; and (iii) increased efficiency accruing from the ease of
   communications with sister institutions such as referral hospitals.

Global Environmental Benefits: Reductions in Greenhouse Gases (GHG).

1.6 Original Components (as approved)

The project consisted of six components. All Components were linked to achieving the
PDO of putting in place a functioning conducive environment for commercially oriented,
sustainable service delivery of rural/renewable energy and ICTs. Likewise, portions of
Components 1 to 5 were aimed at supporting the GEF objective of building in-country
capacity for renewable energy.

Component 1: Main Grid-Related Power Distribution and Generation.                    (IDA
financing: US$20.80 million; GEF financing: US$4.60 million)

Extension of the main grid to un-served rural areas was to be implemented by the private
sector. GEF grant financing would help finance qualifying renewable energy investments.



                                            4
Component 2: Independent Grid Systems. (IDA financing: US$6.50 million; GEF
financing: US$1.0 million)
This component supported independent grid systems which would be implemented by the
private sector. A significant part of the power generation was expected to be based on
renewable energy resources and supported by GEF funding.

Component 3: Solar PV Systems (GEF financing: US$1.40 million)

The project would provide GEF financing for the installation of solar PV systems in
homes, community institutions, (and rural enterprises located in relatively dispersed areas
with small loads, where small independent grid systems would not be viable).


Component 4: Cross-sectoral Linkages - (IDA financing: US$7.60 million; GEF
financing: US$0.80 million)

This component would be implemented by Ministries of Health, Agriculture, Education
and Water.

       In the health sector, the project would finance 90% of the capital costs
       (IDA+GEF grant) of energy systems (including solar fridges and solar water
       heaters, as appropriate) for all Health Centers that met the eligibility criteria
       established by the Ministry of Health (MOH), and 25% of the variable costs for
       the solar PV energy packages only.
       In agriculture, the project would finance: (i) private sector investments through
       the RE Fund for connection of priority agricultural loads, and (ii) technical
       assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF)
       for program promotion.
       In education, the project would finance 90% of the capital costs (IDA + GEF
       grant) of energy/ICT packages in selected post-primary schools and technical
       assistance to the Ministry of Education and Sports (MOES) to: (i) develop energy
       guidelines for education, (ii) implementation support, (iii) workshops,
       dissemination and capacity building, and (iv) M/E.
       In the water sector, the project would finance technical assistance to the Ministry
       of Water to identify and meet the energy needs of the rural water strategy,
       develop energy guidelines, and for capacity building as well as for monitoring and
       evaluation.

Component 5: Energy Sector Capacity Building, Technical Assistance and Training
(IDA financing: US$8.75 million; GEF financing: US$4.32 million)

This component would include support to several public and private sector institutions to
help them carry out their respective responsibilities under the project.



                                            5
Component 6: ICT Sector (IDA financing: US$5.50 million)

The ICT sector component would finance both technical assistance and investment.

The technical assistance would help the Uganda Communication Commission (UCC) in
the preparation of competitive tenders to increase access in rural areas, while the
investment component would provide funds to the UCC to finance, on a competitive
tendering basis, the subsidy associated with the rural access targets, in commercially
unattractive areas

1.6 Revised Components

None of the six original components were revised.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

There were no substantive design changes nor restructuring during implementation of the
project. However, the following, important changes needed to be made during
implementation:

Component 1 Financed with Public Funds. There was an important change in the
financing source for this component as compared with what was envisaged at appraisal.
Due to a disappointing response from the private sector, the Government of Uganda
(GOU) financed 100% of the capital investments related to main grid extensions.

Project Coordinator. MEMD engaged a project coordinator, who acted as a focal point
for project oversight and supervision, maintained a consolidated project tracking system,
and undertook trouble shooting as needed. Prior to this action, the project had no clear
direction and there was a lack of cohesion and limited synergies.
Extension of Original Closing Date. The original closing date of the project was
extended twice. The first extension was for two years from August 31, 2006 to August
31, 2008, to allow the Borrower time to complete different project investment
components and actions due to a slower-than-expected start-up phase. The project was
then extended for a second time until February 28, 2009 in order to complete remaining
ongoing works and enable the Borrower to utilize the Credit proceeds to pay contractual
commitments.
Reallocation of IDA and GEF Funds. In October 2007, funds were reallocated under
the IDA Credit and the GEF Grant (as shown in Annex 1 ) to accommodate a more than
threefold increase (in SDR) in sub-projects financed through REA, due to the poor
response from the private sector. At appraisal it had been expected that some of the
private sector investments would move ahead before REA was operational. For this
reason, a large allocation was provided under 2(b), which would have been disbursed by
MEMD. However, these investments did not move quickly and were therefore
reallocated to REA.



                                           6
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project Background. ERT-1- was the first Bank-wide project under the Global
Environment Facility (GEF)/World Bank Renewable Energy Strategic Partnership, which
aimed to support renewable energy development through a programmatic approach
parallel to the Bank's Adaptable Program Loan (APL) instrument. It was also the first
project in the Bank's sub-Saharan Africa Region to utilize the newly launched Prototype
Carbon Fund (PCF), which, inter alia, funded projects that produced greenhouse gas
emission reductions which could, in the future, be traded internationally under schemes
such as the Kyoto Protocol. Another first achieved by ERT was to place emphasis on
private sector participation in rural electrification as well as incorporate cross-sectoral
ministries as implementing agents.

Soundness of Background Analysis. As part of project preparation, the main sector
issues were analyzed in depth and government strategies to deal with these issues were
also considered. A QER was also held on August 3-4, 2001, which complemented
several aspects of the design and overall objectives. These analyses are documented in
the project file, and summarized in Section B.2 of the PAD. The PAD indicated that the
bulk of specific sub-projects that would be supported under the main component of Phase
I (Grid Related Power Distribution and Generation) would be developed during the
course of the project and would be implemented by the private sector. However, no
separate analysis was provided in the PAD regarding the interest and likely response
from private sector investors during Phase I.

Lessons of Earlier Operations Taken into Account The main constraint in being able to
benefit from the experience of past rural energy operations was the lack of an operational
precedent. Experience with private sector led rural electrification schemes was extremely
limited in developing countries, and almost non-existent in Africa. ICT experience in
Africa in bringing about rural transformation was also recent but indicated the potential
for rapid, private sector led expansion of rural telephony and internet services. Within
these constraints, the project design incorporated lessons from recent Asian rural
electrification programs.

Risk Assessment. The project design considered the risk factors and appropriate measures
were adopted to mitigate all the main risks identified at appraisal. The overall risk of the
project was rated as Substantial in the PAD, in recognition of the fact that the overall
project design represented a new approach that offered significant prospects for high
development impact, but had yet to be field tested; this overall risk rating was
appropriate. The PAD also identified several specific risks, also judged to be `substantial,
as well as the corresponding mitigation measures.

           Regulatory and institutional framework is new and may not function properly.
           Mitigation measures included providing commercially-oriented rural



                                             7
           electrification/ICTs with transparent and objective subsidies. However, this
           risk did not materialize, as the regulatory framework was put in place and is
           functional, as evidenced from the number of licenses issued by the regulator.

           Financial institutions and private sector may not choose to participate. To
           mitigate this risk, support was planned to be provided to potential participants
           to make this an attractive business opportunity. Efforts would also be made to
           improve policy/regulatory climate as needed. This risk was underestimated for
           rural electrification investments. Private sector response has been
           disappointing, with very little interest in participating in Phase I investments.
           Hence, a fundamental change in approach had to be made in the main grid
           extension component: private sector participation shifted from providing an
           equity contribution for the grid extension to bidding for O&M of the grid
           extensions, with the Government of Uganda (GOU) financing 100% of the
           capital investments needed for grid extensions.

           The RE Fund may not function effectively. The potential concerns of political
           interference in the operation of the RE fund were correctly anticipated. The
           RE fund lacks full autonomy in its decision-making, remaining under the
           responsibility of the Ministry of Energy. To help mitigate these concerns,
           clear and transparent procedures and accountability had been built into the
           design of the RE Fund and the functioning of the Fund was to be reviewed on
           a regular basis to incorporate any required changes, including continuation of
           close oversight during subsequent ERT phases.

           Cost recovery based tariffs with significant regional differentials may prove
           difficult to implement, since rural people may resent being asked to pay more
           than urban people for electricity/ICTs. For mitigating this risk, promotional
           and consensus-building activities were launched by the government. During
           implementation, the proposed consensus was achieved and tariffs were set on
           a cost recovery basis. In addition, GOU also provided one-time subsidies
           which enabled a reduced differential in the tariff regime across different
           regions.

One risk that emerged during implementation, and which was not identified at Appraisal,
was in regard to the implementation arrangements. The project design had assumed that
the various agencies would take the lead in implementation of their activities; hence, the
project implementation arrangements did not include a project coordination unit (PCU).
While some agencies assumed their implementation responsibilities, it was agreed that a
PCU was needed to oversee the overall project on behalf of the lead agency (MEMD) and
to assist lagging agencies. Consequently, a PCU had to be established within MEMD.

Adequacy of Participatory Processes. The project provided a participatory framework
involving stakeholders and direct beneficiaries in the decision-making processes. Bank
missions and government met with the primary beneficiaries (rural households, SMEs,
health and education facilities, energy service providers, and renewable energy small



                                             8
scale power generators) and discussed the main elements of the project with them in
public meetings, and took account of their interests and concerns in preparing the project
design. The findings and concerns expressed in the Uganda Participatory Poverty
Assessment were also taken into account.

Apart from direct meetings at the individual level, there were also discussions with
representatives of the beneficiaries. In addition to the MEMD, the project team worked
closely with a number of other agencies: the Ministry of Local Government (MOLG),
MOH, Directorate of Water Development, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of
Education, Ministry of Finance, Bank of Uganda, Uganda Communications Commission,
the Uganda Local Authorities Association (ULAA), Private Sector Foundation, Uganda
Renewable Energy Association, and Action Aid, a non-governmental organization
(NGO).

2.2 Implementation

The project encountered various challenges during implementation, some of which were
outside the government's control and the implementing agencies. Some of these factors
adversely affected implementation.

Implementation started slowly with most components not ready for implementation at the
time of Board approval in December 2001. The Bank conducted a Midterm Review
(MTR) in October 2004 and used the opportunity to assess progress to date on all project
components, implementation issues, and actions needed to help ensure a successful
completion of the project. Less than 10% of the Credit Amount had been disbursed at the
time of the MTR. Due to the poor response from the private sector in investing in grid
extension schemes, it was agreed that the government would develop a `second group' of
rural investment projects in which power would be generated from renewable energy
sources. Some of these new schemes would be connected to the main grid, while others
would supply power to independent mini-grids.

Following this change in the source of funding for the grid extension investments,
disbursements started to pick up so that by the end of 2006 approximately SDR 14, or
more than third of the Credit amount, had been disbursed. However, project
implementation and coordination difficulties continued to affect the project. The DO
and/or IP were rated MS for much of the remaining 5 year period following the MTR-
except for the final ISR, in July 2009, in which DO and IP were both rated S on the basis
that `most of the target indicators had been achieved' and implementation of most project
components had improved.

Factors outside Government or Implementation Agency Control

   (i) Increases in international oil prices contributed to higher energy costs in Uganda,
       which, in turn, led to increased tariffs and an increased affordability risk for low
       income rural consumers.




                                            9
(ii) Hydrology affected power availability. The reduction in power availability from
     the Nalubaale/Kiira facility forced GoU to contract for short-term, emergency,
     thermal (diesel) power generators, the higher cost of which resulted in higher
     retail tariffs.

(iii) High international prices, due to a surging global economy and overrated
     markets (e.g. PV) which was responsible for the target price reductions of 30%
     from the 2000 baseline not being achieved­i.e. from US$20/Wp to US$14/Wp.




                                      10
Factors Subject to Government or Implementation Agency Control

   (i) Low Level of Private Sector Interest. The initial grid extensions, considered as
       Priority Rural Electrification Projects (PREPs), required 100% public funding as
       opposed to the private equity contributions as envisaged at appraisal, though some
       private sector financing was mobilized for renewable energy investments linked
       to independent grid systems. The PREPs did not attract sufficient private sector
       investor interest due to a number of factors. The initial call for proposals attracted
       only a small number of credible international firms. Subsequently, even the short-
       listed firms pulled out. The reasons for the lack of interest could be attributed to
       several factors including: (a) reduced generation due to low hydrological
       condition which led to a reliance on more costly thermal generation. These events
       happened during the bidding period and contributed to an increase in the
       perceived risks, especially in terms of a reduced customer base and sales volumes;
       (b) lack of awareness of the business potential of energy investments and
       availability of financial equity; (c) limited technical and business skills of the
       local firms while government agencies did not have the capacity to promote the
       PPP approach; and (d) difficulties in raising the equity, in particular mini hydro-
       power plants did not move faster because of a lack of equity and affordable
       capital for local developers in addition to a lack of capacity to develop and
       evaluate projects on the part of lending institutions.

   (ii) Lack of Capacity in financial, procurement, management, and technical skills
        across the board on the part of the Borrower affected implementation in the first
        few years of the project. This lack of capacity should have been anticipated at
        appraisal and steps taken to strengthen these skill shortages.

   (iii)Delays in Establishing a PCU. The need for a project coordination unit was not
        considered necessary during project design. However, the lack of a focal point
        made it difficult to move the project forward and bring the stakeholders together.
        The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was established two years later in July 2004
        but it still took about 6-8 months for the new PCU to establish itself and take
        control.

   (iv) Disagreements between the MOH on One Side, and the MEMD and the Bank on
        the other side, on the kind of energy packages suitable for different types of health
        centers created a delay in implementing the component.
   (v) Procurement Delays. The implementation of cross-sectoral components was
       adversely affected mainly due to procurement delays and the relative novelty of
       sectors such as education and agriculture working with energy and private sector
       agencies. The local agencies were also not fully aware of the WB procedures and
       at times resisted it. Delays also caused cost over runs as prices for equipment and
       services had increased over time.




                                            11
  (vi) Implementation of the Education Subcomponent was adversely affected by: (a)
       lack of capacity and manpower in MOES; (b) delays in developing the prototype
       design, selecting the consultant, and securing a Letter of Credit for the supplier.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design. The M&E arrangements were implicitly divided into three parts, with
budget allocations directly (e.g. for MOFPED and PCU) or indirectly (e.g. through TA
for implementing institutions) specified in the PAD:

   (i) Standard project level monitoring (PCU)
   (ii) Sectoral monitoring in the areas of health, education, water, ICT, agriculture
        (respective agencies)
   (iii)Impact on poverty (Poverty Monitoring unit of MOFPED)

Performance indicators for the ten year program as well as for the project activities in the
energy sector and ICT sector were developed during project preparation. However, the
indicators as given in the PAD, could not easily be monitored. Consequently, during the
MTR, a detailed results monitoring system was put in place, which included baselines,
standard indicators as well as cross-sectoral indicators involving MOH, MOES, and
MAIIF. In addition, the Ministry of Finance carried out baseline surveys for the program
impact evaluation.

M&E Implementation. Data for key performance indicators were collected by the
individual implementing agencies. These data were closely monitored and the actual
figures were compared with the target values by these agencies. Once it was established,
the PCU coordinated with the implementing agencies in consolidating the data and
prepared quarterly reports on a regular basis.

M&E Utilization. Appropriate data collected from the implementation agencies were
evaluated and used for decision-making on project activities. Data were also used in
making decisions such as reallocation of funds from matching grants and the Bank was
able to modify implementation as deemed necessary and project concepts based on these
indicators. For example, based on the successful performance of UCC, more resources
were made available for ICT activities. Similarly, as the project was not able to mobilize
adequate private sector equity, in order to encourage private sector participation for grid
extensions, it was decided that the government would fund line construction and the lines
would be operated and maintained by the private sector. Likewise, financial monitoring
reports (FMRs) focused on the level of disbursements and assessed the progress of each
of the components, and resources were reallocated according to the needs.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

There were no significant deviations or waivers from the Bank safeguards and fiduciary
policies and procedures during the implementation of the project.




                                            12
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Transition Arrangements. The transition arrangements for moving to the next phase
appear to be adequate and procedures adopted in the ERT-II (which was approved by the
Board in April 2009) were based on the experience gained during implementation of the
ERT-I and include:

   (i) Technical. An electrification framework for agencies has been developed and
       prototype designs, which can be replicated, are already in place. IREMP has been
       mapped out. Minimum performance standards have been developed for solar
       systems and they are already in place. Renewable Energy Policy has also come
       into effect, which would facilitate removing barriers for using solar systems by
       the consumers.

   (ii) Institutional. Necessary institutions such as the Electricity Regulatory Authority
        (ERA), REA and other institutions are already in place, though they still require
        additional strengthening. A strengthened PCU will continue its primary
        responsibility of coordination among various implementation agencies, while the
        implementation responsibility will lie with each of the agencies, such as the
        Ministries of Health and Education.

   (iii)Financial. Under the present credit market conditions in Uganda, rural
        electrification is not viable for the private sector investors. However, a Credit
        Support Facility (CSF) has already been set up as a second tier mechanism. The
        Uganda Energy Credit Capitalization Agency is also in place but will only
        become operational under Phase II.

   (iv) Budgeting. Counterpart funding is expected to be adequate. For example, the
        government has already allocated US$7 million for transition arrangements
        between the closing of ERT-I and the startup of ERT-II. The contracts for
        Institutional Solar systems (Health and Schools) include a maintenance contract
        for five years, financed by the respective beneficiary institutions.

   (v) Staffing. Extensive capacity building was carried out in Phase I. While there are
       still many gaps, the respective institutions are in the process of hiring additional
       support. In addition, it is expected that capacity building will continue under ERT
       II as required. The government has initiated the process of recruitment of
       additional staff.

Monitoring and Evaluation. The PCU will continue to have the primary responsibility
for tracking the project's key performance indicators, using data from the agencies and
other project stakeholders. The Poverty Monitoring Unit of the Ministry of Finance,
which assessed the overall poverty impact of the rural electrification schemes, has been
transformed into the Budget Monitoring and Accountability Unit, which focuses on
infrastructure (energy, roads), social services (health, education, and water), agriculture,




                                            13
and industrialization. This new unit is well-positioned to lead monitoring and evaluation,
while the PCU continues to track key project level performance indicators.

List of Performance Indicators. The following set of monitoring and evaluation
indicators has been developed and they will be used as part of the MEMD's operations:
   (i) Increased access to energy, as measured by the percentage of rural population
       with access to electricity in project areas (rural electrification rate).

   (ii) Increased Access to ICT Services, as measured by the percentage of the
        geographical area with access to modern ICT services.

   (iii)Megawatts of additional power generation from renewable sources.

   (iv) Tons of CO2 emissions reduced/avoided as a result of the project.

These indicators are appropriate for the follow-up project particularly because they will
measure outputs that directly relate to the program objectives.

Future Impact Evaluation. It will be important to conduct an impact evaluation during
the MTR of ERT-II, in order to assess the impact of the project on: (i) social services,
including assessing the performance of health facilities and staff retention in rural health
centers; (ii) grid extension's impact on business enterprises and household income; and
(iii) increase in electrical connections.

Follow-on Project. ERT-I being the first phase of 3-phased APL, there will be follow-on
phases, namely ERT-II and ERT-III. ERT-II was approved by the Board in April 2009
and became effective November 25, 2009. In addition, GoU has provided bridge
financing to ensure continuity of activities between the ERT I closure and ERT II
effectiveness.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The main development objective of the long-term program-namely, to develop Uganda's
rural energy and Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) sectors in order to
bring about a significant improvement in the productivity of rural enterprises as well as
the quality of life of rural households-is still critical to Uganda's social and economic
development. The GOU remains committed to infrastructure provision as an important
instrument for rural development. Since rural areas still have very low access to modern
energy services and ICTs, the government is giving priority to new investment in rural
areas. Further, the GEF's higher level objective of mitigating Uganda's greenhouse gas
emissions continues to be relevant because of continuing global concerns in this area.




                                            14
3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.
The project was partially successful in achieving its Phase I objective, namely, putting in
place a functioning conducive environment and related capacity for commercially
oriented, sustainable service delivery of rural/renewable energy and ICTs. The details of
the project's achievements are discussed below, against the key performance indicators
for Phase I as described in the PAD.
   (i) Establishment of a Regulatory System for Rural Electrification, Satisfactory
       Working of REA, REB, and REF
       Under Phase I of the ERT Program, progress was made in establishing an
       institutional, policy, and regulatory framework for future investment in rural and
       renewable energy. REA is evolving into a key institution for planning and
       managing the government's rural electrification program. While REA has
       developed capacity in key areas, it still requires further strengthening. It also lacks
       autonomy to carry out its functions since it comes under the Ministry of Energy
       and the Chairman of its Board is the Permanent Secretary (PS) for the Ministry.
       REB is established and performing its responsibilities as legally prescribed. For
       REB to be effective, however, it also needs to be at `arms length' from the
       government, so that it can make decisions based on agreed financial and socio-
       economic criteria. Currently, there are no clear criteria for the selection of rural
       electrification projects. REF is operational and has been capitalized by a number
       of donor sources (World Bank, SIDA and Japanese Government), government
       budget, and the transmission levy. Overall, by Phase I closing in mid-2009, a
       framework for promoting rural electrification had been established and key
       institutions were operational. However, these institutions still lacked capacity in
       important areas.

   (ii) A Workable Financial Intermediation Mechanism for Rural Electrification
       A number of banking institutions financed investments in Phase I. For example,
       the East African Development Bank-financed Kakira Sugar Works and the West
       Nile Rural Electrification Company (WENRCO) were financed through the BoU
       re-finance facility.
       Demand for solar finance was low. Refinance for solar PV included funds
       provided to three microfinance deposit-taking institutions (MDIs). Uganda
       Microfinance Limited (UML) received US$297,000 for the provision of micro-
       credit to rural customers acquiring solar home systems. Commercial Microfinance
       Limited (CML) received US$297,000 for the provision of working capital loans
       to solar vendors. PostBank received US$425,000 to provide wholesale funds to
       savings and credit cooperative societies (SACCOs). Thus far, out of the $1.02
       million disbursed to these three agencies, the amount utilized for loans are 17%,
       55%, and 70% respectively, reflecting low demand.




                                             15
   The refinancing facility provided critical long term finance, which allowed
   participating financial institutions to extend the loan tenure, without which they
   would have been unwilling to participate. Currently, there is limited supply of
   long-term development finance (for terms beyond five years). Though a
   `workable financial intermediation mechanism for rural electrification is in place'
   it has been dependent on the longer term finance provided by IDA, GEF and other
   donors. The refinancing facility is not being extended into Phase 2. However,
   there is still concern on the part of lenders due to the perceived credit risk,
   especially lengthy implementation periods of rural investments.

(iii) Satisfactory Functioning of Two Independent Grid Rural Electrification
      Operations.

   Overall, independent grid systems have not made the expected progress due to
   financial, sub-contracting and management difficulties within the sponsoring
   companies. By project end in February 2009, the project targets had only been
   partially met.

   The West Nile Electrification project, sponsored by WENRECO, was one of two
   sub-projects planned to be supported under the ERT. Under ERT 1, the plan
   envisaged the construction of a 3.5MW hydro power plant at Nyagak. The
   hydropower plant is still under construction and unlikely to be commissioned
   before the end of 2010. This hydro plant was intended to supply the entire West
   Nile region, replacing the HFO plant.

   The other independent grid sub-project was upgrading the power facilities for
   Kisiizi hospital (one of Uganda's important rural health centers) from 60 kW to
   300 kW. After a number of technical difficulties, this sub-project was
   commissioned in February 2009 and connections to an estimated 300 customers
   are underway.

(iv) Satisfactory Functioning of 80 Percent of the Energy Systems Provided to
     Water Facilities, Health Clinics, Schools, and Agriculture-linked Users.
The end project target value for this indicator has been substantively met as
documented below.
   Ministry of Water and Environment. 20 solar water pumping systems, with a
   capacity of 195,960 watt peaks, have been installed and are in operation in 14
   districts country wide and in three different regions. The installation of solar
   panels helped provide water supply to communities.
   Ministry of Health. Standard solar energy packages were developed and
   designed for various sizes of medical buildings and staff houses in different
   Health Centers. Some 79 Solar DC vaccine fridges were supplied to Health
   Centers (HC); 261 staff houses received stand alone solar PV energy packages for
   lighting and operation of radio and TV/VCR; and 220 medical buildings received


                                       16
   stand alone solar PV energy packages for lighting and capacity to operate a
   microscope. Overall, the energy situation has been improved in twelve districts.
   Eight HCs received centralized solar PV diesel generator hybrid energy systems
   to provide lighting and capacity to operate microscopes and ultrasound scanners.
   Capacity has been developed at the MOH in the design of institutional solar
   energy systems for health facilities. Capacity has also been developed at the MOH
   to oversee the implementation of the standard energy packages in HCs using
   private companies to supply, install and provide maintenance services. The HCs
   have also experienced an increase in patients using their services at night. The
   impact evaluation, scheduled for next year will document the performance during
   post-installation period, in addition to the performance of the maintenance
   contract.

   Ministry of Education and Sports. Some 94 of the 129 educational institutions
   packaged under Phase 1 have been electrified using solar systems. As this sub-
   component made progress only in the last six months of the project, it has yet to
   have a significant impact on education services.
   Ministry of Agriculture. The agricultural sector has been a primary beneficiary
   of the project. Agricultural and agro-based enterprises, such as honey processing,
   milk cooling and maize processing, have had access to electricity supplied under
   the project and benefited from it. In addition, the Kayoza tea factory, companies
   growing and exporting flowers, and fish landing sites are examples of agricultural
   activities which benefited from the project. At the same time, the targeting of
   marginal agricultural consumers remains problematic and unclear whether it is
   truly cost effective.
(v) 15MW of Renewable Energy Power Generation Facilities Constructed or Under
    Construction (GEO Indicator)
   Considerable progress was made under Phase I in commissioning grid connected
   power generation from renewable energy sources (bagasse and small hydro)
   though not all of this new generation was project funded. The bulk of the energy
   was sold to the Uganda Electricity Transmission Company (UETCL). This
   indicator has been exceeded. Details of specific renewable energy investments
   are:

   The Kakira Sugar Works Cogeneration Project is now commissioned and is
   generating up to 22 MW and exporting 12 MW to the grid, representing an
   expansion of power generating capacity by approximately 14-15 MW.

   In general, small hydro power projectsare progressing fairly well, though not all
   have been project funded. Mpanga (18 MW) and Bugoye (13 MW) are under
   construction and scheduled to be commissioned by end of 2009; Buseruka (9
   MW) has started construction. Three more small hydro sites, with a total capacity
   of 20 MW, are also scheduled to start construction before end 2009.




                                       17
(vi) 320,000 Cumulative Watt-peak Sales of Solar PV Systems to Households and
    Institutions. (GEO Indicator)
   The first phase of ERT supported installations of over 1,300,000 watt peaks in the
   private sector through matching grants and subsidies channeled through the
   Private Sector Foundation. However, this achievement needs to be qualified since,
   despite the target being exceeded, this is largely attributable to the fact that many
   solar systems purchased were for community related services and benefitted from
   having a secure source of funding. The response from Solar Home System (SHS)
   consumers is still low and is below the Phase I target.

(vii) Solar Home System Price Reductions of about 20% from June 2000 Baseline
     have been achieved i.e., End-phase 1 price of about $14/Wp compared to about
     $20/Wp in June 2000(GEO Indicator)
   A price reduction of closer to 20% more accurately reflects the current
   international market conditions in 2009. The average cost has varied between
   US$12-17 per Wp, depending upon type of system (SHS or institutional). At
   MTR, the cost had in fact fallen to $14 but costs have since increased due to
   strong international demand for PV systems.
(viii) Finalization and Implementation of First Phase of Long-term Renewable
      Energy Capacity Building Strategy and Action Plan Including Financing of
      Recurrent Cost of Renewable Energy Projects and Institutional Arrangements.
      (GEO Indicator)
   A long-term renewable energy capacity building strategy and action plan was
   finalized in April 2007. Capacity building has been strengthened through on-job
   training of personnel. Initial capacity building in the public sector (e.g. REA,
   ERA, MEMD) has been completed. Capacity building in the private sector is
   ongoing; initial investments are ongoing or complete; and a pipeline of renewable
   energy projects, mostly mini-hydro, is growing.

(ix) Phase 1 Coverage Objectives for Rural Telephony, Internet Points of Presence
     and Rural Telecenters have been Satisfactorily Achieved.
   One public payphone (PP) has been provided for every 2,500 inhabitants in the
   154 sub counties (1,533 PP), exceeding the target of one public access point for
   every 5,000 inhabitants.
   32 Internet Points of Presence (POP) have been installed in district capitals.
   Additional, dedicated bandwidth has been added between Kampala and rural
   areas.
   20 smaller and more efficient multipurpose communication telecenters (MCP)
   were installed and are all operational; the initial target was 7 large MCPs. Also,
   20 postal telecenters have been set up by Posta Uganda and have been connected
   to the internet.




                                        18
   (x) Collection of at least 80% of the Telecommunications Universal Service Levy
       Revenues that are bIllable by the End of Phase 1.

       The collection rate has been exceeded, reaching more than 95% since December
       2007.

3.3 Efficiency

The broad-based, project design, comprising a diverse number of rural electrification and
ICT investments, did not lend itself to conventional economic and financial analyses. For
this reason, the PAD did not attempt to undertake a summary project analysis. However,
despite uncertainties because of the lack of any past experience with rural electrification
in Uganda, the PAD highlighted the expected higher economic benefits in comparison
with the financial revenues. In addition, the economic analysis emphasized the likely
indirect benefits that would be derived from rural electrification investments in sectors
such as health, agriculture, small and medium enterprise development, education, and
water.

In evaluating the different project outcomes, the overall project is considered efficient
based on the following considerations:

   (i) The project has helped put in place regulatory, planning, and funding mechanisms
       for rural electrification. A culture has also been developed to partner with the
       private sector to develop projects for the common good.

   (ii) Independent grid rural electrification operations have started to function, which
        will benefit many customers for accessing electricity.

   (iii) Installation of solar panels, especially in community centers, has helped in
         providing power supply for improved service delivery, and contributed in: (i)
         improving access to clean and safe water; (ii) increased usage of portable water
         supply services; (iii) reducing cost of energy for water pumping; (iv) reducing
         walking distances for collecting water; and (v) saving time, especially for women.

   (iv) Standard solar energy packages installed in medical buildings and Health Centers
        have resulted in offering improved quality and availability of health services in
        rural areas.

   (v) The agricultural sector has also benefited significantly from the project. For
       example, agricultural and agro-based enterprises such as honey processing and
       maize processing have benefited from access to electricity supplied under the
       project.

   (vi) For the ICT investments, improved service availability in payphones in rural areas,
        in Internet access, and in reduced cost for telephone calls, which have been




                                            19
       achieved through competitively bid subsidies, are examples of the benefits
       accrued to the rural population.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

As discussed in the preceding paragraphs, Phase I had a clear strategic relevance to the
Bank's country assistance strategy by directly supporting Uganda's economic
transformation and poverty reduction strategy described in the Government's Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP).

In terms of achievement of the project development objective for Phase I, a number of
policy and institutional steps were taken, aimed at putting in place an environment for
commercially oriented, sustainable service delivery of rural/renewable energy and ICTs.
These steps include: (i) approval of a Renewable Energy Policy; (ii) the main rural
electrification institutions i.e. REA, REB and REF, have each been established and are
operational; (iii) the ICT component has made solid progress in extending both telephone
and internet service to rural areas while reducing costs and generating increased public
revenue; and (iv) long term funding has been made available through IDA and GEF
funding to different financing institutions in Uganda and enabled a number of different
rural energy investments, including some off-grid renewable energy schemes, to move
ahead.

Offsetting these positive achievements has been the limited private sector participation so
far in rural energy investments. Phase I was designed to be private sector led, especially
grid extension investments. In practice, the bulk of grid extensions had to be undertaken
with scarce public funds because private equity did not materialize. Local investors
lacked experience and access to funding while potential foreign investors have shown
little interest. As the government observed following the completion of Phase I, the
`demand driven, private sector led model was found to be premature for the Ugandan
economy while government has still a big role to play in extending services to the people'.
Prospects, therefore, for significant private sector participation in ERT II are not
promising.

Other `start up' difficulties in Phase I have been the low demand for solar home systems
and extensive technical, contracting, and implementation difficulties in bringing on
stream a number of mini-hydro schemes. The nominal achievement of some indicators
e.g. cumulative peak sales of PV systems conceals some of the ongoing practical
problems to increasing demand. These difficulties will need to be addressed in ERT II.

In contrast to rural energy, ICT-related investments have made positive progress in Phase
I as shown by achievement of the key indicators. Overall, despite difficulties in attracting
private equity and bringing on stream renewable energy schemes, there has been
sufficient policy and institutional progress under Phase I in establishing an operational




                                            20
framework in the country for future rural energy investment to justify an overall outcome
of `Moderately Satisfactory'

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The Beneficiary Surveys conducted by the Ministry of Finance in 2008, together with
anecdotal evidence collected from interviews with beneficiaries, have demonstrated the
project's impact on poverty, gender, and social development.

Poverty Alleviation. Households have reported higher income because of an improvement
in business and employment opportunities resulting from the project. Some households
have reported that they could get their family members employed as welders, could
operate businesses of charging mobile phones and other businesses, such as selling cold
drinks, all because of the availability of electricity. Further, more people have now
regular power supply which is enabling them to use power for productive means,
including agro processing, fish processing and small industrial activities.

Gender Aspects. Anecdotal evidence indicates that because of easier access to potable
water as a result of electrification, women in some project target areas now spend less
time collecting water. This makes it easier for them to use this time for other productive
activities. In addition, availability of clean water is helping to lower incidences of malaria
and water born diseases. Many women have also been taking up business enterprises
and/or extending their business hours after dark. Access to ICTs has also created new
opportunities for women since most public phone service providers and students in POP
training centers are women. In addition, more women are reported attending pre-natal
clinics and coming to have deliveries at the health centers due to the availability of
improved quality of lighting.

Social Development. The project has resulted in both direct and indirect benefits for
individual households and for communities. These include improved health services in
some rural areas resulting from a more secure environment in hospitals because of
lighting. The expansion of ICT facilities has also increased the use of television, mobile
phones and the internet.

Institutional Change/Strengthening

As discussed in 3.2 (i) above, important progress was made in establishing an
institutional and policy framework for future investment in rural and renewable energy.

   (i) REA has evolved into a key institution for planning and managing government's
       rural electrification program. REB is established and is performing its roles as
       prescribed by the statutory instrument. REF is operational and has been
       capitalized by a number of different sources




                                             21
   (ii) Geographical Information System (GIS) laboratory, which provides mainly
        data on the renewable energy sources in Uganda, has been established.

   (iii)Business Development Support. (BUDS-ERT) was set up under the supervision
        of the Board of Directors of the Private Sector Foundation Uganda (PSFU). It
        provides business and market development services to entrepreneurs, micro-
        enterprises and SMEs, investors, finance organizations, NGOs and CBOs and
        other private entities to address skills and information barriers to rural
        electrification and ICT business opportunities. Several feasibility studies were
        supported though only a few reached financial closure (FC). This is attributed to
        several factors, such as: (i) lack of capacity of the sponsors to reach FC, with
        some failing to raise equity; (ii) lack of local capacity to carry out detailed
        feasibility studies; and (iii) lack of clarity on the subsidy criteria and standard
        templates to use in preparation of the feasibility studies. In addition, there seems
        to have been little appreciation of the need to remove barriers to private sector
        participation in renewable energy development. REA is now focusing on
        providing solar subsidies to end users instead of supporting the establishment of a
        vibrant solar market.

   (iv) UCC and ICTs. The ICT component enabled UCC to successfully plan and
        oversee provision of access to telephone services in un-served and under-served
        rural areas using an output based aid (OBA) approach. The use of OBA to
        stimulate investment in project target areas resulted in coverage of far more
        communities than originally anticipated.

Sector Policy Developments

   (i) Rural Electrification Strategy and Plan. A framework for promoting rural
       electrification is now operational.

   (ii) An Indicative Rural Electrification Master Plan (IREMP) was completed, but
        only focused on priority investments, targeting the connection of 500,000
        consumers in 10 years. Thus, the IREMP and the associated planning tools still
        need to be refined to enable detailed technical analysis and identification of the
        cost and capacity requirements for a consolidated roll-out plan.

   (iii) A Renewable Energy Policy was launched in November 2007. The main
        aspects of this policy include feed-in tariffs and standardized PPAs to enable
        promotion of private sector investment in rural electrification. The preparation of
        a standardized PPA has enabled conclusion of the several mini-hydro transactions.
        However, experience to date shows that the feed in tariffs still need to be
        reviewed.




                                            22
Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

   Positive:

   (i) In development planning, energy is added as an important factor in investment
       strategy. Participating sectors (e.g. health, education, water) are also
       mainstreaming energy into their priorities and activities.

   (ii) The Project has generated interest outside the scope of its target activities. For
        example, some NGOs have expressed their willingness to cost share in order to be
        connected to electricity.

   (iii)The project has helped in removing initial apprehensions for using renewable
        energy. For example, negative perception on using solar panels to pump water
        supply has been removed because of the project.

   (iv) There is an increase in patients seeking help at nights at Health Centers since they
        now have electricity.

   (v) Because of the availability of cheaper solar energy, schools have started
       demanding more solar panels and become less interested in using paraffin and
       firewood to meet their energy needs.

   Negative:

   1) Theft has become an issue with solar PV systems. Often, security guards have to
      be hired to protect modules, often at a high cost.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The following findings derive from the work of the MOF Poverty Monitoring Unit,
which was tasked through the project to assess the poverty impacts. The MOF work
assessed impacts in West Nile and Kisiizi regions. In the West Nile region, a power
system has been operating for several years, offering a comparison with selected control
sites. For Kisiizi, however, a power system was not operational during Phase I.

   (i) Impact of ERT on Enterprises

       Enterprise Migration into Grid Areas: The ERT program has stimulated the
       migration of enterprises into the grid areas for Paidha, a 20,000 population
       municipality in the West Nile region, as well as into the planned grid areas for
       Kisiizi micro hydro project.

       Development of Electricity Dependant Enterprises: In both Paidha and Kisiizi
       ERT sites, enterprises have been developed that can only operate in a sustainable
       way if there is electricity. These include: internet access points; video halls;


                                            23
   telephone charging businesses; photocopying services and other similar
   businesses.

   Improved Use of ICT in Enterprises: In the period from 2006 to 2008, ERT has
   contributed to an increase in the use of ICTs by enterprises in previously un-
   served or under-served areas.

(ii) Impact of ERT on Households

   It is still too early to assess the impact of ERT I on households. This will be
   assessed more fully under ERT II. The following are some preliminary findings:

   ICT Facilities - Access to ICT facilities is one of the key impacts of the ERT
   project to date.

   Income - Cash income is higher for electrified households in Paidha as compared
   to households in the control site.

   Crop Yield and Agro-processing - The increase in crop yield has been relatively
   small. The impact on agro-processing needs to be assessed during the next phase.

   Water and Sanitation Facilities - Access to safe drinking water and sanitation
   facilities has not significantly changed since the baseline.

   Health ­ Overall, the health situation has improved in both the control site and in
   Paidha since the baseline survey.

(iii) Impact of ERT on Health Service Providers

   The survey reveals a relatively important impact of ERT on health service
   provision in the Paidha ERT site. Facilities with electricity are observed to offer
   improved services, where patients have lighting in wards, the hospital
   environment is relatively safe, services are faster, and record keeping is
   computerized.

(iv) Impact of ERT on Education Service Providers

   The survey did not reveal a significant impact of ERT on education services.
   However, the solar systems installed under ERT I only became operational shortly
   before project closure.

(v) Impact of ERT on the PV Industry and on Key Beneficiaries

   The ERT program seems, at least to some extent, to have benefited the key target
   group, PV companies. In general, more efforts should be invested in making the


                                       24
       application procedure for sales based performance grants shorter and less
       bureaucratic. (Annex 5)

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

The overall risk assessment is rated as Substantial for the following considerations:

Limited Private Sector Participation. There has been limited private sector participation
so far in the ERT program. Phase I was designed to be private sector led, especially grid
extension investments. In practice, the bulk of grid extensions had to be undertaken with
scarce public funds because private equity did not materialize. Moreover, while local
investors lack experience and access to funding, potential foreign investors have shown
little interest. Consequently, prospects for attracting significant amounts of private sector
financing in ERT II and later phases are not promising because of the perceived high
costs and continuing high risks associated with rural energy investment. Much of the
funding will need to be provided by government, whose funding is constrained and is
likely to limit the scope of future rural energy investment if private sector capital is not
forthcoming While government can provide certain incentives to attract private
participation in rural energy investment, it does not control all the external factors that
also influence private sector investment. Hence, it will require a sustained focus of the
government in ERT II to attract private capital to areas of its rural investment program.

Developing a market for Solar Home Systems (SHS). The pace of expansion of Solar
PV companies in rural areas under ERT I was below expectations, especially in
individual households, due largely to insufficient business and technical capacity together
with the high capital costs of SHS and inadequate financing terms. In addition to
incentives targeted to potential SHS consumers, other incentives are required to
encourage the companies to accelerate investments in rural market infrastructure for sales,
and after sales service. These problems are not uncommon in establishing a market for
SHS and have been successfully addressed in Asian developing countries. It remains to
be seen, however, whether this will be achieved in Uganda.

Need for Strengthened Institutional Capacity. Despite extensive investment in training
and capacity building under ERT I, the capacity of MEMD and other key sector
Ministries and agencies involved in rural electrification investments still needs to be
strengthened. Otherwise, it will constrain the effectiveness of the government's rural
transformation program.

Independence of Sector Regulator. Political interference in the decisions of the
regulatory agency could affect its independence which, in turn, could erode the
confidence of the private sector. Mitigation measure includes strengthening the capacity
of the regulator through continued support under ERT II as well as close vigilance by
Bank supervision teams.




                                             25
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project
was judged to be Moderately Satisfactory. At the concept stage, the Bank played an
important leadership role in promoting a program for rural transformation that had direct
relevance to Uganda's poverty reduction strategy. The integration of rural energy,
renewable energy, and ICT components into the design were positive features that would
later bring tangible benefits to rural communities under ERT I During preparation and
appraisal, the Bank took into account technical, financial, economic, and fiduciary
concerns, including procurement and financial management aspects. A number of
alternatives were also considered for the project design. Project preparation was carried
out with an adequate number of specialists who provided the technical skill mix
necessary to address sector concerns and project design issues. The Bank provided
adequate resources, in terms of staff weeks and budget, to ensure quality preparation and
appraisal work. Finally, the Bank maintained a good working relationship with the
Borrower during preparation and appraisal.

Despite these positive aspects, there were two shortcomings during appraisal which
became increasingly evident during the implementation of Phase I. First, the project was
designed as a demand driven, private sector led rural transformation program in which
private sector investment, supported by `smart subsidies', would help finance the
government's rural energy investment program. Private sector financing did not
materialize while the appraisal report lacked a thorough assessment of the prospects, and
the constraints, for mobilizing private sector capital from either local or foreign investors.
Second, there was a lack of an in-depth institutional assessment of government capacity
to undertake an ambitious rural transformation program. While the project provided for
capacity building, the limited absorptive capacity of public sector institutions has
constrained progress under Phase I. Moreover, the project was not ready for
implementation at entry which imposed additional pressures on government capacity and
resulted in less than a 10% disbursement by the time of the MTR. Finally, in a country
prone to severe load shedding because of its vulnerability to drought conditions, there
was no acknowledgement in the risk section of the potential consequences of high oil
prices on private sector interest in rural energy investment, even recognizing such a risk
is not immediately mitigated.

Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory.

The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was considered
satisfactory. Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was
intensively supervised and closely monitored. There were also experienced local staff



                                             26
members on the team with a good knowledge of Uganda's rural sector. This included a
Power Engineer, as well as procurement, financial management, environmental, and
social experts, led by an engaged Country Manager and Country Director.

However, the supervision team inherited a project that was not ready for implementation
at entry and where a number of key government positions had still to be filled. The MTR
in October 2004 was used to discuss with government areas which needed to be
strengthened to turn around a faltering implementation performance. Disbursements
slowly picked up but the project still required a 30 month extension of the original
closing date involving two extensions; more than 50% of Credit disbursements took place
in the final two years. The team was generally responsive to government's concerns and
issues, despite some criticism from government of lengthy procurement delays and micro
management of the operational details.

With the exception of the final ISR, the 15 Implementation Status Reports (ISRs),
including 6 initial PSRs (until end 2004), realistically rated the performance of the project
both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project implementation
difficulties. The final ISR, in which DO and IP ratings were upgraded from MS/MS to
S/S, on the basis of credible progress in the final 12 months towards meeting a number
of the key indicators as well as improvements in implementation performance. However,
it did not warrant a satisfactory (S) rating overall for a project that had not met all of its
original targets and was completed more than 30 months behind the original schedule.

Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

The overall Bank Performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory due primarily to the
shortcomings noted in 5.1 (a) above. These shortcomings had an adverse impact on
implementation, especially during the initial years, and required an important change in
the source of financing ­from a concept that had been based on a private sector led model,
to one in which much more government funding was needed to finance the extension of
energy services to rural areas of the country.

Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

Government commitment to the main development objective was strong from the outset.
The ERT operation had a close link to the government's poverty reduction strategy and
investment in rural energy, including ICT services, was a priority investment area for the
government. There were four strong indications of borrower commitment. First, the
government amended the draft Electricity Act to reflect the Bank's views about the policy
framework for commercially-oriented rural electrification; Second, there was a one-day
workshop in June 1999 (hosted by the MEMD, the MOLG, the ULAA, and the World
Bank) to enable key stakeholders to discuss the principles and approach underlying this
project. Third, in June 2000, the Minister of Finance organized and presided over a


                                             27
meeting of bilateral donors to encourage them to support this project. Fourth, the project
received strong support from key cross-sectoral ministries including Agriculture, Health,
and Uganda Communications Commission, which had made the project a part of their
mainstream activities.

The government was also committed to renewable energy development. In November
1999, it took the significant first step in the passage of private power legislation that
would set the stage for rapid development of additional power resources. Further, in
Uganda, key measures related to power sector reform, such as a new Electricity Act, had
already been enacted, and they provided a level playing field for renewable energy. The
strong government commitment to the promotion of rural access to ICT was clear from
the inclusion of the Rural Communications Development Fund (RCDF) in the 1997
Uganda Communications Act, and in the considerable progress that had already been
made towards the establishment of the RCDF.

Follow through on its commitment to the project during implementation was uneven,
particularly in taking steps quickly to strengthen the capacity of key implementing
agencies. In fact, a general lack of capacity on the part of line Ministries adversely
affected implementation in the first few years of the project. Nevertheless, the MOFPED
collaborated closely with the Bank during implementation in conducting a baseline
survey as well as some broad based and in-depth surveys.

Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

PCU. The performance of the PCU during the implementation of the project was
Moderately Satisfactory. The main role of the PCU was to provide coordination and
cross-sector support on implementation issues, contract management, and procurement.
The PCU concentrated first on learning about the variety of technologies and approaches
they could promote to implement the project and developed capacities internally. This
was followed by bringing together the different Ministries such as Health, Education, and
Agriculture to show the potential of integrating energy into their service delivery process.
However, as the PCU was focused more on implementing the MEMD component, it did
not put adequate effort into coordination and support to other agencies.

The PCU submitted all required quarterly and annual reports more or less in a timely
manner. These reports were informative, and provided valuable feedback on how the
implementation was progressing covering all project activities.         The status of
performance indicators were incorporated in all progress reports and served as valuable
input to Bank supervision mission reports. The financial management system, including
accounting, controls, auditing and reporting, was adequate and satisfied the Bank's
financial management requirements. While FM was centralized at MEMD, REA
coordinated the other line ministries in FM data gathering and reporting. Audits had
greatly improved, with REA following up recommendations for system improvements.
Finally, procurement packages were mostly complex and the results were mixed, with



                                            28
each implementing agency responsible for its own procurement.             The overall the
procurement performance of the project was satisfactory.

Other Agencies. Several agencies, including REA, MEMD, UCC, BOU, PSF, and
various line ministries were involved in project implementation. As the performance of
these agencies varied, depending on their capacities, their overall performance is rated
Moderately Satisfactory.

Certain ministries and agencies like the Ministries of Water and Health took
responsibility and moved to develop their own energy related capacity, while the
Ministries of Education and Agriculture were not as successful. There were various
reasons for this situation: Ministries of Water and Health had a committed staff and
enthusiastic persons and created an energy team who took on the responsibility to create
their own internal capacity for the area of energy. In contrast, Education Ministry only
hired a dedicated person to handle the energy area recently. This caused project delays.
Likewise, Agriculture Ministry had no internal policy in place and there was poor
direction.

Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall Borrower performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. This was a
complex project with many government agencies involved. Commitment of the
government to the project objectives was strong. However, there was mixed performance
during implementation of the key implementing entities in resolving capacity constraints,
which resulted in a lengthy implementation period.

6. Lessons Learned
Assess Potential for Private Sector Participation

A clear lesson emerging from Phase I of the ERT is the need to undertake a careful
assessment of the potential for private sector investment in rural energy/ renewable
energy,, including identifying barriers, needed incentives, and/or risk mitigation measures
to enhance this potential. Participation of the private sector in Phase I in renewable
energy power generation for sale to the grid was satisfactory but was poor in access
projects via main-grid extension, the project's largest investment component. The
international private sector did not show interest in the latter, while participation of the
local private sector was much more limited than anticipated due to low capacity, scarcity
of equity, and a high perceived risk. An assessment of private sector potential during
preparation would have identified many of these constraints and led to a modified project
design in terms of the balance between private sector funded and publically funded
investments in rural energy.




                                            29
Balancing Project Design with Institutional Capacity

Project design needs to take into account existing capacities of all ministries and public
agencies involved in implementation, including at the community level; training and
capacity building also need to be provided to operate and maintain projects. The ERT
program involved several components in energy alone, with many government agencies
involved in implementation. A reduced project scope that took more into account existing
limitations in government implementation capacity would have helped reduce the
extensive implementation delays in Phase I.

Improving Supervision Performance

Having a field-based member in the Bank's supervision team, speaking the local
language with a detailed knowledge of the country's rural areas, is effective and helpful
in project implementation, especially for dealing with issues on a real-time basis. It is
also helpful in ensuring that the Bank team has a close relationship with the many
stakeholders in a project of this kind. The complex procurement packages required
seasoned Bank project procurement staff to be in place during project preparation rather
than later in the project implementation period. In addition, more flexibility is required in
the procurement of PPP contracts and use of commercial practice by the private sector in
such projects. It is also important for the PCU to discuss with the relevant agencies to
avoid delays associated with: (i) confirmation of Letter of Credits (LOCs); (ii) customs
clearance; and (iii) the need for testing by the Uganda National Bureau of Standards, so
that the requirements are streamlined and the implementation is not adversely affected.
These delays contributed to the slow delivery of Phase 1.

Need for long term Financing for Rural Energy Investments

Currently, there is limited supply of long-term development finance (on terms beyond
five years), due to the mismatch between the requirements of long-term lending, and the
time profile of commercial banks liabilities. This constraint needs to be rectified. Uganda
also needs to develop further strategies to attract more foreign investment for rural energy.

Developing a rural market for Solar Home Systems (SHS)

Experience in developing countries in Asia as well as in Latin America has shown that
strong technical supervision, quality assurance and due diligence for solar panels,
accessories, and power inverters are critical for the success of renewable energy activities
such as SHS. Likewise, capacity building and training in installations and O&M service
of renewable energy/water systems- especially of engineers, technicians, operators
/attendants of pumping stations and local communities -are equally important. Slowness
in anticipating and preparing for these capacity needs has been responsible for the low
demand for SHS under Phase I, particularly in households.




                                             30
ICT projects

Given the success of the ICT component in Phase I, it is worth considering the following
options in subsequent phases of the ERT program: (i) assisting local ISPs and content
providers in provision of affordable access and relevant information to rural
communities; (ii) providing major health clinics and facilities with local area networks
and access to internet for enhanced service delivery and information
access/dissemination; and (iii) exploring content delivery mechanisms to increase
educational opportunities in rural areas. Success in ICT has demonstrated that developing
and satisfying a rural demand for communications systems is easier than for energy
services.




                                           31
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing
Agencies/Partners
Borrower/Implementing Agencies

The Borrower did not comment of the ICR because of the limited time available once the
ICR was completed on December 15, 2009. However, the Borrower did provide a
detailed evaluation report on the project, agency by agency, including aspects of Bank
performance, which is described in Annex 7.             This section provides the main
observations made by the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development (MEMD), the
lead sector agency overseeing Energy Sector Development, which had the main oversight
responsibility for ERT 1. Its specific responsibilities under the project included:
formulation of policy, strategy and planning for rural energy, establishing an institutional
framework for rural electrification promotion and development, overall coordination of
the program, monitoring and evaluation, and capacity building.

Implementation Performance

The REF, REB and REA were established within one year of project commencement.
Key staff of REA was in place within two years. Once in place, REA quickly took on the
fast track projects namely Kakira, Kisiizi, and Nyagak (Mini Hydro) as well as the
management of the IREMP and PREPS. The absence of a coordinated approach to
implementation led to the appointment of a Coordination Manager and the establishment
of a Coordination Unit. Several workshops were and messages were carried in the
electronic and print media regarding the new approach to rural electrification.
Consultancies and Technical Assistance supported the creation of a Renewable Energy
Database, the promotion of gasifier technology, the promotion of energy efficiency in
small and medium enterprises (SMEs), the development of an Indicative Rural
Electrification Master Plan, the review of the ERT Project and the Rural Electrification
Framework and Institutions. A GIS lab has been established in the Ministry and data
from it was used in developing the Renewable Energy Policy, which was launched in
November 2007. Capacity Building was achieved through various short and long courses
both locally and internationally.

Operational Experience/ Lessons Learned

   i) The establishment of REA as the dedicated agency, has facilitated the expansion
        of rural electrification investments;
   i) Multi -sectoral programmes require a well staffed coordination office to carry out
        the functions of coordination monitoring, reporting;
   ii) The private sector did not show as much interest as anticipated, because of high
        risks, low level of equity, and inadequate business plans. It was necessary to
        change the mode of implementation to a situation whereby, Government invests
        and the private sector can thereafter manage.
   iii) There is considerable interest in rural energy and rural electrification in the
        districts. However, there is currently no representation at the district level.


                                            32
   iv) As a result of capacity building and training, there has been increased interest,
       enthusiasm and an improved work ethic in the Ministry. Some staff have even
       been promoted.
   v) Energy efficiency in SMEs, gasifier and biogas technology, has considerable
       expansion.
   vi) The promotion of CFLs reduced the peak load by about 20MW and an additional
       10MW can be attributed to sensitisation of consumers in the use of CFLs.

Outputs

   i) A framework for promoting rural electrification has been established and is now
      operational.
   ii) The Coordination Office was established and supported project implementation
       throughout the project life.
   iii) The consultancy for the review of the ERT and Rural Electrification framework
        and institutions recommended a shift in policy from private sector led to public
        sector led, with investments in infrastructure and supported by the private sector
        in the management of the schemes.
   iv) An Indicative Rural Electrification Master Plan was finalized and is being
       implemented by REA.
   v) As a result of the ERT promotion, recommendations were made for the
      establishment of district representation of the Energy Sector.
   vi) Technology demonstration sites were established and are now operational to
       improve energy efficiency in SMEs. Training in these technologies has been
       conducted and a national training mechanism is being packaged.
   vii) 560,000 CFLs have been distributed and Government is in the process of rolling
        out this exercise to other districts besides Kampala. Some 20MW of power was
        salvaged from the demand side.
   viii) A GIS laboratory, which contains mainly data on the renewable energy sources
       in Uganda especially the supply side, was established.
   ix) The Renewable Energy Policy was launched in November 2007 and 1000 copies
       of this policy were printed and have been distributed to the different stakeholders.
       The Policy is also posted on the MEMD website.
   x) The draft National Implementation Plan for Biogas has been developed.
   xi) An improved, skilled, well trained and highly motivated work force is available to
       promote sector development.

Performance of the Bank during Implementation

The Bank initially took long to respond to requests for No Objection and was sometimes
quite rigid in their outlook. This improved later on, especially when the Kampala Office
was strengthened and better channels of communication were availed.


                                           33
Cofinanciers

NA

(Other Partners and Stakeholders
The main report and results from a Stakeholder Workshop are described in Annex 6.




                                         34
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
              (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                   Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                                                    Percentage of
          Components             Estimate (USD Estimate (USD
                                                                     Appraisal
                                    millions)       millions)
Component 1. Main grid
related power distribution and         45.55          154.11            338%
generation
Component 2: Independent
                                       26.14           15.03            57%
grid systems.
Component 3: Solar PV
                                       10.80             4.54           42%
systems
Component 4: Cross-sectoral
                                       12.44             8.46           68%
linkages
Component 5: Energy Sector
capacity building, technical           15.88           15.54            98%
assistance and training
Component 6: ICT Sector                12.50             6.53           52%

            Total Baseline Cost                     123.31                   204.21                   166%
Physical Contingencies
                                                       0.00                      0.00                  0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                      0.00                     0.00                    0.00
           Total Project Costs                      123.31                   204.21                   166%
Project Preparation Fund                              0.00                     0.00                     .00
Front-end fee IBRD                                    0.00                     0.00                     .00
   Total Financing Required                         123.31                   204.21                   166%

Note: Costs under funding sources other than World Bank exceeded the estimated appraisal figures and under the
"Main grid related power distribution and generation component" because of the following reasons: (i) approved and
published Renewable Energy Policy, which has a favorable feed in tariff was attractive for private investors; (ii)
shortage of electricity in Uganda provided a market for Small Hydro Power investments, which feed in to the main
grid; and (iii) Mini Hydro Investment feeding into the Main grid proved a good investment for the private Investors.

(b) Financing
                                                (b) Financing
                                                 Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                                                                               Percentage of
           Source of Funds                       Estimate        Estimate
                                                                                                Appraisal
                                               (USD millions) (USD millions)
Borrower                                            7.20          10.00                              139%
IDA                                                 49.10         56.91                              116%
Foreign Sources (Unidentified)                       2.50         21.55                              862%


                                                         35
Bilateral Agencies (Unidentified)              6.90               18.29                265%
Foreign Commercial Sources
                                               45.49              86.10                189%
(Unidentified)
GEF                                           12.12               11.35                94%
TOTAL                                         123.31              204.2                166%

              (a) Original and Reallocated Amounts of IDA Credit Proceeds by
                                             Category
    Category                     Amount of      Revised        % of expenditures to
                                 the Credit     allocation (in be financed
                                 allocated (in SDR eq.)
                                 SDR eq.)
    (1) Sub loans                 1,118,0000        8,284,824    90% of amounts
                                                                     disbursed
    (2) Grants for:
    (a) ICT Subproject             3,510,000        4,186,769      87% of grant
                                                                      amount2
    (b) Rural Electrification      5,580,000                    100% of amounts
                                                                     disbursed
    (i) Subprojects financed       3,790,000       1,1922,715
    through REA
    (ii) Other Subprojects
    (3) Consulting Services,                                     100% of foreign
    training and audit fees for:                                 expenditures and
                                                                   90% of local
                                                                   expenditures
    (a) Direct Services:
    (i) Participating Ministries   2,110,000        2,562,620
    (ii) PSF                        650,000          397,374
    (iii) UCC                       360,000          676,160
    (iv) REA                       2,320,000        1,524,587
    (b) PSF Matching Grants         530,000          627,334            50%
    (4) Good
    (a) REA                         110,000          223,721
    (b) PSF                          70,000           51,228
    © Participating Ministries     3,340,000        5,207,698



2
 Please note that the ICT component was initially estimated at US$5.5 million and later increased to
US$12 million, mainly due to the more than anticipated demand for this component. US$10.5 million was
covered by International Development Association (IDA) credit and the rest by government counterpart
funds.




                                                 36
(5) Operating Costs                             90%
(a) REA                413,000     1,190,962
(b) PSF                 55,000      212,393
© MEMD                 430,000     1,155,211
(d) BOU                 70,000       76,404
(6) Unallocated       3,782,000
TOTAL                 38,300,000   38,300,000




                              37
     (b) Original and Reallocated Amounts of GEF Trust Fund Grant

Category              Amount of     Revised          % of expenditures to
                      the Credit    allocation (in   be financed
                      allocated (in SDR eq.)
                      SDR eq.)
(1) Goods                                             100% of foreign
                                                      expenditures and
                                                        90% of local
                                                        expenditures
(a) Health and          110,000         1,720,576
Education energy
packages:
(b) PSF                 40,000           295,008
(2) Grants             4,910,000        4,391,467     100% of amounts
                                                          disbursed
(3) Consultant                                         100% of foreign
Services:                                             expenditures and
                                                        90% of local
                                                        expenditures

(i) Participating      2,600,000        1,852,699
Ministries
(ii) PSF                700,000         91,1180
(4) Operating Costs     160,000         329,070       100% of foreign
(PSF)                                                 expenditures and
                                                        90% of local
                                                        expenditures
(5) Unallocated         980,000
TOTAL                  9,500,000        9,500,000




                                   38
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Component 1. Main grid related power distribution and generation

   i) Priority Rural Electrification Projects

        Construction of the Mbarara ­ Kyabirukwa ­ Kikagati ­ Ntungamo line with a tee
        off to Kabuyanda and Mirama Hill grid extension project is complete. This is a
        33KV, 150 km grid extension project currently being operated by UEB. The
        intention is that it would be operated (O/M) by a private concession using a prepaid
        metering system

        Construction of the Kyotera ­ Mutukula line with a tee off to Kasensero project is
        complete. This is a 33KV, 87Km grid extension project. The intention is that it
        would be operated by a private O/M concession using a prepaid metering system.

   ii) Kilembe Investments Limited

        Construction of lines to supply electricity to the rural areas of Kasese District and
        surrounding areas, covering 68km of HV and 52km of LV is complete. It is
        operated by Kilembe investment limited, a private concessionaire, and the
        connection of 2000 customers is underway.

   iii) Community Projects

        This included construction of grid extensions to supply more than 20 communities
        near, or within, the existing grid. The completed schemes have been handed over to
        Umeme for operation under the same terms and conditions of the existing
        concession obligations.

   iv) Power Generation -

        Kakira cogeneration plant using Bagasse was upgraded and is now supplying the
        grid with 12 MW. A number of mini hydro power schemes are either ongoing or at
        various stages of construction. Some of the ongoing schemes include: Mpanga (18
        MW) and Bugoye (13 MW). Buseruka (9 MW) has started construction; Kikagati
        (10 MW) and Ishasha (5 MW) started construction in early 2009

Component 2: Independent grid systems.

   i)      Upgrading of the Kisiizi hospital power project from 60kw to 300kw is
           complete. This project will electrify the Nyarushanje community in Rukungiri
           District and connections of an estimated 300 customers are underway.

The construction of a 3.5MW Hydro power plant at Nyagak is in progress. This plant will
supply the West Nile region, replacing a 1.5MW HFO thermal plant, which is supplying
over 2800 customers in the West Nile Region of the country. The evacuation network and
the power house are complete and works on the dam, channel and penstock sections
respectively stand at approximately 60% completion.



                                             39
Component 3: Solar PV systems

The first phase of the ERT programme supported installations of over 1,300,000 watt peaks
in the private sector through matching grants and subsidies channeled through the Private
Sector Foundation and Rural Electrification Agency.
Component 4: Cross-sectoral linkages

   i)     512 solar systems with a capacity of 117,140 watt peaks have been installed and
          are in operation in health centers across the country. This has improved service
          delivery in the Health sector.

   ii)    20 solar water pumping systems, with a capacity of 195,960 watt peaks, have
          been installed and are in operation in 14 districts country wide. This least cost
          energy solution has improved water supply services in small towns and rural
          growth centers country wide.

   iii)   To date, 94 of the 129 Educational institutions packaged under the Phase 1 have
          been electrified using solar systems. A total of 58,875 watt peaks will be
          installed in 10 districts across the country. This will directly improve the quality
          of Education in these institutions.

Component 5: Energy Sector capacity building, technical assistance and training

   i)     A regulatory framework was put in place to promote rural electrification. This
          includes the Rural Electrification Board, the Rural Electrification Agency and
          the Credit Support Facility.

   ii)    The Renewable Energy Policy was developed to guide the development of the
          sector and attract private sector investment.

   iii)   The Indicative Rural Electrification Master Plan was developed. This will be
          used as a basis for rural electrification during the second phase.

   iv)    Technology demonstration sites have been established to improve efficiency in
          Small and Medium Enterprises (SME's) and to promote biomass gasification
          technology. A plan to upscale these activities has been developed.

   v)     A GIS laboratory was established which contains data on renewable energy
          sources in Uganda. a capacity building plan was also developed and is being
          implemented.

   vi)    Quarterly stakeholders' workshops were conducted as a management tool.
          Regional workshops were conducted countrywide and local government district
          workshops were conducted at grass root level.

   vii)   Staff from the Ministry of Energy and other participating agencies were trained
          in various energy related skills, ICT, procurement, finance and general
          management skills.



                                            40
   viii)   The review of the ERT and the Rural Electrification framework recommended a
           change in policy whereby Government should invest in infrastructure and
           private sector carries out operation.


Component 6: ICT Sector

   i)      Infrastructure expansion of the telephone network in 154 originally under
           served sub counties was completed and 1,534 Community Information Centers
           deployed and operationalised. To date, there is one public payphone for every
           2,500 inhabitants in the 154 sub counties

   ii)     32 internet points of presence were installed and are operational in 32 District
           Head Quarters.

   iii)    16 multipurpose communication telecenters were installed and are all
           operational.

   iv)     20 postal telecenters have been set up by Posta Uganda and have been
           connected to the internet




                                            41
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

See Section 3.3, Efficiency




                                          42
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision
Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                Responsibility/
          Names                      Title            Unit
                                                                  Specialty
Lending
Arun Sanghvi            Lead Energy Specialist         AFTEG Team Leader
Rob Schware             Lead Informatics Specialist    AFTPS Informatics
Malcolm Cosgrove-Davies Senior Energy Specialist       AFTEG Energy
Subodh Mathur           Senior Economist               AFTEG Consultant
Sten Bergman            Senior Power Engineer          AFTEG Power Engineering
Trine Refsbaek          Junior Professional Officer    AFTEG Cross-sector Expert
Vivien Foster           Economist                     LAC-LCR Telecoms Expert
Philip Gowers           Lead Health Specialist         AFTHD Health
Peter Okwero            Health Specialist              AFTHD Health
                        Financial Management                  Financial
Joseph Kizito                                          AFTFM
                        Specialist                            Management
                                                              Environmental
Arne Dalfelt             Sr. Environmental Specialist AFTEN
                                                              Safeguards
                         Sr. Social Development
Kristine Ivardotter                                    AFTES Social Safeguards
                         Specialist
                         Sr. Financial Management             Financial
Modupe Adebowale                                       LOAAF
                         Specialist                           Management
Aberra Zerabruk          Senior Counsel                LEGAF Legal
Rogati Kayani            Senior Procurement Specialist AFTPC Procurement
                                                              Quality Assurance
Karl Jechoutek           Advisor (through PCD)
                                                              Team
                         Sr. Advisor, Micro-finance           Quality Assurance
William Steel                                          AFTPS
                         and SMEs                             Team
                         Principal Renewable Energy           Quality Assurance
Ernie Terrado                                          LCSFE
                         Specialist                           Team
                         ex-Bank Director of                  Quality Assurance
Louis Pouliquen
                         Infrastructure, Consultant           Team
                         ex-Bank Division Chief for           Quality Assurance
Peter Scherer
                         Telcoms and Energy                   Team
Jonathan Brown           Operations Adviser,                  Quality Enhancement
                                                       AFTQK
                         (AFTQK/ACT Africa) Chair             Review
Nwanze Okidegbe          Adviser                              Quality Enhancement
                                                        RDV
                                                              Review
Onno Ruhl (AFTPS)        Lead Private Sector                  Quality Enhancement
                                                       AFTPS
                         Development Specialist               Review
                         Former World Bank Vice
                                                              Quality Enhancement
Richard Stem             President and Director of
                                                              Review
                         Energy Department


                                         43
                         Rural Electrification Policy &
                         Strategy, Institutional                   International
Wolfgang Mostert
                         Framework, Rural                          Consultant
                         Electrification Fund Specialist
                         Rural Business and Solar
                         Market Development and                    International
James Finucane
                         Financial Intermediation                  Consultant
                         Specialist
                         East African Renewable
                                                                   International
Michael Bess             Energy Economist and
                                                                   Consultant
                         Planner
                         Grid-Connected Renewable
                                                                   International
Robert Chronowski        Energy Program Development
                                                                   Consultant
                         Specialist
Patrick Barugahare       Lawyer                                  Local Consultant
Luka Abe                 Capacity Building                       Local Consultant
Herbert Dusabe           Lawyer                                  Local Consultant
Geoffrey Kitakule        Financial Analyst/Modeler               Local Consultant
                                                                 Administrative and
Raima Oyeneyin           Language Program Assistant        AFTEG
                                                                 Client Support
Supervision/ICR
Arun Sanghvi             Lead Energy Specialist            AFTEG   Team Leader
Malcolm Cosgrove-Davies Senior Energy Specialist           AFTEG   Energy
Peter Smith/Rob Schware Lead Informatics Specialist        AFTPS   Informatics
Trine Refsbaek           Junior Professional Officer       AFTEG   Cross-sector Expert
Paul Baringanire         Power Engineer                    AFTEG   Power Engineering
Howard Bariira Centenary Procurement Specialist            AFTPC   Procurement
Richard Olowo            Senior Procurement
                                                           AFTPC   Procurement
                         Specialist
Marjorie Mpundu          Counsel                           LEGAF   Legal
Edith Mwenda             Senior Counsel                    LEGAF   Legal
Luis Schwarz                                                       Financial
                         Sr. Finance Officer               CTRFC
                                                                   Management
Patrick Piker Umah Tete Sr. Financial Management                   Financial
                                                           AFTFM
                        Specialist                                 Management
Subodh Mathur           Senior Economist                   AFTEG   Consultant
                        Sr. Social Development
Mary Bitekerezo                                            AFTCS   Social Safeguards
                        Specialist
Mavis Ampah             Sr. ICT Policy Specialist          CITPO   ICT
Martin Fodor            Sr. Environmental Specialist       AFTEN   Environment
Richard Hosier          Sr. Environmental Specialist       ENVGC   GEF
                        Financial Management                       Financial
Paul Kamuchwezi                                            AFTFM
                        Specialist                                 Management
Bobak Rezaian           Sr. Energy Specialist              AFTEG   ICT and Energy
Peter Silarszky         Senior Economist                   CITPO   ICT/Economics
Kameel Virjee           Financial Specialist               ETWAF   Finance
Wolfgang Mostert        Rural Electrification Policy               International


                                          44
                          & Strategy, Institutional              Consultant
                          Framework, Rural
                          Electrification Fund
                          Specialist
Janine Speakman           Operations Analyst           AFTEG     Operations
                                                                 Administrative and
Agnes Kaye                Program Assistant            AFMUG
                                                                 Client Support
                          Language Program                       Administrative and
Anta Loum Lo                                           AFTEG
                          Assistant                              Client Support
                          Language Program                       Adminstrative and
Raima Oyeneyin                                         AFTEG
                          Assistant                              Client Support


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                                USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                                consultant costs)
Lending
 FY2000                                       17                     216
 FY2001                                       13                     180
 FY2002                                       15                     149
                          Total:              45                     551
Supervision/ICR
 FY2002                                         5                     70
 FY2003                                        30                    219
 FY2004                                        26                    207
 FY2005                                        34                    223
 FY2006                                        45                    202
 FY2007                                        44                    285
 FY2008                                        21                    115
 FY2009                                        22                    122
                          Total:              227                   1343




                                           45
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results3
The purpose of the survey (M&E activity) was to identify and measure the impact of the
ERT project interventions in terms of rural transformation, i.e., improvements in quality of
life and increases in incomes. The M&E concretely measured how communities benefit
from increased access to energy, as well as the degree to which positive (or negative)
changes are a result of the ERT (and not other extraneous factors), with a view to
improving the design of the later phases of ERT program.

The immediate objective of the M&E, namely to establish and operate a monitoring and
evaluation program for the Energy for Rural Transformation Programme, which can allow
for adjusting and implementing properly the following phases of the ERT programme, was
achieved. The M&E program was established, and the 5 main M&E reports, along with the
8 issues papers and the 11 videos from the surveyed sites are demonstrating the impact to
date of the ERT program and provide recommendations for adjusting and implementing
properly the next phases of the ERT programme. The findings are available on the M&E
Knowledge Sharing Portal.

Monitoring was performed via in-depth and broad based surveys in the two selected project
areas and one control site. These surveys are providing detailed assessments of the impacts
of: mini-grids, grid extensions and PV systems in the communities, households and
institutions where they are installed.

Impact of ERT on Enterprises

The period between the years 2006 and 2008 is very short to assess the impact of ERT, but
nevertheless there are some aspects regarding enterprises upon which ERT has had direct
impact and these are:

Enterprise migration into grid areas: The ERT program has stimulated the migration of
enterprises into the grid areas for Paidha and for Kisiizi into the planned grid areas. The
main drive reported for the migration (93%) was economic in nature. Of those that had
migrated to Paidha, 11% had done so in the last 2 years prior to the survey. Similarly in
Kisiizi, there is a noticeable clustering of enterprises along the proposed grid areas.

Spring-up of electricity dependant enterprises: Both in Paidha and Kisiizi ERT sites,
enterprises have sprung up that can only operate in a sustainable way if there is electricity:
These include: internet access points; video halls; telephone charging businesses;
photocopying services and other similar businesses.

Increased usage of electric energy: The ERT program has brought about appreciation of
importance of energy in enterprises. This is evident in Paidha with about 89% of the
enterprise owners ranking electricity as important or very important in relation to the
available energy sources, while only 18% of enterprise owners in Sironko (the control site)


3
    Note: Beneficiary Surveys were carried out by independent consultants hired by the Ministry of Finance.




                                                       46
rank electricity as important or very important. The appreciation of the importance of
electricity in Paidha is further confirmed by increased usage of electricity in enterprises that
has almost doubled from 28% in the year 2006 to 53% in the year 2008.

Improved use of ICT in enterprises: In the period from 2006 to 2008, ERT has brought
about an increase in enterprise use of ICT. In Paidha, 79% of enterprise owners use a
telephone up to five times a day while in Sironko only 16% do the same. Telephone access
is higher in Paidha with about 81% of enterprise owners accessing a phone in their houses,
while in Sironko only about 30% of enterprise owners have access to phones in their
houses.

Impact of ERT on Households
The ERT Programme has already led to improvements for households in the area.
Especially, use of ICT has been stimulated, giving people access to more information and
consequently improving quality of life.

Perceived Impact - Households have high expectations regarding improved energy
sources and the impact it can have on their livelihood. While the households only
experience limited impact of energy access in the control site there is general consensus in
Paidha that the grid power has resulted in both direct and indirect impact for the individual
households and general community. These include services such as better quality of saloon
services, better quality of entertainment particularly with video halls and a secure
environment in hospitals because of light.

ICT facilities - Access to ICT facilities is one of the key impacts of ERT projects till date.
The findings showed that the households' access to and use of ICT has improved
considerably since the baseline. In Paidha, 44.9% of the households have access to ICT
facilities compared to 29.6% of the households in Sironko where there are no ERT projects.
The unique ICT facilities enjoyed include television, mobile phones and internet.

Income - Cash income is higher for households in Paidha compared to households in the
control site. In Paidha, households reported an improvement in business and employment
opportunities since the introduction of ERT. Some households reported that they could get
their members employed as welders, could operate businesses such as charging mobile
phones or selling cold drinks- all because of availability of electricity. In contrast, it was
found that a higher proportion of households are operating SMEs in the control site
compared to households in Paidha. Common for both sites is that, although the households
are still poor, the income level has increased since the baseline.

Land ownership and the amount of land - Land ownership and the amount of land
owned at household level is an important indicator of households' wealth and well-being.
The survey findings show that the percentage of households with sufficient land is higher
in Paidha compared to the control site. However, for both sites there is still a considerable
amount of households, which do not have sufficient land for agricultural purposes.

Crop yield and agro-processing - The increase in crop yield has been relatively small
since the baseline, which indicates that households have not been able to use electricity to
improve their agricultural production. As for agro-processing, costs have increased both in


                                              47
ERT sites and the control site. Although there were no notable differences in terms of agro-
processing unit costs between control and ERT sites, the households in Paidha had a choice
of either using grid powered plants or diesel powered ones.

Water and sanitation facilities - Access to safe drinking water and sanitation facilities has
not significantly changed since the baseline. Whereas it would be expected in the ERT sites
for the local population to benefit from access to piped water because of presence of grid
power, this has not been the case.

Health ­ Overall, the health situation has improved in both the control site and in Paidha
since the baseline. In Paidha, it is generally agreed that the quality of health service has
improved since the introduction of electricity but other factors such as limited skilled
personnel, medicine etc. affects the quality of the health service.

Education - One of the assumptions in the ERT program is that the establishment of power
would provide school children with the opportunity to do homework at night. The survey
findings do not support this assumption as a higher percentage of school children do
homework during the night in the control site compared to Paidha, where there is electricity.

Household well-being analysis - The households in the control site found that there had
been a decline in their well-being, while in Paidha and Kisiizi the well-being of the
households was generally consistent to what was expressed at the baseline.

Impact of ERT on Health service providers

The survey reveals a relatively important impact of ERT on health service provision in the
Paidha ERT site. Facilities with electricity are observed to offer improved services, where
patients have light in wards, the hospital environment is relatively safe, and services are
faster where record keeping is computerized. However, the impact remains somehow
overshadowed by the many other challenges that health facilities face i.e.

1.   Lack of adequate and qualified staff
2.   Lack of sufficient funds for capital and operational expenditure and
3.   Lack of adequate drugs
4.   Lack of space / beds and other equipments

Impact of ERT on Education service providers

In all the sites, the survey did not reveal any significant impact of ERT on education
services. The survey revealed that whereas ERT has `perceived' importance to education,
the primary requirements of education institutions fall outside ERT and they include the
following:
     Class room space
     Qualified teachers
     Textbooks
     Sufficient accommodation




                                              48
   More financial resources for capital expenditure and operational expenditure of the
   institutions

Staff retention: There is not as yet any evidence of the wanted impact of rural
electrification on staff retention in educational institutions. There are no major differences
between the control site and ERT sites, or any significant development since the baseline.
So few schools are connected to the grid and so few staff has grid access, that grid access
cannot be seen to have had any impact, at least so far.

School enrolment: Generally, school enrolment is about the same in the two sites.
Traditions and religion have significant impact on the school enrolment, leading to some
variances between the three sites.

Student performance has slightly improved since the baseline, in both control and ERT
sites. Some of the education institutions connected to the grid in the Paidha ERT site did
not show any significant improvement in their performance as compared to those that were
not connected to the grid.

ICT related courses: The survey results showed that no school had introduced ICT related
courses into the school curriculum. The subjects being taught when the baseline was
conducted have not changed. This means that despite access to grid power and other
improved energy sources, the benefits related to ICT have not been reaped. As was found
for most institutions, there are still challenges with grid power connections and acquisition
of hardware and software needed to start ICT subject/courses.

Access to improved energy sources is highly relevant for the provision of educational
services of good quality; this is recognised by respondents both in the ERT sites as well as
in the control site. The access to electricity will first and foremost provide a possibility to
enhance the provision of educational courses, but also provide lighting, allowing students
to have sufficient light in the class rooms as well as to read at night.

Nevertheless, it is seen that also a considerable number of other factors have impact on the
quality of educational services, including the acquisition and storage of adequate and up-
to-date scholastic materials, incl. text books, transport for staff and students, sanitation, and
support from parents and communities. This applies equally to the control site as well as to
the ERT sites. Energy is important to education institutions but is not the most basic need
for these institutions.

As for funding at local levels, funding from communities and parents is insufficient, so
other measures are being introduced to enhance quality. Among those mentioned are more
effective teaching programs ­ including extra lessons, frequent assessments of pupils and
teachers, central resource centres for instructional materials, and extended use of local
languages.

Impact of ERT on the PV Industry and on key beneficiaries

The ERT programme seems ­ at least to some extent - to have benefited the key target
group, PV companies. In general more efforts should be invested in making the application
procedure for sales based performance grants shorter and less bureaucratic.



                                               49
There is a need for giving higher priority to the final beneficiaries, households, institutions
and enterprises. The intentions of the ERT programme are good but the results may be
improved by focusing directly on the end users.

The ERT programme has the potential to produce both short and long term positive effects.
At present moment, there are indications that the programme contributes positively to rural
transformation through this reduction in fuel costs, which can be used to finance personal
needs as well as increased use of ICT, which facilitate improved quality of life through
improved communication and entertainment.




                                              50
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Excerpts from:
            MINISTRY OF ENERGY AND MINERAL DEVELOPMENT

           ENERGY FOR RURAL TRANSFORMATION PROGRAMME

  OBJECTIVE ORIENTED PARTICIPATORY PROJECT PLANNING (OOPPS)
  WORKSHOP REPORT HELD AT IMPERIAL RESORT HOTEL, ENTEBBE-
                             UGANDA
                        11th -12th July 2007




                           EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

This is an external performance assessment for Phase I and proposal for Phase II of the
components of Energy for Rural Transformation Programme (ERT) in Uganda. The
programme is being implemented by the Government of Uganda (GOU) under the Ministry
of Energy and Mineral Development (MEMD). The exercise was sanctioned by the MEMD
to a Consultant, and undertaken in July 2007 using, the methodologies of documentary
review and holding an OOPPS workshop. A cross section of the main stakeholders from
the implementing institutions participated in the OOPPS workshop.


ERT is a private sector led ten-year multi-sectoral programme developed by GOU with
IDA/GEF support. The overall goal of ERT is to increase rural electricity access from 1%
to 10% by the year 2012. The Programme was built on strong linkages among key
production and human resource sectors including Agriculture, Health, Water, Education
and Local Governments. ERT employs several delivery mechanisms that include grid
extensions, decentralized mini grids, solar PVs and the development of other renewable
energy resources.


The overall objective of the Consultancy was to assess the performance of the components
of ERT; point out any lessons learnt in Phase I, as well make recommendations and
proposals for the implementation of Phase II. Findings of the study are also aimed at
providing inputs into the rural electrification review consultancy soon to be launched.



                                             51
Relative to the phase one and objectives targets and time Phase I aimed at "Development of
requisite framework and limited investment", in the rural energy sector. Using Phase I
targets as a baseline, the ERT Programme has performed to a commendable level. The
achievements are of two dimensions: (1) Institutionally, "Establishment of a regulatory
system for rural electrification, satisfactory working of Rural Electricity Board (REB),
Rural Electrification Agency (REA); and Rural Electrification Fund (2) in service delivery,
it has contributed to the reduction of the solar home system price from US$20 to US$12 ­
17, and an increase in of power generation and the availability of electricity to the
population" by about three (3) percent.


The following constraints have been experienced during the implementation of Phase I so
far. On the supply side, institutional and procedural requirements largely delay timely
implementation of program activities. On the demand side, lack of affordability of the rural
poor to pay for the energy services and limited investment in infrastructure remains a major
constraint in transforming lives of the rural poor.


To achieve the core objective of ERT Phase II of "Increased access to energy and ICT
focusing on increased productive use of energy, enhancement of social services and
improved quality of life" requires strengthening the Rural Electrification Agency and
implementation of other strategies to increase access to energy by the rural poor. This also
requires enhancing the multi-sectoral approach already in place.




                                              52
                  CHAPTER ONE: INTRODUCTION
1.1: INTRODUCTION

This is an `Objective Oriented Participatory Programming Systems (OOPPS) report
on the `Energy for Rural Transformation (ERT) Project of Government of Uganda
(GoU) under the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development (MEMD). Phase I of
the project has been under implementation since 2002 and this assignment was
commissioned by MEMD in preparation for the implementation of Phase II. As part
of this OOPPS assignment, a participatory workshop was facilitated from 11th ­12th
July 2007 at Imperial Resort Beach Hotel in Entebbe, Uganda. Representatives from
ERT key stakeholders participated in the workshop; a list of people who attended is
attached as Annex One.

This report is divided into the following sections:
   Overview of ERT
   Objectives of the Performance Assessment
   Methodology used in the Performance Assessment
   Assessment of Performance of Phase I of ERT
   Conclusions
   Proposals for ERT Phase II

1.2: OVERVIEW OF ERT

ERT is a ten-year private-sector led multi-sectoral project developed by GOU with
IDA/GEF support. The overall goal is to increase rural electricity access from 1% to
10% by the year 2012, through a number of delivery mechanisms, which include grid
extensions, decentralized mini grids, solar PVs and development of other renewable
energy resources. Being multi-sectoral, the project is built on strong linkages with key
production and human resource sectors namely Agriculture, Health, Water, Education
and Local Governments. The scope of work under each sector is described in Annex
Two.

The project implementation was broken down into three phases purposely to allow
learning as succinctly put in an appraisal of the project by Associate Professor of
Energy and Director of Renewable Energy Dr. Daniel M. Kammen of University of
California, Berkeley

       "An important feature of the project that must be preserved is the slow and
       steady development, learning, and reflexive analysis that the new social,
       institutional, and educational components require. Overly rapid growth in
       funding can do as much to harm a fledgling institution as can neglect.
       Mechanisms are also required to integrate and to recognize the pervasive
       nature of the informal rural economy, and the degree to which interventions
       have implications ­ sometimes delayed ­ across society. In a project of this
       scale there has been a tendency in the past to accelerate the process based on
       signs of technical progress that in fact disguises or ignores needed social
       support and adaptation time." (Kammen, 2000)




                                           53
In line with the need to learn and allow for reflexive analysis, the ERT was broken
down into three phases. Phase I was basically meant to be `throat clearing' process
with an overall objective to "Develop requisite framework and limited investment"
for the take-off in Phase II and the specific objectives are:

   1. To put in place a functioning conducive environment and related capacity for
      commercially oriented sustainable service delivery of rural renewable energy
      and information, communication technologies (ICTs)

   2. To build in-country capacity, for renewable energy investments

As already mentioned, implementation of Phase I of the ERT comes to an end next
year in August 2008. The OOPPS assignment was to reflect on lessons that can be
used in the planning and implementation of Phase II, as detailed in the Terms of
Reference (TORs) below.

1.3: OVERALL OBJECTIVE OF THE OOPPS CONSULTANCY

The overall objective of the consultancy was to assess the performance of the
components of ERT; point out any lessons learnt in the Phase I and make
recommendations and proposals for the implementation of Phase II. The assignment
also aimed at providing inputs into the rural electrification review consultancy,
planned to take place before Phase I is completed.

1.4: SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES

Specifically, the Consultancy was to apply the concept of OOPPS to:

   1. Assess the performance of Phase I of ERT in terms of :
             a. The level of achievement realized; and
             b. The level of non-performance
   2. Establish the factors for the existing level of performance or non-performance
       by:
             a. Explaining the actual enabling and constraining factors including
                actors;
             b. Considering institutional factors-formal and informal in the wider
                sense
   3. Establish solutions to address the identified constraints

1.5. METHODOLOGY
The general methodology was participatory in nature. The Client provided an
opportunity for pre-assignment meetings, which allowed for mutual agreement of
what was needed to undertake the assignment. During these meetings, the objectives
of the assignment, who and number to invite, venue, and duration of the OOPPS
workshop were agreed upon.




                                          54
During the OOPPS workshop, participants were given opportunity to share their
expectations of the assignment and confirm objectives of the OOPPS workshop.
There was a good opportunity for experiential learning through small group
discussions and plenary sessions. An atmosphere of honest self-assessment with
regard to the performance in each component of the project was fostered and this
helped come up with the recommendations for the remaining period of Phase I and
issues to address in planning for Phase II.

1.5.1: REVIEW OF DOCUMENTS

The MEMD provided the Project Appraisal Documents of November 2001, the
Development Credit Agreement, the ERT Mid Term Review Aide Mémoire, ERT
Quarterly Reports and other Project related documents. The Consultant reviewed
selected documents related to energy sector management knowledge and practices
around the world. The OOPPS workshop included presentation of a paper reviewing
the performance of ERT during Phase 1, the Consultant's overview on OOPPS
highlighting the latest thinking in public sector management, brainstorming sessions,
group presentations and consensus building on issues during plenary discussions.
Members of the discussion groups were carefully selected to balance representatives
from various ERT components.

1.5.2: OOPPS WORKSHOP
The strategy employed for the workshop was to locate OOPPS in the general rubric of
Results Based Management (RBM) which was meant to focus participants to assess
achievement of ERT not in terms of activities but results. RBM was explained as a set
of methods and techniques to facilitate efficiency, effectiveness, transparency and
accountability. Its history runs through similar ideas like Management By Objectives
(MBO), Performance Management (PM), Results Oriented Management (ROM) and
more recently Output-Based Aid (OBA) in the AID industry. It was further explained
that many public sector reforms have been inspired by results-based thinking which
tends to be clearer in the private sector and less in the public sector.

A discussion of RBM provided a powerful prelude to the application of OOPPS to
ERT. Participants were able to agree the definition of RBM, a process that involves
"defining realistic expected results, monitoring progress towards the achievement of
expected results, integrating lessons learned into management decisions and reporting
on performance". A detailed account of the presentation is attached as Annex Three.

A discussion of RBM was preceded by a presentation by the Coordination Manager,
ERT Programme of the Status Report, which provided an opportunity to participants
to get clarification on the extent of implementation of Phase I project activities.
Coupled with the understanding gained on what OOPPS is, the workshop engaged in
discussion of the following questions:

Discussion Questions:

   1. What level of achievement has been realized?
   2. What is the level of non performance (challenges)?
   3. Why that level of performance or non performance? i.e.


                                         55
           a) What are the actual enabling and constraining factors or actors?
        b) What are the institutional factors that are formal and informal in the
             wider sense?
   4. What lessons have been learnt from Phase I implementation so far?
   5. What solutions/ recommendations can be identified for the way forward
      particularly concerning implementation of Phase II?

The above questions, particularly question five (5) were discussed in the overall
context of GOU efforts to eradicate poverty as articulated in the Poverty Eradication
Action Plan (PEAP), 2004/5-2007/8.

1.5.3: ENERGY AND THE PEAP
Pillar Two of the PEAP aims at "Enhancing production, Competitiveness and
incomes". Energy supply is seen as critical to the realisation of this aim. Electric
power in particular, is essential to the development of modern manufacturing and
services. It also plays an important role in rural development, supporting activities
such as wet coffee processing, fish handling at landing sites, mining and processing of
various minerals. The access to power reduces the drudgery of rural livelihoods,
especially benefiting women and girls (for instance by reducing the need to collect
fuel wood) and in enabling rural amenities such as medical clinics and educational
facilities to function more efficiently.

Evidence from recent survey shows, that there are significant returns to rural
electrification in reducing poverty. The presence of electricity in a village increases
households' consumption by about 10%. Government's strategy regulates the costs by
subsidising the investment rather than financing it outright. The benefits come mainly
in the form of increased employment and agricultural marketing opportunities in rural
areas, though the extended hours of work and increased access to social services.

As noted above, the status quo is that the majority of households' everyday energy
needs are met by fuelwood and charcoal. Although electricity is crucial for economic
transformation, the lives of most poor people are currently affected negatively by their
access to the more traditional energy sources. Evidence further suggests that the
supply situation of energy to the rural poor is deteriorating as the forests and
woodlands are receding increasing the distances walked to collect fuel wood. It is
certain that this is increasing the burden on women's time, with negative effects on
their economic and domestic activities as well as the quality of their lives.
Cooperation is therefore needed between the Forestry sub sector in the Environment
and Natural Resources Sector

The answers generated to the discussion questions outlined in Section 1.5.2 are
presented in the next chapter on `Findings'.




                                          56
CHAPTER TWO: FINDINGS
2.1: ASSESSMENT OF PERFORMANCE OF ERT PHASE I
In Section 1.5, the methodology used to assess the Phase I of the ERT was laid out
and in this chapter findings are presented.
In order to assess the achievements of Phase I of ERT, it was necessary for
participants to revisit the performance indicators (targets) that were identified during
the design of the project. Harmonisation with modifications of the indicators was
undertaken during the Mid-Term Review. After discussions in select groups, the
plenary session received and considered groups' presentations and through consensus,
agreed on the performance level for each target.

2.2. PERFORMANCE RATINGS
While the design of Phase I of the programme, had carefully selected indicators, the
indicators were not further defined to include a time frame, which would have enabled
identification of clear targets. The plan did not produce a detailed schedule probably
because it was meant to allow learning, without the rigidities of tight schedules.

The following are the key performance indicators;
1. Establishment of a regulatory system for rural electrification, satisfactory working
   of REB, REA and REF

2. A workable financial intermediation mechanism for rural electrification is in place

3. Satisfactory functioning of two independent grid rural electrification operations
   has been achieved

4. Satisfactory functioning of 80% of the energy systems provided to agriculture-
   linked users, health clinics, schools and water facilities has been achieved

5. 15 MW of renewable energy power generation facilities constructed or under
   construction

6. 320,000 cumulative Watt-peak sales of Solar PV systems to households and
   institutions has been achieved

7. Solar home system price reduction of 30% from June 2000 baseline has been
   achieved (i.e. End-Phase I price of about US $14Wp compared to about US $20Wp
   in June 2000)

8. Finalization and implementation of first phase of long term renewable energy
   capacity building strategy and action plan, including financing of recurrent costs
   of renewable energy projects and institutional arrangements has been achieved.

9. Phase I coverage objectives for rural telephony, internet points of presence and
   rural tele-centres has .been satisfactorily achieved




                                          57
10. Collection of at least 80% of the telecommunications universal service levy
   revenues that are billable by the end of phase One has been achieved

Table 1, gives a summary of ratings under each indicator and identified explanations
for high or low achievement as the case was.




                                        58
       Table 1: PLENARY ASSESSMENT OF PERFORMANCE INDICATORS OF ERT PHASE I

ITEM     PERFORMANCE             Rating out REMARKS
         INDICATOR               of (100 %)
      1. Establishment of a      75          ERA, REB, REA, and REF are fully established and are supported by technical assistance
         regulatory system                    provided by various consultants and development partners. A Renewable Energy Policy was also
         for rural                            put in place to guide Investors.
         electrification,
         satisfactory                             However,
         working of REB,                           The Concession Model earlier used lacked the World Bank guidelines to operationalise it and
         REA and REF                                 was reviewed to incorporate the guidelines.
                                                   The Electricity Act 1999 does not clearly spell out the roles of different agencies in the Energy
                                                     Sector and its review is necessary.
                                                   The autonomy of REA is not fully realized and this has an effect on decision making.
                                                   The Wheeling System is not yet in place
                                                   Devolution of regulation to Local Government has not yet been achieved due to limited
                                                     capacity levels to receive and implement this function at the Local Governments
  2      A workable              70                The Rural Electrification Fund (REF) is in place and functioning and has provided subsidies
         financial                                   for first track projects.
         intermediation                            The Rural Electrification Board was established in 2003 to manage the Rural Electrification
         mechanism for                               Fund
         rural electrification                     The Re-financing facility is in place in Bank of Uganda and funds are disbursed.
         is in place                               A Credit Support Facility is to be established.

                                                  However,
                                                   The Credit Support Facility (CSF) is still at start up level;
                                                  There is no secretariat and mechanisms of the facility are not yet well appreciated.

  3.     Satisfactory            100                  WENRECO power plant is in operation, with 19 hours of supply and is better than the present




                                                                            59
ITEM   PERFORMANCE             Rating out REMARKS
       INDICATOR               of (100 %)
       functioning of two                     main grid supply in terms of power reliability and lower tariffs.
       independent grid                      Kisiizi independent grid is under construction.
       rural electrification                 Kalangala and Ngoma independent grids are complete and functional.
       operations has been
       achieved                                However,
                                                Problems of high connection fees and the slow progress on the Nyagak Mini Hydropower
                                                 plant remain a constraint. This is attributed to low capacity of the private sector to participate
                                                 in the implementation of the power projects. Power generation from the Nyagak Hydropower
                                                 plant is expected to commence in June 2008 (before the end of ERT Phase I)
                                                 Tenders for the distribution network are already in place
  4    Satisfactory            No adequate      Some agricultural projects have been connected and by end of Phase I, 12 Projects will have
       functioning of 80%      information       been connected. Some projects are to be connected under the PREPS and others separately
       of the energy           for rating       The Health and Water Components are on course and it is envisaged that the target will be met
       systems provided to                       by the end of Phase I. This is because adequate studies existed before the start of programme,
       agriculture-linked                        which built on the existing sector frameworks and institutional capacity.
       users, health
       clinics, schools and                    However,
       water facilities has                     The unclear institutional roles, between PSFU and REA constrained the timely
       been achieved                             implementation of electricity for agricultural investments
                                                The subsidy criteria had to be tailored to the unique characteristics of the agricultural sector
                                                 constrains the project.
                                                The procedural constraints (technical specifications of the Health Packages) experienced with
                                                 the World Bank caused significant delay in implementation of project activities.
                                                Deficient institutional and technical capacity
                                                Limited project preparation
                                                Failure to generate consensus on the Education Tender Documents by both Government and
                                                 World Bank.
                                                Lack of early provision for investments the Project Implementation Plan for the Agricultural




                                                                         60
ITEM   PERFORMANCE           Rating out REMARKS
       INDICATOR             of (100 %)
                                            Component.
                                           Late inclusion of water investment components for implementation. The Water Investments
                                            components came on board later after the mid-term review for implementation. Despite this,
                                            all the planned 15 centres would be completed by the end of Phase I.


  5    15 MW of              100                 Kakira 12 MW
       renewable energy                          WENRECO 3.5 MW
       power generation                          Kisiizi     0.3 MW
       facilities                                Total 15.8MW
       constructed or                            Other power stations planned for construction include Kikagati and Ishasha and are envisaged
       under construction                        to provide 10 MW and 5 MW, respectively.
  6    320,000 cumulative    100              This component has done well, because of
       watt-peak sales of                      shortage of power on the grid
       solar PV systems to                     They built on existing studies and experience of UPPPRE.
       households and                          Institutional arrangements were already in place and an enabling policy framework e.g. tax
       institutions has                          incentives.
       been achieved

  7    Solar home system     90                  Price per watt peak reduced from US$20 to US$12 ­US$17.
       price reduction of                        Global technology advancement has increased supply in relation to the demand
       30% from June                             PSFU incentives have attracted more participation and competition.
       2000 baseline has
       been achieved (i.e.                    However
       End-phase 1 price                       Given the ever fluctuating price of the US$ in relation to the Uganda Shilling, the reduction
       of about $14Wp                           price per watt peak, cannot be attributed to only the solar PV marketing.
       compared to about




                                                                       61
ITEM   PERFORMANCE             Rating out REMARKS
       INDICATOR               of (100 %)
       $20Wp in June
       2000)
  8    Finalization and        No sufficient       The enabling Renewable Energy Policy was approved by Cabinet
       implementation of       basis     for      Included in the Policy is the Standardized Feed-in Tariffs and a Standardised Power Purchase
       first phase of long     rating             Agreement
       term renewable                             The Renewable Energy Database has been established
       energy capacity                            The Renewable Energy Investment Study has been finalised
       building strategy
       and action plan,
       including financing
       of recurrent costs of
       renewable energy
       projects and
       institutional
       arrangements has
       been achieved.

  9    Phase I coverage        90%                Institutional Capacity already existed
       objectives for rural                       Initiative was complementary to already existing framework
       telephony, internet                        Private sector capacity was already established
       points of presence                         Enabling Policy already in place
       and rural tele-
       centres has .been
       satisfactorily                             However,
       achieved                                   There is no sufficient database, upon which to measure progress.

  10   Collection of at        100%               An enabling policy and competition in the industry already existed.




                                                                        62
ITEM   PERFORMANCE Rating out REMARKS
       INDICATOR           of (100 %)
       least 80% of the
       telecommunications
       Universal Service
       Levy revenues that
       are billable by the
       end of Phase I has
       been achieved




                                        63
2.3: INSTITUTIONAL FACTORS-FORMAL AND INFORMAL AFFECTING
THE PROJECT
Successful implementation of projects also depends on the existing institutional within
which, organisations functions and activities are undertaken. The institutions are
categorised under formal and informal rules. Formal rules are -the laws, regulations,
administrative procedures that are written or codified to guide decision making and
implementation of organisational activities. Informal rules are mainly non-codified,
which also guide the behaviour of the actors. Participants pointed out a number of formal
and informal rules that could have governed and indeed continue to affect the behaviour
of stakeholders of the ERT Project. These are summarised in Boxes One and Two.

BOX ONE: FORMAL RULES GOVERNING THE ERT PHASE I


   a)   Investments in Energy Sector by GOU have to be tendered to the private sector.
   b)   The constitutional provision on energy and the Electricity Act 1999
   c)   Statutory instruments establishing REA, REB, REF
   d)   Government mandate to provide people's energy needs
   e)   Procurement regulations for private sector using subsidy.
   f)   Follow up on decisions in World Bank Aide Memoire.
   g)   Capacity building.
   h)   Approval of Business Plan by REB.
   i)   Code of procedures for REB
   j)   REA Human Resources Manual
   k)   Government of Uganda, Standing Orders.
   l)   Agreements between REB and other bodies/contracts
   m)   Application of PPDA Rules even leading to delays increased costs of raw materials and
        variation of the overall cost of the projects
   n)   Request for No Objection from World Bank.
   o)   The Renewable Energy Policy for Uganda 2007
   p)   The Energy Policy for Uganda 2002
   q)   Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreements
   r)   Providing support to private sector
   s)   Accountability to Parliament
   t)   Grant feasibility must not be exceeded ( US$50,000)
   u)   Rural Electrification Strategy and Plan
   v)   Environment and Social Safeguards Framework
   w)   Condutions for loan schemes imposed by the lending institutions
   x)   The PSF Grant Facility Rules
   y)   The Concession provisions




                                           64
    BOX TWO: INFORMAL RULES GOVERNING THE ERT PHASE I

       a)   Regular phone calls to superiors.
       b)   Occasional gifts to superiors.
       c)   Regular walks into subordinate officers' work places to keep them cooperative.
       d)   Agreement on an issue before formally communicating it.
       e)   Good relationship between MAAIF, REA, and PSFU for agricultural projects.
       f)   Good relationships between Coordination Unit and implementation agencies.
       g)   Object oriented solutions focusing on local problems.
       h)   Holding stakeholders' discussions, continuous revision of plans and involvement of
            political actors in project activities
       i)   Respect of the bureaucratic hierarchy: Not to contradict your boss especially openly,
            and not to overstep your mark
       j)   The reputation of the Ministry and Agency enhances rapport among stakeholders.
       k)   Respect for other people's opinions.
       l)   Mutual trust among stakeholders.
       m)   Good listening skills.
       n)   Problem solving approach instead of the blame culture.
       o)   Get people's views before the meeting.
       p)   Conflict of interest between agencies, which may have lead to diversion of pursuing
            objectives in some instances.
       q)   Responsibility for reallocation from one component to another sometimes done without
            involvement of agencies.
       r)   A shared social evening.
       s)   Respect for traditions and beliefs.
       t)   Follow-up telephone calls.

It was observed that informal rules are difficult to change and quite often they take precedent
over the formal rules, whether explicitly or tacitly. It was suggested that where formal rules
i.e. appropriate policies or legal provisions are lacking, they should identified so that they can
be enacted. Where the formal rules exist they should be enforced.

2.4: UNRESOLVED ISSUES:
The following issues were raised and due to limited time and mandate of participants were
noted as outstanding issues. They are:

       a) On the key issues of project development, should Government carry out the
          infrastructure development and then tender it out to the private sector for
          operation or should we continue with the current model, where private sector
          initiates projects and Government gives subsidies or a careful mixture as
          appropriate?

       b) The lack of autonomy of REA sometimes delays decision making and
          implementation of some activities.

       c) The need for more banks yet to come on board in lending towards energy projects


                                                 65
   d) The Credit Support Facility (CSF) is not yet operational.

   e) There is need for integrated planning in the Energy Sector.

   f) ERT procurements sometimes take long, because of lack of in house
      capacity and differing responses from the World Bank.

   g) Consultants should be procured by the beneficiary institutions

   h) The roles of the different stakeholders during implementation need to be well
      defined.

   i) The issue of affordability of the energy services needs to be addressed.

2.5: CONCLUSIONS
In light of the assessments and observations made, the consultant makes the following
conclusions can be made:

       a) Investment from the private sector has been slow to respond to opportunities
          presented by the ERT. A more detailed study is necessary to determine what
          the real cause might be.

       b) Relative to the Phase I targets and time, the ERT Programme implementation
          has reached a commendable level of performance. On the supply side,
          Institutional procedural requirements largely delay timely implementation of
          Program activities. On the demand side, limited affordability by the rural poor
          to pay for the energy services remain a major constraint in transforming lives
          of the rural poor. The RESP or other strategies to increase access of energy by
          the rural poor can play a major role in transforming the lives of the rural poor
          through the existing multi-sectoral approach.

       c) During the course of the OOPPS workshop, it was noted that the MEMD was
          about to undertake a process to produce an Energy Sector Strategic
          Investment Plan. A strategic plan can potentially change the project
          environment and therefore any recommendations for implementation of Phase
          II are only tentative subject to the outcome of the strategic planning process

In light of the lessons learnt in the implementation of Phase I, and the problems identified,
solutions were proposed to enhance the pace and quality of implementation during Phase
II of the ERT. The next chapter concerns proposals for performance improvement in
Phase II.




                                            66
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on
Draft ICR
                              Borrower's Evaluation Report

1.0 MINISTRY OF ENERGY AND MINERAL DEVELOPMENT (MEMD)

Objectives

Ministry of Energy and Mineral Development is the Lead Agency overseeing Energy
Sector Development. Its responsibilities under the project include: formulation of policy,
strategy and planning for rural energy, establishing an institutional framework for rural
electrification promotion and development, market enabler, overall coordination of the
programme, monitoring and evaluation and capacity building

Implementation

The REF, REB and REA were established within one year of project commencement.
The key staffs of REA were in place within two years. Once in place, REA quickly took
on the fast track projects namely Kakira, Kisiizi,and Nyagak Mini Hydro as well as the
management of the IREMP and PREPS.
The absence of a coordinated approach to implementation led to the appointment of a
Coordination Manager and the establishment of a Coordination Unit. Several workshops
were held up country and messages were carried in the electronic and print media
regarding the new approach to rural electrification.
Consultancies and Technical Assistance supported the creation of a Renewable Energy
Database, the promotion of gasifier technology, the promotion of energy efficiency in
small and medium enterprises (SMEs), the development of an Indicative Rural
Electrification Master Plan, the review of the ERT Project and the Rural Electrification
Framework and Institutions.
A GIS lab has been established in the Ministry and data from it was used in developing
the Renewable Energy Policy, which was launched in November 2007. Capacity
Building was achieved through various short and long courses both locally and
internationally.
Energy efficiency in SMEs, CFLs, Gasifier Technology have been promoted

Operational Experience/ Lessons Learned

   ii) The establishment of REA as the dedicated agency, has facilitated the expansion
       of rural electrification investments
   vii) Multi -sectoral programmes require a well staffed coordination office to carry
       out the functions of coordination monitoring, reporting




                                           67
   viii) The private sector did not show as much interest as anticipated, because of the
       high risks involved, the low level of equity and inadequate business plans. It was
       necessary to change the mode of implementation to a situation whereby,
       Government invests and the private sector can thereafter manage.
   ix) There is considerable interest in rural energy and rural electrification in the
       districts, however, there is currently no representation at the district level. It is
       therefore necessary to plan for district representation in rural energy.
   x)    As a result of capacity building and training, there has been increased interest,
        enthusiasm and an improved work ethic in the Ministry. Some staff have even
        been promoted.
   xi) Energy efficiency in SMEs, gasifier technology, biogas technology has
       considerable potential for expansion.
   xii) The promotion of CFLs reduced the peak load by about 20MW and an additional
        10MW can be attributed to sensitisation of consumers in the use of CFLs. This
        provided a very low cost per MW.

Outputs

   xii) A framework for promoting rural electrification has been established and is now
        operational.
   xiii) The Coordination Office was established and supported project implementation
         throughout the project life.
   xiv) The consultancy for the review of the ERT and Rural Electrification framework
        and institutions recommended a shift in policy from private sector led, to public
        sector led with investments in infrastructure and supported by the private sector
        in the management of the schemes.
   xv) An Indicative Rural Electrification Master Plan was finalized and is being
       implemented by Rural Electrification Agency.
   xvi) As a result of the ERT promotion recommendations were made for the
        establishment of district representation of the Energy Sector.
   xvii) Technology demonstration sites were established and are now operational to
         improve energy efficiency in SME's. Training in these technologies has been
         conducted and a national training mechanism is being packaged.
   xviii) 560,000 CFLs have been distributed and Government is in the process of rolling
          out this exercise to other districts besides Kampala. 20MW of power salvaged
          from the demand side.
   xix) A GIS laboratory, which contains mainly data on the renewable energy sources
         in Uganda especially the supply side, was established.
   xx) The Renewable Energy Policy was launched in November 2007 and 1000
       copies of this policy were printed and have been distributed to the different
       stakeholders. The Policy is also posted on the MEMD website.


                                            68
   xxi) The draft National Implementation Plan for Biogas has been developed.
   xxii) An improved, skilled, well trained and highly motivated work force is available
         to promote sector development.

1.7 Performance of the Bank during Implementation

The Bank initially took long to respond to requests for No Objection and were sometimes
quite rigid in their outlook. This improved later on, especially when the Kampala Office
was strengthened and better channels of communication were availed

2.0 RURAL ELECTRIFICATION AGENCY

Specific Project Objectives for REA

   i) To establish a sound institutional framework and mechanisms to manage the
      Rural Electrification Fund (REF) and promote private sector led, commercially
      oriented service delivery of rural/renewable energy services.
   ii) To establish the REF and efficient mechanisms for accessing it by project
       developers.
   iii) To promote and facilitate the development of independent grids for remote
        communities.
   iv) To assist grid extension investments, with emphasis on connecting agricultural
       investments and community services.
   v) To promote and facilitate private sector investments in renewable energy power
      generation.

Project Design

The project design was based on a commercially oriented, private sector led approach.
The implementation strategy adopted, therefore, was in line with the dictates of this
model. The following account outlines the performance of the various components of the
strategy during the course of implementation:

2.2.2 Enabling Regulatory Framework

   i) ERA has been well equipped to issue permits and licences for project developers
      and new network operators. However, there has been no visible diligent
      enforcement of licence conditions in some cases as exhibited by the apparent
      tolerance of WENRECo's breach of the conditions. This can be understood from
      the perspective of the desire to hand hold WENRECo as the first example of a
      private project developer in a purely rural electrification environment.
   ii) Projects with generation capacity of up to 500 KW have enjoyed light handed
       regulation. For example, Kisiizi (0.3 MW), financed under ERT, Kalangala (0.25



                                          69
       MW) and Ngoma (0.06 MW) (both financed by GOU) received "License
       Exemption Certificates" from ERA.

Cost Recovery and Cost-based Tariffs

   i) The independent grids of West Nile and Kisiizi were given subsidies on the basis
      of their business plans to achieve full return on investment and recover all costs
      from the tariffs.
   ii) The bids submitted by private operators of the two GOU financed concessions
       (leases) and the one financed under ERT had their business plans reflecting full
       O&M cost-based tariffs. However, these tariffs are subject to regulatory review
       on a yearly basis during operation.
   iii) The new concessions are charged the same bulk tariff by UETCL as that charged
        to Umeme.
   iv) All the concessions are charged the same wheeling tariff by Umeme.

Subsidy Funding

      i) The initial projects of Kakira, West Nile and Kisiizi were designed on the basis
         of a mix of equity, commercial loan and subsidy. However, it was found
         necessary to increase the subsidies considerably (West Nile and Kisiizi) in the
         course of implementation. The figures, in excess of 70% of total investment
         costs, have revealed the problems of private sector investment in rural
         electrification.
      ii) Private sector investments in PREPs, i.e greenfield grid extension projects,
          failed to materialize. Infrastructure development was done with 100% public
          financing.
      iii) Community schemes were designed on cost share basis with the community
           contributing 30% of low voltage costs, including connection costs, with the
           REF subsidizing up to 70%. The connection rates have been very low mainly
           because of the inability of the communities to marshal their part of the costs.

Implementation

The major activities of REA were in the following areas:
   i) Main grid related power distribution and generation
   ii) Independent grid systems
   iii) Grid extension, especially the PREPs.
   iv) Establishment of a functional Rural Electrification Agency
   v) Assessment of subsidy applications by private sector developers and
      recommending to REB on subsidy disbursements.




                                           70
Lessons Learnt / Operational Experiences

ERT Design. The design diverted from the conventional model of public sector led rural
electrification and opted for the private-sector led, commercially-oriented rural
electrification. This approach assumed that (i) targeted efficient subsides would take into
account affordability and equity considerations; (ii) investment decisions were to be
made on a commercial basis; and (ii) provision of output-based aid would be balanced
against a need to facilitate financial closure of private sector projects.

The demand driven, private sector led model was found to be premature for the Ugandan
economy. Government still has a big role to play in extending services to the people.
This was evident from low participation of the private sector in distribution projects. This
calls for an adjustment in approach to Phase II from that initially envisaged in Phase I.
However, the principle that RE should be demand driven has been maintained ­ meaning
that priority should be given to projects which show the greatest demand. This has been
the basis upon which the IREMP has been drawn up.

Policy Framework. The Rural Electrification Strategy and Plan was designed without a
comprehensive baseline study to dictate the kind of paradigm shift that guided the design
of the ERT. This resulted into a lot of wasted time during implementation (e.g. the
PREPs), partly contributing to the need to extend the implementation period (more than 2
years) and ultimately affecting the meeting of connection targets.

Future policy frameworks and projects need to be designed on the basis of exhaustive
baseline studies.

Power Shortage Effects. Constraints created by power shortage in the grid, coupled with
delays in implementation, contributed to slow progress in rural electrification, especially
as the Government's annual budgets for the energy sector were focused on subsidizing
thermal generation. Therefore, the target of 10% electricity access (or at least 400,000
consumers connected) by 2010 was impossible to achieve.

Therefore, REA recommends that the targets be recast putting into consideration the
effects of delayed implementation of ERT and other planning parameters. In REA's own
Strategic Plan, the timing for meeting the targets as provided for in the RESP has been
put at 2012.

Connection Subsidies. Distribution projects which REA implemented and
commissioned during ERT Phase I (Kanungu, Kibale, Kalangala, Ngoma and other rural
electrification schemes ­ all financed by GOU ) demonstrated that extension of electricity
to a community does not translate into connections because of high upfront connection
costs. Consumer penetration was very low, rendering the young concessions unviable.
This brought into focus the need for consumer targeted subsidies to achieve critical
masses of consumers in the initial years of a concession to make it commercially viable




                                            71
REA recommends that Phase II targets coverage of connection costs, or a large part of
them. For example the RE programme funded by SIDA, which is under implementation
under REA, is subsidizing initial connections such that consumers pay only Ugsh 50,000

Procurement Issues.
Most actors experienced delays in receiving no objections from the World Bank which
are supposed to be obtained within 2 weeks of submission. These delays contributed a lot
to the slow delivery of Phase 1. They should be addressed in Phase 2.

While it is recognized that there is no short cut to following procurement procedures,
GOU and the World Bank should work out a way of ensuring that the various units
handling an issue under procurement stick by the stipulated time guidelines.

Institutional Issues

The institutional design to handle private sector investments and agricultural enterprises,
involving REA, PSFU and MAAIF (for agricultural enterprises), proved cumbersome.

There is a need to designate a central unit for coordinating private sector investments in
rural electrification and renewable energy generation and assist them to get any necessary
consent from other Government institutions. REA can ably play this role.

Outputs

REA's outputs are best described by achievements against performance indicators given
in the PAD as triggers for Phase II

Establishment of satisfactorily working of REB, REA and REF

   i) REB and REA fully established and are performing their roles as prescribed by
      the statutory instrument. The REF is operational and has been capitalized by a
      number of donor sources (World Bank, Sida and Japanese Government),
      Government budget and the Transmission Levy.

   ii) REA's capacity has been enhanced by technical assistance provided by Sida
       Technical Assistance, working with various other consultants and training.

   iii) Sida TA has helped REA to develop a number of project management and
        administrative tools, which include: project cycle guideline; financial feasibility
        assessment model; monitoring and evaluation manual; database management;
        framework for rural electric cooperatives; human resource manual; and staff
        performance appraisal procedure.

   iv) REA has taken charge of the overall Government rural electrification programme
       financed by various development partners and Government. REA has taken
       projects financed by the World Bank, Sida, Japanese Government and the



                                            72
       Government of Uganda through planning, procurement of consultants and
       contractors, implementation, to commissioning.

   v) Although the REF has not functioned as a basket, development partners have been
      willing to make their contributions targeting "ring-fenced" project PACKAGES]

   vi) The IREMP was completed and submitted to the Ministry of Energy and Mineral
       Development for publication

   vii) REA has reviewed subsidy applications from WENRECO, Kakira, Kisizi,
        Kilembe Investments Limited, over 10 agricultural investments and over 50
        community schemes and made recommendations to REB. Apart from 8
        agricultural investments, the rest were approved for subsidy award

   viii) Three of the First Phase PREPs are under implementation and due to be
       commissioned by end of the ERT phase I, albeit the change in implementation
       approach from

A workable financial intermediation mechanism for rural electrification

   i) Rural Electrification Fund (REF) is in place and functioning. The three "fast"
      track projects (WENRECO, Kakira and Kisiizi), Kilembe Investments Ltd and a
      number of communities have benefited
       Although the REF has not functioned as a basket, development partners have been
       willing to make their contributions targeting "ring-fenced" project packages
       The Re-financing facility is in place and has benefited REA's projects ­ Kakira
       and WERECO

Satisfactory functioning of two independent grid rural electrification operations

   i) WENRECO power HFO Plant of 1.5MW is in operation, though supply problems
      have emerged due to the poor financial position of the company, arising from the
      delay in completing the Nyagak Hydro Project.

   ii) The 3.5 MW Nyagak Hydro Project has delayed construction. Commissioning
        won't meet the closing date for closure of ERT I. Government and WENRECO
        are working together to have it completed and commissioned by end of 2009
   iii) Kisizi power station (upgraded from 60 KW t0 300 KW) is completing
        construction and will be commissioned before end of February, 2009

Renewable energy projects

   i) The following projects with a total of 33.3 MW have either been commissioned or
      are still under construction:
              Kakira 22 MW (Commissioned)
              Wenreco 3.5 MW (Under construction)


                                         73
              Kisizi  0.3 MW (To commission February 2009)
              Kinyara 7.5 MW (Construction completed)

   ii) Other power stations under construction include:
              Mpanga ­ 18 MW
              Buseruka - 9 MW
              Bugoye - 13 MW

   iii) Projects in the pipeline, expected to start construction in 2009:
            Ishasha - 5 MW
            Kikagati - 10 MW
            Waki          -    5 MW

Solar PV promotion
REA has put in place a PVTMA framework, which provides for micro credits and
consumer subsidies for PV installations. Implementation started in September 2008 and
to date approximately 30 KW of installations have been made.

Evaluation of Bank Performance

   i) The World Bank's initial inflexibility to change delivery models that had been
      noted as constraints to implementation contributed to ERT'S failure to meet
      targets in time. In REA's case, this was particularly evident in the disagreements
      during the preparation of the PREPs and opposition to the promotion of the PV
      credit and consumer subsidy based approach (eventually called PVTMA).

   ii) The delays in giving no objections, especially in procurements delayed
       implementation start up as well as the overall implementation process.

   iii) The World Bank showed tendencies of micro management of projects, without
        due regard to established Government oversight structures.

   iv) Part of the West Nile delay issues arose from "wrong" initial demand projections
       carried out by World Bank engaged consultants during the development of the
       ERT. Due to this scenario, WENRECO had to carry out a fresh study to establish
       a "more realistic" demand. By the time they were done with the process,
       including negotiations for new subsides before they could conclude the
       procurement of the contractor, more than two years had elapsed.

   v) The World Bank, towards the end of ERT I, showed some level of flexibility by
      allowing changes in the implementation modalities and agreeing to extensions of
      the project so that it could deliver on its objectives.




                                             74
3.0 BANK OF UGANDA

1.0 Introduction.Pursuant to the signing of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)
between the Government of Uganda (GoU) and the International Development
Association (IDA), and the Project Agreement between IDA and Bank of Uganda (BOU),
the Energy for Rural Transformation Refinance Fund (ERTRF) was established at Bank
of Uganda under the Energy for Rural Transformation (ERT) Project.

Implementation of ERTRF was undertaken in the period July 2002- February 2009.
However, the Project closure terms provided for a grace period of up to 30th June 2009 in
which to effect eligible expenditures entered into prior to the closing date.

2.0 Objectives of ERTRF

The objectives of ERTRF were:

(i)       To facilitate investment in commercially oriented rural electrification subprojects;
          and;
(ii)      To develop the needed financial intermediation mechanism for provision of term
          finance for rural electrification and renewable energy development in Uganda.

3.0 Design.ERTRF amounted to SDR 8,284,824 (approx. US $ 12.8 million) and was
administered by BOU through Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs).

3.1 The terms and conditions of the Fund were:

       PFIs were responsible for appraisal of the investment projects and overseeing their
       implementation;
       Loans to the subprojects were denominated in Uganda Shillings;
       The ERTRF was a refinance facility, meaning that a PFI had to first disburses its own
       funds and subsequently submit expenditure documents/letters of credit to BOU for re
       imbursement under approved subloans;
       Eligible refinance to a PFI under any one loan application was up to 90%;
       PFIs were availed funds at the weighted average term deposit rate prevailing at the
       time of sanctioning the refinance;
       Maturities of loans and their grace periods were up to 15 years and 5 years
       respectively. These periods were on a matched maturity basis between BOU and the
       PFI on one hand, and the PFI and final borrower on the other;
       ERTRF refinance was up to 75% of total project cost for any given subproject;
       BOU was responsible for reviewing PFI's loan applications against the terms and
       conditions of the Fund, processing and disbursing refinance requests, and monitoring
       of funded subprojects;
       The minimum threshold for contracts requiring prior review of the World Bank was
       US $ 250,000.




                                              75
4.0 Implementation

4.1 Refinance for mini grids (grid connected and stand alones)

Two first track sub-projects accessed funding totaling US $ 11,465,000 through PFIs.
The sub-projects included a co-generation plant and a mini-hydro.

The table below summarizes key characteristics of the loans offered to the subprojects.

 Project         Lender      Amount     Tenor of Base                Lender     Fixed/
                             refinanced loan      interest           margin     floating
                             (USD)                rate
                                                  (From
                                                  BOU to
                                                  PFI)
 Kakira Sugar East African 7.730 m      10 years, 7.58%              3%         Floating
 Works Ltd       Development            including p.a.
                 Bank                   3 years
                 (EADB)                 grace
                                        period
 West       Nile Barclays    3.735 m    15 years, 7.12%              2%         Fixed
 Rural           Bank                   including p.a.
 Electrification Uganda Ltd             3 years
 Company                                grace
 (WENRECO)                              period
 TOTAL                       11.465 m

4.2 Refinance for solar PV

At the mid term review of the ERT Project in October 2004, it was agreed that ERTRF
should be extended to provide funding to Micro Finance Deposit-taking Institutions
(MDIs) to provide consumer financing for solar acquisition. The aim was to facilitate
purchase of solar PV products by rural households.
It was envisaged that this would address the issue of affordability in the solar market
development.

Refinance for solar PV as an activity thus commenced in the third quarter of 2006, and
included funds provided to three Microfinance deposit taking institutions as detailed
below:

   US $297,000 equivalent to UGX 495,683,883 to Uganda Microfinance Limited
   (UML)- now Equity Bank Uganda Limited. The refinance was disbursed in two
   installments: US $ 50,000 on 11 August 2006 and US $ 247,000 on 16 July 2008.

   UML designed a loan product for solar based on a leasing model, and as at 31st March
   2009, had extended loans valued at UGX 86.148 million.


                                           76
   US $425,000 equivalent to UGX 837,789,000 to Post Bank Uganda (PBU), all
   disbursed in February 2009.

   The PBU solar loan product has two windows; individual loans to households, and
   consumer financing through linkages with Savings and Credit Cooperative Societies
   (SACCOS). As at 31st March 2009, PBU had considered and approved solar loan
   applications from both SACCOS and individual households valued at UGX 590.26
   million ( UGX 447.06 million for individuals and UGX 143.20 million for SACCOS).

   US $ 297,000 equivalent to UGX 522,731,110 to Commercial Microfinance Limited
   (CML), now Global Trust Bank Uganda Limited. The refinance was disbursed in two
   installments: US $ 50,000 on 14 November 2006 and US $ 247,000 on 28 February
   2007.

   CML does not have a loan product for final consumers, but a working capital loan
   product for solar vendors. CML had by 31st March 2009 provided working capital
   finance to three customers, all with repeat loans cumulatively amounting to UGX 285
   million. Uptake of the loans is low, due to lack of sufficient collateral among the
   small scale solar companies. On the other hand, the larger companies are self
   financing and are not utilizing the loan product.

The tenor of the refinance from BOU to the MDIs is was years, whilst the loans provided
by the MDIs have short term tenor of up to 3 years. This mismatch has been justified on
the assumption that the funds being made available to the MDIs are rolled over a number
of times during the refinance period.

The table below summarizes key characteristics of the loans offered to the MDIs

   MDI/Credit          Amount       Tenor of Base interest rate, Rate     to       final
   Institution         refinanced   loan     (From BOU to borrowers
                       (USD)                 PFI)
   Uganda              0.297 m      10 years 7.40% p.a. fixed    30% p.a.
   Micofinance
   Limited (UML)
   Commercial       0.297 m         10 years   7.19% p.a. fixed    15% flat rate
   Microfinance
   Limited (CML)
   Post        Bank 0.425 m         10 years   8.42% p.a. fixed    24% p.a
   Uganda (PBU)                                                    (individual loans),
                                                                   16% p.a whole sale
                                                                   of funds to
                                                                    SACCOS
   TOTAL               1.019




                                          77
5.0 Lessons learnt

5.1 Refinance for mini grids (grid connected and stand alones)

1. Efficiency and scale of refinance

The refinance facility allowed the PFIs to extend the loan tenor. This addressed the issue
of the mismatch between the requirements of long-term lending, and the time profile of
commercial banks liabilities, which are dominated by savings and checking accounts
(depositor's funds), which can only be prudently lent short term.

The refinance facility did not, however, leverage mobilization of private sector resources
in the energy sector. This is because the loan facilities were refinanced up to 90%, with
refinance constituting the bulk of the loan amount. The refinance facility did not therefore
mobilize a significant proportion of private sector funding required in the sector.

2. Credit risk issues

The refinance facility addressed (primarily) long term liquidity risks. However, the PFIs
lent to projects with very well known sponsors (and in the case of WENRECO required
some indication of sponsor support through a Letter of Comfort from its parent company
(IPS), who had a pre-existing banking relationship with Barclay Bank). This is an
indication that there is some reticence on the part of lenders, due to the perceived credit
risk, especially around the implementation phase of the project.

3. Information asymmetry

The project packaging by the sponsors does not provide sufficient comfort to lenders to
enable them to make credit decisions.

5.2 Refinance for solar PV

1. The demand for solar finance

The demand for solar finance as it is offered is quite low. So far, UML has originated
loans to 104 customers at a total value of UGX 86.148 million. CML has provided
working capital finance to three customers, with a cumulative value of UGX 285 million.

On the other hand, the PBU loan Product appears to be more promising. Refinance of US
425,000 was disbursed to the institution in February 2009, and by the end of March 2009,
they had considered and approved solar loan applications from both SACCOS and
individual households valued at UGX 590.26 million ( UGX 447.06 million for
individuals and UGX 143.20 million for SACCOS).

The low demand at UML and CML is likely to be a function of the products which are on
offer, with short loan tenor and high interest rate. This is unlikely to be addressing the
affordability issues that originally justified the refinance product.


                                            78
2.       Use of funds raised from the refinance facility

Given the considerable mismatch between the tenor of the refinance and the tenor of
facilities offered by the MDIs, it is possible that the considerable liquidity made available
by the refinance facility is being used to finance non-solar lending. The on-lending
agreements between the MDIs and the BOU should have ensured that funds made
available through the refinance facility are ring-fenced for solar lending.

6.0      Outputs

The following are the outputs of the refinance facility:

1. A cogeneration subproject selling 12.00 MW of electricity on 24/d basis to the main
   grid financed;

2. An independent grid to generate and distribute 3.5 MW financed;

3.     Total value of UGX 676.41 loans originated to households, and working capital
      finance amounting to UGX 285 million to three solar companies,

4. Participation of the financial sector in financial intermediation for renewable energy.
   Barclays Bank Uganda and East African Development Bank (EADB), as well as three
   MDIs came on board under the refinance facility. EADB is now financing other
   renewable energy projects using own funds.

7.0      Outcomes

Renewable energy generation
Financial intermediation structure for renewable energy projects

8.0      Evaluation of World Bank performance

The BOU enjoyed a cordial working relationship with the World Bank. Project
implementation issues were sorted out in a timely manner. In this regard, the BOU
management therefore wishes to thank the World Bank for their continued support, and
looks forward to continued cooperation between the two institutions.

4.0 MINISTRY OF HEALTH

Outputs

  Standard solar energy packages were developed and designed for various sizes of
  medical buildings and staff houses for HCII, III and IV including detailed technical
  specifications and bills of quantities (BoQs).




                                             79
  8HCIV, 68HCIII and 79HCII received solar PV energy packages totalling 117.14
  kWp of installed capacity:
  79No. Solar DC vaccine fridges for HCIII & HCIV.
  261No. Staff houses received stand alone solar PV energy packages for lighting and
  operation of radio and TV/VCR.
  220No. Medical buildings received stand alone solar PV energy packages for
  lighting and capacity to operate a microscope.
  8No. HCIV received centralised solar PV Diesel Generator Hybrid energy systems to
  provide lighting and capacity to operate microscope and ultrasound scanner.
  Monitoring and Evaluation framework for the ERT Programme ­Health Component
  was developed including specific output and impact indicators.
  Some capacity was developed at the MoH in the design and specification of
  professional institutional solar energy systems for health facilities.
  Tailor made User manual was prepared for the ERT Programme solar energy
  packages for HCII, III & IV.
  Capacity was developed at the MoH to oversee the implementation of the standard
  energy packages in HCs using private companies to supply, install and provide
  maintenance services.

Operational Experience/ Lessons Learned

The following experiences are considered important lessons learnt:

    i. It is important for any institution receiving Technical Assistance (TA) to have
        some basic clue what they want rather than rely and take on any solutions offered
        by a Consultant. In house Technical capacity is therefore critical in ensuring that
        the institution gets the best out of the TA.
    ii. Technical specifications may not exhaustively define the performance, quality and
        installation standards required. For the MoH, a Blue Print Process (BPP) was
        incorporated in the Supply and Installation Contract to install one prototype HC
        with all the different designs. This was used to agree on the quality of
        workmanship and to iron out any other installation issues. Provision of samples
        of equipment for testing prior to placing final equipment orders is also important
        to ensure that its performance is satisfactory.

5.0 INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY (ICT)

Outputs

    One PP for every 2,500 inhabitants in the 154 sub counties (1,533 PP)
    Internet PoPs located at 32 district headquarters
    20 MCTs
    20 Postal Telecentres

Operational Experience/ Lessons Learned



                                            80
During the course of project implementation, not much awareness of ICTs was carried
out and it is likely that majority of the population may not be aware of the benefits. The
impact assessment study will assist to establish whether this is so. If it found to be so,
then awareness of benefits of ICTs will be necessary to be carried out for phase 2
investments.

Also learnt is that implementation of the projects was smoother within sectors that were
buoyant i.e. telecommunications compared to less buoyant sectors like postal.

6.0 PRIVATE SECTOR FOUNDATION UGANDA

Outputs

  Communication strategy developed and implemented. Five special annual fora held
  US$800,000 in financial and technical assistance provided to 40 enterprises
  operating energy and ICT businesses, including 13 potential power generating and
  distribution companies
  US$65,000 provided to Uganda National Bureau of Standards to adopt and gazette
  solar pv standards
  US$68,000 provided to Makerere University Faculty of Technology to investigate
  the introduction of low cost electricity transmission technology and to train Certified
  Energy managers and auditors.
  Financial and technical support provided to investigate the possibility of setting up a
  Credit Support Facility (CSF) - long-term finance at moderate cos
  US$15,000 provided to PostBank (U) Ltd to develop and implement a solar loan
  product.
  Financial and technical support provided to investigate and implement the options
  for increased profitable use of electricity (productive energy use) in the West Nile
  region.
  Approximately US$ 1,100,000 provided to 20 solar vendors to operate solar systems
  dealerships
  Financial and technical assistance provided to train about 300 solar technicians who
  are providing services in solar system installation, maintenance and quality assurance.

Operational Experience/ Lessons Learned

  The current scope of BUDS-ERT support is considered inadequate as project
  developers need support beyond feasibility studies
  Phase 1 was designed to be private sector led in the provision of commercially
  oriented electricity and ICTs in the rural areas. The methodology has not yet born
  fruits due to a number of factors both at firm and macro levels
  In addition to BDS, a sales based performance grant intervention was necessary to
  improve capacities and confidence in the consumer, business and financial sectors,
  and to increase affordability
  The availability of electricity from the WENRECO mini grid did not automatically
  result in increased uptake and an increase in income generating activities


                                           81
  None of the feasibility studies supported by BUDS-ERT progressed to the stage of
  developing telecentres. It is recommended that in order to obtain value for money,
  support should be provided for Uganda Communications Commission pre-approved
  projects.
  Meetings and workshops were found to be the most effective communication
  methods for provision of information to potential private sector participants in the
  RE sector business

7.0 MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND SPORTS

Outputs

Installation is taking place MoES .

Operational Experience/ Lessons Learned

Having not implemented most of the ERT activities in the Education Sector, there is not
much experience. However, there are a few Lessons learned from the few field activities
that have so far been undertaken regarding ERT Education Component. These include;

   i. The Education Institutions are willing and eager to receive the solar packages
   ii. The initial cost of installing the Solar PVs is so high and may not be afforded by
        the Education Institutions.
   iii. The Institutions are willing to meet the maintenance costs such as replacement of
        broken bulbs.
   iv. It is envisaged to improve on the quality of Education particularly in Science and
        ICT
   v. It would be desirable to have only two (2) Solar design packages for the two
        categories of schools (i.e. bigger and small schools).

8.0 MINISTRY OF FINANCE, PLANNING AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Outputs

The outputs as planned for this component have been achieved. All the baseline reports
were produced and the draft reports for the broad-based and in-depth surveys have been
produced.

Operational Experience/ Lessons Learned

  The validity of findings could even have been much better if the number of sites
  were 5 and above.
  Measuring the rural transformation process necessitates fast and effective
  implementation of all the ERT Project components
  The use of findings would be further enhanced if adequate resources are earmarked
  to publishing the various reports and well planned dissemination processes targeting
  specific audiences.


                                          82
  There is need for better coordination of Management Information Systems for the
  various institutions involved in ERT implementation to enhance learning and
  improvement in decision making at all levels.
  Close supervision of the consultants undertaking the various surveys has been
  instrumental in ensuring quality and timely outputs.

9.0 WATER COMPONENT

Outputs

    Energy needs assessment in the Water Sector prepared.
    Energy Options Document for water supply prepared
    Energy Guidelines and Design Manual
    Energy ­ Water Supply Users Manuals were prepared
    Financial Model for Selection and O&M performance analysis of Energy Systems
    for WSS was prepared.
    Districts, town councils and Private Operators in pilot districts trained in technical
    planning, design, installation and operation & maintenance of energy packages for
    WSS;
    M&E indicators developed, performance assessments done.
    Study tours and Exchange Visits of pilot districts to South Western Towns Water &
    Sanitation Project to demonstrate use of solar powered systems conducted.
    Information Dissemination Workshops were held on Energy Packages for Water
    Supply Users' Manuals.
    Executed implementation of designed energy packages for water supply schemes for
    15 pilot Small Towns and Rural Growth Centres.

Operational Experience/ Lessons Learned

  Prudent, robust and site specific designs pre-requisite to minimise modifications
  during execution.
  Realistic and achievable investment and procurement planning necessary
  Strong technical supervision, quality assurance and due diligence for solar panels,
  accessories and power inverters critical.
  Capacity building and training in installations and O&M service of renewable
  energy/water systems especially engineers, technicians, operators /attendants of
  pumping stations and local authorities is important.
  Systems operations automation optimises utilisations of renewable energy-water
  systems and enhances efficiency.
  Provision of tools, spares, operators' manuals/hand-books to trained skills staff
  necessary for renewable energy-water systems.
  Monitoring & Evaluation during implementation should largely be part of
  component's activities. M&E consultants should be engaged for entire ERT program
  not each component.

10.0 MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, ANIMAL INDUSTRY AND FISHERIES


                                           83
Outcomes

  Increased stakeholder awareness
  Implementation capacity enhancement ­ more understanding of programme
  implementation which is better for the second phase
  Some energy investments have come on board and with the PREPS realized many
  agriculture investments will benefit.
  Increased Private Sector awareness and response

Operational Experience/ Lessons Learned

  Earmark a specific budget for agricultural investments
  Simple and applicable subsidy criteria
  Scale down the role of consultants
  Decentralize major decision making to MAAIF with only making consultations e.g.
  to PSFU, REA, MEMD only as appropriate.
  Coordination office requires strengthening which could partly reduce the role of
  consultants

11.0 MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT (MoLG)

Outcomes

  Local Governments are now ware of the ERT and are supportive of efforts geared at
  increasing access to energy in the rural areas
  Some LGs such as Kasese and Kanungu have attempted to invest in the ERT
  West Nile districts have increased connections and productive uses of energy
  There is a lot of demand for more information on solar especially the rural LGs
  LGs now demand energy to power their ICT sytems

Operational Experience/ Lessons Learned

  The LGs can promote ERT investments and can cooperate with Private Investors in
  fostering development
  LGs lack funds to invest in ERT projects
  Rural LGs prefer to have solar especially where the main grid is far and may take
  some time to be accessed
  Creation of new districts need to be reached with the ERT information
  Lack of energy focused structure a focal point officer for energy at the LGs leaves a
  vacuum and should be addressed
  There is need to strengthen the coordination component at the MoLG to enhance
  coordination efforts of the MEMD under the ERT for rural focused investments.




                                          84
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other
Partners/Stakeholders




                             85
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
       Project Implementation Plan

       Project Appraisal Document for Uganda: Energy for Rural Transformation
       Project (ERT) dated November 14, 2001 (Report No: 23195-UG)

       Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Implementation Status Reports.

       Project Progress Reports.

       Project Appraisal Document for Uganda: Second Energy for Rural
       Transformation Project (ERT-II) dated March 13, 2009 (Report No: 47183-UG)

       Borrower's Evaluation Report dated February 2009

       Impact Evaluation Reports, Ministry of Finance, dated January 2009

       Quality Enhancement Review, August 2001.

*including electronic files




                                         86
Annex 10: Additional Information (for GEF purposes)
1 Analysis of attainment of global environmental objectives

Achievements. Some of the achievements of the project are: (i) ERA is operational and
well equipped to issue permits and licenses for project developers and new network
operators. It has approved several electrification transactions; (ii) REA, REB, and REF
were established by Statutory Instrument; (iii) Several banks are financing investments
in Phase I; (iv) Refinance for solar PV included funds provided to three microfinance
deposit-taking institutions (MDIs); (v) WENRCO's HFO Plant of 1.5MW is in
operation and upgrading of the Kisiizi hospital power project from 60 KW to 300 KW
is complete. This project will electrify the Nyarushanje community in Rukungiri
District and connections of an estimated 300 customers are underway; (vi) Solar water
pumping systems with a capacity of 195,960 watt peaks have been installed and are in
operation in 14 districts country wide in three regions, namely, West Nile, Northeast
and Western regions; however, this achievement needs to be qualified since, despite the
target being exceeded, this is largely attributable to the fact that many solar systems
purchased were for community related services and benefitted from having a secure
source of funding. The response from Solar Home System (SHS) consumers is still low
and is below the Phase I target. (vii) Health centers with electricity are offering
improved services; and (viii) Agricultural sector has been a primary beneficiary of the
project. Overall, by Phase I closing in mid-2009, a framework for promoting renewable
energy had been established and key institutions were operational. However, these
institutions still lacked capacity in important areas.

Effective partnership arrangements were established for implementation of the project
with relevant stakeholders involved in the country/region.

Lessons learned. During preparation, the project design took into account lessons
learned from Asian Rural electrification programs, and also from the Bank's solar home
systems projects. For example, it considered the lesson that: (i) adequate after-sales
service, including consumer education in proper maintenance and operating procedures,
is important for consumer satisfaction, minimizing maintenance costs and enhancing
overall system reliability; and (ii) consumer credit is key to expanding the market
beyond cash sales.

Logical framework was used during implementation as a management and M&E tool.

For additional information and analysis, please refer to sections 3.2
(Outcome/achievement of objective) and Annex 2 (Outputs by components) of this
document.




                                           87
2 Country ownership and drivenness

At project preparation, there were four strong indications of borrower commitment and
ownership. First, the government amended the draft Electricity Act to reflect the Bank's
views about the policy framework for commercially-oriented rural electrification, and the
Electricity Act of 1999, as passed, includes most of these changes. This was a clear
indication that the government was committed to this demand-driven, private sector led
rural electrification program. Second, there was a one-day workshop on June 25, 1999 in
Entebbe, hosted by the MEMD, the MOLG, the ULAA, and the World Bank. The
purpose of the workshop was to enable key stakeholders to discuss the principles and
approach underlying this project. Third, in June 2000, the Minister of Finance organized
and presided over a meeting of bilateral donors to encourage them to support this project.
This meeting included participants from the UCC and a number of the cross-sectorally
linked line ministries. Fourth, the project had received strong support from key cross-
sectoral ministries including Agriculture, Health, and Uganda Communications
Commission, which had made this project a part of their mainstream activities.

The government was also committed to renewable energy development. In November
1999, it took the significant first step in the passage of private power legislation that
would set the stage for rapid development of additional power resources. Further, in
Uganda, key measures related to power sector reform, such as a new Electricity Act, had
already been enacted, and they provided a level playing field for renewable energy. The
strong government commitment to the promotion of rural access to ICT was clear from
the inclusion of the Rural Communications Development Fund (RCDF) in the 1997
Uganda Communications Act, and in the considerable progress that had already been
made towards the establishment of the RCDF.

The government consistently maintained its commitment throughout the implementation.
There was a good deal of enthusiasm on the part of government to proceed with the
project.

3 Stakeholder participation and public involvement (including gender)

The project was characterized by a strong participatory approach from the outset. During
field trips, the Bank missions and the government met with the primary beneficiaries
(rural households, SMEs, health and education facilities, energy service providers, and
renewable energy small scale power generators) and discussed the main elements of the
project with them in public meetings, and taken account of their interests and concerns in
preparing the project concept.

Apart from direct meetings at the individual level, there were also discussions with
representatives of the beneficiaries. In addition to the MEMD, the project team worked
closely with a number of other agencies: the Ministries of Local Government (MOLG)
and MOH, the Uganda Local Authorities Association (ULAA), Uganda Renewable
Energy Association, and Action Aid, a non-governmental organization (NGO). All of
them had contributed to project design.



                                           88
4 Replication approach/potential

Areas which have replication potential include the following:

   Refinance for solar PV. Funds provided to microfinance, deposit-taking institutions
   for the provision of microcredit to rural customers would enable them to acquire solar
   home systems.

   Business Development Support (BUDS-ERT). This approach would provide business
   and market development services to entrepreneurs, micro-enterprises and SMEs,
   investors, finance organizations, NGOs and CBOs and other private entities to
   address skills and information barriers that constrain their response to rural
   electrification and ICT business opportunities in selected areas.

5 Monitoring and evaluation

M&E design. Performance indicators for the ten year program as well as for the project in
the energy sector and ICT sector were developed during project preparation. However,
these Impact Indicators as given in the PAD were judged to be too high level to be
practically monitorable. Consequently, after the MTR, a detailed results monitoring
system was put in place, which included standard indicators as well as cross-sector
indicators involving MOH, Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Agriculture.

M&E implementation. Data for key performance indicators were collected by the
individual implementing agencies. These data were closely monitored and the actual
figures were compared with the target values by these agencies. PCU coordinated with
the implementing agencies in consolidating the data and prepared quarterly reports on a
regular basis.

M&E utilization. Appropriate data collected from the implementation agencies were
evaluated and used for decision-making on project activities. Data were also used in
making decisions such as reallocation of funds from matching grants and the Bank was
able to modify implementation as deemed necessary and project concepts based on these
indicators. For example, based on the successful performance of UCC, more resources
were made available for ICT activities. Similarly, as the project was not able to mobilize
adequate private sector equity, in order to encourage private sector participation for grid
extensions, it was decided that the government would fund line connections and the lines
would be operated and maintained by the private sector. Likewise, financial monitoring
reports (FMRs) focused on the level of disbursements and assessed the progress of each
of the components, and resources were reallocated according to the needs.

6. Cost Effectiveness

The project did not lend itself to conventional economic and financial analyses as it was
not a typical single investment project. However, the project outcome is deemed efficient
based on the following outcomes:



                                            89
       The project has enabled the regulatory mechanisms and ERA as well as the REA
       to become active. They have also developed a culture to partner with the private
       sector to develop projects for the common good.
       Independent grid rural electrification operations have started functioning, which
       would benefit many customers for accessing electricity.
       Installation of solar panels has helped in restoring power supply to communities,
       and contributed in: (i) improving access to clean and safe water and which would
       lead to better health and productivity of people; (ii) increased usage of portable
       water supply services; (iii) reducing cost of energy for water pumping; (iv)
       reducing walking distances for collecting water; and (v) saving time especially for
       women who can use this time for more productive uses.
       Standard solar energy packages installed in medical buildings and Health Centers
       have resulted in offering improved health services, and positive impact on
       decreasing diseases such as Measles, Polio and Typhoid.
       Agricultural sector has benefited significantly from the project. For example,
       agricultural and agro-based enterprises such as honey processing and maize
       processing have benefited from access to electricity supplied under the project.
       Improved services in payphones, Internet access, and reduced cost for telephone
       calls, are examples of the benefits accrued to the rural population from the project.

7. Financial Planning/Costs

                                   Appraisal
                                                    Actual/Latest Estimate (USD
         Components              Estimate (USD
                                                             millions)
                                    millions)
Component 1. Main grid
related power distribution and          45.55              154.11
generation
Component 2: Independent
                                        26.14               15.03
grid systems.
Component 3: Solar PV
                                        10.80                4.54
systems
Component 4: Cross-sectoral
                                        12.44                8.46
linkages
Component 5: Energy Sector
capacity building, technical            15.88               15.54
assistance and training
Component 6: ICT Sector                 12.50                6.53

          Total Project Costs          123.31              204.21




                                            90
MAP: IBRD # 36780 and 36816




                             INSERT

                               MAP

                              HERE



           AFTER APPROVAL BY COUNTRY DIRECTOR

     AN ORIGINAL MAP OBTAINED FROM GSD MAP DESIGN UNIT

                      SHOULD BE INSERTED

                   MANUALLY IN HARD COPY

        BEFORE SENDING A FINAL ICR TO THE PRINT SHOP.




                NOTE: To obtain a map, please contact

                the GSD Map Design Unit (Ext. 31482)

            A minimum of a one week turnaround is required




                                 91
