                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                        Report No: ICR0000494




            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                        (IBRD-72470)




                                             ON A

                                             LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF EURO 80.0 MILLION
                           (US$ 100 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                                  REPUBLIC OF POLAND

                                             FOR A

                      HARD COAL MINE CLOSURE PROJECT




                                        May 14, 2007




Oil, Gas and Mining Policy Division
Oil, Gas, Mining and Chemicals Department
Central Europe and the Baltic States Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective at time of preparation, February 23, 2004)


                         Currency Unit = Polish Zloty (PLN)
                                  PLN 1.0 = US$0.26
                               US$ 1.00 = PLN 3.8595

                                   FISCAL YEAR

                               January 1 ­ December 31


                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARP          - Agencja Rozwoju Przemyslu (Industrial Development Agency
BSRK         - Bytomska Spolka Restrukturyzacji Kopaln Sp. z o.o.
CAS          - Country Assistance Strategy
EU           - European Union
GAP          - Gornicza Agencja Pracy (Mine Labor Agency)
GDP          - Gross Domestic Product
ICR          - Implementation Completion Report
JSW          - Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa
KW           - Kompania Weglowa
KHW          - Katowicki Holding Weglowy
MoF          - Ministry of Finance
MoELSP       - Ministry of Economy, Labor and Social Policy
MoEN         - Ministry of Environment
PDO          - Project Development Objective
PLN          - Polish Zloty
SRK          - Spolka Restrukturyzacji Kopaln S.A. (Mine Restructuring Company)
SECAL        - Sector Adjustment Loan
TPY          - Tons Per Year
ZUS          - Social Insurance Fund of Poland



        Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
      Country Director: Suma Mehra (acting)
       Sector Manager: Peter van der Veen
   Project Team Leader: John Strongman
     ICR Team Leader: Adriana Eftimie

                                               POLAND
                     HARD COAL MINE CLOSURE PROJECT




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 7
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................... 9
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ....................................................... 9
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 11
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 12
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 13
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 14
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 17
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 18
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 19
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 20
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 21
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 27
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 28
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Coal Mine Closure
Country:                Poland                Project Name:
                                                                     Project
Project ID:             P083093               L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-72470
ICR Date:               06/29/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     MINISTRY OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                     FINANCE
Original Total
                        USD 100.0M            Disbursed Amount:      USD 57.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Mine Restructuring Company (SRK)
Ministry of Economy
Mie Restructuring Company (BSRK)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/13/2003    Effectiveness:       11/24/2004        11/24/2004
Appraisal:             05/05/2004    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              07/01/2004    Mid-term Review:     03/31/2006
                                     Closing:             03/31/2008        03/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Substantial
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators             (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project No                     Quality at Entry
                                                                       None
at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                   5                  5
Mining and other extractive                                       95                 95


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Land administration and management                              Secondary         Secondary
Other financial and private sector development                  Secondary         Secondary
Pollution management and environmental health                    Primary           Primary
Regional integration                                            Secondary         Secondary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization            Primary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                       Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Suman Mehra                        Roger Grawe
Sector Manager:            Peter A. van der Veen              Peter A. van der Veen
Project Team Leader:       John E. Strongman                  John E. Strongman
ICR Team Leader:           Adriana Maria Eftimie
ICR Primary Author:        Adriana Maria Eftimie



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of this project is to improve efficiency of the hard coal industry by
supporting the implementation of capacity restructuring, environmental improvement and
subsidence repair for the calendar years 2004-2006 Hard Coal Sector Restructuring
Program.



                                                ii

  There are four specific Project Development Objectives, which include:
  (a) uneconomic mines are closed in least cost and environmentally satisfactory manner
so that environmental liabilities of participating mines are reduced and not longer a
potential obstacle to privatization;
  (b) mining companies operate in an environmental responsible manner so that
subsidence and other environmental problems are not a threat to the community;
  (c) KW, KHW and JSW mining companies improving efficiency, adhering to a hard
budget constraints and improving their balance sheets so they meet their obligations for
payments to public authorities; and
  (d) KW taking steps towards privatization so that the reforms can be sustained.

  The project is a Specific Investment Loan (SIL), with Sector Wide Approach (SWAp)
features, whereby loan proceeds will be pooled with Government funds and used to
directly support physical mine closure and liquidation (including dewatering) and
environmental reclamation of closed mine sites.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
                                                approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years
                Uneconomic mines closed in least cost and environmentally satisfactory manner
Indicator 1 :   so that environmental liabilities of participating mines are reduced and not
                longer a potential obstacle to privatization
Value
quantitative or 102.6 million tpy          94.25 million tons
Qualitative)
Date achieved 03/31/2005                   12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Industry adheres to hard budget contraints and pays 100% of liabilities to
                Government
Value           Payments made 90%
quantitative or level prior to start the   100% payment of                     100% payment of

Qualitative)    project                    liabilities                         liabilities

Date achieved 12/31/2003                   03/31/2008                          03/01/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Progress towards Privatization of Kompania Weglowa (KW)
Value           0                          Readiness for                       Readiness for
quantitative or                            Privatization                       Privatization report


                                                iii

Qualitative)                             report submitted                  was not submitted
Date achieved 07/01/2004                 12/31/2006                        03/01/2007
Comments
(incl. %       The privatization process for coal mining sector in Poland was suspended by the

achievement)   government.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target       Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator       Baseline Value           Values (from                       Achieved at
                                              approval           Revised      Completion or
                                             documents)      Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Capacity reduction in 2004
Value
(quantitative  0                         3.55 million tons                 2.5 million tons
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/01/2004                 12/31/2004                        12/31/2004
Comments
(incl. %       Additional whole mine closure did not take place because of the improved coal

achievement)   market conditions and high coal price.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                         IP                Disbursements
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     12/22/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.55
  2     12/30/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     0.55
  3     06/01/2005          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    26.27
  4     08/12/2005          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    38.14
  5     05/16/2006    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                  66.27



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                              iv

I. Disbursement Profile




                           v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)
While Poland has made extensive progress in reforming its economy over the past 10-15
years, considerable structural rigidities remain, especially in the large capital intensive
industries. These industries with large employment and high losses are a drag on the
economy that must be addressed if Poland is to become a competitive member of the
European Union. Coal remains the largest of these industries. Annual losses for the coal
sector peaked at nearly US$1 billion in 1997. In 1998, the Government introduced a
five-year (1998-2002) Hard Coal Sector Reform Program to address the sector's
problems. The Program was successful in closing some of the high cost mines as well as
mines where reserves were becoming exhausted with the result that the number of
operating mines was reduced from 57 at the end of 1997 to 41 at the end of 2002.

The hard coal sector has great political as well as social sensitivity, and is seen by many
in the country as one of the key indicators of the Government's commitment to
implement structural changes in the economy. The Government had requested and the
Bank had provided two SECALs (Hard Coal SECAL l for US$ 300 million in June 1999
and Hard Coal SECAL2 for US$ l00 million in August 2001) to support implementation
of the 1998-2002 Hard Coal Reform Program.            But, experience in other countries
indicates that "no quick fix" is possible and the Government recognized that it would
require a further multi-year effort to continue and deepen the reforms. The Government
had prepared and was starting to implement a second Program of Restructuring of the
Hard Coal Mining Sector for 2003-2006. The Program was a multi-faceted approach ­
covering employment restructuring, capacity liquidation and financial restructuring, as
well as profound changes in the structure and management of the industry. The 2003-
2006 Program was modified in early 2004 in a revision that led to the 2004-2006
Program that was approved by the Council of Ministers on April 27, 2004. The primary
reason for these changes was that the financial position of the mining companies was
improving after a sharp increase in the export price of coal in early 2004. These
modifications, provided for a Base Scenario (if prices and profits declined) with a target
of 14 million tpy reduction in capacity including closure of seven whole mines from
2004-2006 and an Alternative Scenario, (based on prices being sustained at the new
higher levels) with a target closure of 7.8 million tpy capacity including three whole
mines for that period.

The Government had requested the Bank for further significant financial support and
technical advice to support the next phase of sector restructuring from 2003-2006. The
Bank responded with a US$200 million loan for the Hard Coal Social Mitigation project,
to support employment restructuring (approved March 30, 2004). The Government also
requested assistance for physical mine liquidation and environmental improvements in
2005 and 2006 through the US$100 million Hard Coal Mine Closure loan to support
capacity restructuring which was approved July 11, 2004.)



                                              1

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
Further support for coal sector reform was specifically identified in the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Poland under the pillar of enhancing private sector-led
growth and employment creation through enterprise restructuring.        The overarching
Project Development Objective was to provide assistance to the borrower to reform the
hard coal industry to become a profitable sector that contributes to economic growth and
improved living standards in support of Poland's economic integration into the European
Union. The specific objective of the Project was to improve the efficiency of the hard
coal industry by supporting implementation of capacity restructuring, environmental
improvement and subsidence repair aspects of the 2004-2006 Hard Coal Sector
Restructuring Program.       There were four specific Project Development Objectives,
namely: (a) uneconomic mines are closed in a least cost and environmentally satisfactory
manner so that environmental liabilities of participating mines are reduced and no longer
a potential obstacle to privatization; (b) mining companies operate in an environmentally
responsible manner so that subsidence and other environmental problems are not a threat
to the community; (c) KW, KHW and JSW mining companies improve efficiency,
adhere to hard budget constraints and improve their balance sheets so they meet their
obligations for payments to public authorities; and        (d) KW takes steps towards
privatization so that the reforms can be sustained.

Key indicators monitored during the implementation of the project were related to

Capacity Reduction:
o Net production capacity reduction of 8.35 million tons per year (tpy) from 2004-
    2006;

Financial Performance:
· average labor cost per ton of coal produced
· average cost per ton of coal produced
· Actual/Due payments of financial obligations to Government
· Short term receivables
· Short term payable
· profit/loss on overall business

Environment
    · saline content of discharged water
    · amount of waste deposited on the surface
    · environmental fees
    · environmental fines

Privatization

· Submission to the Bank of a report as to the readiness for privatization of KW




                                             2

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
 There were no revisions to the Project Development Objectives or the key indicators.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

The main target beneficiaries were the local communities who benefited from potentially
unsafe and unattractive closed mining sites being physically liquidated, rendered safe,
with the surface land area cleared, revegetated and the reclaimed land made available to
local municipalities for other community uses or commercial development. A second
beneficiary was the national Government which benefited from mine liquidation cost
savings being identified through the project. SRK and BSRK also benefited from the
funding made available by the loan.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The Hard Coal Mine Closure Project was prepared using the Sector Wide Approach
(SWAp) features, whereby loan proceeds were pooled with Government funds and used
to directly support physical mine closure and liquidation (including dewatering), and
environmental reclamation of closed mine sites. The Loan provided funds for 56% of the
total cost associated with mine liquidation and post liquidation activities, with the budget
providing the balance of 44%. The funds were pooled together by the Ministry of
Finance and provided as pooled funds to the two implementing agencies (SRK and
BSRK). The financial support provided by the project helped in making available more
funds for dealing with the subsidence issues. The Project has supported SRK's and
BSRK's mine liquidation and post-liquidation activities for the period 2005-2006.
Considering the high coal sales prices, the SRK and BSRK Programs for 2005 and 2006
were based on the Alternative Scenario, so that a minimum closure of 4.4 million tpy
closure of whole mines was expected (i.e. Katowice Kleofas, Bytom II and a third
unidentified mine at the time of project approval) all of which were to be closed by SRK
together with 3.4 million tpy partial mine closures to be undertaken by mining
companies.

The mine liquidation and post-liquidation activities consisted of the following five
components.
       A.       Preparation of: (a) a Dewatering Master Plan 2005-2025; and (b)
                Environmental Management Plans, Mine Closure Plans and Engineering
                Design Studies and Documentation review to obtain for necessary
                approvals.
       B.       Liquidation of underground workings and shafts including removal of
                equipment and securing underground areas.
       C.       Demolishing and clearing surface structure, buildings, plant and
                equipment and, if necessary, stabilization of any work dumps.
       D.       Reclamation of land.


                                             3

        E.      Post mine closure monitoring and maintenance, with particular regard for
                any post-closure de-watering requirements if needed.

Since dewatering costs (which are necessary to protect adjacent mining operations) have
become a very significant cost item and would likely continue for as long as 20-30 years
or more in the future in some cases, Component A also supported preparation of a
Dewatering Master Program.

All of the works in Component B ­ E were undertaken according to the Engineering
Design studies and approvals in Component A and were subject to prevailing
environmental and safety requirements which are in line with EU requirements and
considered satisfactory. Although the project had 5 components, disbursement was made
under a single category using SWAp features.

1.6 Revised Components
There was no revision of the project components.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)
There were three significant changes. First, SRK received only two (not three additional
mines for liquidation, because production was not terminated at a third mine. Second,
during the project implementation, the World Bank declared misprocurement at the end
of 2005 regarding a failed ICB package for submersible pumps which resulted in the
package being withdrawn from the project and cancellation of 3.776 million EUR from
the loan. Third, as a result of the improved industry financial performance and the lower
number of whole mine closures, the Government decided that as of the end of 2006, all
further mine closures and liquation would be undertaken by the mining companies not
SRK or BSRK. Consequently, the Government did not require all the loan funds and
requested early closure of the loan. .

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)
The project design was based on the following lessons learned from the first two Bank
loans. The project design was based on:
    · a well formulated Government strategy, developed in consultation with social
        partners, that is updated as and when needed;
    · strong commitment at the highest levels of Government, with one Ministry having
        clear leadership responsibility to implement the strategy;
    · effective coordination between the different ministries involved;
    · strong oversight by the owner and guidance to the mining companies and SRK
        and BSRK as they each prepared and implemented their annual operating plans;




                                                4

    · adequate budgetary support for the whole program which included employment
        and financial restructuring as well as capacity restructuring.


2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

Both SRK and BSRK underlined that the beginning of the Project's implementation was a
challenge for them since they were not familiar with the World Bank's procurement procedures
which were required under the Project, particularly with regard to International Competitive
Bidding, shopping and selection of consultants procedures. In addition, they had difficulties in
conducting tenders under the National Competitive Bidding following the Polish Procurement
Law (PPL) due to complaints received or non-responsive bids submitted. At the request of the
Government, the Loan Agreement was amended to allow the implementing agencies the use of
additional procurement methods such as Service Delivery Contractors, as set in the Procurement
and Consultants' Gudelines and also to make the evaluation process confidential under the Polish
Procurement Law to avoid receipt of unreasonable complaints from bidders. The Bank's staff
organized regular trainings on Bank's procurement and consultants' Guidelines and requested
frequent updates of the Operations Manual, to facilitate the Project's implementation. With the
training and intense supervision of HQ and field based staff, SRK's and BSRK's capacity in
using the Bank's procurement procedures was gradually strengthened. Counterparts indicated that
procurement and training support under the project was provided in a timely manner. The
financial support provided by the project helped in making more funds available for dealing with
the subsidence issues and environmental reclamation. Because the mining companies did not
close any additional mines, during the actual implementation phase, only 2 complete mines (with
an annual production capacity of 2.5 million tpy) were completely closed and transferred to SRK;
although some partial mine closures (3.1 million tpy annual production capacity) were undertaken
directly by the mining companies for a total reduction of capacity of 6.6 million tpy at the end of
2006.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
The Agency for Industrial Development (ARP) has the primary responsibility for
compiling data regarding employment, production and industry financial performance.
ARP produced very comprehensive monthly reports for the Government which were also
provided to the Bank. The required monitoring information was submitted to the Bank
on a timely basis. Information indicates that most workers were able to leave the industry
successfully because they left on a voluntary basis many with bridging payments to cover
the period until they were eligible for pension payments.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)
Safeguards: The project was assigned environmental Category B (Partial Assessment).
Environmental Management Plans were prepared for the two mines (Katowice Kleofas
and Bytom II) that were transferred to SRK for full liquidation. As the Government
requested for earlier closure of the project (12 months before closing date), and the
liquidation works are yet to be finalized and environmental remediation to take place,
some of the EMPs' requirements were not yet implemented at the time of preparing the
ICR. Also, it is too early to put in place the post liquidation monitoring system so no


                                                 5

environmental monitoring data are available for the two mines under liquidation as part
of the project (Katowice Kleofas and Bytom II).

    · Implementation of Mining Companies Environmental Protection Plans (EPPs) -
        A review of environmental performance of the sector as a whole was undertaken,
        including in particular of the three main mining companies (KW, KHW, and
        JSW) and the restructuring companies (SRK and BSRK). The review showed
        that overall, all companies implemented their EPPs in a timely manner and with
        due diligence.
    · Preparation and implementation of a Dewatering Master Plan to identify and
        examine options and recommend necessary steps to minimize the costs of
        dewatering for the period 2005 ­ 2020 ­ A Dewatering Master Plan was prepared,
        but cost savings alternatives are still not considered and defined. More than this,
        dewatering costs per unit increased from 1.56 PLN per ton in 2004 to 1.86 PLN
        per ton in 2006, as a result of (i) new investments which are included directly in
        these costs; (ii) electricity cost increased; (iii) increased quantity of water
        managed because of including into the system both Katowice Kleofas and Bytom
        II. Savings are expected to show in 2008, after the purchase and delivery of the
        last lot of submersible pumps in August 2007.

Fiduciary:

Financial Management was considered fully satisfactory.

Procurement was considered fully satisfactory after the first 2 years. Both SRK and
BSRK as first time clients had difficulty in the early stage of Project's implementation
due to lack of familiarity with Bank's procedures and partly due to insufficient forward
planning. The latter caused a significant number of Direct Contract requests, particularly
from the SRK's side which were prior reviewed by the Bank. Also, there was a need in
some cases to award contracts to ineligible firms due to the market being not well
developed and lack of private sector alternatives. As noted previously the major problem
occurred while conducting the first ICB package for procurement of submersible pumps
which resulted in misprocurement due to failure to sign a contract with the lowest,
evaluated, responsive bid. This was caused inter alia by setting an unacceptable value of
liquidated damages in the Bidding Documents as 100% of the contract value (instead of
maximum 10% allowed in Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Procurement of
Goods under the International Competitive Bidding procedure).

With regard to the National Competitive Bidding allowing the use of the Polish
Procurement Law, both implementing agencies faced problems with quite a large number
of complaints received under tenders conducted and with non-responsive bids submitted.
This resulted in cancellations of procedure and rebidding. These caused delays in
awarding contracts and subsequently delays in the Project's implementation objectives.
The cooperation with the Supreme Chamber of Control (NIK) was successful with regard
to their ex-post reviews of contracts conducted under the NCB. The Bank concurred with




                                               6

NIK's findings and recommendations. The recommendations included in NIK's audit
reports were implemented by SRK and BSRK on a timely basis.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)
The mine closures are all irreversible. In December 2006 the Polish Parliament extended
regulations guaranteeing continuation of payment of carry-over costs from the 1998-2002
and 2003-2006 reforms including severance payments and payment of post-liquidation
activities of SRK, including dewatering. Currently the Government is at the final stage of
the consultation process with its Strategy for the Hard Coal Sector for the period 2007-
2015, which should guarantee completion of the sector reforms.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)
The specific objective of the Project to improve the efficiency of the hard coal industry
by supporting implementation of capacity restructuring, environmental improvement and
subsidence repair aspects of the 2004-2006 Hard Coal Sector Restructuring Program is
considered highly relevant to Poland's current situation.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

1. Mine Closure and Site Reclamation Pillar - Higher Level Objective: Reduce
environmental liabilities and environmental legacy of the mining sector in line with both
Polish and EU environmental requirements

Project Development Objective: Environmental liabilities of participating mines are
reduced so that they are not longer a potential obstacle to privatization.

The above mentioned PDO was partially met. Two uneconomic mines were closed in a
least cost and safe manner. The mine sites were closed with due diligence, reclaimed and
made available for alternative uses.            As noted previously, the additional mine
(unidentified at the approval stage of the project) was not transferred to SRK for full
liquidation during the project implementation period due to the improved coal market
which resulted in the mining companies deciding to keep all their mines operational to
take advantage of the higher prices.

2. Environmental Protection and Mitigation of Previous Damages Pillar ­ Higher
Level Objective: Improve mining sector environmental standards and performance




                                                 7

Project Development Objective: Mining companies operate in an environmental
responsible manner so that subsidence and other environmental problems are no longer
a threat to the community

This specific PDO was fully met. Overall environmental performance of participating
companies has been improved and 2004-2006 Environmental Protection Program have
been implemented and standards met. Backlog of mine damages has been reduced, due to
the fact that more funds were available for subsidence repairs as a consequence of
financial support provided by the project. At the same time the companies have
minimized mining damages from future operational activities through improved
operations.

3. Efficiency and Financial Pillar ­ Higher Level Objective: Improve efficiency and
achieve improved financial performance so that the sector is financially solvent.

Project Development Objective: KW, KHW, and JSW improve labor productivity,
adhere to a hard budget constraint and improve their respective balance sheets.

This PDO was fully met. With respect to labor productivity from December 31, 2003 to
December 31, 2006, KW improved from 3.45 tons per man shift to 3.8 tons, KHW
improved from 3.58 to 3.71 and JSW from 3.54 to 3.55. All three companies adhered to a
hard budget restraint in that current financial obligations have been fully paid to ZUS,
local and national Governments and environmental funds. All three companies improved
their balance sheets and increased shareholder equity.

4. Sustainability Pillar ­ Higher Level Objective: Open the sector to full competition
and sustain the reform.

Project Development Objective: KW take appropriate steps toward privatization.

This project development objective has not been met. The pre-privatization adviser for
KW was not appointed and consequently, the pre-privatization analysis for KW was not
delivered, as provided for by the Loan covenants. The draft 2007-2015 Plan for the Hard
Coal Mining Sector makes reference to the finalization of the restructuring program for
KW and eventually its privatization.


3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)
Not Applicable

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: moderately satisfactory




                                             8

The Overall Outcome rating of the project is moderately satisfactory because the specific
objective of the Project to improve the efficiency of the hard coal industry by supporting
implementation of capacity restructuring, environmental improvement and subsidence
repair aspects of the 2004-2006 Hard Coal Sector Restructuring Program was largely
achieved.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Not Applicable

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
The project helped to improve the planning capabilities, increase the competitive bidding
and reduce dewatering cots for BSRK and SRK.


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Not Applicable

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
Not Applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial
The most significant risk to the Development Outcome is that the Government of Poland
is not proceeding with privatization of the coal mining sector.                 While the new
Government is officially committed to privatization, concrete steps have yet to be taken.
Recent reductions to the price of coal have led to Kompania Weglowa losing money in
2006 (52 million PLN) and their financial position is expected to deteriorate further in
2007. If KW's situation is not improved, these losses will ultimately be borne by the
Government of Poland and put further strain on the already high budgetary deficit.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: satisfactory
The Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The Bank
responded quickly to the request of the Government and took a pragmatic approach to the
project. In preparing the project, the Bank conducted in depth discussions with
representatives of the Government and mining companies to confirm assumptions of the
Restructuring targets as well as their commitment to implementing the Restructuring
Program. By utilizing a SWAP, the Bank was able to make extensive use of and



                                                 9

strengthen country systems, although differences between the Bank's and Polish
procurement systems cause some difficulties during implementation.


(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: satisfactory

Overall supervision is rated satisfactory. The Bank team conducted supervision visits at
least once per quarter including quarterly reviews of sector performance. The Bank also
conducted in depth follow up visits to monitor progress in implementing mining
companies' business plan. The Bank worked very closely and cooperatively with all its
counterparts in four ministries, five mining companies (including the restructuring
companies) and Agency for Industrial Development (ARP). The Bank team designed a
quarterly "scorecard", which was completed by ARP and recorded performance on all
aspects of the Restructuring Program. The scorecard, prepared in accordance with the
approved key M&E indicators of the project, allowed ready monitoring of employment,
capacity production, sales, financial and environmental performance. It was very
effective in focusing the discussion with all counterparts on key performance issues and
in analyzing actual to planned performance under the project.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: satisfactory

The Bank's performance was rated satisfactory by representatives of BSRK, SRK,
mining company management, Government officials and representatives of civil society.
Positive comments included the importance of understanding the international
perspective (such as productivity and worker safety benchmarking) and helping policy
makers confront difficult issues. World Bank reporting requirements were not considered
onerous and were useful for general management purposes.


5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: moderately satisfactory

With respect to the performance of the Government it must be acknowledged that the
planned capacity reduction was not achieved and privatization has not moved forward as
fast as expected. Economic factors associated with the positive changes in the coal
market, the rise in the price of coal and improved profitability of the companies, affected
the Government's actions.

The Government's performance was satisfactory in terms of implementing the program.
Funds were transferred timely and correctly to SRK and BSRK, as budgetary allocations.
Reporting to the Bank and responding to suggested courses of action was also
satisfactory.



                                                10

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: moderately satisfactory
Ministry of Economy               Funds for closure program were transferred timely and
                                  correctly. Program monitoring by ARP was
                                  satisfactorily. Required reports were provided in due
                                  time to the Bank.
SRK                               Mines were closed in a timely manner, with due
                                  diligence. Efforts were made by SRK to review and
                                  simplify the existing dewatering system, in order to
                                  reduce the cost of dewatering. SRK's one major
                                  shortcoming was the misprocurement of one
                                  procurement package.
BSRK                              Closure and post-closure activities were carried out in a
                                  timely manner and with due diligence.


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Experience in other countries including industrialized countries such as United Kingdom
and transition economies such as Russian Federation, Ukraine and Romania indicate that
the restructuring, downsizing and privatizing a large State-owned coal mining industry is
an extremely difficult task that takes many years to accomplish. Thus far the Borrower
has made substantial achievements in terms of sector reform and restructuring and
Borrower performance is considered moderately satisfactory.


6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)
The most important lessons learnt from this operation show that successful change does
not come easily. Clearly, progress with respect to privatization has moved slower than
what was originally envisaged. One of the reasons given to the World Bank Coal Team
is the general negative opinion that the public has regarding privatization of other
industries: like steel and shipyards. There is concern over potential job losses and the
transfer of profits outside of the country. It seems apparent to the World Bank Coal
Team that so far there has not been a fully adequate explanation to the mining companies
workers of the potential benefits of privatization to them (such as share ownership,
improved transparency, increased investment and better corporate governance).

Both SRK and BSRK underlined that the beginning of the Project's implementation has
been a challenge for them since they were not familiar with the World Bank's
procurement procedures, however thanks to the regular trainings organized by the Bank's
staff and frequent updates of the Operations Manual, these procedures were eventually
internalized. The implication is that the use of SWAps may be most effective where
differences in Bank's procurement and national procurement procedures are minimal,


                                             11

easily resolved and conveyed to implementing agencies prior to implementation, in cases
where country systems are undeveloped or inadequate and full harmonization of
procedures is not possible. The use of country systems requires intense supervision and
involvement of field based staff. With regard to the agencies' capacity to conduct
procurement, the assessment conducted by the Bank should be updated in cases where
there is a low implementation capacity and high turnover of staff.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers
Not Applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                           12

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                 Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest
          Components                                                     Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)  Estimate (USD
                                                        millions)         Appraisal

HARD COAL MINE CLOSURE
TRANSFERS                               184.00            102.50             56%


            Total Baseline Cost         184.00            102.50             56%

Physical Contingencies                    0.00               0.00            NA

Price Contingencies                       0.00               0.00            NA
             Total Project Costs        184.00            102.50             56%
Front-end fee IBRD                        1.00               0.50            50%
      Total Financing Required          185.00            103.00             56%




(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds             Type of Co   Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                      financing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                   millions)     millions)
Borrower                                 joint      85.00         45.30        53%
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                          joint      100.00        57.70        58%




                                            13

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

(i) Outputs by Component

During the period of its implementation, the Project supported SRK's and BSRK's mine
activities for the period 2004-2006.

The mine liquidation and post liquidation activities consisted of the following five
components:

    A. Preparation of: (a) a comprehensive Dewatering Master Plan; and (b)
        Environmental Management Plans, Mine Closure Plans and Engineering Design
        Studies and Documentation review to obtain for necessary approvals.

    (a) The study to identify and examine options (hydro geological, legal and
    institutional) and recommend necessary steps to minimize the costs of dewatering for
    the period 2005 ­ 2025 and beyond was prepared, with the support of the Ministry of
    Environment (MoEn). However, cost savings alternatives are yet to be defined and
    show results. More than this, dewatering costs per unit increased from 1.56 in 2004
    to 1.86 in 2006, being justified by (i) cost of dewatering includes also investments;
    (ii) electricity cost increased; (iii) increased quantity of water managed through
    including into the system both Katowice Kleofas and Bytom II. Savings are expected
    to show in 2008, after the purchase and delivery of the last lot of submersible pumps
    in August 2007.

    (b) Such studies included:
            · coal mine liquidation program
            · annual coal mine liquidation plan
            · designs of mining excavations liquidation and ventilation, including also
                environmental protection components
            · designs of power, telecommunication, heat, water and sewage, compressed
                air networks liquidation, including also environmental protection
                components
            · designs of surface buildings liquidation of the mining plant, including also
                environmental protection components
            · building designs for the mining plant liquidation, including also
                environmental protection components
            · reclamation designs, including also environmental protection components
            · operations Plan of the liquidated mining plant
            · hydrogeological documentation, including also environmental protection
                components
            · social Plan of the Liquidated Mining Plant

    B. Liquidation of underground workings and shafts including removal of equipment
        and securing underground areas.



                                             14

The activities carried out under this component consisted of :
           · liquidation of underground works through
                       underground roadways closed through dams
                       when possible, galleries closed by filling them with fly ashes,
                       mixed with mine water, getting the constitution of cement
                       where    feasible,   underground   equipment     recovered   from
                       underground (in most cases it remain underground )
           · safety equipment and works (such as ventilation and methane monitoring)
               maintained during liquidation works
           · continuous dewatering, necessary to prevent water hazards to the
               neighboring operating mines and parts of underground kept functional.

   C. Demolishing and clearing surface structure, buildings, plant and equipment and,
       where necessary, stabilization of any work dumps.

This activity consisted of:
           · shafts liquidation through filling them with different materials, including
               isolating material such as clay. Then they were capped with a cement cap.
           · demolish of existing buildings that can not been reused. The ones that can
               be reused were offered for sale. Several of the technical buildings were
               preserved due to monument conservation reasons.
           · dismantling of installations and surface structure and equipment
           · stabilization and extinguish of waste dumps, liquidation of tailings ponds

   D. Reclamation of land.

   The land remediation/reclamation involved two types of remediation:
           · technical remediation: prepare the land for industrial area, which will
               include clean up and ground leveling - This type was applied in most of
               the areas remediated during the project implementation, in agreement with
               the local authorities.
           · biological remediation: prepare the land for recreational area, which will
               include also more remediation actions, as well as recultivation ­ Very few
               sites included also biological remediation, as agreed with the local
               authorities.

   E. Post liquidation monitoring and maintenance, with particular regard for any post-
       closure dewatering requirements if needed. This activity consisted of carry over
       dewatering, through a simplified system, as a result of the Dewatering Study.

   (iii)   Results of Performance Indicators


   Results of performance indicators are presented overleaf; in most cases specific
   targets were not set but the general aim was to see
           · employment, short term receivables and short term liabilities reduced;


                                            15

              · unit production costs and unit labor costs contained; and
              · increases in profitability and payments of Government liabilities
              · saline water discharges, surface storage of mine waste, environmental fees
                   and environmental fines all reduced.

                              Performance Indicators 2002-2006

                                           2002      2003     2004      2005     2006
Employment at year end                   140,717    136,454  127,097   123,414  119,314
Number of underground workers using
miners leave instrument
Number of surface workers using job
creation instruments
Average Labor Cost (PLN/ton)                74         78       80       77       80
Average Cost per ton (PLN/ton)           138       142       157      171      176
Net Result on Coal Operations            0.43      0.11      3.00     1.99     0.75
(billion (PLN)
Short-term receivables                   2.53      2.35      2.11     1.89     1.58
(billion PLN)
Short-term liabilities                   21.3      6.5       6.0      5.0      5.0
(billion PLN)
Payments to Government (%)                 N.A.      90.5%    100%     100%      100%
Saline Water Discharge (m3)                100.9       na      204     205.2     207.2
Surface Storage of Mine Waste (million
tons)                                      1.4        0.37    0.304    0.293      1.16

Environmental fees (million PLN)           156.4      Na       50       51.5      64.3
Environmental penalties(m PLN)             2.1         na     1.189    0.675     0.303

Source: ARP


Report as to the readiness for privatization of KW was not submitted to the Bank.




                                                16

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)
Not Applicable




                                        17

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                          Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
John E. Strongman          Task Team Leader                  COCPO Team Leader
Bernard Baratz              Consultant                        EASTE Labour Markets
Adriana Maria Eftimie       Mining Spec.                     COCPO Mining/Environmt
Roman Palac                 Operations Analyst               COCPO Economist
Christopher Gilbert Sheldon Sr Mining Spec.                  COCPO Social
Maythinee Sriboonruang     Program Assistant                 COCPO Admin support
Elzbieta Sieminska          Sr. Procurement Spec.             ECSPS Procurement
Iwona Warzecha             Sr Financial Management Spec.      ECSPS Financial Mgt
Supervision/ICR
John E. Strongman          Task Team Leader                  COCPO Team Leader
Bernard Baratz              Consultant                        EASTE Environment
Adriana Maria Eftimie      Mining Spec.                      COCPO Mining/Environmt
Malgorzata Michnowska      Program Assistant                 ECCU7 Admin support
Karina Mostipan            Sr Procurement Spec.               ECSPS Procurement
Roman Palac                Operations Analyst                COCPO Economist
Maythinee Sriboonruang     Program Assistant                 COCPO Admin support
Iwona Warzecha             Sr Financial Management Specia     ECSPS Financial Mgt
Barbara Ziolkowska         Procurement Asst.                 ECCU7 Procurement



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                       No. of staff weeks    USD Thousands (including
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                                                  145.39
  FY05                                                                   70.43
  FY06                                                                   19.85
  FY07                                                                   -0.09
                           Total:                                       235.58
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                                    0.00
  FY05                                                                   67.03
  FY06                                                                  133.98
  FY07                                                                  105.44
                           Total:                                       306.45




                                            18

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
Not Applicable




                                    19

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




                                  20

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




MINISTER GOSPODARKI
                                                                  Warsaw, June 11, 2007
       DGA-I-714-1-JS-07
        L.dz..................../07




                                    Mr. Edgar SARAVIA

                                       Country Manager
                                       World Bank Office in Warsaw
                                       Emilii Plater 53
                                        00-113 Warszawa



       Dear Sir


       In response to your letters of May 18 and 23, 2007, I would like to kindly thank
you for the enclosed reports on utilization of World Bank Hard Coal Mine Closure Loan
and Hard Coal Social Mitigation Loan. At the same time, I'd like to inform you that we
have no comments to the presented documents and the conclusions presented therein with
respect to the operation of hard coal mining sector are to a large extent the same as the
Ministry of Economy's conclusions with respect to implementation of the restructuring
program, as presented below.

     In the years 2004 ­ 2006 the program basis for the hard coal sector restructuring
was the document entitled "Restructuring of the hard coal mining sector during the period
2004 - 2006 and Strategy for the period 2007 - 2010", adopted by the Council of
Ministers on April 27th 2004. In light of dramatic supply/demand changes observed on
the external markets in the second half of 2003, differing from annual, cyclical market
fluctuations, in the document two scenarios were envisaged for the planned restructuring
processes:

     ­ the target model, assuming capacity reduction by 14 million tons and
         employment reduction by 25,5 thousand persons by the end of 2006,
     ­ the alternative scenario, assuming reduction of capacity by 7,8 million tons and
         employment reduction by 19,5 thousand people by the end of 2006,



                                             21

        implemented in case of continued good conditions on the coal market and
        meeting specific economic conditions by the mining companies.

     Due to good conditions on the coal market, and above all, mining companies
meeting the conditions specified in the program mentioned above, throughout the entire
period the alternative model was implemented. Nonetheless, during the implementation
of the restructuring process, certain deviations from the assumptions of the model took
place.

In the years 2004 ­ 2006 in Polish coal mining sector production capacity was being
reduced by 6,6 million tons/year, so 1,2 million tons less than assumed under the
program for the alternative restructuring scenario which was being implemented. So,
the level of execution of program assumptions was 84,6 percent. Among the basic
reasons for incomplete implementation of program assumptions in scope of capacity
reduction one should include the following:
    1) In the years 2004 ­ 2006 favorable trends were observed on the coal markets,
         namely coal prices higher than previously projected as well as increased
         demand for coal;
    2) Average selling price for has increased, in terms of current prices, from 143,17
         PLN per ton in 2003 to 183,62 PLN per ton in 2006. In 2005, the average
         selling price of coal was 191,69 PLN per ton. In 2006, the price, in spite of
         decline by 4,2 percent compared to 2005 prices, was 4,6 percent higher than
         average unit cost of coal sold. It has ensured the mining companies' profit from
         selling coal;
    3) Hard coal sales on domestic market in 2006, which was on the level of 77,7
         million tons was 3,7 million tons higher than previously projected demand for
         coal. Under such conditions, the amount of coal exported by mining
         companies in 2006 was limited to 15,8 million tons (1,7 million tons less than
         assumed under the program). Coal was exported directly from the companies,
         almost exclusively by land;
    4) Profit from coal sales achieved in the years 2004 ­ 2006 was the main factor
         underlying positive financial results of hard coal mining sector and ensuring
         means for current full payment of liabilities to the state as well as payment of
         due installments of restructured liabilities.
         Net financial results of the hard coal mining sector in the years 2004 ­ 2006
         were as follows:
         -   2004           2 594,6 million PLN,
         -   2005           1 170,6 million PLN,
         -   2006             404,6 million PLN.

         In the years 2004 ­ 2006 the mining companies have fully paid their current
         liabilities to the state in total amount of 20 627,0 million PLN.
    5) In 2006, in some of the hard coal mines, unfavorable geotechnical phenomena
         have occurred, such as forced the management of the companies to reduce the
         active production front, which resulted in total reduction of hard coal sector's
         capacity by 1,2 million tons/year, of which Kompania Wglowa S.A.'s by


                                             22

             0,8 million tons/year and Katowicki Holding Wglowy S.A.'s by 0,4 million
             tons/year.



     As of 31.12.2006, staffing level in hard coal sector was 119,3 thousand persons and
was 2,3 thousand persons higher than specified under the program assumptions
(according to assumptions, staffing level as of end of 2006 should have been 117,0
thousand persons). Main reasons for incomplete execution of program assumptions include:
        1) no reduction in capacity,
        2) higher than assumed level of hiring in the coal sector,
        3) low usage of benefits for employees leaving the mines, introduced by the Act
             on coal sector restructuring of November 28th, 2003;

   Higher than expected level of hiring in the coal sector has resulted from the need to fill
up the mining crews, in particular those working underground, since their numbers have
declined as a result of employment restructuring implemented in 1998 ­ 2002 as well as
natural attrition (retirement).

     The assumptions for employment restructuring in the period 2004 ­ 2006 in scope of
downsizing of underground workers has been executed in 138,6 percent, and in scope of
surface workers ­ in 1,7 percent.

     Lower than initially assumed take-up level of benefits for persons leaving the mines,
as introduced by the Act on coal sector restructuring of November 28th, 2003, has
resulted form following reasons:
             -  due to a good financial and economic standing of mining companies,
                proposed activization-adaptation instruments for surface workers (stipends
                or re-training contract) were not attractive;
             -  work in the mines, as a result of improved financial standing of the mining
                companies, has given the sense of social security to mine employees and
                their families.

         Moreover, the principle of leaving on a voluntary basis has caused the improving
financial and economic standing of the mining companies, as confirmed by increase of
average monthly salary, to be a factor with a negative influence on decisions about
leaving the industry.


         One of the elements intended to lead to an effective financial restructuring in the
years 2004 ­ 2006 was continued process of increasing capital of Kompania Wglowa S.A.
Means from increased capital were meant to be used to repay liabilities inherited by KW
S.A., such as were not written off in 2003, including timely repayment of restructured
liabilities to ZUS. The amount of increased capital in the abovementioned period was
planned on the level of 900,0 million PLN. Out of this amount, as of 31.12.2006, capital
increase of a total value of 484 million PLN was implemented.




                                             23

      Basic objectives of restructuring, as specified in the program assumptions, was for
the mining companies to achieve stable profitability and satisfactory level of liquidity.
            In the years 2004 ­ 2006 results form sales of hard coal were as follows:

           ­ 2004                                     3 005,7 million PLN,
           ­ 2005                                     1 992,2 million PLN,
           ­ 2006                                       754,5 million PLN.

    In the years 2004 ­ 2006 the amount of coal sold has decreased from 98,7 million
tons in 2004 through 94,1 million PLN in 2005, down to 93,4 million tons in 2006.
Deteriorating results from sales were definitely under the impact of increase of unit cost
of coal sold, from 157,44 PLN per ton in 2004, 170,52 PLN per ton in 2005 up to 175,54
PLN per ton in 2006. Increase of unit cost in 2006 as compared to 2004 was on the level
of 11,5 percent, and the average price in same period has decreased by 2,3 percent. The
measure of financial situation is in particular the current liquidity ratio, measured as ratio
of working assets to short-term liabilities. In the years 2004 - 2005 this ratio has remained
on the level of 0,89, and in 2006 it was 0,79. Thus, in the years 2004 ­ 2006 the ratio
remained on a level far from the desirable, specified as 1,2 ­ 2.

      One of the objectives of program assumptions for the years 2004 ­ 2006 was to
privatize the mining companies and create a Coal and Coke Group with Jastrzbska
Spólka Wglowa S.A. as dominating entity. Scope of privatization and transformation
was defined in the "Hard Coal Sector Privatization Strategy" adopted by Council of
Ministers on 20.12.2004 as integral part of the government privatization program. Jastrzbska
Spólka Wglowa S.A. has taken shares in Koksownia Przyja Sp. z o.o. coking plant
from Kompania Wglowa S.A. and Polskie Koleje Pastwowe S.A., thus becoming a
holder of 88,08 percent of its share capital. Further consolidation of Coal and Coke
Group was to include Treasury of State's contribution in kind to JSW S.A. in form of
shares of: Kombinat Koksochemiczny ,,Zabrze" S.A. and Zaklady Koksownicze
,,Walbrzych" S.A. as well as the Treasury's shares of Koksownia Przyja Sp. z o.o.
Privatization Advisor of the Treasury of State has also prepared an emission prospectus
for Jastrzbska Spólka Wglowa S.A., which has been submitted in the Ministry of
treasury of State in December 2005. As far as work on privatization of Katowicki
Holding Wglowy S.A. is concerned, in May 2005 the ministry of treasury of State has
approved privatization analyses, based on which in June 2005 the Minister of the
Treasury of State has made a decision to sell at least 10 percent of the shares owned by
the Treasury of State by way of negotiations based on a public invitation. In the
timeframe envisaged for submitting responses to the public invitation of the Ministry of
Treasury of State, i.e. until 27.10.2005, preliminary proposals were submitted by CES,
a.s. with principal seat in Prague (Czech Republic) and Bancroft Private Equity LLP with
principal seat in London (UK). In 2006, except for the works related to creation of the
Coal and Coke Group, no privatization works related to mining companies were
undertaken.

      Within the framework of program assumptions, basic effects of proekological
activities were specified for Kompania Wglowa S.A., Katowicka Grupa Kapitalowa and
Jastrzbska Spólka Wglowa S.A., and target values were set for 2010.




                                              24

     Analyzing the current proecological activities in Kompania Wglowa S.A., including
completion of investment project currently implemented by Kompania Wglowa S.A.,
entitled "Hydrological protection of Vistula River with respect to saline waters of KWK
,,Piast" and KWK ,,Ziemowit", using shafts and workings of Ruch II KWK ,,Piast" ­
KWK ,,Piast" one should state, that target values assumed under the program are
realistically achievable.
     As far as KGK and JSW S.A. are concerned, it should be stated, that reaching
assumed target values for chlorides and sulphites load in unused mine water discharged
into surface waters will be difficult to achieve. Reasons for this include increased
mineralization of natural water inflow in the mines, resulting from works undertaken in
new, usually deeper, areas, as well as lesser scope of mining-geological activities
resulting from hydrological, geological and hydrogeological conditions of mining
companies.


     In spite of departures from the program assumptions as described above, the hard
coal mining sector restructuring, in implementation for many years, has brought on many
positive results. Deep changes in the Polish economy, commenced at the beginning of
1990's, based on foundations of market economy, competition and equal treatment for all
entities, have had an impact on enterprises in the mining sector as well. Transformation
of that sector was a particularly difficult task, as before transformation, the main focus of
the mining companies was how to increase the output. Less attention was paid to
production costs, economic and financial standing or financial results of the companies.
In light of emerging competition, this kind of approach had to change and forced the
mining companies to start fighting for their existence.

     Over the past years, organizational structure of the sector has changed. Production
capacity was consolidated. Number of active headings has decreased from 788 in 1990 to
130 as of end of 2006. There was also a significant increase in labor productivity, up to
793 t/empl/yr in 2006. Liabilities of the mining sector companies, as a result of
forgiveness of debts to the state in the amount of 18,1 billion PLN, applied in 2003, as of
end of 2006 was on the level of approx. 6,9 million PLN. Most of those liabilities are in
Kompania Wglowa S.A. The liabilities are being systematically repaid. One of the most
important effects achieved was a certain stabilization of economic condition of
enterprises in the mining sector, as exemplified by full, timely payments of current
liabilities. Another element is continuous improvement of organization of Polish coal
market, recently using state of the art IT technologies.

     The World Bank has played a significant role in adapting Polish mining sector to
operation under market economy conditions, providing both a substantial part of
financing for restructuring programs, as well as expert assistance. Thanks to cooperation
with the World Bank, institutions responsible for preparing the hard coal mining sector
reform, its implementation and monitoring were also strengthened. Due to
implementation of the last two loans, it was possible to increase effectiveness of the
model preparing mines for liquidation, with particular emphasis on preventing negative
social and environmental impacts. I would like to thank you, Mr. Director, for particular
commitment and personal contribution to the process of reforming Polish coal sector. I


                                              25

would like to ask you to pass my thanks to the Leader of Coal Experts team, Mr. John
Strongman, Ms Adriana Eftimie, Mr. Roman Palac, who worked directly with the
employees of the Ministry, as well as al the other employees of the World Bank, involved
in Polish hard coal mining sector restructuring process.


                                             Yours respectfully

                                         Krzysztof Tchorzewski
                                             Secretary of State




                                            26

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not Applicable




                                    27

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


Government Reports and Programs
     · "1998-2002 Hard Coal Mining Reform Program" as adopted by the Council of
         Ministers on 30 June, 1998
     · "The Corrected Government 1998-2002 Hard Coal Mining Reform Program",
         as adopted by the Council of Ministers on 21 December, 1999
     · Privatization Strategy for Hard Coal Mining in Poland, Ministry of Economy,
         April 2001
     · Program for Restructuring Hard Coal Mining in Poland in the Years 2003-
         2006 with the Application of Anti-crisis Laws and Initiation of Privatization of
         Certain Mines as accepted by the Council of Ministers, November 20, 2002
     · Program for Restructuring Hard Coal Mining in Poland in the Years 2003-
         2006 with the Application of Anti-crisis Laws and Initiation of Privatization of
         Certain Mines originally accepted November 20, 2002, and Amended Version
         adopted by the Council of Ministers on January 28, 2003
     · "Program of Alleviating Hard Coal Mining Employment Restructuring Effects
         in the Region of Silesia" adopted by the Council of Ministers on January 28,
         2003
     · Restructuring Of The Hard Coal Mining Sector 2004 ­ 2006 and Strategy For
         The Period 2007 ­ 2010 adopted by the Council of Ministers on April 27,
         2004 (which includes both a base case and alternative case)
     · Strategy for the Privatization of the Hard Coal Mining Sector as adopted by
         the Council of Ministers on December 20, 2004


  Mission Aide Memoires and Reports

     · Various Aide Memoires covering the period January 2003-May 2007
     · Poland Hard Coal Policy Paper ­Charting the Future of the Polish Hard
         Sector: Options and actions for the Government: January 26, 2006
     · Poland : Reform And Restructuring Of The Hard Coal Sector 1998-2006 And
         Future Prospects: Draft May 15, 2007


  Mission Presentations

  · An Overview of the Privatization Process and Issues Likely to Arise;      Katowice,
     March 2003
  · Actions Needed to Successfully Complete the Restructuring of the Polish Hard Coal
     sector; Warsaw, March 7, 2005
  · Energy Security and Successfully Completing the Reform of the Polish Hard Coal
     Sector, Warsaw, December 6, 2005




                                          28

· Successfully Completing the Reform of the Polish Hard Coal Sector, Katowice,
  December 7, 2005
· Charting the Future of the Polish Hard Coal Industry, Presentation to Senior
  Government Officials, February 21, 2006
· Hard Coal contributing to Poland's Energy Security and Silesia's Economic Future
  For Discussion with the Parliamentary economic commission, April 4, 2006
· Hard Coal contributing to Poland's Energy Security and Silesia's Economic Future,
  at Least Cost to the Budget and with Least Social Disruption; For Discussion with
  the Ministry of Economy, April 5, 2006
· Draft Poland Hard Coal Strategy ­ Talking Points, August 31, 2006




                                      29

