Page  1
LOAN NUMBER 7247 POL 
 
Loan Agreement
 
(Hard Coal Mine Closure Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF POLAND 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 24, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7247 POL 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 24, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF POLAND (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS  (A)  the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated May 20, 2004, 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to restructure the hard coal 
sector and to improve performance of the sector (hereinafter called the Program), and declaring 
the Borrower’s commitment to the implementation of the Program;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; and  
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, (as amended through May 1, 
2004) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions, and the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set 
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“ARP” means Agencja Rozwoju Przemyslu Spolka Akcyjna, a joint stock 
company under the Commercial Code of the Borrower, with its Head Office located in Warsaw, 
registered in the National Court Register – Business Registry under the number KRS 
0000037957, established to monitor industry efficiency; 
 
(b) 
“BSRK” means Bytom Spolka Restrukturyzacji Kopaln Sp. z o.o, a limited 
liability company under the Commercial Code of the Borrower, with its Head Office located in 
Bytom, registered in the National Court Register – Business Registry under the number KRS 
0000049089; 
 
(c) 
“Dewatering Master Plan” means a comprehensive plan to be prepared by the 
Borrower identifying the necessary actions to minimize the cost of dewatering for the hard coal 
mine sector; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means category (1) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for Hard Coal Mine Closure 
Transfers referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“2004-2006 Environmental Protection Programs” means the environmental 
protection programs for KW, KHW and JSW, for the calendar years 2004-2006, prepared and 
adopted by KW, KHW and JSW, respectively, describing the environmental mitigation and 
monitoring  measures for mine operation and closure; 
 
 
(g) 
“Environmental Management Plans” means the environmental management 
plans prepared for each individual mine to be closed under the Hard Coal Mine Closure Program; 
 
(h) 
“Financial Agreement” means the agreement entered into annually between the 
MoEL and: (A) SRK and BSRK, pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement; 
and (B) ARP;  
 
(i) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
 
(j) 
“Hard Coal Mine Closure Program” means the sub-program for hard coal mine 
liquidation, environmental reclamation, and post-liquidation maintenance and monitoring co-
financed by the Bank, prepared and implemented by SRK and BSRK, and approved by the MoEL 
and funded by the state budget from funds allocated to fulfillment of objectives related to the 
restructuring of the hard coal mining sector; 
 
(k) 
“Hard Coal Mine Closure Transfers” means the amount, consisting of 56% out of 
the proceeds of the Loan and 44% from the Borrower’s own resources, transferred by the 
Borrower through its Ministry of Finance to MoEL and through MoEL to SRK and BSRK 
respectively to cover the costs of goods, works and services required for the implementation of 
the Hard Coal Mine Closure Program excluding subsidence; 
 
(l) 
“1998-2002 Hard Coal Mining Reform Program” means the Borrower’s program 
for reform of the hard coal sector for the period 1998-2002; 
 
(m) 
“IMCMC” means the Inter-Ministerial Coal Monitoring Committee established 
by the Borrower to oversee implementation of the Program of Restructuring of the Hard Coal 
Mining Sector for 2003-2006; 
 
(n) 
“JSW” means Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa Spolka Akcyjna, a joint stock 
company under the Commercial Code of the Borrower, with its Head Office located in Jastrzebie 
Zdroj,  registered  in  the  National  Court  Register  –  Business  Registry  under  the  number            
KRS 0000072093; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(o) 
“KHW” means Katowicki Holding Weglowy Spolka Akcyjna, a joint stock 
company under the Commercial Code of the Borrower, with its Head office located in Katowice, 
registered 
in 
the 
National 
Court 
Register 
– 
Business 
Registry 
under 
the 
number                        
KRS 0000046994;  
 
(p)  
“KW” means Kompania Weglowa S.A., a joint stock company under the 
Commercial Code of the Borrower, with its Head Office located in Katowice, registered in the 
National Court Register – Business Registry under the number KRS 0000057506; 
 
(q) 
“MoEL” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Labor;  
 
(r) 
“MoEN” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Environment; 
 
(s) 
“MoF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
 
(t) 
“MoST” means the Borrower’s Ministry of State Treasury; 
 
(u) 
“Mine Closure Plans and Engineering Design Plans” means all necessary plans 
and studies needed for the closure of an underground mine, including engineering design studies 
for underground workings and surface facilities; 
 
(v) 
“Operational Manual” means the Operational Manual for the carrying out of the 
Project, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to time 
with the agreement of the Bank; 
 
(w) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated May 20, 
2004, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as the same 
shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.03 to this 
Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project implementation. 
 
(x) 
“Program of Restructuring of the Hard Coal Mining Sector for 2003-2006” 
means the Borrower’s program for reform of the hard coal sector for the period 2003-2006, as 
amended on April 27, 2004 and renamed “Program of Restructuring of the Hard Coal Mining 
Sector for 2004-2006 and Strategy for 2007-2010”; 
 
(y) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for withdrawal of 
funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
 
(z) 
“SRK” means Spolka Restrukturyzacji Kopaln S.A., a joint stock company under 
the Commercial Code of the Borrower, with its Head Office located in Katowice, registered in the 
National Court Register – Business Registry under the number KRS 0000027497;  
 
(aa) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
Page  5
-
4
-
(bb) 
“Technical and Operational Plans” means the annual plans prepared by KW, 
JSW, and KHW, each satisfactory to the Bank, and on an annual basis providing technical and 
business parameters for the calendar year. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to eighty four million one hundred 
thousand Euro (EUR 84,100,000) as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of: (a) Hard Coal Mine Closure Transfers required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (b) the front-end fee referred 
to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2008 or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to    
eight hundred forty one thousand Euro
 
(EUR 841,000). On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the 
amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty-five one-
hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to 
accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General Conditions to but not 
including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy-five one-hundredths of one percent 
(0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the Variable 
Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in accordance with 
the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest, commitment and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in two equal 
payments on  November 15, 2011 and November 15, 2018. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out the Project through: 
(i) the MoEL; and (ii) the ARP, SRK and BSRK, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate financial, administrative, technical, engineering, mining and 
environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  The Borrower, through the MoEL, shall transfer through its budget the 
Hard Coal Mine Closure Transfers to SRK and BSRK under Financial Agreements to be entered 
into between the MoEL and SRK and BSRK and ARP, respectively, under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Bank, including those set forth in paragraph 5 of Schedule 
4
to this Agreement. 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b)   
The Borrower, through the MoEL, shall exercise its rights under each Financial 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Financial Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, works 
and services required for the Project and to be financed through the Hard Coal Mine Closure 
Transfers shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as said provisions 
may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 months after the 
date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
(c) 
Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 6.03 (d) of the General Conditions 
(and the terms of paragraph 1.13 of the Guidelines referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and 
paragraph 1.18 of the Consultant Guidelines also referred to in said Schedule), if, at any time, the 
Bank determines that the procurement of any contract financed through disbursements from Hard 
Coal Mine Closure Transfers is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower cancel an amount of the Loan equivalent to 
fifty six percent (56%) of the amount of such contract.   
 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower, through the MoEL, shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on 
said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through the MoEL, shall cause ARP and SRK and BSRK 
to maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial 
statements, in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the MoEL, shall cause ARP and SRK and BSRK to: 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year (or such other period agreed to 
by the Bank):  (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year (or other period agreed to 
by the Bank), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by 
said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records, 
accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement  
(Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through 
the MoEL, shall cause ARP and SRK and BSRK to: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports or statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower, through the MoEL, shall cause ARP to  
prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank, which: (i) sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds provided under the Loan, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; (ii) describes physical 
progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
and explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project implementation; and (iii) sets forth 
the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from 
the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
Page  9
-
8
-
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days 
after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
.
Section 4.03. The Borrower, through the MoEL, shall cause KW, KHW, JSW, SRK and 
BSRK, to make readily available to the public, during Project implementation, their audited 
financial statements in full, including footnote disclosures. 
 
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause JSW, KW and KHW to maintain a hard budget 
constraint which will be monitored on a cumulative monthly basis and shall include all relevant 
information in the FMRs for the Project. 
 
Section 4.05. The Borrower, through the MoEL shall: (a) cause preparation and 
submission to the Bank by March 31 of each year until completion of the Project of an annual 
progress report, which shall include, inter alia: (i) an assessment of the previous and subsequent 
calendar year’s financial performance for JSW, KW and KHW each (if not privatized), including 
any need for further restructuring in addition to the Program of Restructuring of the Hard Coal 
Mining Sector for 2003-2006; (ii) a report on progress regarding privatization of JSW, KW, and  
KHW; (iii) a report on mine closures achieved for that calendar year and planned for the 
following calendar year; and (iv) a report on progress in repairing subsidence and reducing the 
backlog of subsidence-related repairs; and (b) review with the Bank by April 30 of each year until 
completion of the Project said report, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure 
efficient completion of the Project.                                                                                                                          
 
Section 4.06. The Borrower, through the MoEL, shall cause preparation and submission 
to the Bank by December 15 of each year until completion of the Project, and, thereafter, 
exchange views with the Bank, of the draft Technical and Operational Plans for the following 
calendar year for JSW, KW and KHW (each if not privatized), including planned capacity closure 
and employment restructuring, planned cash flow, environmental protection and subsidence 
repair activities. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or a 
significant part thereof, will be carried out; and 
 
(b) 
the Borrower, ARP, SRK or BSRK, shall have failed to perform any of their 
obligations under the respective Financial Agreement.  
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:  
 
(a) 
the Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by the 
Borrower, through the MoEL; 
 
(b) 
the Financial Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, between the MoEL and ARP 
and MoEL and SRK and BSRK, respectively, have been executed on behalf of the MoEL and 
ARP and the MoEL and SRK and BSRK, respectively; and 
 
(c) 
 
KW, KHW and JSW have each adopted their respective 2004-2006 
Environmental Protection Programs, satisfactory to the MoEN, including a time bound action 
plan for implementation of said Programs. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions, including, inter alia, 
reallocations of the proceeds of the Loan among the Categories set forth in the table in paragraph 
A. 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
Page  11
-
10
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
u1.
Swietokrzyska 12 
 
00-916 Warszawa  
 
Republic of Poland 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
MINF 
  
825592 minf pl or 
 
48 22 826 6670 
 
Poland 
  
814386 minf pl 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
248423 (MCI) or           
1 (202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the City of 
Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF POLAND 
 
By /s/ Piotr Sawicki 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Roger Grawe 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in EUR)
to be financed
(1) 
Hard Coal Mine 
70,800,000 
56%   
 Closure 
Transfers 
 
(2) 
Front-end fee 
841,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(3)     Unallocated 
12,459,000
TOTAL 84,100,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding eight million four hundred thousand Euro 
(EUR 8,400,000) may be made in respect of Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 1, 
2004; and (b) payments under Category 1 of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Part A, in 
the event the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank by a date six months after the end 
of each fiscal year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), together with the audits referred 
to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, such documents and other evidence showing, to the 
satisfaction of the Bank, that the amounts of the Hard Coal Mine Closure Transfers were used for 
goods, works and services eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan as confirmed by 
such audit report.   
 
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods, works and Specialized 
Technical Services, with the exception of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of EUR 400,000 
or more per contract, and works and Specialized Technical Services estimated to cost the 
equivalent of EUR 5,000,000 or more per contract and each contract procured on the basis of 
Direct Contracting procedures; (b) services of consulting firms with the exception of services 
Page  14
-
13
-
estimated to cost the equivalent of EUR 160,000 equivalent or more per contract; and services of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of EUR 85,000 equivalent per contract, 
with the exception of the first contract for services of consulting firms and the first contract for 
services of individual consultants irrespective of value; all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
4. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, such reports 
to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before 
any withdrawal has been made from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank 
only a cash forecast report for the Project for the six-month period following the date of such 
request.  
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Euro a special deposit account in the National 
Bank of Poland or in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment in 
the case of a commercial bank. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account 
shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such 
time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part A.4 of 
this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based Disbursements; or 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
Page  15
-
14
-
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure, as the case may be.  
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits 
into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  16
-
15
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. For 
the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of 
EUR 8,400,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which in 
the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.  Prior to 
or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from 
the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once the 
total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from 
the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  17
-
16
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or 
more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 
applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such reports.
 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the efficiency of the Borrower’s hard coal 
sector by supporting the implementation of the expected mine liquidation and post-liquidation 
and environmental improvements during the calendar years 2004-2006 of the Program of 
Restructuring of the Hard Coal Mining Sector for 2003-2006 and ongoing mine liquidation and 
post-liquidation commitments from the 1998-2002 Hard Coal Mining Reform Program.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A:
Liquidation of underground workings and shafts, including removal of equipment and 
securing underground areas and dewatering. 
 
Part B:
Post liquidation, including demolishing and clearing surface structure, buildings, 
stockpiles, plant and equipment and, if necessary, stabilization of any waste or other dumps and 
dewatering. 
 
Part C:
Preparation of: (a) a comprehensive Dewatering Master Plan; (b) Environmental 
Management Plans; and (c) Mine Closure Plans and Engineering Design Studies, and 
documentation review to obtain necessary approvals for mine liquidation. 
 
Part D:
Reclamation of land by preparing the land for: (i) industrial area through clean-up and 
ground leveling; and (ii) recreational area through clean-up and ground leveling and other 
remediation actions, including, inter alia, recultivation.  
 
Part E
:
Post mine closure monitoring and maintenance, as needed, with particular regard for any 
post-closure de-watering requirements. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2007. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions 
of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV of the 
“Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 
2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular procurement 
methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the meanings ascribed to 
them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The 
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic 
preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the 
Borrower. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than EUR 400,000 
equivalent per contract and works and Specialized Technical Services (in accordance with 
footnote 2 of paragraph 1.1 of the Procurement Guidelines) estimated to cost less than EUR 
5,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding and the following additional provisions: with respect to eligible 
contracts procured under the Public Procurement Law, dated January 29, 2004, that became 
effective on March 2, 2004, the procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding shall 
be those allowing: (a) open tendering for procurement of goods; (b) open tendering for 
procurement of works; and (c) open or restricted tendering for Specialized Technical Services, set 
forth in said Law with the clarifications set forth below required for compliance with the 
Procurement Guidelines:  the term “Best Offer” shall be understood as the lowest evaluated bid 
selected following evaluation with use of quantifiable factors expressed in monetary terms.  In 
addition, no merit points system shall be used to evaluate bids.  The restricted tendering can be 
used only for Specialized Technical Services for which there is a limited number of firms and for 
contracts estimated not to exceed EUR 400,000. 
Page  20
-
19
-
2. Shopping.
Goods estimated to cost less than EUR 60,000 equivalent per contract and 
works estimated to cost less than EUR 60,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Specialized Technical Services for protective measures, protective 
measures against water hazards, and maintenance of the mine systems and objects, estimated to 
cost less than EUR 600,000 equivalent per contract, which the Bank agrees meet the requirements 
for Direct Contracting  may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said procurement 
method. 
 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- 
and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than EUR 160,000 equivalent per contract 
may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less than EUR 
85,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in 
the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 
of the Consultant Guidelines.   
 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the following 
contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each contract for: (i) goods estimated 
to cost the equivalent of EUR 400,000 or more; (ii) each contract for works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of EUR 5,000,000 or more; (iii) each contract for Specialized Technical Services 
(other than consultants’ services)
 
estimated to cost the equivalent of EUR 5,000,000 or more; and 
(iv) each contract procured on the basis of Direct Contracting; and (b) (i) the first contract 
irrespective of its value and each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated 
to cost the equivalent of EUR 160,000
 
or more; (ii) the record of justification referred to in 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines for the first contract irrespective of its 
value and each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the 
equivalent of EUR 85,000 or more.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the 
Bank. 
 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the MoEL, shall: (a) carry out the Project in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in the Operational Manual; (b) maintain said Operational 
Manual in form and content at all times satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) manage the Special 
Account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through the MoEL, shall be responsible for overall Project coordination 
including:  
 
(a) 
preparation of disbursement applications under the Loan; and 
 
(b) 
maintenance of records and accounts related to the Project for the carrying out of 
the obligations referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through the MoEL, shall assign to the ARP responsibility for overall 
Project monitoring, including: 
 
(a) 
preparation of all reporting requirements under the Project; and 
 
(b) 
carrying out of monitoring and evaluation activities under the Project.  
 
4. 
The Borrower, through the MoEL, shall cause the SRK and BSRK to carry out the 
Project in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the Operational Manual and 
this Agreement. 
 
5. 
The Borrower, through the MoEL, shall ensure that each Financial Agreement, shall 
include, inter alia, provisions, whereby: (a) the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan 
through the Hard Coal Mine Closure Transfers available to the SRK and BSRK in the form of a 
budgetary transfer for the carrying out of the Project; (b) the SRK and BSRK shall be required to 
implement the Project in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the 
Operational Manual and the provisions of this Agreement; and (c) the SRK and BSRK shall each 
be required as part of its responsibility for Project implementation: (i) to maintain the Project 
financial records and accounts and make them available to the ARP for the monitoring thereof; 
and (ii) to prepare and furnish to the ARP starting on August 15, 2004, quarterly reports on the 
progress of Project implementation. 
 
6. 
The Borrower, through the MoF, shall take appropriate action to ensure, according to 
budget capacity, funding of the Program of Restructuring of the Hard Coal Mining Sector for 
2003-2006, including subsidence repair costs, on an annual basis. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
7. 
The Borrower, through the MoEL, shall ensure that the IMCMC shall meet at least every 
quarter during Project implementation for the purpose of monitoring progress under the Program 
of Restructuring of the Hard Coal Mining Sector for 2003-2006. 
 
8. 
The Borrower shall: (a) take all actions necessary to identify required funding for, and, 
thereafter, prepare by December 31, 2005, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a 
comprehensive Dewatering Master Plan to identify and examine options and recommend 
necessary steps to minimize the costs of dewatering for the years 2005-2025; and (b) following 
consultation with the Bank, thereafter, implement appropriate actions under said Plan and carry 
out an annual review of progress with the Bank and update said Plan as needed during Project 
implementation. 
 
9. 
Except as otherwise agreed with the Bank, the Borrower, through the MoEL, shall cause: 
(a) KW, KHW and JSW to reduce capacity by an aggregate of 8.35 millon tons net mining 
capacity by December 31, 2006, out of which: (i) 3.55 million tons per year (tpy) net mining 
capacity by December 31, 2004; (ii) a further 2.9 million tpy net mining capacity by December 
31, 2005; and (iii) a further 1.9 million tpy net mining capacity by December 31, 2006; (b) within 
the reduction in capacity by an aggregate of 8.35 million tons net mining capacity by December 
31, 2006 referred to above, SRK to start liquidation of: (i) 2.5 million tpy mining capacity by 
December 31, 2004; and (ii) another whole mine by December 31, 2005, in accordance with the 
Program of Restructuring of the Hard Coal Mining Sector for 2003-2006. 
 
10.
 
The Borrower, through the MoEL, shall cause: (a) SRK to prepare a 2004-2006 
Environmental Protection Program; and (b) SRK, KW, KHW, and JSW to each implement their 
respective 2004-2006 Environmental Protection Programs in a timely manner and according to the 
agreed time bound action plans and shall include adequate information on the carrying out of such 
measures in the annual progress report  for the Project. 
 
11. 
Except as otherwise agreed with the Bank, the Borrower shall: (a) through the MoEL, 
take all measures necessary to complete by December 31, 2005, restructuring activities for KW; 
(b) thereafter, through the MoST, formulate terms of reference for the privatization advisor and 
appoint said privatization advisor for KW by June 30, 2006; and (c) thereafter, through the 
MoST, submit to the Bank a report as to the readiness of KW for privatization by December 31, 
2006. 
 
12. 
The Borrower, through the MoEL, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the 
Project and the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about March 31 of each year until completion of the Project, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the Program during the 
Page  23
-
22
-
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the Program and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by April 30 of each year until completion of the Project, or 
such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
