SPÓLKA RESTRUKTURYZACJI KOPAL S.A.

           IN KATOWICE




        ENVIRONMENTAL

   MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK


              FOR

         Mines to be closed




            MAY 2004

1. Introductory                                                         3
2. Description                                                          3
  2.1 Screening                                                         3
  2.2 Documentation                                                     4
  2.3 Documentation review and approval                                 4
  2.4 Social consultations                                              4
  2.5 Disclosure of documents                                           5
3. Mitigation plan                                                      5
  3.1 Generation of solid waste as result of decommissioning of surface
  structures, plant and machinery                                       5
  3.2 Noise emission                                                    5
  3.3 Dust emission                                                     6
  3.4 Discharge of underground waters to surface courses:               6
4. Environment monitoring                                               6
5. Supervision of execution of the Environment Management Plan          7
6. Costs                                                                8
7. Institutional strengthening                                          8
8. Institutional solutions                                              9
9. Appendixes                                                          10




                                                                        2

1. Introductory
Spólka Restrukturyzacji Kopal S.A. has been implementing the Government Hard Coal
Sector Restructuring Program for the period 2003-2006.
In 2004, liquidation will start of the following mines:
    · Katowice ­ Kleofas in Katowice; and
    · Bytom II in Bytom.
The closing process will include the following:
    · Liquidation of mine works
    · Decommissioning of surface structures;
    · Scraping plant and machinery; and
    · Reclamation of post-mining land.
The mines earmarked for liquidation will be drained in order to secure the neighbouring
mines in service against water-related threats.
Mine closing will be done in line with Polish legislation, now compatible with the EU
regulations. The key legal deeds, underpinning the closing of mines have been listed in
Appendix 3 to this plan.
Closing of mines will have a moderate impact on environment. The impact may be mitigated
by dedicated measures and one may decide on the scope of its monitoring.
The master Plan that follows will be a guideline and pattern for detail plans, provided for the
individual mines.

2. Description
2.1 Screening

Following have been identified as the major tasks throughout the closing, that are detrimental
to the environment:

(a)     Decommissioning of surface structures causes the following threats:
    · Generation of waste, including of hazardous nature;
    · Noise emission; and
    · Dust emission.

(b)    Scrapping plant and machinery, threatening the environment because of:
    · Generation of waste, including of hazardous nature; and
    · Noise emission

(c)    Filling of mine shafts, of likely temporary negative impact on the underground waters
due to works backfilling with solid waste. Examination of run-off water typically evidence
their higher-than-normal concentration of heavy metals and alkaline reaction. After their
inflow into mine waters, the run-offs are pumped through the main drainage system to surface
courses. However, the volume of such run-offs is negligible for the overall geochemical water
balance.

(d)    Discharge of underground waters to surface courses, causing the following effects:
    · Disposal of pollution charges of salts, chlorides and sulphates contained in the
        underground water discharged; and
    · Noise emission.

(e)    Land reclamation and development may have a negative impact because of:



                                                                                             3

   · Potential use of solid waste at reclamation/development projects;
   · Temporary increase in noise emission; and
   · Temporary increase in dust emission.

   Detail information on land reclamation procedure has been given in Appendix 9, 9A and
   9B.

2.2 Documentation

   Following documents are mandatory at liquidation of any mine:

   · Programme for closing of the mine;
   · Annual closing plans, drafted based on an approved master programme;
   · Operating plan for the mine earmarked for liquidation:
   · Appendix to deposit management design;
   · Hydrological and geological documentation; and
   · Settlement appendix to geological documentation of deposit.


Appendix 4 to this plan provides details on applicable regulations, that require the entity
responsible for mine closing to hold the foregoing basic documents.
Appendix 5 to this plan gives details on drafting and approval of the documentation.

2.3 Documentation review and approval

   Certain detail documents are required for delivery of the individual tasks listed in the
programme, closing plans and the operating plan. These include are decisions and permits
issued for the individual structures or areas of the mine being closed, or any projects run as
part of the closing, including:
   · Decisions authorising demolition of structures;
   · Decisions on the future function of the reclaimed land;
   · Decisions on land development terms and conditions;
   · Water permits;
   · Decisions on approval of the programme for hazardous waste management;
   · Decisions authorising removal of trees and bushes.

Details on the closing tasks have been outlined in Appendix 6 to this plan. Decision making
diagram and the necessary documents have been put together in Appendix 7 hereto.

The Environment Management Plan has been presented in Appendix 1 and 2.

2.4 Social consultations

Communities are consulted as part of preparation to, and throughout execution of
programmes and plans for mine liquidation. Consultations are run at the following levels:

   · Local government, when needed for Environmental Impact Assessment; or
   · Mine, in line with relevant environment management plans.

Conclusions from social consultations are typically forwarded to contractors as requests to be
complied with/delivered.




                                                                                            4

2.5 Disclosure of documents

List of decisions, permits or agreements held, authorising conduct of works and information
on tenders will be available at the Company's website.

List of decisions, permits or agreements relating to particular mine provided for liquidation
will be available at the website of such mine.

Environment Management Plans of the mines to be closed will be available at the principal
place of business of each such mine.

Appendix 8 includes reports on social consultations throughout the liquidation process.

This document has been drafted in line with Polish and the World Bank's procedures and its
execution is a prerequisite for extension of the World Bank loan.

3. Mitigation plan


The table attached as Appendix 1 hereto presents the Plan for Mitigation of Negative Impact
of Mine Closings on Environment.

Following might threaten the environment throughout the closing of mines:


3.1 Generation of solid waste as result of decommissioning of surface structures, plant and
   machinery

Waste generated throughout liquidation of structures will be broken-down into categories and
stored separately and particular attention will be given to separation of hazardous waste.
Asbestos, used oil containing PCB and other waste posing threat to environment will be put
under particular scrutiny.

The companies providing decommissioning services should hold licences authorising the
working with asbestos and other dangerous substances, their transport and destruction in line
with applicable regulations in force.


In respect of generation of waste:

Requirements to be satisfied by bidders refer to the framework plan for waste management
and its transport to the sites of their future use or destruction. To be eligible, the bidder must
hold permits for transport and recycling of waste, which are the prerequisites for awarding
contracts on demolition work to such bidder. Stringent requirements will be formulated for
the companies responsible for demolition of the structures, where any matter with asbestos
content has been stored. Contractors will have to fulfil specific duties under the regulations on
handling waste with asbestos content, its transport, marking, safety at demolition site and
personnel training.

3.2 Noise emission

Available technical measures and technologies will be used, ensuring the lowest possible
emission of noise to the environment. The measures for securing the environment against
noise will include adequate shields or protective screens and the use of equipment having
adequate noise homologation.




                                                                                                5

In respect of noise emission:

Requirements to be satisfied by bidders include the use of the adequate technology or
measures to prevent excessive emission of noise to the environment. The measures must
include sound-proof screens, limitation of working time to certain time slots throughout the
day, using the equipment, whose technical condition does guarantee that the noise emitted to
the environment will not be excessive.

The pumping of underground water out of works of the closed mines is quite a different
matter. Here, the Company has undertaken to prevent noise emission to the environment and
its actions to this effect include regular inspections of the draining equipment to maintain its
desired technical condition and avoid an excessive noise emission. This applies to fixed
pumping stations. For submersible pumping stations, the Company has planned to request that
shields be put up, where noise levels are exceeded.

3.3 Dust emission

The technical measures and technologies used will enable the maximum feasible reduction of
dust emission during the conduct of work. The measures will include ring-fencing of the site
with adequate shields or protective screens, the equipment for washing vehicles and access
roads and dampening the material/products used, or sprinkling the site in order to minimise
emission of dust to the environment.
Dustiness:

Demolition of structures, scraping plant and machinery and reclamation will all be outsourced
through a bidding procedure. Prerequisites to be complied with by bidders for the given
contract will have to declare use of the technology or other measures, ensuring protection
against an excessive dustiness. Contractors will be required to use protective screens, sprinkle
the site and wash access roads and vehicles.


3.4 Discharge of underground waters to surface courses:

Draining of the mines under liquidation is routinely supervised by the environment protection
service of the each mine. The drainage terms and conditions will each time be listed in the
relevant water permit. Sedimentation tanks for underground water will enable to eliminate
mechanical pollutants contained in the underground water being discharged.


4. Environment monitoring

The Environment Monitoring Plan has been outlined below:

    · Following will be monitored:
    · Waste generated or used throughout the projects;
    · Volume of waters and pollution in the underground water discharged;
    · Dust pollution: The dispersed emission; and
    · Noise level.


The monitoring will be the responsibility of operation and environment protection services of
the mine under liquidation.




                                                                                              6

Their actions will be overseen by Glówny Inynier Energomechanicznemu [Chief Engineer
for Power Facilities] of the mine being closed and the competent service of the Office of the
Management Board.


1. Waste will be monitored on-line as the closing process progresses, after breaking them
down into categories. Each piece of waste will be identified in keeping with the update waste
catalogue, published in Order of the Minister of Environment, where a unique code has been
assigned to every type of waste. Both the used waste and the waste provided for destruction
will be monitored.

2. Monitoring of pollution of waters discharged to surface courses

Since the mines under liquidation do not have appropriate chemical laboratories, all analyses
of underground waters will be outsourced to specialist labs. In keeping with the terms and
conditions set forth in water permits (i.e. in respect of the time and extent of monitoring),
physical and chemical analyses will be requested. These analyses will specify physical and
chemical properties of waters. Special attention will be paid to the content of chlorides and
sulphates in the discharged waters, along with their reaction, suspended matter and the
substances diluted in the waters. Every quarter, a full analysis will be done, including all
indicators required under relevant regulations.

Monitoring will cover the volume of water discharged to surface courses.

Dustiness and noise levels will be monitored by competent services of the mine under
liquidation.

Appendix 2 to this environment management outlines details of monitoring of the foregoing
parameters.


5. Supervision of execution of the Environment Management Plan


In order to supervise execution of the Environment Management Plan, each time there will be
appointed an inspector responsible for the supervision, whose competences, evidenced by his
holding of appropriate licences will depend on the nature of work to be overseen.

Duties of supervision inspectors include oversight and an on-line audit of tasks in progress
and confirmation of completion of each stage of progress by relevant entry in the site log.

Each supervision inspector is expected to successively inform competent services of the mine
under liquidation and the Office of the Management Board of the Company on the progress of
work, and, should any unpredictable developments or threat occur, forthwith notify competent
services of the mine being closed, receiver of the mine and competent services of the Office
of the Company's Management Board.


Decommissioning of surface structures:
The Construction Supervision Inspector of the mine under liquidation / work safety services
of the mine under liquidation.

Waste:

Environment protection services of the mine under liquidation.




                                                                                            7

Dustiness:

Environment protection services of the mine under liquidation / work safety services

Noise:

Environment protection services of the mine under liquidation / work safety services of the
mine under liquidation

Discharge of underground waters to surface courses:

Environment protection services of the mine under liquidation / work safety services of the
mine under liquidation

6. Costs


Detail cost break-down will be given at the stage of drafting of environment management
plans for the individual mines. The planned delivery of these tasks by subcontractors requires
each mine to select contractors through bidding. Therefore, the cost of each task will be
specified based on the balance of costs to the developer or summary estimates will be drafted
in line with relevant orders under the Law on Public Procurement.

7. Institutional strengthening


Qualified contractor's personnel will ensure delivery of tasks in keeping with environment
protection requirements, thus it has not been planned to run specialist training or take training
trips.

The equipment, machinery and specialist check and measurement apparatus will be provided
by successful bidders, requested to minimise negative impact on environment of threats
occurring as result of liquidation work.

Services of the mine being closed are expected to on-line monitor amendments to regulations
in force and obey the law.

Liquidation work will be supervised by competent/licensed inspectors, which will guarantee
the conduct of work in accordance with applicable environment protection regulations in
force.




                                                                                               8

8. Institutional solutions


The liquidation works require four units to closely co-operate on:
    · Responsibility for threat mitigation and monitoring; and
    · Circulation of information on the environment, operation on decision chain passing
        instructions on environment management;

The units to co-operate are:

    · Contractors, who in their work use the measures referred to in the Environment
        Management Plans for the individual mines;
    · Services of the mine under liquidation, monitoring and reporting on threats;
    · Services of the Office of the Management Board, who receive reports and analyse the
        liquidation process; and
    · Company's Management Board, competent to make final decisions.


Contractors deliver their tasks continuously checked and supervised by supervision inspectors
appointed for this purpose or services of the mine under liquidation, i.e. those responsible for
environment protection and the work safety.

The persons responsible for monitoring of individual parameters are expected to collect data,
their on-line analysis and present results to auditors and supervisors of the employer, i.e. the
mine or Company under liquidation.

Every month, the persons monitoring threats should, based on the information collected, run
reports including quantitative and qualitative analysis of each parameter. Each report should
be submitted to the management of the mine under liquidation in order to enable drafting of
aggregate report for the unit being liquidated. Analysis of such aggregate report may help any
potential preventive action, likely to eliminate a potential treat, should such threat be
identified. The aggregate reports will also be forwarded to the Office of the Company's
Management Board.

If any potential threat is identified during the conduct of the liquidation work, the supervisors
and auditors should forthwith notify the receiver's office on such threat. The receiver is
authorised to take the necessary decisions relating to remedy of any irregularities, including
change of the technology used and halting the work. Should the receiver's actions exceed the
budget allocated to the work in question, the receiver has to secure approval of the
Company's Management Board.




                                                                                               9

9. Appendixes


Appendix 1             Mitigation Plan

Appendix 2             Environment Monitoring Plan

Appendix 3             List of key legal deeds, underpinning the closing of mines

Appendix 4             Information on legal grounds of, and basic document on
                       liquidation of mines

Appendix 5             Drafting and approval of the basic documentations

Appendix 6             Information on liquidation tasks: Legal basis and specific
                       documents underpinning liquidation

Appendix 7             Decision making diagram and the documents necessary for mine
                       liquidation

Appendix 8             Social consulting

Appendix 9, 9A and 9B  Information on land reclamation procedures




                                                                                  10

Appendix 1




              11

Appendix 2




              12

Appendix 3

List of the most important acts of legislation constituting the basis for liquidation
activities

Laws:
·    of 4 February, 1994 ­ Geological and Mining Law;
·    of 28 November, 2003 on Hard Coal Mining Sector Restructuring during the Period
     2003 ­ 2006;
·    of 27 April, 2001 ­ the Environment Protection Law;
·    of 7 July, 1994 ­ the Construction Law;
·    of 27 April, 2003 on Waste;
·    of 27 March, 2003 on Zoning and Land Development;
·    of 16 April, 2004 on Protection of Nature;
·    of 18 July, 2001 ­ the Water Management Law;
·    of 3 February, 1995 on Protection of Farming and Forest Land;
·    of 19 June, 1997 on the Prohibition of Use Asbestos Containing Products;
·    of 23 July, 2003 on Protection and Maintenance of Monuments of Culture;
·    of 29 January, 2004 ­ the Public Procurement Law;
·    of 20 April, 2004 amending and cancelling certain other laws in connection with the
     Republic of Poland's membership in the European Union.

Ordinances:
·    of the Minister of Economy, Labour and Social Policy of 28 January, 2004 on subsidies
     financing hard coal mine liquidation;
·    of the Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration of 6 October, 2003 on operational
     plans of mining plants;
·    of the Minister of Environment of 26 June, 2003 amending the Ordinance on formats of
     lists containing information on the use of environment and methods of presentation
     thereof;
·    of the Minister of Economy of 28 October, 2002 on types of waste collection and
     transportation of which does not require specific operational permit and on basic
     requirements regarding collection and transportation thereof;
·    of the Council of Ministers of 24 September, 2002 on defining types of projects that
     may have a significant impact upon environment and detailed criteria regarding
     classification of such projects for the purpose of preparation of environmental impact
     assessments;
·    of the Minister of Environment of 28 May, 29002 on the list of categories of waste
     which can be transferred, by their owner, to individuals or other units having no legal
     personality for use to supply their respective needs;
·    of the Minister of Environment of 27 September, 2001 on waste catalogue;
·    of the Minister of Infrastructure of 16 September, 2003 amending the Ordinance on
     formats of registers of applications for construction permits and construction permit
     decisions;
·    of the Minister of Infrastructure of 3 July, 2003 on detailed format and scope of
     construction design;
·    of the Minister of Infrastructure of 26 June, 2003 on conditions and procedures
     applicable to demolition works and changing of the use of a building objects;



                                                                                          13

· of the Minister of Infrastructure of 19 September, 2003 amending the Ordinance on
  independent technical function in construction sector;
· of the Minister of Environment of 29 November, 2002 on conditions to be complied
  with regarding discharge of sewage to waters or soil and on substances specifically
  harmful to water environment.




                                                                                  14

Appendix 4

Information on legal bases and list of basic documents required with respect of the mine
liquidation process

    · The Law of 28 November, 2003. on Hard Coal mining Sector Restructuring
        during the period 2003 ­ 2006 provides for rules and principles of the hard coal
        mining sector restructuring process, including:

        1) provisions for financial restructuring of the mining enterprises;
        2) provisions for restructuring of employment in the mining enterprises;
        3) provisions regarding hard coal mine liquidation;
        4) provisions for organisational restructuring in the hard coal mining sector;
        5) provisions for specific rights and privileges of the mining gminas;
        6) sources of funding of the hard coal mining restructuring process.

Relevant body of a mining enterprise makes a decision regarding mine liquidation, specifying,
as follows:

        1) The scope of mine liquidation;
        2) Date of commencement of the liquidation process;
        3) Date of termination of production;
        4) Date of completion of the liquidation process;
        5) The Liquidator.
    · Provisions of the Mining and geological Law apply to liquidation of the mining
        plant and post liquidation projects.
The above regulations provide for preparation of the operational plan for a liquidated mining
plant to determine the scope of mine liquidation. Furthermore, the plan also determines duties
of the enterprise in connection with the mining plant liquidation i.e.:
 1)securing or liquidation of workings or facilities and equipment of the mining plant;
 2)securing unused portion of the useful mineral deposits;
 3)securing adjoining useful mineral deposits;
 4)undertaking measures, as necessary, to protect workings of adjoining mining plants;
 5)undertaking measures, as necessary, to protect environment and ensure land reclamation
    including post mining land development.

Furthermore, the enterprise has the duty to prepare hydro-geological documentation,
additional documents to deposit development design, settlement document to geological
documentation and the social programme.




                                                                                           15

Appendix 5

Information on acceptance of basic documents

   · Plan of operation of the mining plant under liquidation is prepared by operations'
     services of the liquidated mine. The plan needs to be agreed upon with the head of
     relevant gmina or a town mayor. The plan is subject to approval by relevant bodies of
     the mining enterprise.
   · The Social Programme is prepared by the mine liquidator. The Programme should be
     developed not later than within 60 days prior to termination of production by a given
     mine. The Social Programme, following provision of relevant opinion by the trade
     unions active in the mine and the head of gmina (town mayor) relevant to the mine
     location is approved by the relevant body of the mining enterprise.
   · Mining plant liquidation programme and annual liquidation plans, broken down
     by individual months, are approved by the Minister of Economy, Labour and Social
     Policy following prior verification of such documents by the Industrial Development
     Agency. The Mining Plant Liquidation Programme constitutes a part of the Plan of
     Operation of the Mining Plant under Liquidation.
   · In case of need to carry out post-liquidation activities and projects, the plan to that
     effect is prepared and is subject to verification and approval under the same
     procedures, as applicable to the liquidation programme and the mining plant
     liquidation plan.




                                                                                         16

Appendix 6

Information on liquidation tasks - legal basis and specific documents required to carry
out liquidation tasks

Detailed documents required for implementation of tasks under the liquidation programme
and plans, plan of operations include relevant decisions and permits issued with respect to
individual cases of structures, buildings and facilities or sites of the mining plant under
liquidation or with respect to projects implemented in connection with the mining plant
liquidation process. These include, as follows:
            · Decisions regarding demolition permits;
            · Decisions on the future use of the land with respect to land reclamation;
            · Land development decisions;
            · Water management permits;
            · Decisions approving the programme of hazardous waste management;
            · Decisions permitting cutting and removal of trees and bushes;

The above decisions and permits are issued by competent bodies of gmina, powiat and
voivodship administration, as provided for by the effective Polish legislation and in certain
cases following completion of social consultations, on the basis of prepared detailed designs
or documents.

Each and every interference into the environment will have its legal basis in the form of
decision, permit or acceptance, as issued in case of each scope of works, under the effective
regulations and laws. Liquidation works may be undertaken exclusively following obtaining
appropriate decisions, permits and approvals, as provided for by the effective regulations in
Poland.

Decisions, permits or approvals are issued on the basis of relevant applications submitted to
relevant bodies of public administration, together with required attachments in the form of
documentation, depending upon the type of the project.

With respect to liquidation of surface facilities the basic documentation includes a design with
description of demolition technologies, as supplemented, depending upon the scope of the
works and type of a facility, by an environmental impact assessment and, potentially,
agreements with Voivodship Monuments Conservation Officer, as required.
With respect to liquidation of machines and equipment, in case the project is likely to
generate hazardous waste (specifically PCB containing oils and lubricants) the programme for
hazardous waste management should include description of methods of rendering such waste
harmless.
With respect to land reclamation the basic documentation includes the land reclamation
design, as supplemented, if required due to size of the project, by the Environmental Impact
Assessment and, potentially, by decision regarding recycling of waste, if such waste is used
for the project purposes.

With respect to discharge of underground waters to surface watercourses the basic
documentation includes the water management operational plan accompanied with hydro-
geological documentation and the project environmental impact assessment report.




                                                                                             17

Appendix 7




              18

Appendix 8

Social consultations

Consultations required under the effective laws

The social participation is required in proceedings regarding environmental impact
assessments when relevant report is developed. The Law on Environment Protection provides
for an assurance that community members participate in consulting relevant plans. The
procedure is as follows:

   1. The relevant body of local government administration conducting proceedings on the
        environmental impact assessment of intended project announces placement in publicly
        available list of the information about the application for decision and information
        regarding option to submit comments and applications within the period of 21 days of
        the publication of such list. Information on submittal of such applications and
        comments includes also the place of submission.
   2. The above is made public through the local press or television, Web site of the
        relevant body of the public administration, bulleting board of the office conducting the
        above proceedings or in other places and locations assuring access to such information
        by persons that could be potentially interested in the outcome of said proceedings.
   3. The relevant body of the local government administration may also conduct
        proceedings open to the public. Such proceedings will ensure a possibility for the
        stakeholders to meet one another and, potentially, facilitate finding better solutions for
        the project reducing its impact upon environment and human health.
   4. The relevant body of local government administration considers applications and
        comments submitted by the members of the public.

Consultations with local NGOs and communities

Mines under liquidation, individually, in order to disseminate information on the project's
environmental impact, and not only with respect to projects requiring development of such a
report, will provide information, as follows:

   1. On the mine's own Web site;
   2. On the bulleting board in its own Head Office;
   3. On local community bulleting boards e.g. Housing Co-operatives;
   4. In local press or by distributing leaflets in the planned project area;
   5. Through the regional radio or TV broadcasting station.

The objective of the social consultation carried out by the mine itself is to exclude any
possibility of protests on the part of the community against the planned project.

Social consultation schemes ensure reaching out to social groups likely to be impacted by the
project. Consultations help the project to collect information regarding community response
prior to undertaking the project implementation.

On the basis of the schedule of liquidation works, the mine will develop a plan (action plan)
regarding individual meetings, with dates and times of such meetings, to present the project,
environmental impact parameters, and stakeholders involved. The plan will be published as
above.



                                                                                               19

Minutes of such meetings will be taken including: lists of groups invited to attend
consultations, questions and comments presented by meeting participants with answers and
responses given and, potentially, a list of decisions made in effect of consultations.

Personal information regarding consultation process participants will be published to the
extent allowed by the Law on protection of personal information or upon individual consents
given by participants in the consultation process.

Conclusions of the social consultation process will be implemented in form of
recommendations given to contractors implementing liquidation works.




                                                                                         20

Appendix 9




              21

Appendix 9A




Appendix 9B




               22

23

