Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
APPRAISAL STAGE
Report No.:  AB883
Project Name
Poland Coal Mine Closure 
-
 SIL Investmen
Region
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
Sector
Mining and other extractive (100%)
Project ID
P083093
Borrower(s)
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Im
plementing Agency
Ministry of Economy, Labor and Social Policy
Plac Trzech Krzyzy 3/5
Poland
02
-
950
Tel: +48 22
-
6281887
Fax: +48 22
-
6934006
Mine Restructuring Company (SRK)
ul. Kopolniana 6
Poland
40
-
205
Environment Category
[ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C   
[ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
Safeguard Classification
[ ] S
1
   [X] S
2
  [ ] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
Date PID Prepared
April 26, 2004
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization
May 5, 2004
Date of Board Approval
July 1, 2004
1.
Country an
d Sector Background
While Poland has made extensive progress in reforming its economy over the past 10
-
15 years, 
considerable  structural  rigidities  remain,  especially  in  the  large  capital  intensive  industries.  
These industries with large employment and h
igh losses are a drag on the economy that must be 
addressed if Poland is to become a competitive member of the European Union. Coal remains the 
largest of these industries.  Annual losses for the coal sector peaked at nearly US$1 billion in 
1997.  In 1998
,
 the Government introduced a five
-
year (1998
-
2002)  Hard Coal Sector Reform 
Program to address the sector’s problems.  The Program was successful in reducing employment 
from 248,000 at the beginning of 1998 to about 140,000 at the end of 2002.  (
By 
com
parison, the 
steel industry, which suffers from similar problems, employs less than 40,000.)  The industry 
made a small profit on coal operations in 2001, but losses returned in 2002, when the pace of 
reform slowed, prices declined and costs increased.    
The sector comprises three mining holding companies 
-
 Kompania Weglowa (KW) with about 
83,000  employees  and  23  mines  producing  about  51  million  tpy  coal;  the  Katowki  Holding 
Weglowy (KHW) with about 25,000 employees and 9 mines producing about 19 million
 tpy 
coal; and the Jastrzebska Coking Coal Company (JSW) with about 20,000 employees and 5 
Page  2
mines producing about 14 million tpy coal 
-
 plus  three individual mines (Budryk, Bogdanka and 
Jaworzno)  with  about  8,500  employees  between  them  producing  about  11  m
illion  tpy  coal.  
There is also a Mine Restructuring Company (SRK), which is responsible for mine closures and 
reclamation.    Better  performance  of  the  sector  is  constrained  by  a  combination  of  physical 
factors,  namely  excess  production  capacity  and  surplus
  employment  and  financial  factors, 
including  working  cash  shortages,  poor  cash  flow  and  unmanageable  debt  overhang.    The 
situation is most severe at KW, w
hich 
has most of the excess production capacity and surplus 
employment, is loss making and is unable t
o meet a 
hard budget constraint 
(i.e.
,
 they pay all of 
their obligations to Government and environmental funds for current production). KHW and 
JSW are both profitable companies and able to meet a hard budget constraint. 
Experience  in  other  countries  ind
icates  that  “no  quick  fix”  is  possible  and  the  Government 
recognizes that it will require a further multi
-
year effort to successfully complete the reforms.  
The government has prepared and is now implementing a new Program of Restructuring of 
the 
Hard Coal
 Mining Sector for 2003
-
2006 (2003
-
2006 Program).  The Program is a multi
-
faceted 
approach  
–
 covering employment restructuring, capacity liquidation and financial restructuring, 
as  well  as  profound  changes  in  the  structure  and  management  of  the  industry. 
  But 
implementation of the Program will not be easy since unemployment is now about 18 percent 
nationally (compared  to about 6 percent 
in 1998 when the first Program started).  Important 
characteristics of the 2003
-
2006 Program are that the workforce 
reduction is on a voluntary basis 
and  is  supported  by  specific  job  creation  incentives  to  help  create  new  employment 
opportunities, especially for younger surface workers leaving the coal industry.  There is also a 
companion “
Program of Alleviating Hard Co
al Mining Employment Restructuring Effects in the 
Region of Silesia
” (the Silesia Economic Program) which is aimed at job creation and economic 
recovery initiatives for the whole of the Silesia Region (not just the coal industry).  The final 
stage in the P
rogram is privatization of the industry.  This should ensure sustainability of the 
reforms. KHW and JSW will be candidates for early privatization once their balance sheets have 
been restructured, but substantial further downsizing will be needed in order 
for KW to become 
financially viable and ready for privatization.
2.
Objectives
The overall objective is to provide assistance to the borrower to reform the hard coal industry to 
become a profitable sector that contributes to economic growth and improved li
ving standards in 
support of Poland’s economic integration into the European Union.  The specific objective of the 
Project is to improve the efficiency of the hard coal industry by supporting the implementation of 
capacity restructuring, environmental impr
ovement and subsidence repair for the calendar years 
2004
-
2006 
of 
the 
2003
-
2006 
Hard 
Coal 
Sector 
Restructuring 
Program 
and 
on
-
going 
commitments from the 1998
-
2002 Hard Coal Sector Reform Program.  The project will also 
support improved financial performanc
e and sustainability of the reforms.  Specifically, there are 
four  “pillars”  of  higher  level  objectives,  namely  (a)  capacity    restructuring,  (b)  improving 
environmental performance at both closed mines (including mine reclamation and subsidence 
repair)  and
  operating  mines;  (c)  improving  efficiency  and  financial  performance,  and  (d) 
sustaining the reform.  Specific Project Development Objectives (PDOs) include (a) uneconomic 
mines are closed in least cost and environmentally satisfactory manner so that envir
onmental 
liabilities of participating mines are reduced and not longer a potential obstacle to privatization; 
Page  3
(b) mining companies operate in an environmental responsible manner so that subsidence and 
other environmental problems are no longer a threat to 
the community; (c) KW, KHW and JSW 
mining companies improving efficiency, adhering to a hard budget constraint and improving 
their balance sheets so that they meet their obligations to for payments to public authorities;  and 
(d) KW taking steps towards pr
ivatization so that the reforms can be sustained.    
3.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
As Poland joined the European Union on May 1 2004, it is clear that the World Bank’s role, both 
in terms of lending and advisory services, will have to evolve to adapt t
o a new situation.  The 
Bank has previously provided two SECALs (Hard Coal SECAL1 for US$ 300 million in June 
1999 and Hard Coal SECAL2 for US$100 million in August 2001) to support implementation of 
the 1998
-
2002 Hard Coal Reform Program. The Government h
as requested the Bank for further 
significant  financial  support  and  technical  advice  to  support  the  next  phase  of  sector 
restructuring, because coal is one of the larger sectors in the economy and downsizing in the coal 
sector reaches into many other secto
rs of the economy impacting employment and income.  The 
extent of the impact of coal sector reform is illustrated by a decline from an estimated 4 percent 
of GDP from the late 1980s to about 2 percent 
of GDP today.  It is a sector that has great 
politic
al as well as social sensitivity, and  is seen by many in the country as one of the key 
indicators 
of the government’s commitment to implement the structural changes in the economy.  
World  Bank  support  is  sought  for  its  knowledge,  expertise  and  experien
ce  in  the  sector,  in 
addition to its financial support.  More specifically, the Bank is expected to play a key role 
through  this  project  in  providing  support  for  the  following  areas:  (i)  supporting  design  and 
implementation 
of 
 
capacity 
restructuring 
activ
ities, 
including 
mine 
closure 
activities, 
environmental reclamation and post closure monitoring and maintenance activities; (ii) ensuring 
that the mining companies address the environmental problems related to mining operations;  
(iii) ensuring that the su
bsidence  problems are addressed properly by the Government; (iv) 
reviewing the Year 2005 and Y 2006 operating plans and cash flow for KW, KHW and  JSW to 
verify that they are responding in a responsible and efficient manner and that they meet all their 
pa
yment obligations on current liabilities to Government and environmental funds; (v) ensuring 
that appropriate implementation and monitoring arrangements are in place; and (vi) ensuring that 
there is a public information campaign and that meetings are conve
ned with local communities 
so that they are informed about progress in implementing the Program. 
4.
Description
The Project will support SRK's and BSRK's mine closure activities for the period 2004
-
2006.  In 
view of the present high coal sales prices, the 
SRK and BSRK Programs for 2005 and 2006 are 
presently based on the Alternative Scenario, so that a minimum closure of about 4.4 million tons 
closure  of  whole  mines  is  assured  (i.e.  Katowice  Kloefas,  Bytom  II  and  a  third  as  yet 
unidentified mine) all of whi
ch will be closed by SRK.  Closure could be higher if prices decline 
and the Base Scenario takes effect. 
The mine closure activities consist of the following five components.
Page  4
A.
Liquidation of underground workings and shafts including removal of equipment 
a
nd securing underground areas.
B.
Post liquidation, including demolishing and clearing surface structure, buildings, 
plant and equipment and, if necessary, stabilization of any work dumps
C.
Preparation of: (a) a Dewatering Master Plan 2005
-
2025; (b) Management 
Plans 
Environmental; and (c)  Mine Closure Plans and Engineering Design Studies and 
Documentation needed to obtain necessary approvals.
D.
Reclamation of land.
E.
Post mine closure monitoring and maintenance,  with particular regard for any 
post
-
closure de
-
water
ing requirements if needed.
Since, as noted in Section B.3, dewatering costs (which are necessary to protect adjacent mining 
operations) have become a very significant cost item and will likely continue for as long as 20 
-
30  years  or  more  in  the  future  i
n  some  cases,  Component  C  will  support  preparation  of  a 
Dewatering Master Program.
All of the works in Component A, B, D and E would be undertaken according to the Engineering 
Design studies and approvals in Component C and are subject to prevailing envir
onmental and 
safety requirements which are in line with EU requirements and considered satisfactory.  While 
the main focus is on the liquidation of additional mines, the project will also support completing 
the  liquidation  of  mines  previously  transferred  t
o  SRK  and  BSRK  for  which  liquidation  is 
already nearly complete.  Although the project has 5 components, disbursement will be made 
under a single category using Sector Wide Approach (SWAp) type features.
5.
Financing
Source:
($m.)
BORROWER
85
INTERNATIONAL
 BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT
100
Total
185
6.
Implementation
The  Ministry  of  Economy  and  Labor  (MoEL)
  has  overall  responsibility  for  program 
implementation.  MoEL and Ministry of Finance (MoF) will work closely together to ensure that 
the Pro
gram is adequately funded throughout its life with transparency and clear accountability 
and  that  the  necessary  arrangements  are  put  in  place  to  ensure  satisfactory  coordination, 
implementation, monitoring and auditing for a Program of this complexity and 
challenge.  
The 
Ministry of State Treasury (MoST)
 is responsible for implementation of privatization activities 
under  the  Program.   
The  Ministry  of  Environment  (MoEN)
  is  responsible  for  overseeing 
environmental aspects of the program.
SRK and BSRK 
As wit
h the 1998
-
2002 Reform Program, the implementation of complete mine 
closures will be the responsibility of the 
Mine Restructuring Company (SRK)
 and 
Bytom Mine 
Restructuring Company (BSRK)
. 
In addition, partial mine closures will be the responsibility of 
th
e mining companies.  
SRK is a joint stock company created in 2000.  Creation of SRK was 
Page  5
included in the Government Hard Coal Mining Restructuring Program 1998
-
2002. BSRK is a 
limited liability company created in 2001. The business activities of SRK and BSR
K include: 
implementation of the coal mine liquidation process, management of the real estates and other 
fixed assets of liquidated mines, and job creation in particular for liquidated mines' employees. 
Both companies operate on the basis of legal acts inc
luding inter alia the Commercial Code, the 
Geological and Mining Act, and the Hard Coal Mining Restructuring  2003
-
2006 Act. On the 
basis  of  the  MoEL  Decree  dated  January  28,  2004  on  Subsidies  for  Financing  of  Mines 
Liquidation SRK and BSRK receive subsidi
es for the tasks included in the Decree and approved 
by Minister of Economy in annual liquidation plans. 
The Agency for Industrial Restructuring (ARP)
 is the monitoring agency for the project. 
On the 
basis of the law and agreement with MoEL, ARP acts as 
monitoring body of the coal sector. 
ARP  is responsible for processing and initial verifications SRK and BSRK applications for 
budget  support  for  payments  of  costs  related  to  physical  mines  liquidation,  post  liquidation 
including dewatering and subsidence 
removal. ARP will also undertake program audits for these 
subsidies.  ARP is also responsible for monitoring industry performance under the Program. 
All  of  the  activities  under  the  HCMCL  operation  are  a  continuation  of  activities  that  were 
undertaken in 
a fully satisfactory manner under the 1998
-
2002 Program, which was supported by 
SECALs 1 and 2.  The satisfactory experience of that first Program and the first two loans gives 
a  strong  basis  for  expecting  satisfactory  implementation  of  the  2003
-
2006  Progr
am.    The 
respective implementing institutions are considered to have adequate capacity.  
7.
Sustainability
The are three important factors for sustainability of the HCMC project.  The first is the support 
of the trade unions for coal sector downsizing at a
 time of high unemployment.  To this end, the 
Government  has  engaged  extensively  in  recent  months  with  the  trade  unions,  and  this  has 
resulted in the design of an attractive package of severance measures.  The Government is also 
undertaking  a  public  inform
ation  campaign  to  disseminate  the  information.    Second  is  the 
continued implementation of the Government’s 2003
-
2006 coal sector restructuring program, 
moving from employment downsizing to mine closure and then to privatization, to ensure that 
the coal sec
tor will not return to being a drain on public resources in the future.  Over the longer 
term, privatization of the industry is the key to sector sustainability since private owners will 
ensure that the industry operates according to competitive market con
ditions, and any further 
adjustment would then be undertaken by private sector owners, not government.  The third most 
important factor for program sustainability would be improvement in overall growth and job 
creation which would lead to a lower unemploym
ent rate and facilitate the absorption into other 
sectors of workers leaving the mining sector.  While the industry returned to losses in 2002 this 
was largely due to the pace of reform slowing in the face of rising unemployment.  The further 
capacity  rest
ructuring  supported  by  the  2003
-
2006  Program,  together  with  the  employment 
restructuring under the Program (which is being supported by the Hard Coal Social Mitigation 
operation), should ensure that the industry becomes profitable on a sustained basis and 
is then 
privatized.
Page  6
8.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
The  project  design  includes  the  following  features  reflecting  previous  operations  and  good 
practices:

 
builds  on  the  lessons  learned  from  SECAL  2  in  that  it:  (a)  directly  su
pports  further 
restructuring of the industry, including capacity restructuring measures; and (b) supports 
implementation of a comprehensive reform program that will lead to privatization.  

 
reflects the outcome of a consultation with mining community repre
sentatives, workers, 
companies and Government officials which was held in Katowice in June 2003 and May 
2004 where capacity and employment restructuring were raised as a dominant issues.  

 
reflects the experience with coal reform in the ECA Region (the Rus
sia, Ukraine and 
Romania operations) that implementing coal sector reform is highly dependent on overall 
macroeconomic conditions and that a high level of commitment is required over a decade 
or more to achieve sustained change in an industry such as coal.
Further valuable lessons for actionable programs, and notably the importance of fast acting and 
targeted  support  have  been  derived  from  other  mine  closure  operations  in  the  ECA  Region.  
These operations show that the selection of capable implementing ag
encies is crucial.  This has 
been achieved in the project design through close cooperation in implementing the 1998
-
2002 
Program between the mining companies, SRK and BSRK, the MoEL and the ARP local office of 
the Katowice Region. 
9.
Safeguard Policies (inc
luding public consultation)
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
Yes
No
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01)
[X]
[ ]
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04)
[ ]
[ ]
Pest Management (
OP 4.0
9
)
[ ]
[ ]
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11)
[ ]
[ ]
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12)
[ ]
[ ]
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10)
[ ]
[ ]
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36)
[ ]
[ 
]
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37)
[ ]
[ ]
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
[ ]
[ ]
Proje
cts on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50)
[ ]
[ ]
The Environmental Assessment Safeguard Policy is trig
gered because of the physical activities 
and their consequent environmental impacts associated with mine decommissioning and mine 
site  reclamation.    These  activities  include:  sealing  underground  mine  workings,  demolishing 
surface plants and removing reusab
le equipment; rehabilitating mine sites and waste disposal 
areas, and ensuring that no future subsidence will occur and that any present subsidence had been 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the par
ties' claims on the 
disputed areas
Page  7
properly mitigated. Because all mines are underground mines, mine sites and ancillary facilities 
an
d infrastructure such as waste dumps are quite small and impacts are localized. 
In  concurrence  with  ECCSD  Safeguards  Unit,  the  project  has  been  assigned  environmental 
Category B (Partial Assessment).  The basis for this rating is that the main environment
al issues 
associated with the project related to the physical closure of the mines. They include: (i) possible 
failure to decommission the mines or parts of mines in an environmentally acceptable manner; 
(ii) possible failure to deal with subsidence issues
 in a satisfactory and timely manner, and (iii) 
demolition and removal of old structures and equipment.  Impacts associated with these issues 
are modest, and of short duration. Mitigating measures to address these impacts are well known 
and routinely pract
iced in the sector. Environmental Management Plans have been prepared for 
Katowice Kleofas and Bytom II and are available to the public.  An Environmental Framework 
has been prepared and is available to the public.  Additional mine closures, as well as com
pletion 
of  mines already being closed by SRK and BSRK will be governed by the Framework. 
10.
Contact point
Contact: John E. Strongman
Title: Adviser, Mining
Tel: (202) 473
-
5530
Fax: 
Email: Jstrongman@worldbank.org
11.
For more information contact:
The InfoSho
p
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:  (202) 458
-
5454
Fax:  (202) 522
-
1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
