Document of
The World Bank                   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2849-KO
KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 18, 1980
Agriculture Division II
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document lias a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURlRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Won (W) 1.00          =     US$0.00172
W 580                 =     US$1.00
W 1 million           =     US$1,724
W 1 billion           =     US$1.724 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)           =     3.28 feet
I square meter (m2)  -    10.76 square feet
1 hectare (ha)        =     2.47 acres
1 ton                 =     1,000 kilogram
=     2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AFDC    - Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation
MAF     - Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
PD      -  Project Department of AFDC
NACF    - National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
NFFC    - National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives
KDB     -  Korea Development Bank
KDFC    -  Korea Development Finance Corporation
SMIB    -  Small and Medium Industry Bank
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA: SECOND AGRICULTURAL
PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.  PROJECT BACKGROUND  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            I
A.  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            1
B.  Agriculture Sector  . . . * . . . .  . . . . .  . .1
C.  Agro-processing Subsector . . . . . . . . . . . .            5
D.  Previous Bank Lending for Agriculture and
Rural Development . . . .                . .   .  . . * *  . * *  11
2.  AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION . . . .           12
A.  Purpose and Functions . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           12
B.  Overview of Past Operations . . . .   . . . . . .           13
C.  Organization and Management   . .   . . . . . . .           15
D.  Equity Investments        . . . .      . . . a . . .        16
E.  Loan Operations   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               17
F.  Nonfinancing Operations   . . .  .      .  .  . . . . . .   19
G.  Financial Position and Performance  . . . . .               22
3. THE FIRST PROJECT (INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL
PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT)  . . . . . . . . . . . . .           24
4.  THE PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .          26
A.  Objectives   .  .  .  .  . .   . . . . . .  .  .            26
B. Description  .... . ...... .    26
C.  Costs and Financing        . . . . . . .  .  . .           27
D.  Implementation Schedule a  i o  S  d         .  . . .       28
E.  Procurement . . . . . . . . .    .        . .   . . .       29
F.  Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           29
G.  Environmental Impact    .        . . . . .  .  .   . .      30
5. PROJECT DMPLEMENTATION.                      . . . . . . .    30
6.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ..............                        33
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS.o . . .           ..       35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
ANNEXES
I    Subloan Approvals Under the First Project (Loan 994-KO)
as of December 31, 1979
2    Supplementary Tables and Charts on AFDC
Tables
1A -  Staff Levels
IB -  Types of Professional Staff in 1979
2  -  Lending Terms and Conditions by Source of Funds
3  -  Equity Investments
4  -  Income Statement, 1975-79
5  -  Balance Sheet, 1975-79
6  -  Cash Flow, 1975-79
7  -  Long-Term Loans Collections and Arrears
8  -  Ageing of Arrears
9  -  Subloan Collections and Arrears Under the First
Project (Loan 994-KO)
10  -  Projected Loan Operations, 1980-84
11  -  Projected Income Statement, 1980-84
12  -  Projected Balance Sheet, 1980-84
13  -  Projected Cash Flow, 1980-84
Charts
1  -  Organization
2  -  Proposed Project Department
3    Estimated Disbursement Schedule
4    Additional Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD 12351R1



IKOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
1. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      The Government of the Republic of Korea has requested Bank assist-
ance in financing a second Agricultural Products Processing Project. The
project, for which a Bank loan of US$50 million is proposed, would allow the
pace of development in the processing of agricultural products (agro-process-
ing) to be accelerated. Under the project, the methods and procedures of sub-
project selection, appraisal and supervision, including the provision of tech-
nical assistance to processors developed under the first project (Loan 994-KO)
would be further improved and strengthened. The project was prepared by the
Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC) and appraised in
September/ October 1979 by Messrs. S.J. Khoo, A. Hasan, G. Kalu (Bank), T.
Mainwaring, and 0. Ramon (Consultants). This report is based on the
findings of the appraisal mission.
B. Agriculture Sector
Contribution to the Economy
1.02      The rapid growth of Korea's industrial sector has tended to
obscure the creditable growth and contribution of the agriculture sector to
the Korean economy. In the course of the economic growth of the country,
the agriculture sector has successfully performed its traditional roles as
a major provider of employment, including labor for industry, and a source
of food to domestic consumers. Between 1970 and 1978, growth in value added
in the agriculture sector averaged 4.0% in real terms which is significantly
higher than the comparable rates in most countries,/l although as a result
of the much faster growth of the nonagricultural sectors, its share of the
GNP declined from 30% to 19%. Exports of agricultural products, including
fisheries, increased substantially from US$111.3 million in 1970 to US$988.9
million in 1977. The agriculture sector accounted for 33,000 new jobs
annually or 7.1% of incremental employment during the 1970-78 period. Its
contribution to total employment has remained significant despite the high
rate of labor absorption by the nonagricultural sectors. Agricultural
employment increased from 4.9 million or 50% of total employment in 1970 to
a peak of 5.6 million in 1976. Since that year, there has been a gradual
decline and by 1978, 5.1 million people were employed in the sector or about
38% of total employment. Although the shares of the agriculture sector in
GNP and employment are projected to decline in the future, its capacity for
/1 IBRD, World Development Report, 1979, pp. 128-9.



- 2 -
absorbing excess labor during periods of cyclical recession is likely to
remain an important cushioning factor in maintaining employment at a high
level.
Area and Structure
1.03      About 22% or 2.2 million ha of Korea's total land area of some
9.9 million ha is cultivated. Another two-thirds are classified as forest
land most of which being mountainous would not be suitable for cultivation.
Additional land that can be brought into cultivation is consequently quite
limited. Rice and barley are the major crops accounting for some two-thirds
of the total cropped area. Due to climatic constraints, double cropping of
rice is not possible but a rice-barley rotation is practiced in the southern
regions and now occurs on about 45% of the total paddy land.  Pulses (mainly
soybeans), potatoes, vegetables, mulberry, fruits, tobacco, and ginseng are
the other important crops and together with miscellaneous cereals, viz.
maize, wheat and millet, account for most of the remaining cropped area.
1.04      There are some 2.2 million farm households in Korea.  The average
farm size is about 0.9 ha, and nearly two-thirds of the farm households
have less-than 1 ha of cropland.  Only about 5% are landless.  This struct-
ure is largely due to the Farmland Reform Law of 1950, which imposed a
ceiling of 3 ha of cultivated land per household.
Production Trends
1.05      As a result of the use of new varieties, improved and expanded
irrigation and the success of land consolidation programs, heavy use of
fertilizers and the Government's price support policies, rice production
increased from 3.9 million tons in 1970 to a peak of 6 million tons in
1977, an average annual growth rate of over 6%. Although self-sufficiency in
rice has been achieved since 1975, Government policy regarding this crop
remains unchanged, namely, to promote the planting of high yielding varieties
through its price support and input subsidy policy.
1.06      Between 1970-76, barley production fluctuated between 1.4 million
tons and 1.8 million tons without showing any discernable trend. However,
as a result of the increased availability of rice and rising consumer
incomes, consumption of barley (a less desirable staple) has been declining
in recent years despite subsidies which permit low prices to consumers.
Since the Government has continued its subsidy to farmers for this crop,
there has been a significant accumulation of surpluses.
1.07      Production of feedgrains (mainly maize) has remained negligible in
relation to the rapidly growing demand for such feeds by livestock producers
in response to increased consumer demand for livestock products.  Thus,
imports of feedgrains were expected to increase from 1.79 million tons in
1978 to an estimated 3.2 million tons in 1979.  The Government allocates



- 3 -
feedgrains to millers at subsidized prices.  Wheat production has likewise
been negligible due to the limited availability of arable land, poor yields,
and high production costs. The country will accordingly continue to depend
on imports of this grain for virtually all of its requirements. Although
the goal of self-sufficiency in rice and barley, the basic food staples, was
achieved in the mid-1970s, the level of self-sufficiency in all grains has
continued to decline from about 76% in 1976 to 65% in 1978 and this trend is
expected to continue.
1.08      A significant part of the gains in total agricultural value added
has been due to the diversification and expansion of production into higher
value crops, mainly fruits, vegetables, and livestock products. Thus, between
1970 and 1977 fruit production increased from 423,000 tons to 744,000 tons,
livestock products from 396,000 tons to 785,000 tons, and vegetables from
2.5 million tons to over 3 million tons, annual increases averaging about
8%, 10%, and 3% respectively. During the same period, fisheries production
also increased rapidly from 0.9 million tons to 2.4 million tons or an annual
average of about 15%. Changes in the pattern of consumer demand resulting
from rapidly rising per capita incomes have played a major role in determining
the shifts in agricultural production.
Support Services
1.09      Services in support of agriculture are well developed in Korea and
are generally meeting the needs of the farmers. Improvements are needed
mainly in extension, credit and marketing for the higher value crops and
livestock. Assistance in this regard has been provided by several Bank-
financed projects (para. 1.28). A project to improve agricultural
marketing is under preparation and is soon to be submitted to the Bank for
possible financing.
Price Support and Subsidies
1.10      Since 1968, the Government has been implementing a two-tier price
policy which supplemented farmers' incomes through purchases of a signi-
ficant part of their foodgrains and other essential produce at higher than
the prevailing market prices. Consumers were also subsidized through the
sale of these products by the Government at lower than its purchase and
prevailing wholesale prices. This policy, which has served the intended
purpose of expanding the production of these crops and transferring incomes
to farmers, also contributed significantly towards raising farm incomes to
such an extent that by the early 1970s the average farm household income had
achieved parity with that of the urban households. However, since 1978 the
average urban household income has once again exceeded that of the average
farm household, and indications are that unless additional income sources
can be provided for the farm households, this trend will worsen.



-4-
Development Priorities
1.11      Important developments confronting the agriculture sector in
recent years which need to be addressed include (a) a declining proportion
of younger male workers in the farm labor force, (b) rapid increases in
rural wages, (c) paucity of nonfarm employment opportunities in the rural
areas, (d) increasing shortage of labor, especially during the planting and
harvesting seasons, (e) widening of incomes between farm and nonfarm house-
holds, and (f) changes in the level and pattern of consumer demand away from
foodgrains to high income elastic commodities, such as livestock products,
fruits and vegetables. These developments underscore the need for a
reorientation of financing agriculture aimed at, inter alia, accelerating the
pace of farm mechanization, increasing the output and productivity of
agricultural production, mainly the diversification and expansion of higher
value foods, and development of improved facilities for the processing,
storage and marketing of agricultural products.
Recent Developments and Future Plans
1.12      As a result of rapid economic growth and increases in per capita
income, considerable changes will continue to occur in the structure of
household consumption.  Within the food consumption category, the shift has
been from the staple carbohydrates such as barley and rice to the higher
value protein foods such as meat, fruits and vegetables. The share of
cereals in total food expenditures is projected to decrease in the future
from about 55% in 1978 to about 43% by 1986, while the shares of vege-
tables, fruits, livestock and fish products are projected to increase
substantially during the period. With the projected increases in production
and consumption, the various post-production stages of storage, processing
and marketing will become even more important.
1.13      In an effort to increase the domestic production of higher value
crops, the Government under its current fourth Five-Year Development Plan
(1977-81) has designated special areas in a number of provinces for the
production of fruits and vegetables with credit assistance to producers for
this purpose, including the development of upland irrigation sytens.
Livestock output is being fostered by subsidized feeds and credit to farmers.
1.14      Besides the provision of special incentives for the expansion of
fruits and vegetables production, the significant price fluctuations of these
crops have led the Government to institute a price stabilization program
to protect producers and consumers by setting a band for ceiling and floor
prices for food items which are essential to the Korean diet. This program
has become a new major function of AFDC (para. 2.01).
1.15      The Government also intends to expand the production and export of
higher value agricultural and fisheries products by improving infrastructure
such as power, transportation and communication in the special agricultural
areas, and measures to upgrade the quality and standardization, inspection and
processing of the products through the provision of technical assistance and



credit. In particular, processing facilities in the private sector are to
be modernized and expanded with financial and technical assistance from
the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF), National Federation
of Fisheries Cooperatives (NFFC), and AFDC. Up to now, the finance and
technical assistance programs for onfarm development have received adequate
support from NACF and other institutions, including foreign bilateral and
multilateral agencies. The expansion of storage and processing facilities
which will be undertaken in the proposed project fits into the sectoral
program priorities of the Government.
C. Agro-Processing Subsector /1
Basic Role
1.16      The agro-processing subsector in Korea comprises essentially the
freezing, cold storage and processing of agricultural products, including
livestock and fisheries. Its basic role is to carry out these activities
efficiently and to provide adequate processed agricultural products to meet
the domestic consumption and export demand.
Growing Importance
1.17      Between 1970-76 the relative importance of the subsector increased
from an estimated 5.5% of total value added for the economy to 6.5%, or an
average annual rate of about 13%. Employment in the subsector increased
from 152,000 to 219,000. Production of the main processed foods, comprising
foodgrain, fruits, vegetables, livestock and fisheries products, increased
from 2.1 million tons to 3.4 million tons, and processed animal feeds, which
is the principal nonfood item in support of livestock production, increased
from about 0.5 million tons to 1.4 million tons, or annual increases averag-
ing about 8% and 18% respectively. Exports of processed foods increased
from US$123 million to US$813 million. About 28% of total agricultural
production was processed in 1976 compared with 20% in 1970. The expansion of
agro-processing has been due mainly to increasing domestic consumption of
processed foods resulting from rapidly rising consumer incomes and changes in
the pattern of consumer demand. Thus between 1970-76 per capita consumption
of processed fruits, vegetables, livestock and fisheries products increased by
about 12% a year. Since the late 1960s, the Government has been increasing
its emphasis on the development of the agro-processing subsector mainly to
increase income and employment in the rural areas, expand the supply and
quality of processed foods to consumers, and increase exports of processed
products. In this connection, it established AFDC in 1968 to promote, develop
and finance agro-processing facilities.
/1 Statistics on the subsector are not readily available. The 1970-76 data
used in this report were estimated by AFDC based on the most recent data
from various published sources.



-6-
Structure of Production
1.18      The subsector can be broadly divided into food processing and
nonfood processing industries. Facilities processing fruits and vegetables,
livestock, fisheries, and foodgrains /1 comprise the four main groups
of industries which account for the bulk of the output of processed foods.
The processing activities involve mainly the production of noodles and
other grain-based products, dairy products, freezing and cold storage,
canning and bottling, drying, pickling, oil seed extraction, and other
preservation. The processing of feedgrains into animal feeds is the domi-
nant activity of the nonfood industries. Other main activities include the
drying of tobacco and the spinning of raw silk from cocoons. Production of
the major processed foods and nonfood products is shown in Table 1.1 below.
Table 1.1 PRODUCTION OF THE MIAJOR AGRO-PROCESSED PRODUCTS
('000 tons)
Average annual
growth rate
1970     1973      1976     1970-76 (%)
Food Products
Foodgrains                    1,833    2,344    2,591           6
Fruits and vegetables            52       88       181        23
Livestock                        27       77        93        23
Fisheries                       230      379       606         18
Nonfood Products
Animal feeds                    508      910    1,382          18
Raw silk                         88      119       175         12
Tobacco                          45       50       163        24
1.19      As shown in Table 1.2 below, the number of firms engaged in
processing these products (except foodgrains for which no data are avail-
/1 Excluding the milling of padi into rice. Although such milling is a
processing activity its omission from this report is due to the fact
that existing milling facilities are adequate to meet present and
immediate future needs. Mioreover, NACF has been designated by the
Government to provide credit assistance for the financing of such
facilities.



able) increased from an estimated 715 in 1970 to 1,293 in 1976 or by 81%
compared with a nearly two-fold increase (174%) in their production which is
an indication of the significant increase in the average size of the firms.
In terms of the nupiber of workers employed, about 88% of the firms are medium/
small and the remaining 12% large.  This is based on the Government's
classification of size which defines firms employing more than 300 workers as
large and 300 and less workers as medium/small (a majority of the medium/small
firms have less than 100 employees). The number of small firms has been
declining because their operations have become increasingly unprofitable as a
result of high production costs and low and inconsistent quality of the
products produced, which in turn are due mainly to the small scale of
operations and the use of outmoded technology and equipment. Reacting to this
situation, existing firms which have the required financial resources are
expanding the scale of their operations to enable the adoption of improved
technology and equipment.
Table 1.2: NUMBER AND STRUCTURE OF AGRO-PROCESSING FIRMS, 1970-76
1970         1976         Increase
(%)
I. Food Processing
1.  Fruits and vegetables               88          136            55
2.  Fisheries                          410          774            89
3.  Livestock/dairy                     90          138            53
Subtotal                        588        1,048             78
II.  Nonfood Processing
1.  Animal feeds                        48          102           112
2.  Tobacco                              9           32           256
3.  Raw silk                            70          111            59
Subtotal                         127          245            93
Total                            715        1,293            81
Technology
1.20      The agro-processing operations are labor-intensive and, with the
exception of the large-scale plants, generally use a low level of technology
which results in inefficient handling of the raw material input and their
processing. This technology is widespread among the small and medium size
plants, especially the older plants and those engaged in multiproduct
processing of fruits and vegetables and production mainly for the domestic



- 8 -
market. It is exemplified by (a) outmoded, inadequate, and often inappro-
priate equipment, including their poor maintenance, inefficient layout and
ineffective monitoring to regulate the use of energy and quality of the final
products, (b) insufficient space for processing, and (c) lack of proper
storage for the required raw material input resulting in the deterioration of
their quality and wastage, undue interruption of the processing operations,
and lower utilization of capacity. The improper layout of equipment and
insufficient processsing space in turn leads to the inefficient deployment of
labor. This has become a major problem in view of the rapidly increasing cost
of labor which would soon dictate that the more labor-intensive processes be
phased out as soon as possible.  An increasing number of plants are upgrading
their technology mainly through the addition of modern equipment and the
gradual replacement of old equipment so that their operations incorporate a
mixture of the low level and advanced technologies. But most plants would
need to expand the scale of their operations for any further significant
technological improvements to be financially feasible, and for this purpose
many of them would require financial and technical assistance. Only a small
number of plants, all large-scale, use advanced technology, the main features
of which are proper storage and handling of raw materials and the necessary
equipment and methods to produce uniform and high quality products
efficiently.  This would entail, inter alia, the operation of processing
lines, fully or partially automated, to allow the continuing movement of raw
materials through the various stages of processing to the production of the
final products, and use of mechanized packaging which is significantly more
efficient and less costly than if operated manually.  Processing plants using
such technology are primarily producing animal feeds, dairy products, meat,
fruit juice based beverage, and raw silk.
Consumption and Future Demand for Processed Food
1.21      During 1970-76, consumption of processed fruits, vegetables and
livestock products increased by an average annual rate of about 18%, fisheries
products 12%, and animal feeds 18% as a result of rapidly rising per capita
incomes (about 8% annually in real terms) and changes in the pattern of
consumption. This in turn is an indication of their high income elasticities,
estimated at about 0.9 for fisheries, 1.0 for fruits and vegetables and 1.9
for livestock products. It is also reflected in the fact that processed foods
accounted for 14% of consumers' total food expenditures in 1978 compared to
only 5% a decade earlier. The substantial increase in consumption is expected
to continue at least through the 1980s in view of the continuing increase in
incomes and the fact that an increasing proportion of the population will be
urban with a greater preference for processed foods. There is accordingly a
significant potential and need to continue expanding the production of these
foods and other processed products.
1.22      The consumption and future demand for the major processed products
projected by AFDC are shown in Table 1.3 below.



- 9 -
Table 1.3: CONSUMPTION AND PROJECTED DEM4AND FOR MAJOR AGRO-PROCESSED PRODUCTS
Consumption          Projected demand /a
1976                1981      1983
… ---------    ('000  tons)   - …---------
Food products
Foodgrains                            3,148               3,188    3,203
Fruits & vegetables                     212                  299      360
Livestock                               160                  230      332
Fisheries                               568                  936    1,101
Nonfood products
Animal feeds                          2,840               3,667    4,711
Raw silk                                168                  197      260
Tobacco                                 180                  221      269
/a Including projected net exports of fruits and vegetables amounting to
about 39,000 tons in 1981 and 45,000 tons in 1983. The corresponding
figures for fisheries products are 261,000 tons and 293,000 tons.
Exports of livetock products would be negligible. The projections are
based on data for the 1970-77 period.
The estimates of future demand are based on recent trends in consumption,
projected increases in population and per capita incomes, and the estimated
income elasticities of demand for the products concerned.
1.23      Excluding foodgrains, the growth rate of which would be insigni-
ficant, the demand for the other major processed products is expected to
amount to about 7.0 million tons in 1983 compared with 4.1 million tons
consumed in 1976, an increase of about 8% annually during the seven year
period. Demand for fruits, vegetables, livestock and fisheries (the focus of
lending under the proposed project) would increase at an even faster annual
rate of about 10%. The projected demand would be mainly for canned and dried
fruits and vegetables, frozen, dried, and canned fisheries products, canned
and smoked meat, dairy, and other processed livestock products.
Projected Investment Needs
1.24      Based on the capital output ratios of existing plants, including
those financed under the first project, the costs of installing the
additional capacity to meet the projected demand for the various processed
products have been estimated by AFDC at some UJS$375 million in current prices
for the three year period 1980/81-1982/83. The additional capacity required



- 10 -
would comprise mainly freezing and cold storage, canning, drying and other
preservation, foodgrain, dairy and animal feed processing, and raw silk
spinning. AFDC is expected to provide a significant share of the financing
for this purpose.
Financing
1.25      Institutional financing for the agro-processing subsector is
provided largely by AFDC, Small and Medium Industry Bank (SMIB), Korea
Development Bank (KDB), National Agricultural Cooperatives Federation (NACF),
Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC), and National Federation of
Fisheries Cooperatives (NFFC) all of which are Government sponsored agencies,
and the commercial banks. At the end of 1978, total loans outstanding to the
subsector by all these institutions amounted to an estimated W 320 billion
(US$552 million)./1 About 90% was for operating funds which were supplied
mainly by the commercial banks. The bulk of the investment funds were
provided by the other institutions. Funds from NACF have largely been
confined to investments in their own rice milling plants and animal feedmills,
while NFFC funds have supported freezing and cold storage facilities for
fisheries. Of the remaining four institutions which have provided the bulk of
term financing to processing firms, AFDC is the major source because the other
three institutions attach low priority to such lending. Thus, AFDC's share of
term lending to the subsector which ranged between 20%-30% prior to 1976 when
the first project was approved, has since then increased to about 50%. Also,
whereas AFDC's entire medium and long-term lending are for agro-processing,
such lending by KDB, KDFC and SMIB accounted for only 0.5%, 4.2%, and 4.9%
respectively of their total loans outstanding as of the end of 1978. In
addition, AFDC has so far been the only source of equity funds to private
processing firms. In the future, AFDC is expected to increase its lending
significantly to the subsector whereas the other institutions do not foresee
any significant change in the low priority which they accord to such lending.
1.26      Although there is some overlap between the agro-processing
financing operations of these institutions, their lending is complementary
rather than competitive given the large demand of funds for this purpose
and the fact that while AFDC's lending is mainly for food and nonfood
processing, that of KDB and KDFC has largely been concentrated on agro-
industries more akin to manufacturing such as paper, cigarettes, etc. To
the extent that AFDC finances the small- and medium-scale processors, there
is also some overlap between its operations and those of SHIB, as the
/1 Because the agro-processing subsector cuts across the agricultural
and industrial sectors, the resulting definitional problem makes it
difficult to accurately estimate statistics relating to the subsector.



- 11 -
latter's financing activities are confined to small and medium size
industries. However, this overlap is both beneficial and encouraging, since
it increases the flow of funds to such firms which generally have limited
access to investment funds.
1.27      The lending rates of the financial institutions vary from about
10% to 19% depending on the terms and purpose of the loans and the source of
funds. Interest rates on loans made from special purpose Government funds
are at the lower end of the scale while rates on loans made from the
institutions' own funds are at the upper end of the scale. Interest rates
charged by AFDC are in line with those of the other financial institutions.
D. Previous Bank Lending for Agriculture and Rural Development
1.28      The Bank's lending for the agriculture sector, including rural
development, has been aimed at assisting the Government achieve its develop-
ment objectives for the sector.  The Bank has financed 13 projects totalling
US$480.5 million for this purpose of which:
(a) $188 million were made available for three irrigation projects
(Loan 600-KO, Loan 795-KO/Credit 283-KO, and Loan 1364-KO) for
the construction of irrigation works, and land reclamation, con-
solidation and improvement;
(b) $30.5 million for two agricultural credit projects (Credit
335-K0 and Loan 1328-KO) for the provision of medium and long-term
loans to farmers through their cooperatives to develop orchards,
sericulture, on-farm fruit storage, irrigation, greenhouses,
poultry and pigs;
(c) $22 million for two dairy development projects (Credit 234-K0
and Loan 1193-KO) the main components of which are the supply
of long-term loans to farmers for the establishment of small and
medium size dairy farms, construction of dairy products processing
plants, and provision of management and technical services related
to these activities;
(d) $7 million for a seeds project (Loan 942-KO) which is helping to
develop higher yielding varieties of cereal crops, oil seeds, and
potato for multiplication and distribution to farmers;
(e)  $65 million for two area development projects (Loan 1319-K0 and
1503-K0) involving the construction of earthfill dams, main and
secondary canals, pumping stations, and land development for
irrigation, river channels, village access roads, and drainage
and irrigation improvements;



- 12 -
(f) $13 million for a project (Loan 994-KO) to integrate the on-farm
production of export oriented crops with improved processing
facilities; and
(g) $155 million for two rural infrastructure projects (Loans 1216-KO/
1218T-KO and 1530-KO) involving the construction of minor
irrigation facilities, roads and bridges, water supply, electric
and telephone systems, development of fuelwood blocks, and upland
reclamation.
1.29      These projects formed part of high priority Government development
programs to (a) expand and improve the productivity of agriculture, prin-
cipally rice and other foodgrains, diversify production in favor of higher
value crops, and increase the supply and quality of processed agricultural
products all of which to meet rapidly rising consumer demand, increase exports
from the agriculture sector, and raise significantly farmer incomes; and (b)
increase the provision of rural infrastructure and amenities to improve the
quality of life and standard of living in the rural areas.
2.  AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (AFDC)
A. Purpose and Functions
2.01      Established as a legal entity in December 1967 to assist and pro-
mote the development of the agro-processing subsector in Korea, AFDC's major
functions as provided by its Articles of Incorporation are to:
(a) finance equity investment (equity participation), and long and
short-term loans for the development of industries producing,
storing, processing and marketing agricultural, forestry, livestock
and fisheries products;
(b) provide technical and managerial assistance, training and informa-
tion for such industries;
(c) own and operate agro-processing facilities;
(d)  encourage domestic and foreign investments in the subsector;
(e)  undertake and promote the application of advanced technology and
research activities;
(f) develop domestic and export markets for agro-processed products
and undertake export agent functions;
(g) improve the institutional framework for the development of the sub-
sector and provide effective vertical and horizontal integration
of primary production, secondary processing and marketing distri-
bution; and



- 13 -
(h) other related activities specifically requested by the Government.
In August 1978, the Government entrusted AFDC with the operation of its Agri-
cultural Products Price Stabilization Program (APPSP) the purpose of which
is to stabilize the domestic prices of certain basic agricultural commodities
designated by the Government.
2.02      AFDC has an authorized capital of W 10 billion to be funded by the
Government which had subscribed W 8.6 billion in several tranches by 1972.
The remaining W 1.4 billion is expected to be paid in during 1980.
B. Overview of Past Operations
2.03      Since it began operations in 1968, AFDC has disbursed about W 66
billion (US$114 million) to the agro-processing subsector of which equity
investments accounted for 11%, medium and long-term loans 27%, and short-term
loans 62%. Government funds in the form of loans to AFDC and subscription to
its capital, and foreign financing, mainly the Bank loan under the first
project (Loan 994-KO), provided the resources for these financing activities.
Private foreign and domestic investors contributed about W 7.8 billion
(US$13.4 million) towards investments financed by AFDC. AEDC has assisted in
financing the establishment and expansion of 71 agro-processing enterprises
and 583 farmers to increase the production of export-oriented crops.  In
addition, AFDC established and operated five agro-processing facilities mainly
as pilot operations and to demonstrate the use of improved technology. It has
also established facilities to carry out research on agro-processing as part
of its provision of technical extension support to private processors. It is
estimated that in 1977, output of AFDC-financed facilities accounted for about
25% of the domestic requirements of processed agricultural products and 18% of
the exports of such commodities. These facilities generated about 10,000
full-time jobs.
2.04      AFDC's efforts in the initial years of its operations (1968-72)
were geared towards:  (i) encouraging investors to establish agro-processing
enterprises through the provision of financial assistance in the form of
equity participation and loans; (ii) establishing modern processing facilities
of its own; and (iii) developing export markets. Equity participation which
was the main thrust of AFDC's operations, was considered essential to stimu-
lating private investments in agro-processing, since as a newly developing
field of investment it was considered riskier than other alternative
industrial investment opportunities.  Thus 26 agro-processing firms were
established during this period with significant equity participation by AFDC
(para. 2.14). In financing equity participation the expectation was that AFDC
would be able to recycle its funds into other investments by selling its
holdings in these companies once they turned profitable.  While AFDC's efforts
in fostering the development of the agro-processing subsector through
establishment of these firms were commendable, the subsequent performance of
these firms was far from satisfactory reflecting largely AEDC's lack of



- 14 -
experience in the proper financing of such development. Most of the firms had
unprofitable operations and were unable to service their debt. To reduce its
exposure and further erosion of its equity funds, AFDC sold its holdings in
these companies to private investors by the end of 1972,/1 except for its
investments in two wholly owned subsidiaries and four other firms. However,
this divestiture did not result in any recycling of either its equity or loan
funds as originally planned because in order to sell its holdings AFDC had to
convert most of them into long-term loans. Thus, with the bulk of its
financial resources tied up in the sold-out companies and because of limited
availability of new funds, the level of AFDC's financial assistance,
especially term loans, declined significantly in the following years until
1976 when AFDC resumed long-term lending on a significant scale with funds
provided under the first project.
2.05      During the period of reduced financing operations, AFDC's focus of
operations shifted to managing and operating its own processing plants
(para. 2.26). In addition, it took over the management of one of its two
subsidiaries to improve its operations. These two activities accordingly
became the mainstream of AFDC's work. However, during the period of direct
involvement in the operation of its processing plants and subsidiaries, AFDC
began to perceive that these activities were diverting its attention and
resources from its main developmental role which is to assist private
processors establish, modernize and expand their operations mainly through
the provision of development financing, technical guidance and market
support.
2.06      Accordingly, measures were initiated by AFDC in 1976 to enable its
operations to be focused on the provision of development financing to private
processors. Firstly, AFDC ceased its involvement in the day-today operations
of its subsidiary by providing the latter with separate management. Secondly,
it commenced the sale of its processing plants, all of which were sold by
early 1978. Thirdly, additional loan funds were obtained from the Government
and the Bank under the first project which together with the sale proceeds of
its plants enabled AFDC to significantly expand its lending to the private
sector for the development of agro-processing facilities. Concurrent with
this expansion, the quality of lending has improved significantly due mainly
to the adoption of appropriate appraisal and other lending procedures
instituted under the first project and the accumulated expertise and
experience gained from its financing and operation of agro-processing
facilities. In 1978 AFDC also discontinued lending to farmers (para. 3.04)
to concentrate solely on lending for agro-processing.
2.07      Although AFDC continues to have two wholly-owned subsidiaries, its
involvement is limited to overall policy matters. It also intends to mini-
mize its equity investments in the future. Further, while entrusted with
/1 Except one which was sold in 1978.



- 15 -
the operation of the Government's Agricultural Products Price Stabilization
Program (para. 2.01), AFDC regards the agro-processing operations as its main
function.
C. Organization and Manageaent
2.08      Although it is a separate legal entity, AFDC comes under the
jurisdiction of the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries. Its policies and
certain important operational matters, viz. annual operating plans and
budgets, and the overall number of professional staff to be employed and their
compensation, are subject to the Minister's approval.
2.09      AFDC is headed by a President who together with an Executive Vice-
President and five Vice-Presidents comprise the Board of Directors.  In addi-
tion, there is an Auditor with the same status as that of a Vice-President
who is responsible for the auditing of AFDC's accounts. The President is
appointed for a three-year term by the President of the Republic of Korea on
the recommendation of the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries, who in turn
appoints the Executive Vice-President and Vice-Presidents on the recommenda-
tion of the President of AFDC for a period of three years. The Auditor is
appointed by the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries in consultation with
the Minister of Finance for a period of two years. All these executives may
be reappointed.
2.10      AFDC has a head office and four regional offices.  It is organized
essentially along functional lines corresponding to its two groups of acti-
vities, namely, development of agro-processing and price stabilization of
agricultural products designated by the Government. The agro-processing
operations comprising the development financing and research activities are
under the responsibility of three vice-presidents, two of whom supervise the
financing activities while the third supervises the Food Research Institute
(FRI) which undertakes research on agro-processing. Responsibility for the
price stabilization program is shared by the remaining two vice-presidents.
In addition, there is an auditing office, which is headed by the Auditor. The
detailed organizational structure and functions of the various departments and
their divisions are presented in Annex 2 Chart 1.
2.11      At the end of December 1979, AFDC had a total staff of 407 of whom
238 (58%) were professionals and the remaining 169 (42%) were clerical and
other staff. The professional staff comprise mainly financial analysts, food
technologists, market analysts, engineers and economists. Annex 2, Table 1
provides a breakdown of staff by the various organizational divisions. Of
the professional staff, 63% and 25% work directly on price stabilization and
agro-processing operations respectively. The remaining 12% work in units
supporting these two activities./l Professional staff working directly on
agro-processing operations totalled 58, of which 37 work in FRI and 21 in the
/1 These include the Program and Evaluation, General Affairs, and Public
Information Divisions and the Auditing Office.



- 16 -
three divisions handling the financing activities. The majority of profes-
sional staff are university graduates and are generally of good caliber. All
new recruits are given suitable on-the-job training and some professional
staff have been sent for external and overseas training.
2.12      Although AFDC was generally overstaffed in the past, this was
corrected when AFDC assumed the implementation of the Government's price
stabilization program in 1978 and embarked on the expanded lending operations
initiated under the first project. The excess staff resulted in part from
the reassignment of personnel to AFDC's head office from its processing
plants following their sale to private investors. The number of staff work-
ing directly on price stabilization is determined by the Government and any
changes in their number has to be approved by it. Unless there is a signifi-
cant shift in the level of operations, AFDC expects this staff to stay around
the 1979 level. In any case, the Government bears their full expenses.
2.13      A Project Unit (PU) was established within AFDC in early 1975 to
supervise and monitor the implementation of the first project, including
the appraisal of individual subloans or subprojects and the provision of
technical extension support to subborrowers. Some details on the implemen-
tation of the project are given in Section 3 below. The PU would continue
this function under the proposed project. However, because the proposed
project is substantially larger involving a wide range of processing
facilities to be financed, its effective implementation would require the PU
to be reorganized and strengthened, the details of which are indicated in
paras. 5.01-5.06.
D. Equity Investments
2.14      Between 1968-72, AFDC made equity investments totalling about
W 5.2 billion (US$9.0 million) to enable the establishment of 25 agro-
processing companies and a company engaged in the export of processed and
related products. Of the agro-processing companies, four were for fruits
and vegetables, four for cold storage and freezing, five for sericulture,
three for fisheries, three for livestock, and six for nonfood products.
Eight companies were AFDC's wholly-owned subsidiaries, and ten had 50% or
more and the remaining eight less than 50% of their shareholdings held by
AFDC. For reasons indicated in para. 2.04 above, AFDC sold its holdings in
18 companies. It merged three companies with its own processing plants
which subsequently were also sold to private investors (para. 2.06).
2.15      Except for the provision of an additional equity investment of
W 350 million (US$0.6 million) to two of the above companies, AFDC did not
make any such investments during 1973-78. In 1979, AFDC entered into a
joint venture with foreign investors to manufacture baby food products.
Presently AFDC has equity participation in six companies, of which two are
wholly owned subsidiaries, while in the remaining four its shareholdings
ranges from 33-50% (Annex 2, Table 3). These companies have generally been
operating profitably in recent years.



- 17 -
E. Loan Operations
Types of Lending
2.16      AFDC's lending consists of short, medium, and long-term loans.
Short-term loans are for periods of one year or less and the remaining loans,
classified as long-term loans, have repayment periods exceeding one year,
typically between 3 and 11 years.
2.17      The main types of short-term loans are as follows:
(a) Raw Material Procurement Loans. These are made to processors for
purchasing designated agricultural commodities (mainly horti-
cultural) for which the Government intends to stabilize prices.
Funding for these loans comes from the Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries' (MAF) Price Stabilization Loan Funds. The loan interest
to subborrowers is 12.5%. The maximum loan amount is 70% of the
total cost of the raw materials procured. These loans require the
prior approval of MAF.
(b) Working Capital Loans. These loans are made to finance sub-
borrowers' working capital requirements, and are funded by AFDC's
own resources. Except in the case of AFDC's subsidiaries, the
loan amounts do not exceed 80% of the total working capital
requirements. AFDC charges 19% interest for such loans.
AFDC's lending criteria for these loans are based essentially on an assess-
ment of the subborrowers' credit standing and the availability of adequate
collateral.
2.18      Long-term loans comprise the following:
(a) Special Purpose Loans. These are loans made from funds which the
Government provides to AFDC on an ad hoc basis. The specific
purposes and terms for these loans are determined annually by the
Government. The interest rates charged to subborrowers vary from
10.5%-12.5% and the repayment of loans from 4-9 years.
(b) Equipment Loans. These are loans made from AFDC's own funds for
the financing of equipment. They carry an interest rate of 15%-16%
and loan maturities of 3-9 years. The maximum amount that can be
financed is 80% of the cost of the equipment.
(c) Bank-Assisted Subloans. Subloans made under the first project
carry an interest rate to subborrowers of 12.0% and loan repayment
periods ranging from 5-11 years.
2.19      Long-term lending under categories (a) and (b) above which is han-
dled by the Loan and Portfolio Management Division (LPM) has been limited,
and most of the loans have been made to AFDC's subsidiaries. The appraisal



- 18 -
methods and procedures for these loans have not been as thorough as those
followed under the first project (para. 2.20). However, as AFDC has begun to
appreciate the benefits of these appraisal methods and procedures, the LPM
division is expected to use them in future.
2.20      Improved appraisal methods and procedures were adopted by AFDC's
Project Unit (PU) at the outset of the first project. Following an initial
learning period, the present quality of AFDC's analysis of the technical,
marketing, financial and managerial aspects of the subprojects has generally
been very satisfactory. The PU also undertakes the follow-up and supervision
of the subprojects financed. Loan agreements with subborrowers accord AFDC
the right to inspect the subprojects and to receive from subborrowers
information relating to the financial condition, production, sales and changes
in management of the subprojects. The financial and statistical monitoring is
supplemented by field visits to subborrowers. Subproject monitoring and
supervision, while weak during the early phase of project implementation, has
improved significantly in recent years. With the establishment of a technical
assistance division under the proposed project, this aspect of AFDC's
operations is expected to be further strengthened (para. 5.04).
Volume of Lending
2.21      From the inception of its operations in 1968 to the end of 1979,
total loans disbursed by AFDC amounted to W 60.0 billion ($103 million), of
which short-term loans accounted for W 42.4 billion (71%) and long-term loans
W 17.6 billion (29%). 22% of the loans were disbursed between 1968-71, 14%
between 1972-75 and 64% during 1976-79 as indicated in Table 2.1 below.
Table 2.1: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS DURING 1968-79
(W billion)
1968-71          1972-75       1976-79        Total
Short-term                 7.5              6.4           28.5          42.4
Long-term                  5.5              2.0           10.1          17.6
Total                13.0              8.4           38.6          60.0
The fluctuations in lending correspond to the different phases of AFDC's
operations (paras. 2.04-2.06).
2.22      Growth of lending during the past four years has been substantial,
with disbursements increasing significantly from W 3.1 billion in 1976 to
W 7.3 billion in 1977 and W 14.2 billion in 1979. The annual disbursements of
short-term and long-term loans during 1975-79 are given in Table 2.2 below.



- 19 -
Table 2.2: ANNUAL LOAN DISBURSEMENTS DURING 1975-79
(W million)
1975          1976         1977         1978         1979
Amount   %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount   %
Short-term       2,489  84    2,628  84   5,027  69    8,954  64  11,854  84
Long-term          479  16        490  16   2,281  31    5,035  36   2,338  16
Total       21968         3,118        7,308        13,989       14.192
2.23      The substantial increases in short-term lending have been due mainly
to loans for the procurement of agricultural products for processing, and in
long-term lending for the development of existing and construction of new
processing facilities and the on-farm development of export oriented crops./1
At the end of 1979, short-term loans outstanding amounted to W 10.2 billion,
of which companies with equity participation by AFDC accounted for 33% and
other companies the remaining 67%. These two groups of companies accounted
for about 14% and 74% respectively and farmers the remaining 12% of the W 12.2
billion long-term loans outstanding.
Sources of Funds
2.24      About 60% of the total lending during 1975-79 has been financed from
Government funds, with the Bank and AFDC financing 18% and 22% respectively.
While all the Bank funds were used for long-term loans, only about 24% of
AFDC's and 9% of Government funds have been used for such loans.
2.25      In allocating its own limited funds, AFDC has concentrated on short-
term lending in response to the increasing demand for such funds. The higher
interest rates for short-term loans compared to those for long-term loans
have also helped AFDC's need to maximize earnings to improve its financial
situation.
F. Nonfinancing Operations
Directly Managed Plants
2.26      In order to disseminate new technologies AFDC established five
processing plants between 1969-71 which it owned and operated until 1978. One
was engaged in the integrated production and processing of mushrooms and was
the largest of its kind in Korea at the time of its establishment. Two were
multiproduct plants processing a wide range of fruits and vegetables, while
the remaining two units were involved in processing hard clams and oyster
culture respectively. These plants were sold during 1976-78 after they had
Ll Long-term lending declined in 1979 as disbursements under the first
project which is nearing completion tapered off during the year.



- 20 -
served their purpose, except for the hard clam facility which was abandoned in
1976 because of contamination problems. The plants were sold for W 3.9
billion which included a capital gain of W 900 million. AFDC does not expect
to set up any more directly managed units in the foreseeable future.
Food Research Institute
2.27      Since its inception, AFDC has been undertaking research on food and
other agro-processing. In 1973 with the assistance of UNDP, the Government
established the Food Research Institute (FRI) /I within AFDC to: (a) carry
out research and development in the field of processing and storage, including
product quality control and standardization; (b) conduct the training of tech-
nical and management personnel in the agro-processing industry; (c) provide
technical assistance to processors; and (d) collect, analyse and disseminate
to processors information on new technologies and developments and foreign
market requirements. UNDP's assistance provided in two phases helped finance
technical experts, pilot plants and laboratory equipment. FRI's operating
expenses are borne by AFDC (in 1979, about 20% of AFDC's total administrative
costs). Its revenues, however, accounted for only a minor proportion of the
costs since the research conducted is for the benefit of the industry as a
whole and the fees charged for services rendered to individual processors have
been nominal.
2.28      The bulk of FRI's research, technical assistance, and training
efforts have been directed towards the needs of AFDC's subsidiaries and
affiliated companies. These efforts have been focussed mainly on the
development of mushroom production and processing, and have been successful
as reflected in the rapid increase in the export of canned mushroom during
the past decade. FRI has had limited success in addressing the technical
needs of other agro-processing. Lack of clear direction in research and
close links with processors, shortage of suitably qualified staff,
inappropriate organizational structure and inadequacy of proper laboratory and
pilot plant facilities and space were the main factors responsible for the
rather narrow concentration of FRI's efforts in the past.
2.29      Measures were initiated in 1979 to strengthen FRI's operations,
with financing from the Government and UNDP under its third phase technical
assistance program for the Institute. The strengthening includes the con-
struction and equipping of a new research complex, which was completed
recently, and the provision of consultants and overseas training for FRI
staff. The consultants would assist and train FRI staff in carrying out
research on a wide range of agro-processing. To further strengthen its
research activities, FRI will increase its professional staff from 37 at
present to 50 by the end of 1982, and establish a Research Coordination
Committee, consisting of representatives from various related Government
agencies, FRI and the agro-processing industry to consider policy matters.
In addition, an Industrial Liaison Committee comprising FRI staff and industry
/1 Prior to 1979 FRI was referred to as the Food Processing Center.



- 21 -
representatives will also be established to direct FRI's research and training
to meet the needs of the industry. The committee will provide advice on key
problems of the industry and promote close relationship and understanding
between its members and FRI. All these organizational changes are expected to
be completed by early 1981. These efforts and AFDC's renewed commitment to
upgrade FRI's operations should result in improving both the quantity and
quality of FRI's applied research and technical and training assistance to
processors.
Export Market Development
2.30      AFDC has performed a key role in developing export markets for
agro-processed products, in particular mushroom exports. In the first
decade of its operations it performed export agent functions for a large
number of small and medium scale processors,/1 besides handling export sales
from its own processing plants. In addition it has conducted overseas market
intelligence and research activities. This service, while limited, has been
beneficial to processing firms in developing their export sales. By 1972 AFDC
had developed export outlets for 30 types of products in 14 countries. Major
items were canned mushrooms, ginseng, leaf tobacco and seaweed laver. In the
early 1970s, a signiicant share of the total exports of mushroom and ginseng
was handled by AFDC. As a result of the expansion in the number and size of
operations of the private companies involved in the export of processed goods
and with the larger processors increasingly handling the export of their own
products, AFDC gradually relinquished its role as a major export agency.
AFDC's export market development work in recent years has been mainly limited
to market research and intelligence. It is planning to strengthen this
function and is working towards publishing a market outlook report on a
regular basis.
Price Stabilization Operations
2.31      The Governments' buffer stock operations to stabilize the prices of
farm produce (excluding foodgrains) basic to the food needs of consumers was
assigned to AFDC in August 1978. AFDC's role in this activity is essentially
that of an agent for the Government. All decisions regarding the types,
quantities and timing of products to be procured and released to the domestic
market, prices to be paid to farmers, and the number of AFDC staff required to
carry out the buffer stock operations are made by the Government. The actual
procurement and grading of produce are undertaken by the National Agricultural
Cooperative Federation and the National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives
for domestically produced items, and by the Government's Office of Supplies
(OSROK) for imported agricultural commodities. AFDC's main function is to
store the buffer stocks and transport the commodities to and from its ware-
houses to marketing centers. For the purpose of proper storage, 21 Government
warehouses were made available to AFDC which are being renovated and converted
into cool storages. AFDC established four regional offices, one each in
/1 AFDC acted as a consignment agent for these processors.



- 22 -
Seoul, Taegu, Pusan and Kwangju to operate the warehouses and implement the
program in the field. AFDC is also constructing a multipurpose processing
plant which would only process those stored items that would spoil if they
continue to be stored as raw materials. The output of this plant would be
auctioned to wholesalers. The cost of the buffer stock operations is fully
underwritten by the Government. In 1979, AFDC disbursed about W 44.6 billion
(US$77 million) for procurement of about 52,000 tons of commodities.
G. Financial Position and Performance
Financial Position
2.32      As indicated by the summarized balance sheets for 1975-79 shown in
Annex 2, Table 5, AFDC's total assets increased substantially from W 15 bil-
lion in 1975 to W 37 billion in 1979, reflecting mainly the rapid expansion of
its lending and price stabilization operations. Most of the increase in
assets barring its price stabilization funds were financed by domestic and
foreign currency borrowings, both short-term and long-term. Of the assets at
the end of 1979, long-term loans accounted for 32%, short-term loans 28%,
funds for price stabilization 14%,/1 investments 13%, and other assets the
remaining 13%. Borrowings financed about 56% of the assets, AFDC's equity
25%, price stabilization funds from the Government 14% and other liabilities
the remaining 5%. About half the long-term borrowings (54% of total
borrowings), used mainly to finance the development of agro-processing and
related facilities, is from the Bank, which has assumed a central role in
financing this most important aspect of AFDC's operations.
Financial Performance
2.33      Summarized income and cash flow statements for the period from 1975
through 1979 are shown in Annex 2, Tables 4 and 6. Prior to 1976, AFDC's
major source of revenues was sales of processed products from its own pro-
cessing plants. After the disposal of these plants, interest income from a
rapidly expanding lending operation and funds provided by the Government to
pay the administrative costs of the price stabilization program (price
stabilization administration funds) became the main sources. Total revenues
amounted to W 3.1 billion in 1976, W 3.5 billion in 1977, W 2.7 billion in
1978, and W 4.6 billion in 1979. The decline in 1978 was due to the cessation
in the sales of processed products resulting from the disposal of AFDC's
processing plants and which had only been partly offset by the increase in
interest income and the provision of price stabilization administration funds
from the Government. Of the total revenues in 1979, interest income accounted
for about 52%, price stabilization administration funds 42%, dividends 3%, and
income from sales of processed products /2 the remaining 3%.
/1 These funds are deposited in AFDC's account in the Bank of Korea.
/2 Sales of processed products for which AFDC acted as consignment agent.



- 23 -
2.34      Annual net income losses were incurred by AFDC during 1975-78.  The
losses were due to reduced profit margins and the decline and eventual
cessation in the sale of processed goods, high administration expenses
resulting from excess staff and other overhead costs, and operating deficits
and foreign exchange losses incurred by the first project. These adverse
factors were however, corrected in 1979 by the operations of the price
stabilization program which fully absorbed the excess staff and overhead
costs, the slower increase in operating costs, and the fact that the first
project's operations had begun to turn profitable (para. 2.35). Mainly as a
result of these favorable developments AFDC was able to achieve a net income
of W 617 million in 1979. AFDC has projected that its operations in the next
five years 1980-84 would be profitable as indicated in Annex 2, Tables 10-13.
2.35      The first project sustained net operating losses of W 99 million
in 1975, W 180 million in 1976, and W 109 million in 1977 because of the
slow progress in lending which accordingly did not generate sufficient inter-
est income to cover the project's implementation costs. However, as lending
began to expand significantly following the widening of the project scope in
late 1977 (para. 3.03), the net operating loss declined substantially to
W 6 million in 1978. With the continued acceleration of lending in 1979,
the project recorded for the first time, a net income of W 50 million for
the year.
2.36      A summary of AFDC's loan collections and ageing of arrears is given
in Annex 2, Tables 7, 8 and 9. Total arrears as of the end of 1979, amounted
to W 295 million or 1.3% of total loans outstanding compared with W 243
million and 1.4% respectively at the end of 1978. All the arrears in both
these years were accounted by long-term loans as there were no arrears on
short-term loans. The collection rate of long-term loans amounted to 90% in
1979 compared with 88% in 1978. Of the arrears at the end of 1979, about 38%
were less than six months old, 30% six to 12 months, and 32% over 12 months.
Overall, AFDC's loan portfolio is sound considering the satisfactory
collection rate and the low level of arrears.
2.37      AFDC increased its accumulated provision for doubtful loans from
W 130 million at the end of 1978 to W 333 million in 1979 which would account
for about 1.5% of the outstanding short- and long-term loan portfolio. The
additional provisions were made in light of the expectation that some arrears
will emerge in the future, since about 25% of the outstanding long-term
portfolio in 1979 is still in the grace period, and the number of clients and
loans has increased significantly in recent years. With total arrears of
about W 295 million at the end of 1979, this level of provisions would be
adequate. AFDC's provision in the past have been satisfactory as certified by
its external auditors.
2.38      Based on the Government's Invested Enterprise Budget Accounting
Act, AFDC's accounting system is basically sound. However, the accounting
and management information did not allow AFDC to properly and accurately
evaluate the performance of its individual operating units and activities. A
study to strengthen AFDC's accounting and management information systems was



- 24 -
financed under the first project, and was completed in September 1976. Major
recommendations of the study were (i) the introduction of monthly and
quarterly management reports; (ii) streamlining of existing reports; (iii)
provision of product cost information for AFDC's processing plants;/1 (iv)
preparation of medium and long-term financial forecasts; and (v) measures to
improve the internal aspects of budgetary control, accounting procedures, and
internal audit function.  AFDC has been implementing the recommendations
gradually after they have been modified to conform to the provisions of the
above Act.
2.39      AFDC's accounts have been audited by external auditors as required
under the first project.  The audit has been satisfactory and would be con-
tinued under the proposed project (para. 5.13).  In addition, the accounts are
audited by its internal auditor in accordance with the provisions of the
Government's Invested Enterprise Budget Accounting Act which all Government
sponsored agencies are required to follow. The internal auditors also
undertake annually a full audit of AFDC's subsidiaries. The internal audit
functions have also been strengthened based on the recommendations of the
above study.
3. THE FIRST PROJECT (INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING
PROJECT - LOAN 994-KO)
3.01      The first project, now nearing completion, formed part of the
Government's program for the development of the agro-processing subsector
under the Third Five-Year Development Plan (1972-76). It provides long-term
funds to AFDC for:
(a) onlending to subborrowers in the private sector to develop and
modernize: (i) on-farm production of asparagus, mushroom, and oak
mushroom (shiitake); and (ii) canneries, drying plants, and
freezing/cold storage facilities for the processing of these crops
as well as other vegetables and fruits comprising mainly strawberry,
spinach, chestnut, and peach; and
(b) technical assistance required by AFDC to implement the project
effectively and to improve its accounting and financial management
systems.
Total project costs were estimated at US$20.0 million, of which the Bank
financed US$13.0 million (65%) equivalent to the foreign exchange costs,
AFDC US$3.2 million (16%), and subborrowers US$3.8 million (19%).
3.02      The four-year project became effective in March 1975 and funds were
fully committed by the end of July 1979. Table 3.1 below compares actual
project commitments with those envisaged during appraisal.
/1 With the disposal of these plants this recommendation is no longer
relevant.



- 25 -
Table 3.1: ACTUAL AND APPRAISAL ESTIMATES OF PROJECT FUND COMMITMENTS
Appraisal    Actual
(US$ million)
On-farm development                          4.7          3.4
Processing facilities                       11.0         12.3
Technical assistance                         0.5          0.5
Total /a                              16.2         16.2
/a Amounts indicate project funds provided by the Bank and AFDC.
Details on the investments financed are given in Annex 1. The project funds
are expected to be fully disbursed by the end of March 1980. Disbursements
by AFDC as of December 31, 1979 amounted to about $15.7 million.
3.03      Two significant changes took place during project implementation.
Firstly, the project scope was widened in September 1977 to enable AFDC to
finance a broader range of agro-processing facilities than was envisaged
during appraisal. Implementation of the project had been delayed because of
slow progress in lending for the facilities originally covered by the project,
which was aggravated by the depressed state of foreign markets for processed
foods during 1975, a period of worldwide economic recession following the
energy crisis in late 1974. Under the revised project scope, AFDC could
finance facilities for the processing (essentially canning) and cold storing
of fish, meat, fruits, vegetables, fruit juice extraction and concentration,
and vegetable preservation, including pickling and drying, for which there was
substantial loan demand. Following the inclusion of these facilities in the
project, the loan amounts approved increased significantly and project
implementation has been progressing satisfactorily. In all, AFDC provided 44
subloans for a wide spectrum of processing facilities for modernization,
expansion and new construction.
3.04      Secondly, AFDC discontinued lending to farmers in 1978, as it
became increasingly clear that its organizational structure and operations,
set up for the purpose of promoting agro-industries, were not suited for
effective lending to farmers./l With the cessation of these activities, AFDC
intends to concentrate its efforts and resources on the financing of proces-
sing facilities only. For on-farm development, AFDC provided 583 subloans
for expanding the production area of mushrooms, asparagus and oak mushroom
/1 These activities have been, and are being, financed efficiently by the
National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF). The Bank has
successfully financed two agricultural credit operations for onr-farm
development through NACF, of which the second is nearing completion.



- 26 -
by about 25 ha, 59 ha, and 35,600 cu m respectively. The areas financed are
63%, 14% and 148% of those envisaged at appraisal. AFDC attributed the lack
of loan demand for asparagus production to disease problems afflicting the
crop, and farmers' reluctance to develop a relatively new crop in the culti-
vation of which they lack sufficient experience. Farmers' preference for
peanut cultivation, a familar and profitable alternative crop was reportedly
another dampening factor. The shortfall in lending for mushroom was due to
the uncertain export market for canned mushroom.
3.05      It is still too early to evaluate the project's benefits and impact.
However, AFDC's appraisals of the individual subloans indicated financial
rates of return ranging from about 18% to 63%. The project also has had
significant institution-building effects on AFDC, particularly with regard
to the quality of appraisal and strengthening of the accounting and
financial management systems. Thus, the appraising of project investments in
terms of their technical feasibility and financial viability based on
incremental returns, and regular supervision of project investments during
their implementation, have both become AFDC's standard lending practices.
4. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The project would be a continuation and expansion of the develop-
ment program for agro-processing financed under the first project (Integrated
Agricultural Products Processing Project - Loan 994-KO). It would provide
medium and long-term loans to the private sector through AFDC for invest-
ments in agro-processing facilities, and funds for technical assistance to
AFDC. The project would support a three-year lending program which would be
part of a high priority Government effort to increase income and employment
in the rural areas by augmenting the value added, expand production and
exports from the agriculture sector, and increase the supply and quality of
processed foods to consumers.
B. Description
4.02      The project would support investments in the entire agro-processing
subsector. Its scope and size are based on a recent study by consultants
which projected the investment needs of the subsector during the period 1980-
1985, the loan demand for such investments indicated by potential subborrowers
to AFDC, and the lending program proposed by AFDC taking into account its loan
processing capacity. During the three-year project period 1980/81 - 1982/83,
the subsector's investment needs are estimated to be about US$375 million, of
which the project would finance about 22%. Projected lending by financial
intermediaries other than AFDC indicate that they plan to finance about
one-third (33%) of the investment needs, with the remaining 45% expected to be
financed by other private sources, mainly the processors themselves.



- 27 -
4.03      A wide variety of agro-processing enterprises are expected to apply
for financing under the project. These would include freezing and cold
storage, canning, drying, pickling and other preservation of fruits,
vegetables, meat, and fisheries products, oil seed extraction, grain based
foods (e.g. noodles), fruit juice based beverages, dairy processing, animal
feeds mainly for pigs and poultry, and raw silk spinning. All of these
enterprises have been identified in the consultant study (para. 4.02) and by
AFDC as having good prospects for expansion. The project would finance
improvements to existing facilities and the construction and equipping of new
facilities. Investments would be undertaken by the private sector. Project
funds are expected to generate an estimated 110 - 120 subloans. For the bulk
of the subloans, amounts would range from about US$150,000 to US$1.0 million
equivalent although there will be a few subloans outside this range.
4.04      The project would also provide a technical assistance component
mainly for the strengthening of AFDC's Project Department so it can implement
the project effectively and provide the necessary technical extension and
market support to processors. Funds for technical assistance would be used
for training abroad of the Project Department's technical staff, to obtain
short-term foreign expertise to assist the Department in resolving specific
agro-processing problems where local expertise is not available, and for
market studies and the introduction and implementation of new or improved
technology (e.g. purchase of equipment to test new processing techniques to be
carried out by AFDC's Food Research Institute). Approximately 30 man-months
of short-term foreign expertise would be required at a total cost of about
US$300,000. The average man-month cost of the experts (individuals' fees,
international travel, and local allowances), whose assignments would range
from a few weeks to several months, is expected to be about US$9,500. The
total estimated cost also includes provision for the cost of vehicles, local
travel and other minor items. The training abroad of the Project Department
technical staff would consist mainly of short-term visits to processing plants
outside Korea for on-the-job training.
C. Costs and Financing
4.05      The total cost of the project is estimated at W 48,600 million of
which about 60% or W 28,980 million would be the foreign exchange costs. A
summary of the costs by subprojects, based on the various possible invest-
ments and their estimated costs given in the consultants' report noted above
and by AFDC's potential subborrowers, is given in Table 4.1 below.



- 28 -
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Foreign
(W million)             (US$ million)          (%)
Freezing and cold
storage                 5,480   7,010   12,490       9.4    12.1    21.5       56
Other processing          8,580  12,820   21,400    14.8    22.1    36.9         60
Technical assistance           -     300       300     -        0.5      0.5    100
Base costs          14.060  20,130   34,190    24.2    34.7    58.9         59
Physical contingency      1,410   1,980    3,390       2.4      3.4      5.8
Expected price
increases (29%)         4,150   6,870   11,020       7.2    11.8    19.0
Total               19.620  28,980   48,600    33.8    50.0    83.8         60
The freezing and cold storage and other processing subprojects include a 10%
physical contingency. In addition, a price contingency of 29% has been added
to the subprojects and technical assistance component. The contingency is
based on the expected price increases shown in Table 4.2 below on the esti-
mated amounts that would be disbursed during the project period (para. 4.11).
Table 4.2: EXPECTED % PRICE INCREASES
1980       1981      1982      1983     1984
Local costs                  9          8         8         8        8
Foreign costs               10.5        9         8         7        7
4.06      Of the total project cost of US$84 million, subborrowers would
finance US$21 million (25%), AFDC US$13 million (15%), and the Bank US$50
million (60%) which is equivalent to the foreign exchange costs.
D. Implementation Schedule
4.07      Project subloans would cover a three-year commitment period com-
mencing in the latter part of 1980. Since the last set of agro-processing



- 29 -
facilities financed are expected to be completed towards the end of 1983,
total project funds would be fully disbursed by mid-1984. Estimated
disbursements over the four-year period 1981-1984 are indicated in para. 4.11.
E. Procurement
4.08      AFDC's procurement procedures and arrangements are considered
satisfactory and are generally in line with those of the DFCs in Korea. The
procedures are designed to ensure that the items are procured with due regard
for economy and efficiency. AFDC generally requires borrowers to procure
through local competitive bidding or prudent shopping using the three-bid
method, depending on the type of items and the amounts involved. Purchase off
the shelf may also be permitted where appropriate, normally for small items or
if it is cost effective. The merits of the various bids are evaluated jointly
by the borrower and AFDC and the final bid and award of the contract is
subject to the latter's approval. AFDC usually helps the borrower in
preparing bids and invitations for bidding, and supervises the opening of
bids. There are many local suppliers of agro-processing equipment, including
facilities to service them, and competent civil works contractors. Foreign
equipment suppliers are likewise adequately represented, mainly through local
agencies. Both suppliers of foreign and local equipment provide technical
assistance for the proper installation and operation of their equipment, and
competition among them is keen. Under the first project, procurement by
borrowers has generally been economical and efficient, and an estimated two-
thirds of the equipment procured is of foreign origin, reflecting in many
cases borrower choice of foreign equipment.
4.09      In view of the above, use of AFDC's procurement procedures and
arrangements would be appropriate for the project. It is expected that the
project's procurement would be through local competitive bidding, the
three-bid method of prudent shopping, and purchase off the shelf, which would
be allowed only in the case of improvements to existing processing facilities
requiring minor equipment items. For the construction and equipping of large
processing facilities where the design of the building would need to closely
fit the layout of the equipment for efficient operations, AFDC may require
the use of turnkey contracts. Facilities which require such contracts are
mainly meat and dairy processing. AFDC would ensure that all the procurement
documents would be available for review by the Bank's supervision missions.
4.10      The training abroad of the technical staff of AFDC's Project
Department and the recruitment of foreign experts, including their terms and
conditions of employment, would be undertaken with the approval of the Bank.
F. Disbursements
4.11      Estimated disbursements of the proposed Bank loan of US$50 million
are expected to extend over a four-year period as follows:



- 30 -
US$ million
1981                               15
1982                               17
1983                               14
1984                                4
50
Disbursements against the loan proceeds would be as follows:
(a) 79% of subloans made by AFDC.
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for technical assistance.
Reimbursement applications under the subloans would be supported by a state-
ment of expenditures accompanied by a list of subloans made. The actual
supporting documentation would be kept by AFDC and made available to Bank
staff for review during supervision missions. Disbursements for technical
assistance would be fully documented (bills or invoices and evidence of
payment where applicable). Contract documents for foreign experts and train-
ing programs for AFDC's staff would be submitted to the Bank for approval.
G. Environmental Impact
4.12      To protect and improve the quality of the environment, effluents
and other wastes from agro-processing plants are required by law to be
properly treated before they can be discharged. Regulations and standards for
this purpose are being enforced by the Ministry of Health through regular
inspections of existing plants to ensure their compliance. Processors who do
not comply within stipulated periods are subject to heavy penalties imposed by
the Ministry. Processing plants financed under the project are not expected
to have any adverse impact on the environment since they cannot be established
without devices for the proper treatment of wastes.
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Management
5.01      The Project Unit (PU) established by AFDC to supervise and monitor
the implementation of the first project (Loan 994-KO), including the
appraisal of individual subloans or subprojects, would continue this function
under the proposed project. Although the PU is a component of the General
Affairs Department, its manager reports directly to one of AFDC's vice presi-
dents, who is in charge of several departments. The PU's implementation of
the first project has been satisfactory. However, for effective implemen-
tation of the proposed project it would be necessary to strengthen the PU in



- 31 -
view of the need to provide adequate technical extension and market support to
processors, especially those involved in operating small- and medium-size
facilities, and also since the project is substantially larger and a wide
range of processing facilities are to be financed (para. 5.02).
5.02      Under the proposed project, the PU would be expanded and upgraded to
that of a Project Department (PD) which would be headed by a Manager (Annex 2,
Chart 2). The PD would have three divisions - Appraisal, Technical
Assistance, and Credit Administration with a total staff of 30 comprising 26
suitably qualified professionals and four support staff.
5.03      The Appraisal Division would be responsible for appraisal of the
subprojects. It would have a total of 14 staff comprising (a) five agro-
processing specialists in freezing and cold storage (1), canning (1), other
food processing (1), nonfood processing (1) and civil engineering (1);
(b) five financial analysts; (c) three marketing specialists in agricultural
processed products; and (d) one economist. This complement of expertise would
be required for the proper appraisal of the number of subprojects envisaged
(para. 4.03). The appraisal procedures would be the same as those followed
under the first project, which include undertaking field investigations to
assess the capability and financial standing of the subborrowers and
competence of their technical staff, suitability of the subproject sites in
terms of their adequacy for the processing plants and location, availability
of raw material input, and other related matters. Project investments would
be evaluated in terms of their technical feasibility and financial viability
based on incremental returns.
5.04      The Technical Assistance (TA) Division would comprise two agro-
processing experts, two processing engineers and a marketing specialist who
would undertake regular field visits to supervise processing facilities
financed by the project, including the provision of technical extension and
market support to subborrowers and other processors. The technical exten-
sion and market support would include assistance to processors to (a) raise
the productivity of their processing facilities through better techniques
and methods of production, utilization of machinery and plant layout, (b)
improve quality control of both the raw material input and processed output,
(c) resolve processing problems, and (d) market their output. The division's
technical extension efforts would be reinforced by expert advice from AFDC's
Food Research Institute (para. 2.27).  In collaboration with the Appraisal
Division, it would also undertake feasibility studies, market research, and
other studies relating to the needs and prospects of the agro-processing
subsector.
5.05      The Credit Administration Division would consist of seven profes-
sional staff and four support staff. Of the professional staff, two would
handle matters relating to collateral, four credit administration and super-
vision, and one project monitoring and reporting.



- 32 -
5.06      AFDC is in the process of upgrading and expanding the present
Project Unit to that of a Project Department as proposed above, and
has indicated that only suitably qualified staff would be appointed to the
various positions. The establishment of the PD along lines acceptable to
the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
Subloan Terms and Conditions
5.07      Although an illustrative allocation of the project funds for
freezing/cold storage and other processing is indicated in para. 4.05,
AFDC would be able to use the funds on a completely flexible basis for
various types of agro-processing enterprises, subject only to the lending
limits indicated in paras. 5.08 and 5.09 below. This would enable AFDC to
respond promptly and effectively to changes in demand as they may occur.
5.08      Under the first project, individual subloan amounts in excess of
US$200,000 required the Bank's prior approval. In view of the experience
gained by AFDC in its appraisal of subloans above the free limit which has
proved to be satisfactory, it is proposed that the free limit be raised to
US$500,000 for the proposed project. It is estimated that about two-thirds of
the total number of subloans would be below the free limit. All subloans
above the free limit (about 40) which would include an economic rate of
return analysis would be sent to the Bank ior its review and approval. The
Bank would consider raising the free limit during the course of project
implementation, as AFDC demonstrates its capacity to appraise even larger
subloans.
5.09      The maximum size of a subloan will not exceed US$2 million since
this amount and the subborrower's contribution would be sufficient to cover
the investment cost of most processing facilities. The Bank may, however,
consider financing larger subloans but only for a few exceptional cases. The
ceiling on subloans would also enable a wider distribution of project funds.
To avoid a significant concentration of large subloans and help finance the
investment needs of medium and small processors, lending to large processors
would not exceed 40% of the total project funds with the remaining 60% or more
earmarked for lending to medium and small processors. The Government's
definition of large and medium/small processors which is based on total assets
or employment size would be used for this purpose. Processors with more than
W 500 million total assets or employment exceeding 300 are considered large,
and those with lesser amounts of total assets or number of employees are
medium/small processors. As under the first project subborrowers would bear
the foreign exchange risks.
5.10      The lending rate to subborrowers will not be less than 12% per
annum. The actual rate would be determined by the weighted average cost of
AFDC's borrowings from the Bank and the Government plus a 3% interest spread
required by AFDC to cover its administrative costs. While the interest rate
on the-Bank loan would be 8.25% p.a., the interest on the Government loan to
cover AFDC's share of the total project cost would be determined from time
to time by the Government in consultation with the Bank. In determining the



- 33 -
interest rate on the Government loan, account would be taken of the need to
(a) provide a 3% interest spread to AFDC over the cost of its total project
funds, and (b) ensure that the lending rate to subborrowers remains competi-
tive with those charged by the other Government-sponsored financial
institutions for similar type of loans. The Government's loan of US$13
million to AFDC would be for a period of 11 years, including 3 years grace, as
under the first project, and would be provided as and when required by AFDC.
5.11      Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, subsidiaries and
affiliated companies of AFDC would not be eligible to borrow under the
project. This is mainly to avoid any possible conflict of interest, and also
because direct Government funding of these companies through AFDC has been,
and would continue to be, available to meet their investment requirements.
5.12      The repayment periods of the subborrowers will be determined by
AFDC's cash flow estimates of their subloans. For typical subprojects, their
cash flow estimates indicate an average repayment period of about 12 years,
including 3 years grace. Based on these estimates and given that the project
funds would be disbursed over 4 years, the cash flow estimated for the project
as a whole indicates that AFDC would require a repayment period of 16 years,
including 3 years grace.
Accounts and Audit
5.13      As required under the first project, AFDC's accounts have been
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit has been
satisfactory. This requirement would be maintained under the proposed
project. AFDC would maintain a separate account for the project which would
be audited annually and sent to the Bank, together with a copy of the audited
balance sheets and income statements covering its total operations within four
months after the close of each financial year. The annual audit report would
include the auditors' opinion as to whether the project funds on the basis
of AFDC's statement of expenditures have been used for the purpose for which
they were provided. AFDC would also forward to the Bank quarterly reports
covering the project's progress within two months following the end of each
quarter. Past reporting by AFDC has been comprehensive and timely.
6. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Major benefits expected from the proposed project would include:
(a) reduction in wastage of farm produce from spoilage and loss,
especially of perishables, through the provision of additional
processing capacity, including freezing and cold storage, and
improved efficiency of processing;



- 34 -
(b) increased supplies, better quality and larger variety of processed
foods and other agricultural products throughout the year which
would help meet the growing domestic consumption and export
demand for such products, improve the national diet, and assist
in dampening the significant supply and price fluctuations of
farm produce, especially fruits, vegetables and other perishables,
during the off season periods. The supply of processed
products at generally lower costs would be an additional benefit
to consumers;
(c) raising significantly the productivity of labor involved in
processing which has become increasingly essential in view of the
rapidly increasing costs and tightening supply of labor. The
increase in labor productivity is expected to range from about 16%
for canning to 32% for the processing of animal feeds which are
based on a comparison of the estimated per worker output of
existing plants using a lower level technology and those with more
advanced technologies;
(d) creation of some 5,000 jobs in processing at an estimated cost of
about US$17,000 per job, temporary employment for workers
constructing the processing facilities, and indirectly, additional
employment for farmers (particularly some off-season employment) as
well as other workers engaged in selling the processed products
produced. The benefit to farmers would come from increased demand
for farm produce through the widening of their market opportunities
which in turn would result in higher prices and increased
production, employment and incomes; and
(e) increased value added, total employment, export earnings and
import substitution for the economy.
In addition, the project would strengthen the institutional capability of
AFDC, especially with regard to its provision of financial and technical
assistance for the proper development of agro-processing, including the
establishment of closer links with medium and small size processors many
of whom have limited technical know-how and access to medium- and long-term
credit. Rough estimates indicate that the anticipated project facilities
at full development would freeze, cold store and process a wide variety
of agricultural, livestock and fishery products valued at some W 282 billion
(US$486 million) annually at present prices.
Financial and Economic Rates of Return
6.02      Specific subprojects to be financed under the project have not yet
been identified. However, the indicative overall financial rate of return
(FRR) for the types and number likely to be financed is estimated at about 24%
based on typical models (plants) for each of the subprojects. The FRR for the
models range from 21% to 37% as follows: meat processing 21%, freezing and
cold storage 22%, canning 23%, animal feed processing 23%, raw silk spinning



- 35 -
25%, chill storage 26%, fruit juice based beverage 29%, drying 31%, pickling
and other related preservation 35%, and dairy processing 37%. Adjusting the
expected investment and operating costs for tariffs and taxes and using
imported prices wherever available in place of domestic prices, the estimated
economic rates of return (ERR) for the typical models indicated above ranged
from 16% to 27% with an overall ERR of about 21%.
Risks and Sensitivity Analysis
6.03      The project is not expected to incur any significant risk.  Output
from the project would account for only a minor proportion of their projected
demand which, moreover, would mainly be for the domestic market which is
assured. Only raw silk which has been subject to uncertain and adverse
changes in foreign demand in the recent past would incur some risks, although
this would be insignificant since its share in project investments is expected
to be small and domestic consumption of this commodity has been increasing
significantly in recent years. As the technological improvements envisaged
under the project are already being used by the more efficiently operated
plants, the required technical know-how is accordingly readily available and
the risks in this regard would likewise be minimal.
6.04      Sensitivity tests indicate that a 20% increase in the investment
and operating costs would reduce the overall FRR from 24% to 19% and the ERR
from 21% to 15%. The subprojects will remain financially viable even if
their output prices at present levels decline by 15%, but a decline
of this magnitude is not expected.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached that:
(a) Subloans would have a free limit of US$500,000 and all subloans
exceeding this amount would be sent to the Bank for review and
approval (para. 5.08).
(b) The maximum size of a subloan will not exceed US$2 million,
although the Bank may consider financing larger subloans in a
few exceptional cases (para. 5.09).
(c) Lending to large processors would not exceed 40% of the total
project funds with the remaining 60% or more earmarked for
lending to medium and small processors. The Government's
definition regarding the size of processors would be used for this
purpose (para. 5.09).
(d) The lending rate to subborrowers will be at an annual rate of
interest of not less than 12% (para. 5.10).



- 36 -
(e) The Government's loan of US$13 million to AFDC, at an annual
interest rate to be determined from time to time by the Govern-
ment in consultation with the Bank, would have a repayment period
of not less than 11 years, including 3 years grace, and would be
provided as and when required by AFDC. In determining the
interest rate on the Government loan, account would be taken of the
need to provide a 3% interest spread to AFDC over the cost of
its total project funds, and ensure that the lending rate to
subborrowers remains competitive with those charged by the other
Government-sponsored financial institutions for similar type of
loans (para. 5.10).
(f) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, subsidiaries and
affiliated companies of AFDC would not be eligible to borrow under
the project (para. 5.11).
7.02      The establishment of the Project Department along lines acceptable
to the Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 5.06).
7.03      The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$50 million
equivalent, with a term of 16 years, including 3 years grace.



- 37-                             ANNEX I
KOREA
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Subloan Approvals Under the First Project (Loan 994-KO)
as of December 31. 1979
Loan approvals
Number     W million
I. On-Farm Development
Mushroom growing houses                      90          933.6
Oak mushroom                                430          695.3
Asparagus                                    63           46.1
Subtotal                              583        1.675.0
II. Processing Facilities
Mushroom canneries                            9          305.6
Integrated canneries                          8          614.1
Freezing and cold storage                    16       3,290.0
Agricultural products
drying and preservation                    10       1,180.0
Fruit juice extraction                        1         541.5
Subtotal                               44        5.931.2
III.  Technical Assistance /a                                    203.2
Total                                 627        7.809.3/b
/a Expenditures incurred by AFDC.
/b Subtotals do not add up due to rounding.



KOREA
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
A. Staff Levels
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979
Executives                              6      6       6       7      8
Managers                               15      13     11      15     10
Professional staff                    206    194    145    240    220
Subtotal                        227    213    162    262    238
Clerical and labor                    103     87      49    105    169
Total                           330    300    211    367    407
Professional staff leaving
during year                            16     30    113       25     44
Professional staff joining
during year                            15     16      62    125      20
B. Types of Professional Staff in 1979 /a
Financial        Food                     Marketing
Functional Units                 analyst    technologist   Engineer   specialist   Economist   Other   Total    %
Financing operations                10              3            -             3             5          -      21       9
Price stabilization                 31             37            19           26            16         15     144      63
Food Research Institute              -            27              4            -             1          5      37      16
Support                             12              1             3            4             4          4      28      12
Total                          53            68            26           33            26         24      230    100       m x
la Including managerial staff.



KOREA
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Lending:Terms and Conditions by Source of Funds
Onlending terms                  Borrowing terms
Source                               Interest rate    Repayment         Interest rate    Repayment
Short-Term Loans
1. MAF Price Stabilization
Funds                               10.5%          6-8 mos.             7.5%        1 year
2. Agriculture Development
Fund                                12.5%          1 year              12.5%        1 year
3.  Internal funds                        19.0%          1 year                  -           -
Long-Term Loans                                                                                                         L
1.  Fiscal funds                          10.5%          6-9 years             3-5%        6-9 years
2.  Livestock Development Fund          11.0-12.5%       4-5 years         10.5-12.5%    4-5 years
3. Agriculture Development
Fund                                12.5%          4-5 years           12.5%        4-5 years
4.  IBRD                                  12.0%          5-11 years            7.6%/a      8-20 years
5.  Internal funds                      15.0-16.0%       3-9 years                           -
Comparable Interest Rates lb
AFDC             KDB                SMIB   Commercial banks
Short-Term
Internal funds                          19.0%          18.5-19.0%        18.5-19.0%   18.5-19.0%
Long-Term                                                                                                          G
Internal funds                        15.0-16.0%       15.0-17.0%        18.5-19.0%   18.5-20.5%              & Z
IBRD                                    12.0%             9.5%               9.9%                             X x
/a Blended rate of Government loan at 9% (for 8 years) and IBRD loan at 7.25% (for 20 years).
/b As of June 30, 1979.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Table 3
KOREA
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Equity Investments /a
(as of December 31, 1979)
Shareholdings (%)
Paid in capital    AFDC      Foreign        Local
Name of Company            (W million)                investors    investors
Korea Cold Storage Co.            2,063           100         -
Hankook Trading                     235           100         -             -
KORTEC                              304            39        58             3
Korea Dairy Beef Co.              1,220            40         -            60
Ho Nam Silk Industries              723            25         -            75
/a Excluding investment in Han Suh Food which is under construction.



ANNEX 2
- 41 -                                                Table 4
KOREA
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Income Statement, 1975-79 /a
(in million Won)
1 9 7 5       1 9 7 6          1 9 7 7       1 9 7 8         1 9 7 9
Amount   X    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   X    Amount   %
Revenues
Sales                                  2,893   81    2,360   81        2,585   74        547   20        132    3
Financial:                               686   19        761   19        919   26    1,656   61    2,548   55
Interest income                        618   17       673   17         852   24    1,564   58    2,411   52
Dividend                                68    2        88    2          67    2         92    3        137    3
APPSP Compensation                         -    -          -    -          -    -        526   19    1 924   42
Total Revenues                   3,579  100    3,121  100        3,504  100    2,729  100    4,604  100
Operating Expenses
Cost of goods                          2,623   73    1,997   64        2,048   58        512   19        138    3
Interest expense                         381   11       387   12         624   18        938   34    1,487   32
APPSP direct expense                       -    -          -    -          -    -         84    3        435   10
Total                            3,004   84    2,384   76        2,672   76    1,534   56    2,060   45
Gross Operating Profit                     575   16        737   24         832   24    1,195   44    2,544   55
Administrative Expenses
Personnel                                359   10        358   12        589   17        944   34    1,247   27
Research                                  90    2        122    4        213    6         64    2         87    2
Provisions for losses                    190    5         32    1        131    4         20    1        275    6
Other overhead                           271    8       291    9         299    8        292   11        399    9
Total                              910   25        803   26       1.232   35    L.320   48    2,008   43
Net Operating Profit (loss)               (335)  (9)       (66)  (2)       (400) (11)    (125)  (4)        536   12
Other income                               137    4          5    -        605   17        923   34        189    4
Other expenses                             524  (15)    (143)  (5)        (503) (14)    (819) (31)         (40)  (1)
Net income (loss) before tax              (722) (20)    (204)  (7)         (298)  (8)      (21)  (1)       685   15
Taxes                                       (1)   -          -    -       (100)  (3)       (57)  (2)        68   (2)
Net income (loss)                         (723) (20)    (204)  (7)         (408) (11)      (78)  (3)       617   13
Ratios
Interest income as Z of
average loan portfolio                 8.5            8.9              9.1            11.1           12.2
Interest expense as X of
average borrowings                     7.3            7.2              8.2             7.5            8.2
Interest spread /b                         -               -               -             3.6            4.0
Dividend payout ratio                    2.4             3.0             2.3             3.2             3.6
Debt service ratio /c                    1.3             1.6             1.6             1.9             1.8
/a  The 1975 and 1979 income statements are unaudited, while 1976-78 are audited by the external auditors.
/b  Interest spread has not been calculated for 1975-77 since some of the borrowings are not related to
financial operations.
/c  Net income after tax + interest charges + noncash charges + long-term loan collections to interest
charges + repayments of long-term borrowings.



ANNEX 2
- 42 -                               Table 5
KOREA
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Balance Sheet, 1975-79 /a
(in million Won)
As of December 31,        1975      1976      1977    1978    1979
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and deposits                    555        684       377   7,841   6,679
Advances Lb                        1,491        907    2,320   1,664   1,484
Inventories                        1,077      1,571       675     118        2
Current portion of loans           2,109      2,718    5,176   7,310  12,256
Other current assets                 248        218       242     461      387
Total Current Assets            5,480      6,098    8.790  17,394  20,808
Loan Protfolio
S/T loans                          1,434      1,635    3,893   5,377  10,233
L/T loans to investments           1,576      1,413    1,547   1,680   1,685
L/T loans to sold-out companies: 4,514        3,951    3,422   4,061   3,646
(of which interest-free loans)  (1,898)   (1,734)  (1,657) (2,701) (2,482)
IBRD project subloans                 88        503    2,358   5,879   6,854
Loans outstanding               7,612      7,502   11,220  16.997  22.418
Less provisions                        -          -       (49)    (58)   (333)
Less current portion              (2,109)   (2,718)  (5,176) (1,310)(12,256)
Investments                          2,858      2,906    2,906   2,934   4,624
Fixed assets                           930        955       578     476   1,278
Other assets                            186       190       187     600      263
Total Assets                   14,957    14.933   18,456  31,033  36,802
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Current maturities of
borrowings                       2,120      2,544    3,830   6,014  10,342
APPSP deposits                         -          -         -   6,673   5,115
Other current liabilities            441        343       435     393   1,253
Total Current Liabilities       2,561      2,887    4,265  13,080  16.710
Borrowings
Short-term domestic currency       1,748      2,026    3,353   5,321   9,585
Long-term domestic currency        1,799      2,033    2,970   3,449   3,391
Long-term foreign currency         1,403      1,735    3,186   6,584   7,752
Total Borrowings                4,950      5,794    9,509  15,354  20,728
Less current maturities           (2,120)   (2,544)  (3,830) (6,014)(10,342)
Other liabilities                       683       117       237     366      417
Equity
Paid-in capital                    8,600      8,600    8,600   8,600   8,600
Capital surplus                       17         17         4      54      479
Retained earnings                    266         62      (329)   (407)    210
Total Equity                    8,883      8,679    8,275   8.247   9.289
Total                          14,957    14,933   18,.456  31,033  36,802
Ratios
Current ratio /c                    2.14:1    2.11:1   2.06:1  1.67:1  1.35:1
Debt/equity ratio                   0.56:1    0.67:1   1.15:1  1.86:1  2.23:1
Provisions as % of average
loan portfolio                         -          -      0.4      0.3      1.5
/a  Balance sheet for 1976-78 is audited, while 1975 and 1979 are unaudited.
/b  Net of provisions.
/c  Excluding APPSP deposits from both assets and liabilities because of their
specific purpose.



ANNEX 2
- 43 -                                Table 6
KOREA
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Cash Flow, 1975-79
(in million Won)
1975      1976       1977       1978       1979
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Net income                          (724)      (204)       (408)       (78)       617
Plus noncash charges:
Depreciation                        91         91         123         44        52
Retirement allowances               56         94         278       264         185
Provisions                         190         32         131         20       275
Loss on foreign exchange             -         32         214        344          -
Other                                -          -           -          -      (153)
Total funds from
operations                  (387)        45         338        594        976
Sale of fixed assets                  77         54         450        414        242
Loan collections:
Short-term loans                2,187      2,427       2,769      7,470      6,998
Long-term loans                    799        834      1,064      1,275      1,773
Subtotal                   2,986      3,261       3,833      8.745      8.771
Sale of investments                    -          -           -        111        60
Borrowings:
Short-term domestic currency  1,748        2,026       3,353      5,321    11,029
Long-term domestic currency        218        500      1,353        881        360
Long-term foreign currency          80        373      1,125      2,679      1,776
Subtotal                   2.046      2.899       5,831      8.881    13,165
Increase in other liabilities         50          -          92     6,631           -
Decrease in other assets           1,257         84           -        572        707
Increase in capital                    -          -           4         51       425
Total Sources              6,029      6,343      10.548    25.999    24.346
USES OF FUNDS
Loan disbursements:
Short-term loans                2,489      2,628       5,027      8,954    11,854
IBRD project subloans               88       417       1,813      3,342      1,768
Other long-term loans              286          -        468        573        570
Increase in interest-free loans   105            73           -     1,120           -
Subtotal                   2.968      3,118       7.308    13,989    14,192
Investments                            -         48           -        139     1,750
Increase in fixed assets             243        170         195       357      1,096
Debt repayment:
Short-term                      2,323      1,748       2,026      3,353      6,765
Long-term                          232        372        546        560        873
Subtotal                   2.555      2,120       2.572      3,913      7.638
Increase in other assets               -          -         538         -          -
Decrease in other liabilities          -         98           -          -       698
Other payments                         -         49         190        137        134
Writeoff                               -        611          52          -          -
Total Uses                 5.766      6,214      10,855    18,535    25.508
Increase (decrease) in cash          263        129        (307)    7,464    (1,162)
Beginning cash and deposits          292        555         684       377      7,841
Ending cash and deposits             555        684         377     7,841      6,679



KOREA
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Long-Term Loans Collections and Arrears
(in million Won)
1975                    1976                     1977                     1978                     1979
Principal  Interest    Principal  Interest   'Principal  Interest    Principal  Interest    Principal  Interest
Repayments due               799        342         1,052       398         1,168        432         1,449        671        1,957       1,064
Collection                   799        342           834       384         1,064        381         1,275        602        1,773         953
Arrears                        -          -           218         14           104        51            174         69          184         111     4
Collections ratio /a         100         100           80         96            91        88             88        90            90          89
Arrears ratio /b               0           0          3.9                     2.1                      2.1                     2.4
/a Collections as % of repayments due.
/b Total arrears as % of total long-term loans outstanding.
FIsl



KOREA
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Ageing of Arrears
(in million Won)
Total               Up to 6 months   6 to 12 months   Over 12 months
Type of loan                    Principal  Interest  Total          Amount            Amount             Amount
As of December 31, 1977
Loans to equity investments          -            -       -
Loans to sold-out companies         97          31      128           128
First project subloans                7         20       27            23                  3                 1
Total                         104          51      155           151                  3                1             1
%                            67          33      100            97                 3                 -             >
As of December 31, 1978
Loans to equity investments          -           -        -             -                  -
Loans to sold-out companies         118           1     119           119                  -                -
First project subloans              56          68      124            46                 23               55
Total                         174          69      243           165                23                55
%                            71          29      100            68                 9                23
As of December 31, 1979
Loans to equity investments          -           12      12             -                 12
Loans to sold-out companies          48           -      48            35                  _               13
First project subloans              136         99      235            76                 77               82
F-3 
Total                         184         111      295           111                89                95
%                            62          38      100            38                30                32          X x
ao MJ



KOREA
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Subloan Collections and Arrears Under the First Project (Loan 994-KO) /a
(%)
1977                      1978                     1979
Collections  Arrears    Collections  Arrears    Collections  Arrears
/b        /c             /b         /c             /b         /c
A. On-Farm Development
Mushroom                    86          18            68          24            72         29
Shitaake                    73          70            61          52            56         54
Asparagus                   60           7             1           3           100          -
Subtotal               77          95            63         79            70          83           0
B.  Processing Facilities         100          5            93          21            96          17
C.  Total Project                  83        100            81         100            85         100
D. Arrears as % of subloans
Outstanding                1.1                       2.1                       3.4
/a Arrears before 1977 were insignificant.
/b Collection as percentage of repayments due for each category.
/c Arrears within category as % of total arrears.
c >4
1Dr13



ANNEX 2
- 47                                Table 10
RDREA
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Prolected Loan Overations (1980-84)
(in million Won)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Actual
Outstanding beginning of year
Short-Term Loans
MAP funds                       4,155   7,813   9,360  10,074  12,008  14,927
AFDC funds                        696   1,489   3,939   4,476   4,796   5,150
Other /a                          526      931   1,435   1,885   2,258   2,602
Subtotal                   5.377  10.233  14.734  16.435  19.062  22.679
Long-Term Loans
1st IERD                       5,879   6,854   6,173   5,067   4,010   3,012
2nd IBRD                            -        -   1,090  12,500  24,810  34,400
Loans to investments            1,680   1,685   1,085       917      616      376
Loans to sold-out companies  4,061   3,646   3,204   2,976   2,656   2,398
Other                               -        -        -        -       -        -
Subtotal                  11,620  12.185  11.552  21.460  32,152  40.186
Total Outstanding         16.997  22.418  26.286  37.895  51.214  62.865
Disbursements
Short-Term Loans
MAY funds                      10,000  12,000  13,250  17,010  21,010  24,950
AFDC funds                      1,449   3,939   4,476   4,796   5,150   5,494
Other                             405   1,435   1,885   2,258   2,602   3,344
Subtotal                  11.854  17,374  19,611  24.064  28.762  33,788
Long-Term Loans
1st IBRD                       1,768      209        -        -        -        -
2nd IBRD                            -   1,090  11,410  12,370   9,640   1,690
Loans to investments              170        -        -       -        -        -
Loans to sold-out companies    400           -        -       -        -        -
Other                               -        -        -        -       -   8,210
Subtotal                   2,338   1.299  11.410  12.370   9.640   9.900
Total Disbursements       14.192  18.673  31.021  36.434  38.402  43.688
Repayments
Short-Term Loans
MAY funds                       6,342  10,453  12,536  15,076  18,091  21,706
AFDC funds                        656   1,489   3,939   4,476   4,796   5,150
Other                               -      931   1,435   1,885   2,258   2,602
Subtotal                   6.998  12.873  17.910  21.437  25.145  29.458
Long-Term Loans
1st IBRD                          793     890   1,106   1,057        998      913
2nd IBRD                            -        -       -        -      110   1,070
Loans to investments              165      600      168     301      240      234
Loans to sold-out companies    815         442     228      320      258      232
Subtotal                   1.773   1.932   1.502   1.678   1.606   2.449
Total Repayments           8,771  14.805  19.412  23.115  26,751  31.907
La  Shcrt-term loans financed from revolving funds and other special purpose
government funds.



ANNEX 2
- 48 -                           Table 11
KOREA
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Projected Income Statenent (1980-84)
(in million Won)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Actual
Revenues
Sales:                              132      175     204      224      241     271
Financial:                       2.548   3,382   4.885   6.54    8.28    9.948
Interest income                2,411   3,058   4,203   5,836   7,529   9,144
Dividend                          137     324      682      711      757     804
APPSP Compensation:               1,924   1,822   2,030   2,265   2,485   2,843
Total Revenues              4.604   5.379   7.119   9.036  11.012  13,062
OperatinR Expenses
Cost of goods                       138      158     179      196      216      238
Interest expense                  1,487   1,987   2,915   3,907   4,932   5,851
APPSP direct expense                435     447      471      510      558      608
Total                       2.060   2.592   3.565   4.613   5.706   6.697
Gross Operating Profit              2,544   2,787   3,554   4,423   5,306   6,365
Administrative Expenses
Personnel                         1,247   1,609   1,926   2,287   2,685   3,160
Research                             87      103     118      135      155      178
Provisions for losses               275      62      173      200      175      176
Other overhead                      399     425      513      615      707     813
Total                       2,008   2.19    2.730   3.237   3.722   4.327
Net Operating Profit                  536      588     824   1,186   1,584   2,038
Other income                          189       76      90      115      147      179
Other expenses                        (40)    (50)    (60)    (70)    (80)    (90)
Net income before tax                 685      614     854   1,231   1,651   2,127
Taxes                                  68       61      85      123      165      212
Net income                            617     553      769   1.108   1.486   1.915
Ratios
As Z of Total Revenue
Sales                             2.9      3.2      2.9      2.5     2.2      2.1
Financial income                 55.3    62.9    68.6    72.5    75.2    76.1
APPSP compensation                41.8    33.8    28.5    25.0    22.6    21.8
Administrative expenses          43.6    40.9    38.3    35.8    33.8    33.1
Net income                        13.4    10.3    10.8    12.2    13.5    14.7
Interest income as % of
average loan portfolio            12.2    12.5    13.1    13.1    13.2    13.3
Interest expense as % of
average total borrowings           8.2     8.6      9.5      9.3      9.2     9.1
Interest spread                      4.0     3.9      3.6      3.8      4.0     4.2
Dividend payout (%) /a               3.6      6.5    12.7    13.2    14.1    15.0
Debt service cover /b                1.8      1.7     1.5      1.4      1.3      1.3
/a Dividends as % of average equity investments.
/b Net income after tax + interest charges + noncash charges + long-term loan
collections to interest charges + repayments of long-term borrowings.



_ 49 _                            ANNEX 2
Table 12
KOREA
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Projected Balance Sheet (1980-84)
(in million Won)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Actual
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and deposits               6,679  10,694  12,467  14,316  16,304  17,829
Advances                        1,484       30       33      37       40       45
Inventories                         2        2        2       2        2        2
Current portion of loans       12,256  16,630  20,952  25,601  30,353  35,906
Other current assets              387      604      825   1,065   1,301   1,463
Total Current                20.808  27.960  34,279  41,021  48,000  55.245
Loan Portfolio
S/T loans                      10,233  14,734  16,435  19,062  22,679  27,009
L/T loans to investments        1,685   1,085      917      616      376      142
L/T loans to sold-out
companies                     3,646   3,204   2,976   2,656   2,398   2,166
Project subloans /a             6,854   7,263  17,567  28,880  37,412  37,119
Other                               -        -        -       -        -   8,210
Loan Outstanding             22.418  26.286  37.895  51.214  62.865  74.646
Less provisions                  (333)   (395)   (568)   (768)   (943) (1,119)
Less current portion          (12,256)(16,630)(20,952)(25,601)(30,353)(35,906)
Investments                       4,624   5,366   5,366   5,366   5,366   5,366
Fixed assets                      1,278   1,268   1,215   1,187   1,178   1,187
Other assets                        263      289      318     350      385      423
Total Assets                 3JO2  44,144  57,553  72.769  86.498  99,842
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Current Liabilities
Current maturities of
borrowings                   10,342  11,769  13,924  16,649  20,600  24,404
APPSP deposits                  5,115   8,074   8,881   9,769  10,746  11,821
Other current liabilities       1,253      377     538      708      869     982
Total Current Liabilities   16.710  20,220  23.343  27,126  32,215  37,207
Borrowings
Short-term domestic currency    9,585  10,903  12,847  15,181  18,010  21,304
Long-term domestic currency       3,391   5,631   6,969   8,116   8,946   9,950
Long-term foreign currepey        7,752   7,320  15,566  24,952  32,174  37,854
Total Borrowings             20,728  2        35.382  48,249  59,130  69,108
Less current maturities       (10,342)(11,769)(13,924)(16,649)(20,600)(24,404)
Other liabilities                     417      533      640     764      907   1,073
Equity
*                            Paid-in capital                   8,600  10,000  10,000  10,000  10,000  10,000
Capital surplus                     479      543      580     639      720      817
Retained earnings                   210      763   1,532   2,640   4,126   6,041
Total Equity                  9.289  11.306  12 112  13,279  14,846  16.858
Total                        36,802  44,144  57,553  72,769  86.498  99,842
Ratios
Current ratio /b                 1.35:1  1.64:1  1.76:1  1.80:1  1.74:1  1.71:1
Debt/equity ratio                2.23:1  2.12:1  2.92:1  3.63:1  3.98:1  4.10:1
Provisions as % of average
loan portfolio                    1.5      1.5     1.5      1.5      1.5     1.5
/a First and second project subloans.
/b Excluding APPSP deposits from both assets and liabilities.



ANNEX 2
- 50 -                             Table 13
KOREA
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Pro1ected Cash Flow (1980-84)
(in million Won)
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Actual
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Net income                              617      553      769   1,108   1,486   1,915
Plus noncash charges:
Depreciation                           52       50      118      115      118     122
Retirement allowances                 185      116      107      124      143     166
Provisions (net)                      275       62      173     200      175      176
Other                                (153)       -        -        -        -       -
Total Funds Prom Operations        976      781   1.167   1.547   1.922   2,379
Sale of fixed assets                    242        -        -        -        -        -
Loan collections:
Short-term loans                   6,998  12,873  17,910  21,437  25,145  29,458
Long-term loans                     1,773   1,932   1,502   1,678   1,606   2,449
Subtotal                         8,771  14.805  19.412  23.115  26,751,j.31,907
Sale of investments                      60      114        -        -        -        -
Borrowings
Short-term domestic currency   11,029  12,800  15,280  18,290  21,880  26,090
Long-term domestic currency           360   2,600   1,750   1,750   1,400   1,954
Long-term foreign currency          1,776        -   8,700   9,860   8,120   7,320
Subtotal                        13.165  15,400  25,730  29,900  31.400  35.364
Increase in other liabilities             -   2,083       968   1,058   1,138   1,188
Decrease in other assets                707   1,211         -        -        -        -
Increase in capital                     425   1,464        37       59       81      97
Total Sources                   24_346  35.858  47,314  55.679  61,292  70.935
USES OF FUNDS
Loan disbursements
Short-term loans                  11,854  17,374  19,611  24,064  28,762  33,788
Long-term loans                    2,338   1,299  11,410  12,370   9,640   9,900
Subtotal                     14.192  18.673  31.021  36,434  38.402  43,688
Investments                           1,750      856        -        -        -        -
Increase in fixed assets              1,096       40       65       87      109      131
Debt repayment
Short-term                         6,765  11,482  13,336  15,956  19,051  22,796
Long-term                             873      792      866   1,077   1,468   2,590
Subtotal                      7,638  12.274  14.202  17.033  20.519  25,386
Increase in other assets                  -        -      253      276      274     205
Decrease in other liabilities           698        -        -        -        -        -
Other                                   134        -        -        -        -        -
Total Uses                   25,508  31.843  45.541  53.830  59.304  69.410
Increase (decrease) in cash          (1,162)  4,015   1,773   1,849   1,988   1,525
Beginning cash and deposits           7,841   6,679  10,694  12,467  14,316  16,304
Ending cash and deposits              6,679  10,694  12,467  14,316  16,304  17,829



r                      -aaaaaaaa
r
    I                                             I   r  'I  l'
I                                                           I
*                                           3j33      I
'a 3                                                    iI 
    I                                                           I
 I
I 
* 
1  h                                                            I
I
3                                                          I
3
    *g                                                         I
    I.                                   I 13      -          I
I O-"3
* 
3                              3
*                                                    I 
I                                                          I
I                                                  *
I
I                                     3 -"3
*                                     33.                  U
I
Ia..aa                as
I
I
I                                                                     3
I  3--.Omi                                                           3
I                                                                            -
I 
*                                                                                   I
I                                                                                   I
I                                                _
haS
-a
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
0
3                                                                                    2
r
3.
3 3
I 
p.333
I
I                                                      333      3
I                                              3      33
a
I
I
I
*                                                ,0
I                                            333
I
£
I                                                                  I
I                                             I
I
L                                a a a                                           a
333>3-0
a3
3". a      3






KOREA
PROPOSED PROJECT DEPARTMENT
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Vice President
~~~~II
| Project Department l 
Appraisal Division                              Technical Assistance Division                    Credit Administration Division
Would Consist of 14 Experts                     Would consist of 5 Experts                       Would Consist of 7 Professional
made up as follows                              made up as follows                               Staff in the following areas
Agro-processing Specialists      -  5           Processing Engineers              -  2           Credit Administration/Supervision -  4
Financial Analysts               -  5           Agro-processing Specialists       -  2           Collateral Management             -  2
Market Specialist                -  3           Marketing Specialist              -  1           Project Monitoring and Reporting  -  1
Economist                        -  1
World Bank- 21091
rt >C
M) "



-53- A-NNX 3
KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Quarter ending        Cumulative disbursements
1981
March 31, 1981                     4.0
June 30, 1981                      7.0
September 30, 1981                11.0
December 31, 1981                 15.0
1982
March 31, 1982                    19.0
June 30, 1982                     23.0
September 30, 1982                27.0
December 31, 1982                 32.0
1983
March 31, 1983                    36.0
June 30, 1983                     40.0
September 30, 1983                43.0
December 31, 1983                 46.0
1984
March 31, 1984                    48.0
June 30, 1984                     50.0



- 54 -                           ANNEX 4
KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Additional Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1. AFDC, Preparation Report on IBRD Loan Application for Second Agricultural
Products Processing Project, July 1979.
2. AFDC, Agroprocessing Facility Study in Korea, Vols. I and II, May 11, 1979
(Study prepared by Samil Accounting Corporation).
3. MAF, Yearbook of Agriculture and Forestry Statistics, 1978.
4. MAF, Yearbook of Fisheries Statistics, 1978.
5. MAF, Report on the Results of Foodgrain Consumption Survey. 1969-78.






I B BRD 1231IRI
~~~27    13N. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         J~~~ANUARY t"
-- _ .. N O R T H   KORE A
~~5, o-f Ha                                                                                                                         v--    <fho ,  FaC7St  S e a
relo
NJas$f. f Of A      
SREPOw W><C
r                             GY5E   G                     Ch   _unchen G  A N G WEONI
_P o} -<,'f'c/lsX3
OC617eo7ju                                          R eont .e> 
Wa  Sns
Wo,fdD~k. .Uft                                                                                               Prlmory to,d
34    .  0                                                                                                             + + + olboy otto.  ,O.d.110n
mox*". ,   f.   N  b0Aihdt
-37-    -  Pp.I otu at
B.o~,.otg   -o~~                            G  YE 0            /V5G S Y
ae ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
g X  X r, 2, 40,eonj                          1,2                           ae i40u 
1 73 5 -.1 2b-                                                          1 7i 7 -                            17,                                12 9-
~~~ ~N
- Prlrmwy roofn
N                                           ---o--.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rahwayn uOndr consruetion
N                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~+ Airports
4. Parts
Rivers
-   Provincial boundaries
Jeju                                                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .nternoq0ooa bwaodar)N
q    20      40    40    50  to O Igo         g
0     20          40          60           50
125'                               126'                                                                                             MILESS' 



