Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2799-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR THE
SECOND AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
April 30, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution nd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofIcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Won (W) 1.00                US$0.00172
W 580                 =     US$1.00
W 1 million                 US$1,724
W 1 billion                 US$1.724 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)        10.76 square feet
1 hectare (ha)        =     2.47 acres
1 ton                 =     1,000 kilogram
=     2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
AFDC    -  Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation
MAF     -  Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
PD      -  Project Department of AFDC
NACF    -  National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
NFFC    -  National Federation of Fisheries Cooperatives
KDB     -  Korea Development Bank
KDFC    -  Korea Development Finance Corporation
SMIB    -  Small and Medium Industry Bank
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                   Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation
(AFDC).
Guarantor:                  Republic of Korea
Beneficiaries:              AFDC and private sector enterprises engaged in
agroprocessing.
Amount:                     $50 million equivalent.
Terms:                      16 years, including three years of grace, with
interest at 8.25% p.a.
Relending Terms:            $49.5 million will be relent to agro-processing
enterprises, with repayment periods to be
determined by their individual cash flow estimates,
and interest at not less than 12% p.a. Sub-
borrowers will bear the foreign exchange risk.
AFDC will expend the remaining $0.5 million for
technical assistance and training to strengthen
its Project Department.
Project Description:        The proposed project would support investments in
Korea's agro-processing subsector. Enterprises
engaged in freezing and cold storage, canning,
drying, pickling and other preservation of
fruits, vegetables, meat- and fisheries products,
oil seed extraction, processing of grain based
foods, raw silk spinning, and production of fruit
juice based beverages, dairy products, and animal
feeds would be the main subborrowers. The
proposed project will benefit the farmers through
widening their market oportunities, provide
increased supplies, better quality and larger
variety of processed foods throughout the year to
consumers and assist in dampening the supply and
price fluctuations of farm produce, reduce the
wastage of such produce through spoilage and
create about 5,000 additional jobs. It will
also contribute to the institutional strengthen-
ing of AVDC. There are no special risks
associated with the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Cost:                                   Local   Foreign   Total
---- ($ million) -----
Freezing and
cold storage
facilities         9.4      12.1      21.5
Other processing
facilities        14.8      22.1      36.9
Technical
assistance         -         0.5       0.5
Subtotal       24.2      34.7     58.9
Contingencies
Physical           2.4       3.4       5.8
Price              7.2      11.8      19.0
Total          33.8      50.0     83.8
Financing Plan:                                 Local   Foreign   Total
…---- ($ million)…
IBRD                 _        50.0      50.0
AFDC (Government
loan)             13.0       -        13.0
Subborrowers        21.0       -        21.0
Total          34.0      50.0     84.0
Estimated Disburse-
ments from IBRD Loan:
IBRD FY         1981       1982 1983       1984
------ ($ million) ----------
Annual          7.0        16.0       17.0       10.0
Cumulative      7.0        23.0       40.0       50.0
Rate of Return:              21% (weighted average economic return of 10
typical subprojects).
Staff Appraisal Report:    No. 2849-KO, dated April 18, 1980.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
AGRICULTURE AND FISHERY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION WITH
THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR THE
SECOND AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation with the
Guarantee of the Republic of Korea for the equivalent of $50.0 million
to help finance the foreign exchange cost of a second agricultural products
processing project. The loan would have a term of 16 years, including
three years of grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum. $49.5 million of the
loan would be relent to agro-processing enterprises, with repayment periods
to be determined by their individual cash flows, with an interest rate of
at least 12% per annum. The Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation
(AFDC) will expend the remaining $0.5 million to strengthen its Project
Department.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Rapid Growth and Search
for New Perspectives" was distributed under cover of SecM79-390, dated May 24,
1979. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Recent Developments
3.        During 1977 and 1978, the growth of GNP in real terms outstripped
the target of 9.5% p.a. postulated in the Fourth Five Year Plan (1977-81).
As a result of a rapid increase in domestic demand, the rate of increase of
real GNP accelerated from 10.3% in 1977 to 11.6% in 1978. For the first
time in many years, the increase in domestic demand for manufactured goods
exceeded the increase in manufactured exports. This increase in domestic
demand, fueled by substantial increases in private construction and
equipment investment, resulted in capacity shortages for some essential
items, and a speculative investment mood. For the first time, a shortage of
certain types of skilled labor became a matter of greater concern than
unemployment, which declined substantially during 1978.  For the third year
in a row, there was a substantial increase in real wages in the manu-
facturing sector, which was in excess of the increase in labor productivity.
There was also an increase in the rate of inflation; during 1978, the
wholesale prices increased by about 12% as compared to 9% in 1977, and
consumer prices increased by about 14%, compared to a 10% increase in 1977.
/1 This section is identical to the corresponding one in the President's
Report on the Seventh Railway Project (No. P-2769-KO, dated April 9,
1980), which was distributed under cover of R80-81, dated April 10, 1980.



- 2 -
4.        Exports continued to grow according to the Fourth Plan targets,
but after increasing by 43% in 1976 and 26% in 1977, the real growth of
goods and services slowed to 18% in 1978. On the other hand, as a result of
a substantial increase in the demand for imported capital goods, total
imports increased more rapidly than exports, resulting in a sizeable trade
deficit. However, overseas construction activity continued to expand
rapidly during 1978, increasing from $3.5 billion in 1977 to $8.1 billion in
1978. Although the receipts from these contracts resulted in a substantial
surplus in the invisible account, a current account deficit of about
$1 billion emerged as compared with the surplus of about $12 million
in 1977. However, in view of the need to promote allocative efficiency and to
counter domestic inflationary pressures, the Government initiated in 1978 a
far-reaching program of import liberalization. Korea's access to inter-
national capital markets improved considerably enabling the repayment, ahead
of schedule, of large amounts of short-term loans incurred on hard terms
during 1974/75 when the economy faced the twin shocks of rapidly rising prices
of its major imports, particularly petroleum and foodgrains, as well as the
international recession.
Major Trends and Economic Policy for 1979
5.        Economic policy for 1979 was formulated on the premise that infla-
tion and rapid increases in wages were weakening the international competi-
tiveness of Korean exports which could jeopardize sustained rapid economic
growth. Hence, the major emphasis was on stabilization. The stabilization
program has four major components. First, the tight monetary and fiscal
policy designed to reduce excess liquidity in the economy. Secondly, measures
designed to correct structural imbalances caused by inflation. These include
the adjustment of investment priorities in favor of the industries producing
necessities for domestic consumption, the encouragement of non-grain produc-
tion in agriculture, investment to modernize the marketing and distribution
network, and greater investment in public transportation. Thirdly, measures
specifically designed to create greater competition in the economy, including
the deregulation of prices on a large number of commodities, the removal of
barriers to entry of new firms in some industries, and accelerated import
liberalization. In addition, a set of measures designed to assist the poorest
segments of the population who had been hardest hit by price increases were
introduced which include the expansion of public work programs, the exemption
from the payment of tuition by children of low-income families and some direct
cash payments. Although the effects on the economy of this last set of
measures are not anti-inflationary, the Government considered them necessary
for reasons of equity.
6.        While the stabilization program has had considerable success in
containing domestically generated inflation, it has been overwhelmed by the
increase in import prices, particularly of oil. During the first eight months
of 1979, wholesale food prices increased by 6% and wholesale consumer goods
prices by 9%, but the price of raw materials, which are mainly imported,
increased by 34% and the price of capital goods by 12%. The Government has
boldly combined its stabilization efforts with a reduction of price controls



and removed most of the suppressed inflation which had been built up. Most
government-administered prices were increased to realistic levels, including
transport rates, coal prices, petroleum product prices and those of a range of
industrial products. Consequently, wholesale prices are expected to increase
by around 25% and consumer prices by about 22% in 1979, which would be more
than double the targeted figures.
7.        As was to be expected, the Government's stabilization policies have
had some impact on output and employment. But exogenous factors such as a
weakening of the world economy and an increase in protectionism in the
developed countries have exacerbated the problems resulting from a weakening
of Korea's export competitiveness. While the momentum of economic growth in
1978 continued into 1979, a substantial increase in inventories in the
early part of the year was a symptom of the impending slackening of economic
growth. Furthermore, there has been a deterioration in Korea's terms of trade
in the current year due to higher import prices. However, the pragmatic and
effective measures the Government has taken appear to be paying off. The
upsurge in imports seems to be decelerating, resulting in no small measure
from the Government's energy conservation measures which are proving to be
effective. Exports, on the other hand, are proving to be rather more buoyant
in the latter part of the year and it is expected that export value will be
close to the target of $15.5 billion. As a result of the substantial increase
in the value of imports, it is expected that the trade deficit would be of the
order of $4 billion. However, as a result of a surplus of about $1 billion in
invisible trade, the current account deficit would be about $3 billion,
representing about 6% of GNP. The financing of this should be manageable.
Longer-Term Prospects
8.        There appears to be a consensus that Korea should continue to pursue
the high growth path, that greater stress should be placed on social develop-
ment and that there was a need to effect greater financial liberalization and
to free the private sector from the reins of Government control. The mainte-
nance of a high growth rate is essential if Korea is to achieve the objectives
of greater equity, of ensuring that the fruits of rapid development are
available to the mass of the people. However, at the new threshold at which
the Korean economy has arrived, there is a need to redirect efforts towards
reconciling growth with equity. In order to achieve a better rural/urban
balance, the Government has reiterated its support of the rural development
programs, the generation of off-farm employment opportunities and of programs
to improve agricultural productivity. For interpersonal equity, more
resources would have to be devoted to the educational sector with increased
emphasis on improving the lower income group's access to the system. As
indicated earlier, to help the poor, the Government has moved to strengthen
programs focussed directly on the target groups and away from the former
reliance on general subsidies, whose effects tend to be relatively diffused.
9.        Since the early sixties, Korea's pace of urbanization has been one
of the highest among the developing countries. In the early phases of its
growth process, Korea economized on social and urban development expenditures,



- 4 -
particularly in transportation and housing. With the rapid growth of
household incomes and the concentration of population in the major urban
centers, the demand for urban services is rising rapidly. The Government is,
therefore oiving greater emphasis to programs for providing increasing
housing, particularly for the low-income groups, and for dealing with the
problems of urban transportation. The Bank hopes to play a role in support of
these programs.
10.       A further dimension to the problem of harmonizing growth with
reasonable price stability and equity is the need to review the whole nexus of
policies connected with credit, the interest rate structure, subsidies,
resource mobilization, capital market development and financial liberaliza-
tion. These aspects were reviewed by the financial sector mission which
visited Korea in November 1979. The missions' draft report is expected to be
discussed with the Korean authorities in May 1980 as the next step in the
Bank's dialogue with the country on financial sector policy and institutional
evolution.
11.       Although the assassination of President Park could be construed as
the end of an era, the demonstrated dynamism and resilience of the Korean
economy, the diligence of its labor force, the efficiency of its economic
managers and entrepreneurs, and the massive investment in the last two
years, all combine to suggest that Korea will be able to tackle its emerging
problems and sustain its rapid growth in the eighties notwithstanding the
change in leadership. The rapidly increasing and skilled labor force, the
potential to raise productivity by adopting new and advanced technology and
the shift of labor from traditional sectors where productivity is low to the
modern sectors where productivity is high provide the sources of growth in
the eighties. Furthermore, although the international economic environment
is somewhat unfavorable, Korea continues to exploit the opportunities to
expand trade and other forms of economic activities wherever these could be
found and is seeking to complement its external activities by undertaking
improvements in housing, mass transportation, education and health services,
which some Korean economists refer to as "the second engine of growth."
External Capital Requirements
12.       Despite the strong possibility that the growth rate of GNP will be
slower than was originally forecast for 1979 and 1980, the external capital
requirements during the period will be markedly higher than originally
expected. Amortization requirements are estimated to be about $1.5 billion in
1979 and $1.7 billion in 1980. Allowing for the augmentation of its foreign
exchange reserves (about $1 billion annually), the gross requirements of
external capital will be about $5.5 billion in 1979 and $5.7 billion in 1980,
assuming that current account deficits of about $3 billion will be incurred in
each of the years. Taking into account committed but undisbursed medium and
long-term loans, new commitments of about $5-6 billion would be required in
each of the years.



- 5 -
13.       While Korea is extending its use of commercial financing from the
traditional suppliers and private bank credits to Euro-dollar syndicated loans
and bond issues in the Euro-bond and Asian bond market and is expected to
derive an increasing proportion of its total requirements from such sources,
the magnitude of these external capital requirements is such that it will
have to continue to rely on considerable capital inflows from official
sources, including Eximbanks. It should, however, be emphasized that the
higher anticipated levels of external capital inflow (relative to the Fourth
Plan targets) are a consequence of its higher investment rates rather than a
shortfall in the domestic savings rate. Thus, about 90% of Korea's invest-
ment will continue to be financed from domestic savings. The ratio of
foreign savings to GNP is expected to decline in the eighties, following the
restructuring and readjustment planned for the next three years.  Servicing
of the debt should not pose difficulties given the present debt service
ratio and the continuing emphasis on export growth, provided that the
proportion of external debt incurred on shorter term and at high interest
rates is not excessive. The projected ratio of debt service payments to
total export earnings is expected to remain in the range of 12-15% up to the
mid-eighties, and to decline steadily thereafter.
14.       On January 12, 1980, the Government announced the following
measures: the devaluation of the Won from 485 to 580 Won to the US$, an
upward adjustment of the one year time deposit interest rate from 18.6% to
24% and of the prime interest rate from 18.5% to 24.5%. An evaluation of
the impact of these measures on Korea's current and prospective economic
situation will be included in the forthcoming report of an economic mission
which visited Korea in February/March 1980.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
15.       As of February 29, 1980, Korea had received 49 Bank Loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling $2,771.2 million in loans
and $106.8 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and the
refinacing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan). As of that date,
$826.6 million of the total Bank lending remained undisbursed on effective
Loans and Credits, mostly from commitments in the past two years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments
as of that date and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. As indicated
in the notes, progress on project implementation is generally satisfactory.
16.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea has been directed towards assisting the Government's efforts:  (a) to
secure the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in
sustaining a high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-
oriented industrialization; (b) to avoid the emergence of infrastructure
bottlenecks; and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural
and rural development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of
the fruits of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of life
in the rural areas.



-6-
17.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through lending to Korea's three major development
banks. The Korea Development Finance Corporation has received $320.0 million,
the Korea Development Bank $252.5 million and the Small ancl M'_'dium Industry
Bank $145 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry. The
primary beneficiaries of these loans have not been the development banks, but
the industrial enterprises, ranging from large ventures to small ones, which
have been provided with financing through the financial intermediaries. This
has resulted not only in the overall development of the industrial sector, but
has also contributed to the achievement of institutional improvements and of
the Government's objective of decentralizing industry. The loan of $80
million for a Heavy Machinery Project was intended to assist in achieving the
structural shift to more skill-intensive industries, which is necessary to
ensure the long-term viability of Korea's export strategy. A recently
approved loan of $29 million by the Bank would stimulate and support the
development of technological capabilities in the Korean electronics industry.
18.       As Korea's economy continued to grow and the pace of industriali-
zation has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of transport
facilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the Government's
efforts to modernize and expand the transport sector dating back to 1962, has
played an important role in these developments.  In addition to the recently
approved loan of $94 million for the seventh railway project, some $340 mil-
lion had been provided for six railway projects designed to increase the
railroad's capacity and improve its operations; four loans totalling $334.5
million have been made for highway construction and paving of high priority
sections of the national network and for a countrywide maintenance
organization; and two loans amounting to $147 million have been provided for
the expansion of port facilities at Busan, the premier port, and Mugho,
primarily for improving coal handling facilities.
19.       Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy have resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects, which have pursued the broad
objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together, these
projects have catered to a wide range of manpower training needs within
agriculture, fisheries, industry and services.
20.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural
sector, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial
sphere, is nevertheless commendable. The past fifteen years have seen agri-
cultural output grow at about 4% per annum, which has resulted in the
country's becoming near self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made
possible a steady and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the
40% of Korea's population who live in the countryside and rely primarily on
agrarian pursuits for their livelihood. The Bank has lent $325.5 million for
the improvement of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and the



- 7 -
provision of agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricultural
products. In addition, $155 million has been provided for two rural infra-
structure projects in support of the Government's rural development program,
initiated in 1971, to improve the quality of life and the standdrd of living
in the rural areas. Recently a $125 million loan was provided by the Bank to
help meet the growing demand for municipal, industrial and irrigation water in
the Han Basin southeast of the capital city, Seoul; reduce flood damage; and
generate electricity to augment and provide peaking capacity for Korea's power
system.
21.       The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea, through the project approved in January 1975 (Loan 1070-KO), has proved
successful. The project was designed to support the Government's policy by
financing high priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural,
southwest region. A loan of $65 million for a second project for the devel-
opment of the region was approved by the Executive Directors on September 11,
1979, and declared effective on February 15, 1980.
22.       Excluding one project that was cancelled subsequently, IFC had, by
February 29, 1980, entered into 27 commitments, totalling $67.9 million (net
of participations and cancellations). Korea's industrial development programs
have required large capital expenditures in the private sector, a situation
which has enabled a substantially enhanced IFC presence in the past few years.
23.       A primary objective of the Bank's future lending to Korea is to
provide assistance in sustaining the growth momentum and in addressing the
emerging issues which the Korean economy is facing. The maturity of many of
the Korean institutions suggests that it would be appropriate to adopt a
sector lending approach in some areas. The basic issue is whether Korea can
deepen and diversify its industrial structure to the extent necessary to
ensure the attainment of its export targets. Lending to industry will be
diversified by the provision of the proposed loan to the Citizens National
Bank in support of the small enterprises as well as a loan for a second
machinery project, which will provide financial and technical assistance to
small- and medium-scale machinery industries. It will also be necessary to
introduce RD&E programs which are better adapted to the technological needs
of industrial development. In addition to the loan for the Electronics
Technology Project which was approved on March 22, 1979, a loan for the
technological development of technology-intensive industries is envisaged in
the lending program.
24.       Korea's industrialization program, which calls for entering into
more complex fields of manufacturing than hitherto, will require increasingly
high levels of technical competence on the part of its labor force. The
recently approved loan for higher technical education will contribute to the
modernization and improvement of the system of higher technical education so
as to increase its flexibility and responsiveness to the changing
requirements of the economy.



- 8 -
25.       Another strand in the lending strategy is increased support of the
Government's efforts to spread the fruits of growtli even more equitably by the
diversification and expansion of the output of the agricultural sector and
through nationwide development programs. In addition to the proposed project,
projects are envisaged for land/water resource development, for agricultural
credit and marketing, for low-income housing, and for the further development
of rural infrastructure and facilities in selected provincial areas, which
would enhance incomes and quality of life in the lesser developed regions of
the country and would have a significant impact on the problem of migration
to the major metropolitan areas.
26.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given less emphasis than
in the past, the investments required are large and, thus, there is consider-
able support for this sector in the proposed lending program. Greater
emphasis will be given to urban transportation, in view of the emerging
problems of urban congestion, particularly in the main metropolitan areas.
27.       The share of the Ban,' r_- up in Korea's total external debt disbursed
and outstanding at the end of 1979 was about 13%, and its share of debt ser-
vice was of the order of 5% at that time. These ratios are expected to be
around 8% and 6%, respectively, by the mid-eighties.
PART III - PROJECT BACKGROUND
The Agriculture Sector
28.       The rapid growtlh of Korea's industrial sector over the last two
decades has tended to obscure the creditable growth and contribution of the
agriculture sector to the economy. However, the agriculture sector has
performed its traditional roles of providing employment (including labor for
industry) and food to domestic consumers. Between 1970 and 1978, growth in
value-added in the sector averaged 4.0% in real terms which is significantly
higher than the comparable rates in most countries, although, as a result of
the much faster growth of the nonagricultural sectors, its share of GNP
declined from 30% to 19%. Exports of agricultural products, including
fisheries, increased substantially from $111.3 million in 1970 to $988.9
million in 1977. Agricultural employment increased from 4.9 million or 50%
of total employment in 1970 to a peak of 5.6 million (45% of total employ-
ment) in 1976. Since that year, there has been a gradual decline and, by
1978, 5.1 million people were employed in the sector (38% of total employ-
ment). Although the shares of the agriculture sector in GNP and employment
are projected to decline in the future, its capacity for absorbing excess
labor during periods of cyclical recession is likely to remain an important
cushioning factor in maintaining employment at a high level.



29.       About 22%, or 2.2 million ha, of Korea's total land area of some
9.9 million ha is cultivated. Another two-thirds is classified as forest
land, most of which being mountainous is not suitable for cultivation.
Additional .. i that can be brought into cultivation is consequently quite
limited. Rice and barley are the major crops accounting for some two-thirds
of the total cropped area. Pulses (mainly soybeans), potatoes, vegetables,
mulberry, fruits, tobacco, and ginseng are the other important crops and,
together with miscellaneous cereals, viz, maize, wheat and millet, account
for most of the remaining cropped area.
30.       There are some 2.2 million farm households in Korea.  The average
farm size is about 0.9 ha, and nearly two-thirds of the farm households
have less than I ha of cropland. Only about 5% are landless. This struct-
ure is largely due to the Farmland Reform Law of 1950, which imposed a
ceiling of 3 ha of cultivated land per household.
31.       As a result of the use of new varieties, improved and expanded
irrigation and the success of land consolidation programs, heavy use of
fertilizers and the Government's price support policies, rice production
increased from 3.9 million tons in 1970 to a peak of 6 million tons in 1977,
an average annual growth rate of over 6%. The annual production of barley
fluctuated between 1.4 million tons and 1.8 million tons without showing any
discernable trend. However, as a result of the increased availability of rice
and rising consumer incomes, consumption of barley (a less desirable staple)
has been declining in recent years despite subsidies which permit low prices
to consumers. Although substantial increases in the production of rice and
barley, the basic food staples, have been achieved, Government policy
regarding these crops remains unchanged, namely, to promote their planting
through the provision of price support and input subsidies.
32.       Production of feedgrains (mainly maize) has remained insignificant
in relation to the rapidly growing demand by livestock producers. Wheat
production has likewise been negligible due to the limited availability of
arable land, poor yields, and high production costs. The country will
accordingly continue to depend on imports of these grains for virtually all
of its requirements.
33.       A significant part of the gains in total agricultural value-added
has been due to the diversification and expansion of production into higher
value crops, mainly fruits and vegetables, and into livestock products.
Thus, between 1970 and 1977, the annual increases in the production of
fruits, vegetables, livestock, and fisheries averaged about 8%, 3%, 10% and
15%, respectively. Increasing consumer preference for these foods over the
basic staples (rice and barley) resulting from rapidly rising per capita
incomes has played a major role in determining the shifts in agricultural
production. This preference, which is expected to continue, is reflected in
the projected increase in the share of the higher value foods in total food
expenditures from 45% in 1978 to about 57% in 1986.



- 10 -
34.       Since 1968, the Government has been implementing a two-tier price
policy which supplements farmers' incomes through purchases of a significant
part of their foodgrains and other essential produce at higher than the
prevailing market prices. Consumers are also subsidized through the sale of
these products by the Government at lower than the purchase and prevailing
wholesale prices. This policy, which has served the intended purpose of
expanding the production of these crops and transferring incomes to farmers,
contributed significantly towards raising farm incomes to such an extent that
the average farm household income had achieved parity with that of the urban
households. However, since 1978 the average urban household income has once
again exceeded that of the average farm household, and indications are that,
unless additional income sources can be provided for the farm households, this
trend will become more pronounced.
35.       Important developments affecting the agriculture sector in
recent years which need to be addressed include (a) a declining proportion
of younger male workers in the farm labor force, (b) rapid increases in
rural wages, (c) paucity of nonfarm employment opportunities in the rural
areas, (d) increasing shortage of labor, especially during the planting and
harvcsting seasons, (e) widening of incomes between farm and nonfarm house-
holds, and (f) changes in the level and pattern of consumer demand away from
foodgrains to high income elastic commodities, such as livestock products,
fruits and vegetables. These developments underscore the need for a
reorientation of financing agriculture aimed at, inter alia, accelerating the
pace of farm mechanization, increasing the output and productivity of
agricultural production, mainly the diversification and expansion of higher
value foods, and development of improved facilities for the processing,
storage and marketing of agricultural products.
36.       In an effort to increase the domestic production of higher value
crops, the Government under its current Fourth Five-Year Development Plan
(1977-81) has designated special areas in a number of provinces for the
production of fruits and vegetables with credit assistance to producers for
this purpose, including the development of upland irrigation systems.
Livestock output is also being fostered by subsidized feeds and credit to
farmers. Additional efforts include improving various infrastructures such as
power, transportation and communication in the special agricultural areas, and
measures to upgrade the quality and standardization, inspection and processing
of the products through the provision of technical assistance and credit.
37.       The Bank's lending for the agriculture sector, including rural
development, has been aimed at assisting the Government to achieve its
development objectives for the sector. The Bank has financed 13 projects
totalling $480.5 million for this purpose, of which $188 million was made
available for three irrigation projects (Loan 600-KO, Loan 795-KO/Credit
283-KO, and Loan 1364-KO), $30.5 million for two agricultural credit projects
(Credit 335-KO and Loan 1328-K0), $22 million for two dairy development
projects (Credit 234-KO and Loan 1193-KO), $7 million for a seeds project
(Loan 942-KO), $65 million for two area development projects (Loans 1319-K0



- 11 -
and 1503-KO), $13 million for a project (Loan 994-KO) to integrate the on-farm
production of export-oriented crops with improved processing facilities, and
$155 million for two rural infrastructure projects (Loans 1216-KO/1218T-KO and
1530-KO).
38.       These projects formed part of high priority Government development
programs to expand and improve the productivity of agriculture, principally
rice and other foodgrains, diversify production in favor of higher value
crops, increase the supply and quality of processed agricultural products to
meet rapidly rising consumer demand, increase exports from the agriculture
sector, raise farmer incomes significantly, and increase the provision of
rural infrastructure and amenities to improve the quality of life and standard
of living in the rural areas.
The Agro-Processing Subsector
39.       The agro-processing subsector in Korea comprises essentially the
freezing, cold storage and processing of agricultural products, including
livestock and fish. Its basic role is to carry out these activities
efficiently and to provide adequate processed agricultural products to meet
the domestic consumption and export demand.
40.       Between 1970-76, the relative importance of the subsector increased
from an estimated 5.5% of total value-added for the economy to 6.5%, or an
average annual rate of about 13%. Employment in the subsector increased from
152,000 to 219,000. Production of the main processed foods (foodgrain,
fruits, vegetables, livestock and fisheries products) and animal feed, which
is the principal nonfood item in support of livestock production, increased at
annual rates averaging about 8% and 18%, respectively. Exports of processed
foods increased from $123 million to $813 million. About 28% of total agri-
cultural production was processed in 1976 compared with 20% in 1970. The
expansion of agro-processing has been due mainly to increasing domestic con-
sumption of processed foods resulting from rapidly rising consumer incomes
(about 8% annually in real terms) and changes in the pattern of consumer
demand. Since the late 1960s, the Government has been increasing its emphasis
on the development of the agro-processing subsector mainly to increase incomes
and employment in the rural areas, expand the supply and quality of processed
foods to consumers, and increase exports of processed products. In this
connection, it established AFDC in 1967 to promote, develop and finance
agro-processing facilities. AFDC secured a Bank loan in 1975 (994-KO) to
increase the flow of investment funds to the subsector.
41.       During 1970-76, consumption of processed fruits, vegetables and
livestock products increased by an average annual rate of about 18%, fisheries
products 12%, and animal feeds 18%. The substantial increase in consumption
is expected to continue at least through the 1980s in view of the continuing
increase in incomes and the fact that an increasing proportion of the popula-
tion will be urban with a greater preference for processed foods. There is
accordingly a significant potential and need to continue expanding the pro-
duction of these foods and other processed products.



- 12 -
42.       Based on the capital output ratios of existing plants, the costs of
installing the additional capacity to meet the projected demand for the
various processed products (mainly chilled, canned, and dried fruits and
vegetables, frozen, dried and canned meat and fish, dairy and other processed
livestock products, and animal feeds) have been estimated at some $375
million in current prices for the three year period 1980/81-1982/83. The
additional capacity required would comprise mainly freezing and cold storage,
canning, drying and other preservation, foodgrain, dairy and animal feed
processing, and raw silk spinning. AFDC is expected to provide a significant
share of the financing for this purpose.
The Agriculture and Fishery Development Corporation (AFDC)
43.       Established as a legal entity in December 1967 to assist and pro-
mote the development of the agro-processing subsector in Korea, AFDC's major
functions as provided by its Articles of Incorporation are to: (a) finance
loans and equity investments for the development of industries engaged in
the processing and marketing of agricultural, forestry, livestock and
fisheries products; (b) provide technical and managerial assistance,
training and information for such industries; (c) own and operate
agro-processing facilities; (d) encourage domestic and foreign investments
in the subsector; (e) undertake and promote the application of advanced
technology and research activities; (f) develop domestic and export markets
for agro-processed products and undertake export agent functions; (g)
improve the institutional framework for the development of the subsector and
provide effective vertical and horizontal integration of primary production,
secondary processing and marketing and distribution; and (h) other related
activities specifically requested by the Government. In August 1978, the
Government entrusted AFDC with the operation of its Agricultural Products
Price Stabilization Program (APPSP) the purpose of which is to stabilize the
domestic prices of certain basic agricultural commodities designated by the
Government. AFDC has an authorized capital of W 10 billion to be funded by
the Government which had subscribed W 8.6 billion in several tranches by
1972. The remaining W 1.4 billion is expected to be paid in during 1980.
44.       Since it began operations in 1968, AFDC has disbursed about W 66
billion ($114 million) to the agro-processing subsector, of which loans
accounted for 89%, and equity investments the remaining 11%. Government
funds in the form of loans to AFDC and subscription to its capital, and
foreign financing, mainly the Bank loan under the first project (Loan
994-KO), provided the resources for these activities. AFDC has assisted in
meeting the financing needs of 71 agro-processing enterprises and 583
farmers to increase the production of export-oriented crops. In addition,
AFDC established and operated five agro-processing facilities mainly as pilot
operations and to demonstrate the use of improved technology. It has also
established facilities to carry out research on agro-processing as part of its
provision of technical extension support to private processors.



- 13 -
45.       AFDC's efforts in the initial years of its operations (1968-72)
were geared towards:  (a) encouraging investors to establish agro-processing
enterprises -.Lrough the provision of financial assistance; (b) establishing
modern processing facilities of its own; and (c) developing export markets.
Equity participation, which was the main thrust of AFDC's operations, was
considered essential to stimulate private investments in agro-processing,
since as a newly developing field of investment it was considered riskier than
other alternative industrial investment opportunities. In financing equity
participation the expectation was that AFDC would be able to recycle its funds
into other investments by selling its holdings in these companies once they
turned profitable. While AFDC's efforts in fostering the development of the
agro-processing subsector through establishment of these firms were commend-
able, the subsequent performance of these firms was far from satisfactory,
reflecting largely AFDC's lack of experience. To reduce its exposure and
erosion of its equity funds, AFDC sold its holdings in these companies to
private investors, except for its investments in two wholly-owned subsidiaries
and four other firms. However, this did not result in any recycling of either
its equity or loan funds as originally planned because, in order to sell its
holdings, AFDC had to convert most of them into long-term loans. Thus, with
the bulk of its financial resources tied up in the sold-out companies and
because of limited availability of new funds, the level of AFDC's financial
assistance, especially term loans, declined significantly in the following
years until 1976 when AFDC resumed long-term lending on a significant scale
with funds provided under the first project.
46.       During the period of reduced financing operations, AFDC's focus of
operations shifted to managing and operating its own processing plants. In
addition, it took over the management of one of its two subsidiaries to
improve its operations. These two activities accordingly became the
mainstream of AFDC's work. However, during the period of direct involvement
in the operation of its processing plants and subsidiaries, AFDC began to
perceive that these activities were diverting its attention and resources from
its main developmental role which is to assist private processors establish,
modernize and expand their operations mainly through the provision of
development financing, technical guidance and market support.
47.       Accordingly, measures were initiated by AFDC in 1976 to enable its
operations to be focused on the provision of development financing to private
processors.  First, AFDC ceased its involvement in the day-to-day operations
of its subsidiary by providing the latter with separate management. Secondly,
it commenced the sale of its processing plants, all of which were sold by
early 1978. Thirdly, additional loan funds were obtained from the Government
and the Bank under the first project which, together with the sale proceeds of
its plants, enabled AFDC to significantly expand its lending to the private
sector for the development of agro-processing facilities. Concurrent with
this expansion, the quality of lending has improved significantly due mainly
to the adoption of appropriate appraisal and other lending procedures insti-
tuted under the first project and the accumulated expertise and experience
gained from its financing and operation of agro-processing facilities. In
1978, AFDC also discontinued lending to farmers to concentrate solely on



- 14 -
lending for agro-processing. Although AFDC continues to have two wholly-owned
subsidiaries, its involvement is limited to overall policy matters. It also
intends to minimize its equity investments in the future. Further, while
entrusted with the operation of the Government's Agricultural Products Price
Stabilization Program, AFDC regards the agro-processing operations
as its main function.
48.       The first project, now nearing completion, formed part of the
Government's program for the development of the agro-processing subsector.
It provides long-term funds to AFDC for:
(a) onlending to subborrowers in the private sector to develop and
modernize: (i) on-farm production of asparagus, mushroom, and oak
mushroom (shiitake); and (ii) canneries, drying plants, and
freezing/cold storage facilities for the processing of these
crops as well as other vegetables and fruits comprising mainly
strawberry, spinach, chestnut, and peach; and
(b) technical assistance required by AFDC to implement the project
effectively and to improve its accounting and financial management
systems.
Total project costs were estimated at $20.0 million, of which the Bank
financed $13.0 million (65%) equivalent to the foreign exchange costs, AFDC
$3.2 million (16%), and subborrowers $3.8 million (19%). The four-year
project became effective in March 1975 and funds were fully committed by the
end of July 1979.
49.       Two significant changes took place during project implementation.
First, the project scope was widened in September 1977 to enable AFDC to
finance a broader range of agro-processing facilities than was envisaged
during appraisal. Implementation of the project had been delayed because of
slow progress in lending for the facilities originally covered by the project,
which was aggravated by the depressed state of foreign markets for processed
foods during 1975. Under the revised project scope, AFDC could finance
facilities for the processing (essentially canning) and cold storage of fish,
meat, fruits, and vegetables, fruit juice extraction and concentration, and
vegetable preservation, including pickling and drying, for which there was
substantial loan demand. Following the inclusion of these facilities in the
project, the subloan amounts approved increased significantly and project
implementation has been progressing satisfactorily. In all, AFDC provided 44
subloans for a wide spectrum of processing facilities for modernization,
expansion and new construction.
50.       Secondly, AFDC discontinued lending to farmers in 1978, as it became
increasingly clear that its organizational structure and operations, set up
for the purpose of promoting agro-industries, were not suited for effective



- 15 -
lending to farmers./1 For on-farm development, AFDC provided 583 subloans for
expanding the production area of mushrooms, asparagus and oak mushroom by
about 25 ha, 59 ha, and 35,600 cu m, respectively.
51.       It is still too early to fully evaluate the projec. L   benefits and
impact. However, AFDC's appraisals of the individual subloans indicate
financial rates of return ranging from about 18% to 63%. The project also has
had significant institution-building effects on AFDC, particularly with regard
to the quality of appraisal and strengthening of the accounting and financial
management systems.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
52.       A report entitled "Second Agricultural Products Processing Project
(No. 2849-KO, dated April 18, 1980) is being distributed separately. Supple-
mentary project data are provided in Annex III. Negotiations were held in
Washington from April 7 to 11, 1980, with a Korean delegation including
Mr. S.Y. Wei, Economic Counsellor at the Embassy of the Republic of Korea and
Mr. B.H. Chin, President of AFDC.
53.       The project would be a continuation and expansion of the develop-
ment program for agro-processing financed under the first project (Loan
994-KO). It would provide medium- and long-term loans to the private sector
through AFDC for investments in agro-processing facilities, and funds for
technical assistance to AFDC. The project would support a three-year lending
program which would be part of a high priority Government effort to increase
incomes and employment in the rural areas by augmenting the value-added,
expand production and exports from the agriculture sector, and increase the
supply and quality of processed foods.
Detailed Features
54.       The project would support investments in the entire agro-processing
subsector. Its scope and size are based on a recent study by consultants,
which projected the investment needs of the subsector during the period 1980-
1985, the loan demand for such investments indicated by potential subborrowers
to AFDC, and the lending program proposed by AFDC taking into account its loan
processing capacity. During the three-year project period, 1980/81 - 1982/83,
the subsector's investment needs are estimated to be about $375 million, of
which the project would finance about 22%. Projected lending by financial
intermediaries other than AFDC indicates that they plan to finance about
a third of the investment needs, with the remaining 45% expected to be
financed by other private sources, mainly the processors themselves.
A1 These activities have been, and are being, financed efficiently by the
National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF). The Bank has
successfuly financed two agricultural credit operations for on-farm
development through NACF, of which the first has been completed and
the second is nearing completion.



- 16 -
55.       A wide variety of agro-processing enterprises are expected to apply
for financing under the project. These would include freezing and cold
storage, canning, drying, pickling and other preservation of fruits,
vegetables, meat, and fisheries products, oil seed extraction, grain based
foods (e.g. noodles), fruit juice based beverages, dairy processing, animal
feeds mainly for pigs and poultry, and raw silk spinning. The project would
finance improvements to existing facilities and the construction and
equipping of new facilities through an estimated 110-120 subloans.
56.       The project would also provide technical assistance ($0.5 million)
mainly for the strengthening of AFDC's Project Department so that it can
implement the project effectively and provide the necessary extension and
market support to processors. These funds would be used for the overseas
training of the Project Department's staff, to obtain short-term foreign
expertise to assist the Department in resolving specific agro-processing
problems, and for market studies and the introduction and implementation of
new or improved technology (e.g. purchase of equipment to test new processing
techniques). Approximately 30 man-months of short-term foreign expertise
would be required at a total cost of about $300,000. The average man-month
cost of the experts (individuals' fees, international travel, and local
allowances), whose assignments would range from a few weeks to several
months, is expected to be about $9,500. The total estimated cost also
includes provision for the cost of vehicles, local travel and other minor
items. The training abroad of the Project Department's technical staff would
consist mainly of short-term visits to processing plants outside Korea for
on-the-job training.
Costs and Financing Arrangements
57.       The total cost of the project is estimated at W 48,600 million
($83.8 million equivalent) of which about 60%, or W 28,980 million ($50 mil-
lion equivalent), would be in foreign exchange. All cost estimates
are based on October 1979 prices. The processing subprojects include a 10%
physical contingency. In addition, a price contingency of 29% has been
added to the subprojects and technical assistance component. The contin-
gency is based on the expected price increases as follows: (a) 9% in 1980
and 8% during 1981-84 for local costs, and (b) 10.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981,
8% in 1982, and 7% in 1983-84 for foreign costs. Of the total project
cost, subborrowers would finance $21 million (25%), AFDC $13 million (15%),
and the Bank $50 million (60%) which is equivalent to the estimated foreign
exchange expenditure.
Implementation
58.       The Project Unit (PU) established by AFDC to supervise and monitor
the implementation of the first project (Loan 994-KO), including the appraisal
of individual subloans or subprojects, would continue this function under the
proposed project. The PU's implementation of the first project has been
satisfactory. However, for effective implementation of the proposed project



- 17 -
it would be necessary to strengthen the PU in view of the need to provide
adequate technical, extension and market support to processors, and also since
the project is substantially larger and a wide range of processing facilities
is to be fii.,nced.
59.       Under the proposed project, the PU would be expanded and upgraded to
that of a Project Department (PD) which would be headed by a Manager. The PD
would have three divisions - Appraisal, Technical Assistance, and Credit
Administration - with a total staff of 30 comprising 26 suitably qualified
professionals and four support staff.
60.       AFDC is in the process of upgrading and expanding the present
Project Unit to that of a Project Department as proposed above, and has
indicated that only suitably qualified staff would be appointed to the various
positions. The establishment of the PD along lines acceptable to the Bank
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 7.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Procurement
61.       AFDC's procurement procedures and arrangements are considered
satisfactory. AFDC generally requires borrowers to procure goods and equipment
through local competitive bidding or prudent shopping using the three-bid
method, depending on the type of items and the amounts involved. Purchase
off-the-shelf is permitted where appropriate, normally for small items. Bids
are evaluated jointly by the borrower and AFDC, and the final award of the
contract is subject to the latter's approval. AFDC usually helps its
borrowers in bid preparation and invitations for bidding; it also supervises
the opening of bids. There are many local suppliers of agro-processing
equipment, as well as competent civil works contractors. Foreign equipment
suppliers are likewise adequately represented, mainly through local agencies.
Both suppliers of foreign and local equipment provide technical assistance for
the proper installation and operation of their equipment, and competition
among them is keen. Under the first project, procurement by borrowers has
been economical and efficient. An estimated two thirds of the equipment
procured is of foreign origin.
62.       In view of the above, use of AFDC's procurement procedures and
arrangements would be appropriate for the proposed project. It is expected
that the project's procurement would be through local competitive bidding, the
three-bid method of prudent shopping, and purchase off-the-shelf, which would
be allowed only in the case of improvements to existing processing facilities
requiring minor equipment items. For the construction and equipping of large
processing facilities where the design of the building would need to closely
fit the layout of the equipment for efficient operations, AFDC may require the
use of turnkey contracts. AFDC would ensure that all the procurement
documents would be available for review by the Bank's supervision missions.



- 18 -
Disbursement
63.        Project subloans would cover a three-year commitment period com-
mencing in the latter part of 1980. Since the last set of agro-processing
facilities financed is expected to be completed towards the end of 1983,
project funds would be fully disbursed by mid-1984. Withdrawal of the
loan proceeds would be on the basis of 79% of subloans made by AFDC, and 100%
of foreign expenditures for technical assistance and overseas training.
Reimbursement applications under the subloans would be supported by a
statement of expenditures accompanied by a list of subloans made. The
actual supporting documentation would be kept by AFDC and made available to
Bank staff during supervision missions. Disbursements for technical
assistance would be fully documented (bills or invoices and evidence of
payment where applicable). Contract documents for foreign experts and
training programs for AFDC's staff would be submitted to the Bank for
approval.
Subloan Terms and Conditions
64.       AFDC would be able to use the project funds on a completely flexible
basis for various types of agro-processing enterprises, subject only to the
lending limits indicated in paras. 65 and 66 below. This would enable AFDC
to respond promptly and effectively to changes in demand as they may occur.
65.        Under the first project, individual subloan amounts in excess of
$200,000 required the Bank's prior approval. In view of the experience
gained by AFDC in its appraisal of subloans above the free limit which has
proved to be satisfactory, it is proposed that the free limit be raised to
$500,000 for the proposed project. All subloans above the free limit (about
40), which would include an economic rate of return analysis, would be sent to
the Bank for its review and approval (para. 2 of Schedule 5 to the draft
Loan Agreement).
66.        The maximum size of a subloan will not exceed $2 million since
this amount and the subborrower's contribution would be sufficient to cover
the investment cost of most processing facilities (para. 2(e) of Schedule 5
to the draft Loan Agreement). The ceiling on subloans would also enable a
wider distribution of project funds. To avoid a significant concentration
of large subloans and help finance the investment needs of medium and small
processors, lending to large processors would not exceed 40% of the total
project funds (para. 2(h) of Schedule 5 to the draft Loan Agreement). In
accordance with the Government's definition, processors with more than W 500
million total assets or employment exceeding 300 are considered large. As
under the first project, subborrowers would bear the foreign exchange risk.
67.        The lending rate to subborrowers will be at least 12% per annum
(para. 1 of Schedule 5 to the draft Loan Agreement). The actual rate would
be determined by the weighted average cost of AFDC's borrowings from the Bank
and the Government plus a 3% interest spread required by AFDC to cover its
administrative costs. While the interest rate on the Bank loan would be 8.25%
per annum, the interest on the Government loan to cover AFDC's share of the



- 19 -
total project cost would be determined from time to time by the Government in
consultation with the Bank.  In determining the interest rate on the Govern-
ment loan, account would be taken of the need to (a) provide a 3% interest
spread to AFDC over the cost of its total project funds, and (b) ensure that
the lending rate to subborrowers remains competitive with those charged by the
other Government-sponsored financial institutions for similar types of loans.
The Government's loan of $13 million to AFDC would be for a period of 11
years, including 3 years of grace, and would be provided as and when required
by AFDC (Section 2.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement and a Letter Supple-
mental thereto).
68.       Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, subsidiaries and affilia-
ted companies of AFDC would not be eligible to borrow under the project
(Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). This is mainly to avoid any
possible conflict of interest, and also because direct Government funding of
these companies through AFDC has been, and would continue to be, available to
meet their investment requirements.
69.       The repayment periods of the subborrowers will be determined by
AFDC's cash flow estimates of their subloans. For typical subprojects, their
cash flow estimates indicate an average repayment period of about 12 years,
including 3 years of grace.  Based on these estimates and given that the
project funds would be disbursed over 4 years, the cash flow estimated for
the project as a whole indicates that AFDC would require a repayment period
of 16 years, including 3 years of grace.
Benefits and Justification
70.       The major benefits expected from the proposed project would
include:
(a) reduction in wastage of farm produce from spoilage and loss,
especially of perishables, through the provision of additional
processing capacity, including freezing and cold storage, and
improved efficiency of processing;
(b) increased supplies, better quality and larger variety of processed
foods and other agricultural products throughout the year which
would help meet the growing domestic consumption and export
demand for such products, improve the national diet, and assist
in dampening the significant supply and price fluctuations of
farm produce, especially fruits, vegetables and other perishables,
during the off season periods. The supply of processed products at
generally lower costs would be an additional benefit to consumers;
(c) raising significantly the productivity of labor involved in
processing which has become increasingly essential in view of the
rapidly increasing costs and tightening supply of labor. The
increase in labor productivity is expected to range from about 16%
for canning to 32% for the processing of animal feeds which are
based on a comparison of the estimated per worker output of



- 20 -
existing plants using a lower level technology and those with more
advanced technologies;
(d) creation of about 5,000 jobs in processing at an estimated cost of
about $17,000 per job, temporary employment for workers
constructing the processing facilities, and indirectly, additional
employment for farmers (particularly some off-season employment),
as well as other workers engaged in selling the processed products
produced. The benefit to farmers would come from increased demand
for farm produce through the widening of their market opportun-
ities, which in turn would result in higher prices and increased
production, employment and incomes; and
(e) increased value-added, total employment, export earnings and import
substitution for the economy.
In addition, the project would strengthen the institutional capability of
AFDC, especially with regard to its provision of financial and technical
assistance for the proper development of agro-processing, including the
establishment of closer links with medium- and small-size processors, many of
whom have limited technical know-how and access to medium- and long-term
credit. Rough estimates indicate that the anticipated project facilities at
full development would freeze, cold store and process a wide variety of
agricultural, livestock and fishery products valued at some W 282 billion
($486 million) annually at present prices.
71.       Specific subprojects to be financed under the project have not yet
been identified. However, the indicative overall financial rate of return
(FRR) for the types and number likely to be financed is estimated at about
24%, which is based on typical models (plants) for each of the subprojects.
The FRR for the models ranged from 21% to 37%, and their economic rates of
return (ERR) from 16% to 27%, with an overall ERR of about 21%.
Risks
72.       The project is not expected to incur any significant risk.  Output
from the project would account for only a minor proportion of projected
demand which, moreover, would mainly be for the domestic market which is
assured. Only raw silk which has been subject to uncertain and adverse
changes in foreign demand in the recent past would incur some risks, although
this would be insignificant since its share in project investments is expected
to be small and domestic consumption of this commodity has been increasing
significantly in recent years. As the technological improvements envisaged
under the project are already being used by the more efficiently operated
plants, the required technical know-how is accordingly readily available and
the risks in this regard would likewise be minimal.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Agriculture
and Fishery Development Corporation, the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Republic of Korea and the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided
for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special condi-
tions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III. The establishment
of AFDC's Project Department along lines acceptable to the Bank is an addi-
tional condition precedent to the effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section
7.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachment
April 30, 1980



-22-                                                       Annex I
Page 1 of 5
EMU un,ufmc or - SOCIAL 7IDlCATOS DATA SHEET
LAND AMA (TIOSAND    M.U                   yam   0        DOF               1)  CUI OP_T 1TNr) L)AP 0
AGRICULTURAL     22.6                                 0SST 3.5CM m(UAIC   7lCOIS              ICOMS
1960 lb   1970 Lb ISTINATE l        30G01 L    GROUP /d   G1DUr /
GNP PER CAPITA (US3)                120.0       300.0    820.0           450.6      926.1      1746.5
ENERGY CONSUMPTION P1H CAPITA
(KILOGRANS OF COAL EQUIVAL1NT)    258.0       815.0   1020.0           371.1      73^.'      1646.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YTR (MILLIONS)    24.7         31.4      36.0
URBAN POPULATION (PEICENT OP TOTAL) 27.9       41.2      49.0           27.6       69.0        51.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    49.0
STATIONART POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      64.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS RlACHED                2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PUE SQ. KFI.                    251.0       319.0    365.0           154.8       44.6        28.2
PER SQ. DR. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1154.0     1371.0   1593.0           566.7      140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        42.9        41.0      37.0           41.3       41.3        35.4
15-64 YRS.                        53.8       55.7      60.0            54.9       55.3        56.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.3         3.3      3.0             3.3        3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.9         2.4       2.0            2.4        2.4         1.7
URBAN                             5.9         6.4       5.4            4.3        4.5         3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    41.0        30.0     24.0            30.2       31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    13.0        10.0       8.0            8.3        9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.1/f       2.6       1.4            2.1        2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       672.0    686.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..        42.0     43.9            34.1       34.7
FOO) AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         80.8        99.0    117.0           106.2      104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREKENTS)                  85.0       114.0    112.0           104.1      105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         53.0        65.0     75.7            57.4       64.4        80.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      13.0/      19.0      16.3           16.9       23.5        31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    13.0         8.0       5.0            4.8        8.6         5.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   54.0        59.0      63.0           61.1       60.2        65.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          62.0        43.0      37.0           46.6       46.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        58.0      62.0           21.9       60.8        69.4
URBAN                              ..        84.0      80.0           46.2       75.7        85.1
RURAL                              ..        38.0      36.0           12.8       40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        25.0      61.0           28.4       46.0        70.1
URBAN                              ..        59.0      68.0           65.0       46.0        88.3
RURAL                              ..         ..       50.0           14.7       22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         3000.0      2110.0   1677.0          3790.5    2262.4       1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    3220.01h    2170.0/h  517.0          1107.4    1195.4        765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          2510.0      1900.0    1430.0          613.3      453.4       197.6
URBAN                              ..         ..    340.0            203.6      253.1       260.2
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..           1110.3    2732.4      1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..        14.9       ..            23.9       22.1        17.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOCAL                             5.6         5.3       5.1            5.2        5.3         4.7
URBAN                             5.4         5.0       4.9             ..        5.2         4.4
RURAL                             5.6         5.5       5.3             ..        5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUMBRER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                             2.5         2.3        ..             ..        1.9         1.1
URBAN                             2.8         2.7        ..             ..        1.6         1.2
RURAL                             2.4         2.2        ..             ..        2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            28.0        49.9        ..             ..       50.0        66.0
URBAN                            67.3        92.4        ..             ..       71.7        85.1
RURAL                            12.0        29.9      64.9             ..        17.3



-23-                                                              Annex I
Page 2 of 5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF           REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
KOREA REUBLIC OF- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE ) -
SAM4E        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b      1970 lb ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  94.0        105.0      109.0             97.9       102.5        101.7
MALE                   99.0        106.0      109.0             98.7       108.6        110.0
FEMALE                89.0         105.0     109.0              97.4        97.1         92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   27.0         43.0       63.0             42.2        33.5         51.2
MALE                   38.0         52.0       71.0             46.7        38.4         56.4
FEMALE                 14.0         34.0      54.0              40.9        30.7         43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  14.0            16.0       16.0             12.5        11.5         18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              58.0         57.0      49.0              32.5        35.8         27.1
SECONDARY                            34.0         37.0       38.0             25.8        22.9         25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          70.6         78.0       91.0             84.1        64.0         86.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.4          2.0        2.7              6.1        13.5         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           32.0        126.0      144.0             84.4       122.7        225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.3          13.0      48.0              22.4        38.3        102.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    69.0        138.0      173.0             24.2        40.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0             5.0        2.2              3.6         3.7          3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       7500.0       10200.0   13061.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    25.8          32.7      32.8              36.7        25.0         24.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               66.4          51.0      44.6              54.6        43.5         28.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   9.3         20.1       33.0              16.3        21.5         30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  33.4         35.0       36.6             40.7        33.5         33.8
MALE                                   49.5         46.8       48.8             49.9        48.0         51.3
FEMALE                                 17.2         23.0       24.2             31.0        16.8         16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.5          1.4        1.1               1.1         1.4          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.1/i          17.1       16.1             14.9        20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.3/i          44.5       45.3             46.8        52.1         57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.77i           7.1        5.7              6.2         3.9          3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.oT0          17.7       16.9             16.8        12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      220.0            193.1       270.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..            128.7       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      194.0            136.8       282.5        550.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..             96.8       248.9        403.4
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..        9.0             32.0        20.5
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..             52.5        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    East Asia 6 Pacific;   /d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);   /e  Upper Middle
Income ($1136-$2500 per capita, 1976);   /f  1950-55;   /L  1962;   /h  Registered, not all practising
in the country;   Li  1965.
May, 1979



-24-                                                                       Annex I
-24-                                                   ~~~~~~~Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Ti:   he adjusted group averages for each indicator are pnpulation-weighted geometrir means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated contry In each group.  Coverage of countries sinong the indicators depends on availability of data and in not uniform.  Dae to lack of data,
group uverage- for Capital SUrpluS Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excrete disposal, housing, income distributien and poverty are
nimple popolation-weighted geometric -eass without the eaclasion of emtre=s values.
LAND AREA (thousuod sq. kt)                                                               Population per hospital bed - total. urban, and rural - Population  itotl.,
Total - Total surface  area comprising land area and inland waters.                        arban, and rural) divided by their respective somber of hospital beds
Agricultural - Mont recent estimate of agricultural area used temperarily                  available in public and private general and epeoialized hospital and re-
or pecnaoently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                    habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments per=anently staffed by
110 falluw.                                                                             at least one physician.  Establishments previding principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hspitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PR CAPITA (ISO) - GNP per cupita estimates at current markce  price-,                   cal centers not permasentlp staffed by   physicias (but by a medical as
calcoluted by name conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);               sistant, nurse, midwife, stc.) which offer in-patient a-c-emodstion and
1960, 1970, aud 1977 data.                                                              provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital hid - Total nu=her of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual cuosomption of COmmercial energy                     Prom hospitals divided by the nabher of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydra-, nuclear and geo-
thermal  electricity) in kilograms of coal equival nt per capita.                   HOUSINE
Averagm sia of household (persons pen household) - total, arhan, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATIISTICS                                                            A household consists of a group of individusal  who share living quarter.
Totul population, mid-pear (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                    and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or apy not be i_cluded in
average of two end-pear estimates: 1961, 1970, and 1977 data.                           the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Orban population (percent of total) - Rstio of urban to total popula-                      hold vary.
rion; different definitions of arban areas may affect c-mpacability                   Averace number of persons per roo= - total, urban, and rural - Average nun-
of datu among countries,                                                                ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                         dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  nq. km. - Mid-year populatiun per square kilometer (100 hectures)                   unoccupied parts.
Of total area.                                                                        Acness to electricity (percent of dwellings)  - total, urban,  and rural -
Per nq. hr. agrIculture land - Computed as sbov  for agricultural land                   Conventional dwellings with elertricity in liming quarters  as percentage
only.                                                                                   of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age  tructure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                     Ad1usted enrollment ratios
Population growth rare (perce.t) - total, and urban - Compound annual                   Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth raten of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                       at the pritary level an percentages of respectively primary ochool-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                   populations; normally includes children aged 6-II years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual line births per thousand of                      different lengthn of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ren-year arithetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment nay ascend 100 percent sinco  so=e pupils are belo  or
1970 and fits-year average ending in 1975 for must recent esti=ate.                     above the offictal school age.
Crude death rate (pet thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                    Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year populatio; ten-poe arithmetic aver- ges ending is 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruotion; pro-
.and fie-year average ending in 1975 for mast recent estimate.                          vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Irons reprod-ction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                   usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondenoe courses are generally
in her -ormal repruductiv- period if she experienoes present age-                       excluded.
specific fertility rates; us ally five-year averages ending in 1960,                  Vocational enrollment (Percent of necondarv) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                         clde technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Punilo planning - accepoorn, annual (thousands) - Annual  ankber of                       or as departments of  secondary institutinon.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total stud-ent  enrolled in
plasnitif progran.                                                                      primary and secondary levels divided by mashers of teachers in the corre-
Pamily planniag - users (Percent of  tarried women) - Percentage of                       spending levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control               Adutt literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
dovices to all manited women in same age group.                                         a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                     CONSUMPTION
Index of food production pen capita (1970-100) - Indox nu=er of per                    Passenger earn (per thousand populattin) - Pa..enger earn comprise =ocor caru
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                     seating less than eight persons; esoludes ambulances, hearsex and   ilitary
Per capita supply of calories (percent of require.en.t) - Competed from                 vehicles.
rnergy oquivalent of net food  _appliex available in country per capits              Radio receivers (per thousand eupulatien) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, i=portn less               broadcusts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
-opocts, and chaoges in stock.  Net supplies occlude animal feed, needs,              rcnnivers in countrinn and in years vhen registration of radio sets oat in
qua-tities uted in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                  effect; data for recent years may not be comparable niece most countries
quirerents.  ern estimated by FAO bhsed on physiological needs for nor-               abo'ished licensing.
vol activity and health considering en-irconentul temperature, body                  TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV  receivers for broadoast to generi
weights, age and  es. distriurions of population., and  II.owing 10 per-                public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
coot for wacte at household level,                                                      tries and in years when regitratlon of TV sets wax in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein costent of per                  Newspaper cirulation  (pet thousand population) - Shews the average circulo-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net -apply of food in defined as                    tion of "daily general interest .swspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
obove.  Require=ents for all countries established by ROTA provide for                  cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is consideced to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grain                   be  daily" if it uppears at least four ti.ass ueek.
Of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 gras should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance per capita Per year - Sased ox the number of tickets
Thbes standards are lower then those of 75 grams of total protein and                   sold daring the year, including adnisaions to drive-in ci.emas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average fur the world, proposed by                     alits.
PAT in the Third World Pood Survey.
Pot capita prorein supply from animal and polse - Protein supply of food              EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams pen day.                                    Total labor force (thousands) - Etono=ically active persons   including arned
Child (ages 1-I) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                  forces snd unemployed but axcluding housewives, students  etcD.Defini-
and in age group 1-4 ypars, to children in this age group.                              tiuns in various countrieo  are not comparable.
Pe=ale (percent) - Female laker force as percentage  of total labor force.
HEALTl                                                                                  Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life e-P-ctancy at birth (yeans) - Average number of years of life                         an percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birO;  sually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industry (percent) - Labor force in =ning, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                               electricity, water  and  gas as percentage  of total labor fence.
tnfant  -orcality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                 Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
axe yoar of age per thousand live birhts.                                                fenale labor force an percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe mater (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                   These are ILO's adjusted pard cipation rates reflecting age-sen
Nu=ber  of people (total, orban, and rural) with reasonable acoess to                    strucrure of the population,  and long tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or ustreated but                  fcono=ic dependenc_ ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ov-r to
uncontaminated water such ao  that from pr,tected boreholes, springs,                    the labor force in ago group of 15-64 years.
and sunitary wells) an percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                    INCOME DISTRIBUTION
thou 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within tea-                  Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
vocable access of that house.  To rural areas reasonable access tueld                    percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                      of households.
upend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
outer needs.                                                                        POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access ,_   to  -cra disposal fpercent of culariun) - total. urban, and                 tstimaned absolute poverty income level (0U5  per capits) - urban and rural -
coral - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) nerved by exceta                        Absolute poverty income lel1 is that income level below   hitch a =iin=al
disposal on p.r.entages of their respective populations.   ixcreta                       nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food  -equirements is not
disposal may inc_ude the collection and disposal, with on without                        affordabl.
.r....ent, of ha=an eacrera and waste-water by water-borne systems                   Estimated relative poverty income level (IUS per capIta) - urban and rural -
cc the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                     Relative poverty inn.oe level is that income  level less than one-third
Population per Physician - Population divided by number of pr-cticing                      psr capita personal income of the county.
physicia-n  qualified from a xedical school at university level.                     Estimated popuiation below poverrt  income level (percent) -   hrban and rural -
Population per nursing Person - Population divided by somber of                            pr        f population (urban and renal) win are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                        'relative poor" whichever is greater.
ausistant totsno.
Econonic c and Soial Data Diepaioi
Ecnmc  nlsi   rn Prjetons Department



-25-
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 
ECONOMIC DSVELOPItENT DATA SHEET
Actual le                                                 Projected           Growth rates (Z)
1965     1970       1972       1973       1974      1975       1976       1977       1978       1979      1980    1965-75  1978  1978-80
A. National Accounts
(Million US$ at
1975 prices)
1. GDP                6,939.3  11,760.4  13,852.7  16,127.4  17,542.2  19,089.2  21,947.8  25,769.0  28,688.0  31,324.0  33,938.0   10.7    11.3    8.7
2. Gains from TOT       140.4      665.3   1,122.9   1,486.4        348.7          -   1,160.5   1,511.0   1,685.0   1,350.0   1,337.0          -        -      -
3. Gross domestic
income            7,079.7  12,425.7  14,975.6  17,613.7  17,890.9  19,089.2  23,108.4  27,280.0  30,373.0  32,674.0  35,275.0   10.4    11.3    7.7
4. Imports (goods
and NFS)            984.3   4,228.6   5,273.4   7,154.3   7,373.4   7,464.0   9,680.0  11,723.0  15,138.0  16,077.0  16,636.0   22.5    29.1    4.9
5. Emports volume       388.3   1,843.8   3,111.5   5,001.9   4,887.9   5,678.6   8,129.6  10,210.0  11,994.0  12,294.0  12,827.0   30.7    17.5    3.4
6. Exports
(adjusted
for TOT)            528.7   2,509.1   4,234.3   6,488.3   5,236.6   5,678.6   9,290.1  11,721.0  13,978.0  13,644.0  14,164.0   26.1    19.2    0.6
7. Resource gap
(adjusted
for TOT)            455.6   1,719.5   1,039.0       666.0   2,136.8   1,785.4        389.9        2.0   1,160.0   2,433.0   2,472.0         -        -      -
8. Total
consmption        6,873.1  10,771.0  12,686.9  13,617.4  14,525.2  15,381.1  16,538.4  19,187.0  21,299.0  23,006.0  24,616.0    8.3    11.0    7.5
9. Investment           917.1   3,276.1   3,105.5   4,275.9   5,070.2   5,120.6   5,874.4   7,975.0  10,841.0  11,900.0  12,852.0   18.8    35.9    8.8
10. Domestic savings
(adjusted for
TOT)                206.6   1,654.8   2,288.7   3,996.3   3,365.7   3,708.1   6,569.9   8,093.0   9,373.0   9,668.0  10,659.0   33.6    15.8    7.4
11. GDP at current
US$               2,996.5   8,303.4   9,835.8  12,393.1  16,780.1  19,089.2  25,369.5  35,375.0  47,582.0  60,488.0  72,633.0   20.7    34.5   23.9
B. Sector Output
(Share of GDP at
1975 prices)
1. Agriculture,
forestry
and fisheries        46.3       32.8       29.3       26.1       25.3      24.9       23.6       22.2       19.1      19.6       19.1       -        -      -
2. Mining and
manufacturing        13.9       20.5       23.4       26.2       28.2      29.2       31.8       30.6       32.9      31.9       32.0       -       -       -
3. Other                 39.8       46.7       47.4       47.8       46.5      45.9       44.5       47.2       48.0      48.5       48.9       -        -      -
C. Prices 11975=100)
1. Eiport price
index Ia             57.7       67.4       67.3       85.2      107.9     100.0      111.7      120.7      132.9     154.1      167.7       -        -      -
2. Import price
index /a             46.3       46.2       46.8       62.5      97.2      100.0       98.0      105.2      114.0     138.8      151.9       -        -      -
3. Terms of trade
index               124.6      145.9      143.8      136.3     111.0      100.0      114.0      114.8      116.5     111.0      110.4       -        -      -
4. GOP deflator          43.2       70.6       71.0       76.8       95.7     100.0      115.6      137.3      165.9      193.1     214.0       -        -      -
5. Average exchange
rate                266.2      310.4      394.0      398.5     406.0      484.0      484.0      484.0      484.0     484.0      484.0       -        -      -
D. Selected Indicators   1965-75  1977-80             E.                                                         Act.al
1. ICOR                  2.39       3.75                                                  1960       1970       1975       1977      1978
2. Import elasticity      2.10      1.08              1. Labor force (million)             8.9       10.2       12.3       13.4       13.9
3. Average domestic                                   2. Unemployment (Z of E.1)           7.9        4.9        4.1        3.8        3.2
savings rate         0.15       0.31             3. Employmsent (million)              8.2        9.7       11.8       12.9      13.5
4. Marginal domestic                                  (Z shares)                         100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0
savings rate         0.29       0.25             3.1 Agriculture, forestry,
5. Imports/GDP           0.36       0.49                   fisheries                      58.6       50.5       45.9       41.8      38.4
6. Investment/GDP        0.25       0.36              3.2 Mining and manufacturing        10.4       14.3       19.1       22.4      28.5
7. Resource gap/GDY      0.11       0.05              3.3 Other                           31.0       35.2       35.0       35.8      33.1
F. Public Finance /b        1972       1973      1974       1975       1976      1977/d
(Z of GDP)
1. Current revenue       17.8       16.9       18.3       20.3       22.9      22.7
1.1 Tam revenue          13.5       13.2       15.0       16.8       18.9       18.9
2. Current
expenditure          14.2       11.6       12.4       14.4       14.3      15.7
2.1 Defense
expenditures         4.5        3.7        4.4        4.8       5.7        6.3
3. Government
saving                3.5        5.3        5.0        5.8       8.5        7.0
4. Capital
expenditure /c       11.3        8.7        8.0        8.3      12.7       10.5
/a  Data for 1965-76 refer to merchandise trade only, 1977-80 data include merchandise and nonfactor services.
/b  Refers to the Government Sector, comprising Central Government (including government enterprises), Local Government and Special Accounts.
/c  Refers to total capital expenditures, less repayment of debts.
Id  Budget estimates.
/e  Data for 1977 and 1978 are based on revised National Accounts (BOK, August 1979); details of the revised historical series for 1965-76 were not
available at this time.
November 29, 1979



-26-                                                                 ANNEX 0
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
($ million at current prices)
1969    1970     1971    1972    1973      1974     1975      1976     1977     1978      1979     1980
A. S-umary of Balosce of Payments
1. Exports  (inc..  SFS)                                     998  1,221    1,478  2,075  3,962    5,125   5.679   9111  12,328   15,940  18 942  21,512
2. Imports (icl. NFS)                                      1,880  2,064    2,490  2,577  4.368    7,209    7,464   9 493  12 329  17 264  22,321  25 ,267
3. Resource balaoce                                         -882    -843  -1,012   -502    -406  -2,084  -1,785    -382               -1  -1,324  -3,379  -3,755
4. Nct factor service income
(I)N i t interest payments                                  2    -29       -91    -138   -166       -229     -399     -411      -479     -702      -790     -997
of whjch interest so  pnb.ic KLT loans              -47     -68       -89    -120   -150      -201      -290     -345     -437      -653  -1,065  -1,374
(2) Diret i_ves.teens i_nnom                               -6      -8        -       -2       1       -8       -5       -37      -63      -80       -65      -46
13) Workers' remittaneos (net) la                                                     -       -        -         -        -                              
14) Othec factor service  i-nuoe (set)                     91      77       84      101      72       74        76      167      332       549      787      916
5. Correct transfers (net)                                    246     180      171     170      190      224      226       349      223      472       500      600
6. Balance on currnt aneaunt                                -549   -623       -848   -371    -309  -2,023  -1.887         -314        12  -1.085  -2,947  -3,282
7. Private diocet incestesnt                                   16      65       43      74     137       104       53        76      104      101       110      125
8. Official capitol grasts                                    150     131       84      87       61       64        -         -        -
Poblic M & LT Loaos
9. Disbursemensi                                              660     414      625     735      757    1,155   1,687    1,701    2,212    3,919    4,9b5    3,275
10. Amortization                                               109    205       215     289     334       391      368      494       720    I,142   1,501    1,700
11. Net oisbocseos-ts                                          551     209      410    446      423       764    1,319    1,207    1,492    2,777   3,465   3,575
Other M 4 LT Loans
12. Diososemets                                                 17      78       33      49       71      174       85       115       46        -         -        -
13. Amortization                                                 3       8       10      10       15       23       28       105       71       97        75       72
14. Net disibrsoenots                                           14      70       23      39       56      151       57        10      -25      -97       -75      -72
lS. Use of IMF cesoarcos /b                                      -    -10        -8     -10        -      132      130        97      -25       -2         -        -
16. Short-terr capital trassactions                             57    122       135    -19       82       -45      680      357        21  -1,171       400       500
17. Capital transactions SEI/                                  -78      71      112    -87    -110        868      141      -14      -233      108        70      154
18. Change no  reserves (- = i-cease) /d                     -161      -35       49   -159    -340        -15    -493  -1,419  -, 346    -631  -1,023  -1,000
19. Focoigo eonhasge reserves /n  (ess of perioa)              549     584      535     694  1,034    1,049    1,542    2,961    4,307   4,938    5,961    6,961
B. Grsnt and Loss Commitmens
1. Official goont                                            150     131        84      87      61        64        -         -        -        -
2. Total poblic M 4 LT lose                                  753    475       689     813   1,073    1,972    1,304    3,613    3,304    5,014
(11  IBR0                                                  65      40       85       73     150       85   382.5        372      335      659
(2)IDA                                                     15      15         7      26      20        -  -               -        -         -
131 Other sultilatoral /f                                  25      20       81       68      46       89    101.5       114      135        5D
(4) Gotesnsts /R                                          102     161      255     479      383      477      360       917      406    1,190
Of whicd , nra    pl--ndecnms
(51 Supp liars                                            374     134      248       94     223      486      232       689    1,144   1,027
(6) Financial institutions                                144     104        13      73    240       737      193    1,448    1,216    1,966
(7) Boond                                                   -       -         -       -       -       19         -       60       68       122
(8) Public loans NEI Ih                                    28       1         -       -      11       79        34        -         -
3. Other M & LT Iosns /i                                      100      26       67      74    213        120      138       97        16
Debt ass Debt Services
Public debt osuttandiug & disbnrsed aesd of period)                                  2,691   3,199    3,982    5,277    6,659   8,472    11,992
Insteroston public debt                                                                120     150       201      290      389       437       653
Repayments on public aseb                                                              289      334      391      368       504      217     1,142
Totol pobli  otI  sertc-   e                                                           409     484       392      658       893    1,104     1,795
tIher debt servEce  (nct)                                                               23       33       54       60       103      125        140
Totol  ebt _ service  (set)                                                            432     517       646      718      996   1,279       1,935
8urden on Eoosrt Ear-ings (%)
Public uebtsorvice                                                                    19.7    12.2      11.6     11.6      9.8       9.2      11.3
Total ones sorvice                                                                    22.8    13.1      12.6     12.6     10.9      10.2      12.1
TDS + Direct oIost. IEc.                                                              20.7    13.1      12.4     12.6      11.3     10.7      12.6
Averase Teois on Poblic Debt
Iniorest as Z prior year DO6D                                                          5.3     5.6       6.3      7.6      8.2       7.3       7.7
Amortioation as 2 prior year D204                                                     12.9    12.4      12.2      9.2      10.9     11.9      13.5
IBRD debt outstandiog & disbsed                                                         94.7  139.8    223.8    403.5    659.0    835.1   1,123.2
fORD aa 0 public asit 6ID                                                                3.5      4.4      5.6      7.7       9.9      9.9       9.4
IBRD as % public debt service                                                             1.7     2.5      3.3      4.9       5.7      6.7       6.4
IDA debt outstanding 4 disobrsed                                                        47.1    58.5      78.3     92.7    102.4   111.1       114.4
EDA as I public debt 00D                                                                  1.8     1.8      2.0      1.8       1.5      1.3        1.0
IDA as 2 public delb  servlie                                                            0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1
cstereal Debt (Disb-rsed O5IY) Outstanding Drcember 31, 1978    AAo.unt 
1. IBRD                                                                 1,123.2        9.4
2. Bank Group /1                                                        1,237.5       10.3
3. Other  multilaseral                                                    400.9        3.3
4....ernment                                                            3,353.9       28.0
of which centrally planne  economics                                      -          -
5. Suppliers                                                            3,711.5       31.0
6. Finalal iinstirtions                                                 3,021.4       25.2
7. Bonds                                                                  266.2        2.2
8. Other public debt  .e.i.                                                              -
9. Total psblic debt                                                   11,991.6      100.0
10. Otheo 8MT debt                                                         461.2
II. Total public asd other MLT debt (disburnea)                         12,452.8
12. Total pablic ana othec MLT debt (isol. ansisb-rsed)                 19,080.7
C. Memoran-du It-es
1. Grant rlemrnt of total commitments                       25.2    25.8      30.5    37.2    25.2     27.7      10.6     11.1       8.0      7.4
2. Average interest (l)                                       5.1     5.1      5.2     4.8     6.1       8.0      7.9      8.0       8.2      8.8
3. Average  maturity pIears)                                14.1    17.9      19.0    23.6   18.3       11.6     13.0     13.0      11.4     14.4
/aIsclosec is oshoc faostor service income.
/b   Net of "aravings' ana  cepupluess  ny purchase  (IPS).
Is Includes borroeilgs by the banking system.
/I Exc-udes net sue of IMF resouroes vhich are sho.n separately.
/e  International Reserves"  'IS).
/f ADB.
/g  Includes bilateral 0DA, Eilmbanks, official eporst -cdits, isnding US CCC Credits.
/h  Other gurated privi_e loans.
/i  Priiase las.
/1I E            Cludes IFt.
Nove-ber 29, 1979



-27-                                     ANNEX II
Page 1 of 14 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of February 29, 1980)
Loan or                                                                                 Amount ($ million)
Credit       Calendar                                                                  (less cancellations)
Number         Year          Borrower             Purpose                         Bank   TW    IDA   Undisbursed
Eighteen Loans and eight credits fully disbursed                                  698.2  40.0  106.8
906          1973    Republic of Korea        Education II                        23.0                       1.1
917          1973    Republic of Korea        Ports I                             80.0                       1.4
953          1974    Republic of Korea        Tourism                             25.0                       0.5
994          1974    AFDC                     Agriculture                         13.0                       0.3
1070          1975    Republic of Korea        Secondary Cities-Gwangju            15.0                       2.7
1096          1975    Republic of Korea        Education III                       22.5                       4.7
1101          1975    Republic of Korea        Railways V                         100.0                       1.9
1193          1976    Republic of Korea        Second Integrated Dairy Dev.        15.0                       0.4
1203          1976    Republic of Korea        Highways III                        90.0                       2.4
1319          1976    ADC                      Irrigation                          29.0                      24.7
1328          1976    Republic of Korea        Agricultural Credit                 20.0                       0.1
1338          1976    KDB II                   Dev. Finance Co.                    82.5                       3.1
1364          1977    ADC                       Irrigation                         95.0                      74.1
1401          1977    Republic of Korea        Ports II                            67.0                      62.4
1461          1977    KDFC VI                  Dev. Finance Co.                    70.0                       2.2
1466          1977    Republic of Korea        Heavy Mfachinery                    80.0                      24.1
1474          1977    Republic of Korea        Vocational Training                 23.0                      16.0
1503          1978    ADC - Ogseo Stage I   Agriculture/Irrigation                 36.0                      35.9
1507          1978    SMIB II                  Dev. Finance Co.                    55.0                       2.0
1530          1978    Republic of Korea        Rural Infrastructue II              95.0                      59.1
1542          1978    Republic of Korea        Railway VI                         120.0                      31.2
1574          1978    KDB III                  Dev. Finance Co.                   110.0                      42.4
1635          1978    KDFC VII                 Dev. Finance Co.                   100.0                      29.5
1640          1978    Republic of Korea        Highways IV                        143.0                     135.7
1666          1979    Republic of Korea        Chungju Multipurpose               125.0                     119.9
1676          1979    Republic of Korea        Electronics Technology              29.0                      27.6
1749          1979    SMIB III                 Dev. Finance Co.                    60.0                      56.2
1758          1979    Republic of Korea        Second Gwangju
Regional                         65.0                      65.0
1774 /a       1979    Republic of Korea        Population I                        30.0                      30.0
1778 /a       1979    Korea Electric Co.    Power                                 115.0                     115.0
1800 /b       1980    Republic of Korea        Education V - Sector Loan          100.0                     100.0
Total                                                             2,731.2  40.0  106.8   1,071.6
of which has been repaid                                          118.5   -       1.8
Total now outstanding                                             2,612.7  40.0  105.0
Amount sold                         8.8
of which has been repaid         4.9                                3.9   -       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                                 2,608.8  40.0  105.3
Total undisbursed                                                 1,071.6   -              1,071.6
/a Effective Mtarch 21, 1980.
/b Effective April 7, 1980.



ANNEX II
-28-                        Page 2 of 14 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of February 29. 1980)
Fiscal                                                           Amount ($ million)
Year      Obligor                 Types of Business             Loan  Equity Total
1968   KDFC                        Development Financing           -      0.7    0.7
1969   Honam Silk Co.              Textiles                       1.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atlas Paper                 Pulp and paper                 4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -         0.6    0.6
1974   KDFC                        Development Financing           -      0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -         0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products              16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Fincance Corp.           Capital Market Development  5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.            Synthetic Fibers               6.9    2.1    9.0
1975   Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.       Tourism                        2.8    0.7    3.5
1976   Korea Investment
Finance Crop.            Capital Market Development   -         0.4    0.4
1976   Chungju Paper Mfg. Co.   Paper                             5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc. Co., Ltd.    Zinc                             15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                        Development Financing         17.8      -    17.8
1976   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products              10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                -      0.2    0.2
1977   KDFC                        Development Financing           -      0.3    0.3
1977   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                  -      0.5    0.5
1977   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.            Capital Market                15.0    0.4   15.4
1978   KDFC                        Development Financing           -      1.1    1.1
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                -      1.7    1.7
1979   KIFC                        Capital Market                  -      0.6    0.6
1979   Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                            -      0.2    0.2
1979   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                -      1.5    1.5
1980   Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products                -      1.8    1.8
1980   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                  -      0.6    0.6
1980   Korea Securities                                            -      0.8    0.8
Finance Corp.
Total gross commitment                                    99.4   22.5  121.9
less cancelations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                    51.7    2.3   54.0
Total commitments now held by IFC                         47.7   20.2   67.9
TOTAL undisbursed                                          -      0.8    0.8
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



-29-                    ANNEX II
Page 3 of 14 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 994      Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$13.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1974; Effective Date:
March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This project provides long-term funds to the Agriculture and
Fisheries Development Corporation (AFDC) for onlending to subborrowers in
the private sector for the purpose of integrating on-farm production of
fruits and vegetables with modern, hygienic processing facilities, using
land that was idle or underutilized. The vegetables and fruits involved are
mainly asparagus, shiitake (oak mushroom), spinach, mushroom, strawberry and
peach. Implementation of the project was delayed by about 18 months owing
to lack of loan demand for some of the processing facilities included in the
project. However, the project is now progressing satisfactorily since
September 1977 when the Bank approved AFDC's proposal to widen the project's
scope to meet changed investor demand. Under the revised scope, AFDC will
finance processing and cold storage of fish, meat, fruits and vegetables,
and also fruit juice extraction and concentration and vegetable drying, for
which the loan demand is strong. Subloan applications and approvals have
increased significantly, and AFDC expects to disburse all the project funds
before the Closing Date. Disbursements as of February 29, 1980 were over
97% of the loan.
Loan No. 1193    Second Integrated Dairy Development Project; $15.0 Million
Loan of June 4, 1976; Effective Date: November 11, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of further development of 400 existing dairy
farms which participated in the first project; the development of 450 new
dairy farms; expansion of existing dairy processing facilities, construction
of a new processing plant; and tecnnical assistance for both farm
development and processing. The effective date was delayed for nearly a
year but the implementation has progressed rapidly and the project may be
completed ahead of schedule. The project will benefit 41% more farmers and
supply 8% more cows than was originally estimated. Technical support to the
farmers has been strengthened but more has to be done to improve pasture
quality and establish a feed regime which would ensure the development of a
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-30-                     ANNEX II
Page 4 of 14 pages
low-cost dairy industry in Korea. The expansion of processing facilities is
progressing steadily and it is anticipated that the actual capacity then
will be significantly above the original estimate. KDBC's financial
condition improved during the last two years. The general prospects are for a
gradually improving trend. As of February 29, 1980, disbursements were over
97% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project: $29.0 Million Loan
of August 5, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project, located in the central region of Korea, is being
financed under the first Bank loan for area development in Korea. A project
office has been established, and construction work is progressing on
the first of five major civil works contracts. A second contract was
awarded in July 1979. Altogether, the five contracts will involve
construction of 8 large and 19 small dams, 284 km of main and secondary
canals and land development for irrigating 12,700 ha. The project, which
will require five years to complete, also involves construction of 80 km of
river channel improvement and 150 km of village access roads, as well as
feasibility studies for a second stage project in the Miho Watershed.
The project is currently two years behind schedule due to major shortfalls
in local budget allocations. As of February 29, 1980, disbursements were
over 14% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1328    Second Agricultural Credit Project; $20.0 Million Loan of
October 12, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is a continuation and expansion of the agricultural
program financed under the First Agricultural Credit Project (Credit
335-KO). It provides funds to the National Agricultural Cooperative
Federation (NACF) for medium- and long-term loans to farmers, through
selected Gun (county) cooperatives of NACF, for investments in apple orchard
development, silkworm rearing houses, sprinkler irrigation for orchards,
greenhouses for vegetable production, and on-farm fruit storage. The loan
became effective on March 10, 1977 and lending to subborrowers commenced in
the following month. Project implementation continues to progress
satisfactorily and total lending is on schedule. As of February 29, 1980,
the loan amount was almost completely disbrused.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977: Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on 20,700
ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include an
estuary dam, sea dike, pumping stations, irrigation canals, reclamation of



-31-                    ANNEX II
Page 5 of 14 pages
5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of uplands for irrigation of
paddy, land consolidation of 3,200 ha, and irrigation of 1,050 ha of up-
lands.  Construction of the access roads and a portion of t^ estuary dam
has been completed. The main contract for estuary dam construction was
awarded in December 1977, in line with the appraisal schedule and
construction is progressing well; however, the irrigation subprojects are
behind schedule due to shortfalls in local budget allocation. As of
February 29, 1979 disbursements were about 22% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 29, 1978:
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project will benefit some 23,000 farm families by providing
new irrigation on 7,100 ha, improved irrigation and drainage on 3,700 ha and
a more assured water supply on an additional 1,500 ha. Project work
consists of nine pumping stations, 190 km of main and secondary canals and
land development including 5,800 ha of land consolidation, 2,500 ha of
improved drainage (of which 1,500 ha would also be consolidated), 2,200 ha
of tertiary irrigation and conversion of 1,800 ha of upland and forest to
paddy land. Construction will be carried out under seven civil works
contracts and three were awarded, about 12 months behind schedule due to
shortfalls in local budget allocations.
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes about 43 minor irrigation, 8,300 river
training and 7,400 water supply subprojects as well as a rural telephone
program. The 1978 program for river training, water supply and rural
telephones was completed on schedule and the 1979 program progressed well.
Design work on the minor irrigation component is proceeding satisfactorily
and contracts have been awarded for 16 subprojects. The total area of the
irrigation subprojects has been finalized at 9,235 ha. As of February 29,
1980, disbursements were over 37% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1666    Chungju Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Milion Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: July 11, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years
following its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood
damage, generate an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually and
provide 460 MW of peaking capacity for Korea's power system. The principal
features of the project are a 90 m high concrete dam across the South Han
River, a power plant containing four 115 MW generating units, and associated



-32-                       ANNEX II
Page 6 of 14 pages
transmission facilities; a reregulating dam about 20 km downstream of the
main dam; relocation of about 100 km of roads and 10 km of railway,
protective works in the reservoir area including the raising of an existing
embankment of a cement plant and other miscellaneous works; implementation
of a resettlement program for some 9,300 families affected by the project;
and consulting services. As of February 29, 1980, disbursements were
about 4% of the total loan amount.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1338    Second Korea Development Bank Project; $82.5 Million Loan,
of which $7.5 Million for the Korea Industrial Leasing
Company, of December 23, 1976; Effective Date: March 21,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project provides $75.0 million to be used by IDB to make sub-
loans to finance direct imports for industrial subprojects during the period
1977-78; the remainder of the loan, $7.5 million, was relent by KDB to its
wholly-owned subsidiary, the Korea Industrial Leasing Corporation (KILC). to
acquire machinery, equipment, facilities and other property to be leased to
investment enterprises. Commitment of funds is progressing as expected; as
of February 29, 1980, disbursements were over 96% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1461    Sixth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$70.0 Million Loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date:
September 15. 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The loan was made to help cover the foreign exchange requirements
of industrial subprojects to be financed by KDFC subloans in 1977-78.
KDFC's performance has been very satisafctory. As of February 29, 1980,
disbursements were over 96% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1466    Heavy Machinery Project; $80.0 Million Loan of June 30,
1977; Effective Date: December 1, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Project cost has increased to $396 million as compared with the
appraisal estimate of $255 million. This is due to increases in scope to
enhance the project's ability to manufacture nuclear power plant; the
devaluation of the US dollar, and domestic inflation. The market prospects
for the project have been affected by licensing of other power plant
manufacturers in Korea. In order to deal with this problem and to strengthien
the financial viability of the project, the Government intends to transfer
responsibility for the project to another company. Details of the transfer
are being worked out between the parties involved and will be submitted to the
Bank for review. As of February 29, 1980, disbursements were nearly 70% of
the loan amount.



ANNEX II
-33-                          Page 7 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1507    Second Medium Industry Bank Project; $55.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 10, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31. 1982
The project provides $55.0 million to be used by MIB to help cover
the foreign exchange requirements of industrial subprojects. A portion of
the loan - $20.0 million - was earmarked to assist small-scale, labor-
intensive subprojects creating employment at a gross capital cost per job
not greater than $6,000 or enterprises whose fixed assets are not greater
than $250,000. As of February 29, 1980, disbursements were over 96% of the
loan amount.
Loan No. 1574    Third Korea Development Bank Project: $110 Million Loan of
June 21. 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978:
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan would be used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the proposed loan would be made available to KDB's
subsidiary, the Korea Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of
subloans in order to finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects.
Overall progress is satisfactory. As of February 29, 1980, disbursements were
over 61% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1635    Seventh Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$100.0 Million Loan of December 7, 1978; Effective Date:
February 6, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan was made to cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC over the years 1979 and 1980. In order
to support relatively labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 mil-
lion was earmarked for financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed
assets not exceeding $750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at a
fixed investment cost per job not greater than $12,500. Also, in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to $10.0
million of the proceeds of the proposed loan will be made available to the
Korea Development Leasing Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company affiliated
to KDFC, by way of subloans. As of February 29, 1980, over 70% of the loan
had been disbursed.
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After initial delays in finalizing specifications and bidding
documents for engineering, support and research equipment, the project



ANNEX II
_34_                        Page 8 of 14 pages
is progressing satisfactorily. Bids have been received and are being
evaluated for a major proportion of the equipment. The training program
is also tnder way. As of February 29, 1980 about 5% of one loan had been
disbursed.
Loan No. 1749    Third Small and Medium Industry Bank Project; $60 Million
Loan of July 23, 1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979,
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange component of domestically
produced capital goods. To ensure that a reasonable proportion of the loan
is directed towards small, labor-intensive projects, an amount of $25 mil-
lion of the proceeds of the loan will be earmarked to finance: (a) enter-
prises with fixed assets not exceeding $300,000; or (b) projects generating
employment at a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $8,500. The
loan would assist SMIB in its efforts to support the Government's policy of
increasing the regional dispersal of employment opportunities and of deep-
ening the industrial structure, and also to continue SMIB support of projects
which would complement large-scale manufacturing enterprises. As of
February 29, 1980, over 6% of the loan had been disbursed.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1774    Population Proiect;$30 Million Loan of December 27, 1979;
Effective Date: March 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project will assist the Government to reduce fertility over the
next five years, and simultaneously reduce infant and maternal mortality,
particularly in rural areas. The project has been designed to reach out into
communities with primary care services, particularly maternal and child health
and family planning. The major components are: (a) improving the delivery
of health and family planning services by strengthening and expanding the
delivery network; (b) increasing demand for services by strengthening and
expanding information, education and communication activities in health and
family planning; and (c) improving the program's evaluation and administra-
tion capacities. The principal beneficiaries will be mothers and children,
primarily in rural areas, who do not have access to services. It is esti-
mated that about 10 million people would be provided primary health care
services under the project, thus lowering fertility, mortality and morbidity.
Education Sector
Loan No. 906      Second Education Project; $23.0 Million Loan and
Credit No. 394   $20.0 Million Credit of June 13, 1973; Effective Date:
September 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project includes assistance for re-equipping 85 educational
institutions at secondary and university levels. The Loan/Credit funds are



ANNEX II
-35-                          Page 9 of 14 pages
mainly used to finance equipment. The Government is financing related
works. Project execution remains about two years behind schedule due to
initial delays and some project changes. The project is now making satis-
factory progress. All the equipment has been contracted, and about 95%
delivered; furniture procurement has been completed; civil works were all
completed by the end of December 1978; and the fellowship program is well
underway. As of February 29, 1980, disbursements were completed under the
Credit and reached over 95% of the total loan amount.
Loan No. 1096    Third Education Project; $22.5 Million Loan of March 31,
1975; Effective Date: June 6, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project includes assistance for extension and equipping of
nine institutions (technical, agricultural and fisheries) under the Ministry
of Education (MOE) and seven vocational training institutes (VTIs) under the
Administrator of Labor Affairs (ALA). Project implementation is satisfactory.
Physical facilities and the technical assistance program have been completed.
Training operations have commenced in five VTIs. However, equipment procure-
ment under the MOE component is delayed by almost one year because of a
temporary shortage of counterpart funds. Only about 75% of equipment has
been awarded and 60% delivered. Delays of equipment procurement under MOE
required a postponement of the Closing Date by one year. Estimated total
project cost now is expected to be below, but close to, the appraisal esti-
mate. As of February 29, 1980, disbursements were about 79% of the total
loan amount.
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Million Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational
Training Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a National Central Vocational
Training Institute (NCVTI) and technical assistance, part of vhich is to be
provided by UNDP and Germany. The implementation schedule is about six months
behind original schedule. Civil works contracts have been awarded for six
of the eight VTIs and are virtually completed for two VTIs. The completed
two VTIs started classes in September 1979. The seventh and eighth VTI will
be contracted early 1980. About 60% of equipment has been awarded and about
20% delivered. Five out of ten experts are in post and the fellowship
program has been completed. Disbursements have improved significantly in
1979 and amount to US$6.8 million or about 1.05% of the appraisal estimate.
As of December 31, 1979, disbursement was about 30% of the total loan.
Since management performance, particularly reporting to the Bank, was
recently unsatisfactory, the Bank urged the Project Director to improve
content of quarterly progress reports and speed up submission to the Bank
of information regarding contracting of civil works and equipment. As of
February 29, 1980, disbursements were over 30% of the loan amount.



-36-                             ANNEX II
Page 10 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1800    Higher Technical Education; $100.0 Million Loan of
February 21, 1980; Effective Date: April 7, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The aim of the sector program is to improve the quality and
content of higher technical education in Korea, so that it can contribute
effectively to the country's technological needs in the eighties. The
sector program is to be financed under the loan, covers three aspects of
higher education, viz. engineering education, management education and tech-
nical training. The program will create a flexible system of supplying
technical skills, remove the principal constraints on quarterly improvement
and reduce the investment gap in private higher technical education. The
overall program, of which a part would be financed under the proposed loan,
would comprise about 10 national programs for organizing, curricula and staff
development, and about 55 subprojects for development of physical facilities.
Tourism Sector
Loan No. 953       Kyonglu Tourism  Project; $25.0 Million Loan of January 4,
1974; Effective Date: May 6, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The project forms part of the first phase of the planned develop-
ment of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multipurpose
dam; an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of
the water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city of
Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and telecom-
munication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or realign-
ment of about 57 m of roads, infrastructure, including storm water drainage,
environmental sanitation, community facilities, and a golf course; and a
school for training hotel personnel. The first two hotels with 600 rooms
were completed and opened for operation on April 1, 1978. Negotiations with
other private investors are under way for a third hotel and also for apart-
ments and restaurants in the Bomun resort area. The total amount of the
loan was expected to be disbursed by the Closing Date.
Regional Development
Loan No. 1070    Secondary Cities Regional Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
January 15, 1975; Effective Date: August 18, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Implementation of the Secondary Cities Regional Project is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Three housing sites, two access roads, a city
market fishery harbor infrastructure and building complex and associated
electrical works have been completed. Installation of refrigeration
and ice handling equipment at the fishery complex has experienced some
delays; the fishery complex is now expected to be fully operational by



37                     ATNEX II
Page 11 of 14 pages
1Iarch 1980. Construction of houses at all three sites has been completed
and the sites are fully occupied. After the initial delays, mainly in
fulfilling conditions of effectiveness and establishing the Gwangju Regional
Development Unit, the project has moved extreiely well.  As of February 29,
1980, disbursement was about 82% of the loan amount.
Loan No. 1758    Second Gwangju Regional Project; $65.0 Million Loan of
September 27, 1979; Effective Date: February 15, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation of the Second Gwangju Regional Project has started.
The physical works have been divided into 15 subprojects. Civil work
contracts for three subprojects (lIogpo Water Supply, Shrimp Storage Faci-
lity and Gwangju Industrial Estate Access Road) are planned to be awarded
this year. Detailed designs, contract documents and prequalification of
contractors have been completed for these three subprojects. Consultants
are expected to complete detailed designs and contract documents for other
subprojects by mid-1980. A detailed implementation plan for the aquaculture
program is being prepared. Preparation of Terms of Reference for various
studies under Technical Assistance Program are underway. Although some
problems are being experienced in arranging counterpart funds and some minor
design delays have occurred, project implementation is going satisfactorily.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 917      Ports Project; $80.0 Mlillion Loan of June 27. 1973;
Effective Date: September 18, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Civil works and provision of equipment financed under the First
Port Project are completed. Final estimated cost is $143 million including
$101 million foreign exchange. The excess foreign exchange requirement over
the $80 million provided by the Bank loan is being provided by a Saudi Fund
for Development loan of $35 million to the Korean Governnent; this loan was
based upon the revised foreign exchange requirements of $115 million arrived
at following the first large increase in the price of petroleum products.
The balance of the latter loan will be spent on additional civil works.
Loan No. 1101    Fifth Railway Project; $100.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: July 15, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
The project will help the Korean Nlational Railraod (KNR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers by providing for: the upgrading,
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and other
equipment; the improvement of the efficiency of operation; and the strengthen-
ing of its financial position. The main components of the project are: an



ANNEX II
-38-                         Page 12 of 14 pages
increase in station and line capacity and improvements in signaling; acquisi-
tion of rolling stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts and
repair facilities; track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening;
completion of electrification of 71 km of industrial lines; and other
miscellaneous items. All contracts to be financed from the loan have been
awarded and most of the equipment delivered.  Over 98% of the loan proceeds
had been disbursed by February 29, 1980.
Loan No. 1203    Third Highway Project; $90.0 Million Loan of February 20,
1976; Effective Date: Mlay 17, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignments, including paving, of about 195 km of four
national highways, including supervision of the work by consultants; (b)
paving and improvement, chiefly on present alignments, of nine national
highways totaling about 600 km, including supervision of the work by
consultants; and (c) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km of
national and provincial roads, to be followed by detailed engineering. All
contracts for construction and paving were completed by June 1979. Feasi-
bility studies by consultants started in January 1978, and are now proceeding
satisfactorily. As of February 29, 1980, disbursements were about 97% of
the total loan.  The Saudi Fund for Development is providing a loan of $35
million to assist in financing the project.
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Mlillion Loan of April 28, 1977;
Effective Date: July 27, 1977;_ Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The project consists of: (a) a 700 m extension of container
berths being financed under the First Ports Project and a 335,000 sq m
expansion of the container stacking area provided under that project with
ancilliary works; rehabilitation of piers 3 and 4, the central wharf, and
lighter wharf No. 5; (b) procurement of container cranes, mobile container
handling equipment, and tugboats; (c) Engineering Consultant Services and
(d) Technical Assistance and Training. Contracts for the extension of
container berths and for rehabilitation of pier No. 4 and lighter warf
No. 5 were let in July and December 1979 respectively, following delay in
appointing the consultants for final engineering. Estimated costs have
increased to $170 million ($67 foreign exchange) compared with the appraisal
estimate of $112 ($70 foreign exchange). KMPA expects to introduce commer-
cial accounting from January 1, 1983. Traffic and specially containerized
general cargo traffic continues to increase at Busan.



ANNEX II
-39-                          Page 13 of 14 pages
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The project would provide KNR with the capacity required to meet
forecast traffic, and reduce operating and maintenance costs. It includes
continued double tracking and electrification of lines, extension of yards
and terminals, continued installation of centralized traffic control, track
and rail renewal, separation of road and rail at crossings, installation of
a permanent way workshop, procurement of diesel locomotives, passenger cars
and freight cars, provision of a new passenger car workshop, installation
of additional telecommunication and power facilities and provision of tech-
nical assistance to KNR.  The loan will also finance transport sector
studies. Contracts for about 98% of the equipment to be financed under the
loan have been awarded and most of the equipment is under delivery. The
feasibility of major investments for 1980 and 1981 has been carried out and
the transport sector studies are under way. As of February 29, 1980,
disbursements were about 74% of the total loan.
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Mlillion Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date:  March 14, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement,
including paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national
roads totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads
totaling about 280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance
equipment for maintaining national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the
institutions involved in the planning, design, maintenance, construction,
administration and financing of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the
preparation of a program for improving the organization and functions of
such institutions, upgrading provincial and gun road maintenance and the
future development of the gun road system, to be followed by detailed
engineering of about 2,000 km of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships
for training staff of the Ministry of Construction. Construction of one
road was started in April 1979, and bids on the remaining roads are scheduled
for August 1979. A contract for the study was signed, and work started,
in September 1979. However, due to budgetary constraints, the work is pro-
ceeding slower than originally scheduled. As of February 29, 1980,
disbursements were about 5% of the total loan.
Power Sector
Loan No. 1778    Gojeong Power Project, $115 Million Loan of December 27,
1979; Effective Date: March 21, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project constitutes the next logical step in KECO's power
development program to meet the load growth up to 1986. The project would



-40-                          ANITEX II
Page 14 of 14 pages
provide for the installation of two 500 11J coal/oil-fired units and associated
auxiliary equipment; coal handling and storage facilities, fuel oil tanks,
ash system and storage area, a fuel unloading dock for ships up to 100,000
DWT displacement; a pumping station and a 17 km steel pipe to transport
fresh water to the station; and a 160 km double circuit, 345 KV transmission
line between the power station and Seoul, and related terminal substations
and management consulting services. The project will enable KECO to meet
part of the increased demand of the interconnected system from 1984, and it is
expected that it will help to improve KECO's planning, organization, finances,
and the structure of electricity rates. An important benefit is the intro-
duction of advanced technology to Korea, through the participation of local
manufacturers in association with foreign companies, in the manufacture of
some of the main equipment.



-41-                             ANNEX III
KOREA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS PROCESSING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Agency which Prepared the Project:           AFDC
(b)  Date of the First Bank Mission to
Consider the Project:                      June 14, 1979
(c)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:              September 14, 1979
(d)  Negotiations Completed:                      April 11, 1980
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:               August 29, 1980
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) The upgrading and expansion of the present Project Unit (PU)
to a Project Department (PD) along lines acceptable to the Bank
would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 60).
(b) All subloans above the free limit of $500,000 would be sent to
the Bank for its review and approval (para. 65).
(c) The maximum size of a subloan would not exceed $2 million,
although the Bank may consider financing larger subloans in a
few exceptional cases (para. 66).
(d) Lending to large processors would not exceed 40% of the total
project funds (para. 66).
(e) The lending rate to subborrowers will be at least 12% p.a.
(para. 67).
(f)  The Government s loan of $13 million to AFDC would be for a
period of 11 years, including 3 years of grace, and would be
provided as and when reauired bv AFDC (para. 67).
(g) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, subsidiaries and
affiliated companies of AFDC would not be eligible to borrow
under the project (para. 68).






I1BRD12351RI
127_                     128'                      12P
s  X  1Xs  ~N - R T H  0R A  r                                     30
CHINA                                   .
''/§<vC~~~~~~~ ,mw -~                  "gS                          t
N,KREA !
,KOREA     i                   P                                                                                          38-
c ,? /f             Y <       _.            Uij
~~-                                        ' Iv.E
'*., ,c                                            +++Rail\,as underconstruction
125?                     12-                                                                     P
' rt 'P. an    y40                                         Je 80slon
'~                                                                                               j ~ ~~$S e o g w ipra  FliE
125'312f-7.27-                                                                   IWr,*                     12,93
Jeoghon   eono
N   " rM              e     \-
n4e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
Jangh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rrnr od
-3e                                                                                          e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RlwysudrCntstofgl
34.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ju~~~~~~~~~~-IArot
-I-.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~io
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ot
RI vera~~~~
0K            40 R0E8                      10
2?  126                        t27                         0?                       t29~~~~~~~~~- riar rad



