Report No. PIC726
Project Name                   India-Andhra Pradesh State Highway Project (@#
Region                         South Asia
Sector                         Transportation
Project ID                     INPA9995
Borrower                       Government of India
Implementing Agency            Roads & Buildings Department (RBD)
Government of Andhra Pradesh
Hyderabad - 500 022, India
Contact: Principal Secretary
Transport, Roads & Buildings
Telephone: 91-40-234-591
Fax: 91-40-393-197
Date Prepared                  October 1996
Projected Appraisal Date       December 1996
Projected Board Date           March 1997
1.   Country and Sector Background
1.1   At national and state levels,   the transport scene in India is
characterized by the growing importance of road transport. The demand
for intercity freight transport in India is expected to double every 12
years while the demand for passenger transport is expected to double
every 8-9 years. The share of total demand going to roads in India is
now about 60 percent of freight and 85 percent of passenger traffic,
with the railroads carrying the balance.
1.2   Since 1950, the core system of paved National roads and State
roads (State Highways and state Major District Roads) has expanded over
seven-fold, from about 19,800 km to about 156,000 km, yet comprised only
2t and 20t respectively of all roads in the 1990 national road
inventory. In traffic terms, however, the National network carries
about 35 W of all road traffic while the State network carries about 60
, leaving 5 percent for the rural road network. The rapid expansion of
the network, although achieving the political and social objectives of
national connectivity and rural access, was only made possible by
spreading resources over a great deal of single-lane (3.75 m wide) and
intermediate-lane (5.5 m) carriageway roads with thin pavements.
India's arterial road system is now highly congested and of poor riding
quality, causing high vehicle operating costs and low quality services
for users.
1.3   A declining share for road investments in Plan funding allocations
is in large part responsible for this situation. However, at least
equally serious for road programs are the absorptive capacity and
implementation constraints of the sector agencies such the state Public
Works Departments (PWDs). Sector reforms are needed to foster
introduction of high-quality engineering services and technologically
advanced road construction practices capable of delivering cost-



effective, high-quality road infrastructure on schedule, and to foster
sound, systematic road network maintenance policies to maximize road
asset life. Some of India's states (led by Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and
Rajasthan) have now, with national government support, endorsed such
reforms in their context for implementation in conjunction with major
road upgrading proposals involving the Bank's assistance.
1.4    The State of Andhra Pradesh with a population of approximately 70
million and an area of 275,000 square km is both the fifth most populous
and fifth largest State of the Union. The highway network of the State
consists of a total of 138,000 km of highways of which 2,950 km are
classified as National Highways (NH), 8,750 km as State Highways (SH),
and 32,650 as Major District Roads (MDR). Even though the SH/MDR
network carries over 60t of the State's traffic, 53t of SH and nearly
90t of MDRs are still single lane.   Vehicle registrations have increased
by approximately 16t per annum during the last five years and traffic is
projected to grow at least at 7-8w per annum for the foreseeable future.
This indicates that for many of the road links, congestion is already a
serious problem.
2.   Project Objectives.   The objectives of the project will be to: (a)
promote a more rational and efficient approach to road investment
planning, management and maintenance at the state level; (b) improve the
GOAP's institutional capabilities in the sector; (c) improve longer-term
resource mobilization in the sector to ensure financial sustainability
of the State's SH/MDR network; (d) upgrade the capabilities of the
private engineering and construction industry to meet growing demand for
high quality highways, engineering and construction services; and (e)
improve the riding quality and capacity of selected congested segments
of the SH/MDR network to reduce vehicle operating costs, travel time,
accidents and pollution.
3.   Project Description.   The proposed project would principally
consist of: (a) civil works for widening and rehabilitation of about
1100 km of state highways; (b) financing, during the project period, of
a declining share of road maintenance needs; (c) technical assistance
for updating and expanding a pavement management system for state roads;
(d) technical assistance for reforming and institutional strengthening
of the State's road transport agencies and sustainable financing of road
maintenance; and (e) consulting services for project engineering design,
monitoring and coordination of implementation, and for supervision of
civil works.
4.   Project Cost and Financing.   The total project cost including
contingencies and taxes is estimated at approximately US$ 350 million,
which will finance the widening, strengthening and/or rehabilitation of
up to 1400 km of major roads, necessary consultancy and supervision
services, strengthened maintenance of Andhra Pradesh's major road
network, and institutional strengthening measures. The actual project
amount is subject to further review at appraisal.     The World Bank will
finance 70t of the estimated final total project cost with a IBRD loan
of approximately US$ 4 million and the Government of Andhra Pradesh will
meet the 30t counterpart funding.
5.   Project Implementation.   The proposed project would be implemented
-2 -



by the Government of Andhra Pradesh through its Roads and Buildings
Department (RBD), with the comprehensive assistance of Project
Coordinating Consultants (PCC) funded under the project.
6.   Lessons from Previous Operations.   The project implementation
record of the sector has been mixed, with poor performance most often
attributable to: (i) inadequate pre-qualification standards for
contractors; (ii) weak project implementation and management capacities
for complex civil works contracts; (iii) ineffectuality of contract
performance provisions; (iv) shortage of competent mechanized road
construction contractors; (v) the Bank's logistical difficulties in
supervising multi-state projects; (vi) facilitation delays in land
acquisition and clearance of obstructions from project roadways; (vii)
poor quality of project surveys and designs; and (viii) limited
assimilation by borrowers of agreed Bank procurement rules.
7.   Project Sustainability.   This will be addressed at two
complementary levels. The project works being implemented with the PCC
services will entail internationally-proven engineering standards and
practices. A progressive skills transfer program for RBD staff is to be
provided, and various forms of technical assistance will target the
RBD's skills and systems needs to achieve more effective technical and
operational management.    The quality of the project road works should
themselves ensure road performance and durability considerably exceeding
current norms. The longer-term sustainability of the project benefits
would be ensured through: (i) strengthened processes for improved road
maintenance planning and execution; (ii) the re-orientation of the RBD's
roads functions increasingly involving private sector project
engineering, construction and supervision services; and (iii) associated
institution building measures to strengthen the organizational, policy
and financial dimensions of road infrastructure management in Andhra
Pradesh.
8.   Poverty Category.   This project is not directly aimed at poverty
alleviation, although it will also produce distributed benefits
progressively in that context.
9.   Environmental and Social Impact.   A sector-level Environment
Assessment will be completed before Bank appraisal of the project, with
provision for more detailed assessment if necessary. Minimum adverse
environmental impacts are expected during construction operations and
from the road works, as the construction of any new roads is not
envisaged. All project works will be limited to the strengthening,
widening and/or improvement of road pavements and shoulders within the
existing right of way, minimizing the need for land acquisition and the
involuntary resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) of people en route.
Where R&R aspects arise, this will be surveyed beforehand and
comprehensively addressed in accordance with the relevant Bank
guidelines. Some sections of existing roads pass close to
sensitive environmental areas. The extent of impacts of road widening
are being reviewed by the government in specific sub-studies related to
these sections. Beneficial environmental impacts are expected due to
the improved engineering of roads leading to decreased traffic
congestion, lower noise levels and improved safety.
- 3 -



10.  Project Benefits & Project Risks.     The main direct benefits
expected from this project will be (i) greater efficiency in transport
operations on the State's road network; (ii) more effective management
and maintenance of the major road network by Andhra Pradesh
authorities; (iii) enhanced road planning, financing, investment and
implementation capacity in relevant State entities, and (iv)
assimilation of modern high-quality road engineering and construction
methods and capabilities by the PWD and local industry.     The risks to
the project relate directly to: (i) the State's ongoing commitment
during project preparation and implementation to Bank lending conditions
and requirements; (ii) the effectiveness of the state's financial
planning to provide for counterpart funding obligations; (iii) the
state's actions to implement appropriate long-term funding levels as
required for effective road network maintenance and management; and (iv)
inaction on the necessary institutional reforms and strengthening
measures.
Note:     Environmental Data Sheet is available at the Public
Information Center upon request.
Contact Point:            Chris Hoban, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No. : 202-473-3783
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Centr week ending October 25, 1996.
- 4 -



