Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4192 IN
Project Agreement
(Andhra Pradesh State Highway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
Dated July 30, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4192 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH (Andhra Pradesh). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between India, acting by 
its President (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to 
the Borrower an amount equal to three hundred fifty million dollars ($350,000,000), on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that 
Andhra Pradesh agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth 
in this Agreement; 
(B)
Andhra Pradesh in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
Page  2
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) Andhra Pradesh declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project, and cause RBD to carry out the Project, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and 
engineering practices and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Andhra Pradesh shall otherwise agree, Andhra Pradesh shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02.  (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall carry out the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto,  Andhra Pradesh shall: 
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) 
after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this 
purpose between the Bank and Andhra 
Pradesh, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; 
and 
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with Andhra Pradesh on said plan. 
Section 2.04. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange 
views with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Loan. 
(b)
Andhra Pradesh shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the performance by Andhra Pradesh of its 
obligations under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition in respect of activities related to the Project, of the departments or 
agencies of Andhra Pradesh responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
Andhra Pradesh shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank; 
Page  3
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such 
year, (A) certified copies of its financial 
statements for such 
year as so audited and (B) the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; 
and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records, accounts and financial statements as well 
as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably 
request. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Andhra 
Pradesh thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Andhra 
Pradesh thereof. 
Section 4.03. All provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Andhra Pradesh:
Chief Secretary
Government of Andhra Pradesh
Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh
500022, India
Cable address:
CHIEFSEC
Hyderabad
Andhra Pradesh
Page  4
India
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Andhra Pradesh 
may be taken or executed by its Chief Secretary, or such other person or persons as 
Andhra Pradesh shall designate in writing, and Andhra Pradesh shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
By /s/ Sudhakar Rao
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works and goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Prequalification 
Bidders for contracts under Part A of the Project shall be prequalified in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Dispute Review Board 
Each contract for works estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines. 
Page  5
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
The following may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines: (a) works up to $10,000,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000,000 
equivalent; and (b) goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,600,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply to: (a) each contract for civil works estimated to cost equal to or more 
than the equivalent of $5,000,000; (b) the first three contracts for civil works that 
cost less than the equivalent of $5,000,000; and (c) each contract for goods estimated 
to cost more than the equivalent of $100,000. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedure set forth in paragraph 4 to Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Page  6
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph. 
The short list of consultants for services for resettlement monitoring and 
implementation under Part A of the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 per 
contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for institutional capacity improvement under Part C of the Project may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services provided by consulting firms that are estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 
equivalent, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines provided that the service contracts, in the aggregate, cost less 
than $300,000 equivalent.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the 
equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the 
second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  
Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
SCHEDULE 2 
Page  7
Implementation Program
1.
Andhra Pradesh shall:
(a)
maintain the Implementation and Tender Committee, which has been 
constituted by Andhra Pradesh, consisting of the Principal Secretary, Transport, Roads 
and Buildings; Principal Secretary, Works and Projects; Secretary, Finance; and 
Engineer-in-Chief, Roads and Buildings, to carry out functions, including: (i) 
approving contracts based on the recommendations of the PIU; (ii) ensuring 
inter-departmental coordination within the government of Andhra Pradesh; and (iii) 
facilitating high-level government decisions, when necessary;
(b)
cause RBD to produce a quarterly report, for review by the Implementation 
and Tender Committee and the Bank, on: (i) the implementation progress of the Project, 
including the progress of the EMP (as hereinafter defined) and RAP (as hereinafter 
defined); and (ii) proposed action plans for the Project; 
(c)
cause RBD: (i) by September 30, 1997, to identify the core network (“Core 
Network”) of about 10,000 km of roads, including state highways and approximately 
2,000 km of important major district roads (“IMDRs”), on the basis of high traffic 
volumes and functional importance in the state’s road network; and (ii) by January 31 
of each year, to carry out a pavement management system (“PMS”) analysis of the Core 
Network’s optimal maintenance spending requirements for the following Fiscal Year and 
share the analysis results with the Bank;
(d)
(i) establish a separate budget head for the maintenance of the IMDRs; 
and (ii) by March 31 of each year, ensure that there is funding for at least 80 
percent of the optimal maintenance spending requirements established by the annual PMS 
analysis for the Core Network; and
(e)
submit a report to the Bank, by March 31 of each year, on: (i) the 
proportions of the Core Network classified by RBD as being in good, fair and poor 
conditions; (ii) the proposed road maintenance spending for the following Fiscal Year; 
and (iii) progress in the strengthening of road maintenance management.
2.
Andhra Pradesh shall:
(a) 
without limitation to Section 9.09 of the General Conditions, take such 
action as may be necessary to acquire the land as and when needed for carrying out the 
Project;
(b)
carry out all measures necessary to mitigate the possible negative 
environmental impact of road construction and improvement under the Project in 
accordance with the Environmental Management Plan dated April 25, 1997 (“EMP”) and 
approved by the Bank, which EMP may be amended from time by agreement between Andhra 
Pradesh and the Bank; and
(c)
take all steps necessary to carry out the Resettlement Action Plan dated 
April 25, 1997 (“RAP”) and approved by the Bank for the resettlement of people 
affected by the Project, which RAP may be amended from time by agreement between 
Andhra Pradesh and the Bank.
3.
Andhra Pradesh shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about July 31, 1999, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
Page  8
(c)
review with the Bank, by August 31, 1999, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
4.
Andhra Pradesh shall not use the proceeds of the Loan to widen, strengthen, 
improve or maintain the road section from Guntur to Thokapalle unless Andhra Pradesh 
proposes a road link, which is satisfactory to the Bank, bypassing the Nagarjuna 
Sagar-Srisialam Sanctuary.
5.
With respect to the road section from Guntur to Thokapalle and from Thokapalle 
to Nandyal and any road section not presently selected for the Project, Andhra Pradesh 
shall submit to the Bank an Environmental Management Plan and a Resettlement Action 
Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, covering the relevant road section before i
nviting bids 
relating to works on such road section.
