Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4192 IN
Loan Agreement
(Andhra Pradesh State Highway Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 30, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4192 IN 
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  July 30, 1997, between INDIA acting by its President (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank):
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out in the State of Andhra Pradesh with the 
Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make 
available to the State of Andhra Pradesh the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
State of Andhra Pradesh;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement:
(a)
 Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall 
have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for 
a continuous period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the 
Bank determines, after consultation with 
the Borrower, that an 
amount of the Loan will not be required to finance 
the Project’
s costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) 
at any time, the Bank determines, with respect to any contract 
to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or 
fraudulent practices 
were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank 
to 
remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, or (d) at any time, 
the Bank determines that the 
procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the 
amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, 
or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan 
shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank 
shall have received notice 
from the Guarantor pursuant to 
Section 6.07 with respect to an amount 
of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such 
amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the 
Loan shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Andhra Pradesh” means the State of Andhra Pradesh, a State of the 
Borrower; 
(b)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower’s and Andhra Pradesh’s fiscal 
year, starting April 1, and ending March 31 each year; 
(c)
“PIU” refers to the Project Implementation Unit that will be established 
within RBD (hereinafter defined) to coordinate and manage the Project; 
(d)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Andhra 
Pradesh of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(e)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated September 
30, 1994 and October 10, 1994 between the Borrower and the Bank;
(f)
“RBD” means the Roads and Buildings wing of the Department of  Transport, 
Roads and Buildings of the Government of Andhra Pradesh; and 
(g)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to three 
hundred fifty million dollars ($350,000,000). 
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, 
the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, 
and after the 
initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest 
Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollar 
for value the first day of such Interest Period 
(or, in the case of 
the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or 
plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered 
rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, 
in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund 
single 
currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
Page  4
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable January 15 and July 15 
in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause Andhra Pradesh to perform in accordance with the respective provisions of 
the Project Agreement all the obligations of Andhra Pradesh therein set forth, shall 
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary to enable Andhra Pradesh to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance. 
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Andhra Pradesh 
in accordance with the Borrower’s standard arrangements for developmental assistance 
to the States of India.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by 
Andhra Pradesh pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which 
the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
Page  5
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section and those for the Special Account 
for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such 
year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by Andhra Pradesh, and is legally binding upon Andhra Pradesh in accordance 
with its terms. 
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by Andhra Pradesh, and is legally binding upon Andhra 
Pradesh in accordance with its terms. 
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director, 
Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the 
Ministry of Finance of the Borrower  is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Department of Economic Affairs
Ministry of Finance
New Delhi, India
Cable address: 
Telex:
ECOFAIRS
       953-31-66175 FINE IN
New Delhi
       953-31-61430 FINE IN
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
Page  6
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
       248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
        64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INDIA
By /s/ Sudhakar Rao
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu
Regional Vice President 
South Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                Amount of the
               Loan Allocated
     % of
               (Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
            Dollars)      to be Financed
(1)
Civil works 
          300,400,000
70%
(2)
Goods
                  2,000,000
100% of foreign 
                           expenditures, 100%
                           of local expenditures
                           (ex-factory cost) and
                           80% of local expen-
                           ditures for other items 
                           procured locally
(3)
Consultants’ services  30,200,000        100%
(including services 
provided by NGOs),
training and studies
(4)
Refunding of
           2,400,000
Amounts due
Project Preparation
             pursuant to
Page  7
Advance
                    Section 2.02 (c)
                    of this Agreement
 (5)
Unallocated
          15,000,000
                __________
TOTAL
         350,000,000
                ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $2,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule on amounts of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
June 1, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (ii) works under contracts not exceeding $500,000 
equivalent; (iii) services of consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $200,000 
equivalent; (iv) services of individual consultants under contracts not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent; and (v) training and studies, under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist Andhra Pradesh in: (a) reducing 
transportation costs and constraints on economic activity by improving the capacity 
and condition of selected highly-trafficked segments of state highways and major 
district roads; and (b) improving institutional capabilities in the transportation 
sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:  
Road Widening and Strengthening
Widening and improving about 1400 km of selected high-traffic volume state 
highways and major district roads.
Part B:  
Road Maintenance
Improving and implementing road maintenance by: (a) developing a sustainable 
program of periodic maintenance work for priority state highways and major district 
roads and an emergency maintenance work program for about 20 km of national highway; 
(b) developing pilot demonstration projects to introduce and test alternative 
approaches and best practices for road maintenance works and engineering services; and 
(c) providing technical assistance and training.
Part C: 
Institutional Capacity Improvement
Improving and strengthening the institutional capacity of RBD and other state 
transport agencies through the provision of technical assistance, training and 
equipment to modernize the road management system.
Page  8
* * 
*
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*
January 15, 2003
7,430,000 
July 15, 2003
7,645,000 
January 15, 2004
7,870,000 
July 15, 2004
8,105,000 
January 15, 2005
                    8,340,000 
July 15, 2005
8,585,000 
January 15, 2006
8,840,000 
July 15, 2006
9,100,000 
January 15, 2007
9,365,000 
July 15, 2007
9,640,000 
January 15, 2008
9,925,000 
July 15, 2008
      10,215,000 
January 15, 2009
      10,520,000 
July 15, 2009
      10,825,000 
January 15, 2010
      11,145,000 
July 15, 2010
      11,475,000 
January 15, 2011
      11,810,000 
July 15, 2011
      12,155,000 
January 15, 2012
      12,515,000 
July 15, 2012
      12,885,000 
January 15, 2013
      13,260,000 
July 15, 2013
      13,650,000 
January 15, 2014
      14,055,000 
July 15, 2014
      14,465,000 
January 15, 2015
      14,890,000 
July 15, 2015
      15,330,000 
January 15, 2016
      15,780,000 
July 15, 2016
      16,245,000 
January 15, 2017
      16,720,000 
July 15, 2017
             17,215,000
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollar to be 
repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$18,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $10,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Page  9
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $45,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other 
evidence required pursuant to para\1fgraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under the respective 
eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been 
justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account for the Project, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
Page  10
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the  
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
