                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                     Report No: 29883-IN

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (SCL-41920 PPFB-P2490)

                                                  ON A

                                                  LOAN

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$350.0 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                       GOVERNMENT OF INDIA

                                                FOR THE

                          ANDHRA PRADESH STATE HIGHWAY PROJECT




                                           November 29, 2004




Energy and Infrastructure Unit
South Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

(Exchange Rate Effective November 23, 2004)

       Currency Unit = Rupee
              INR.1.0 = US$ 0.0221
              US$ 1.0 = INR 45.095

              FISCAL YEAR
           April 1     March 31

  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

  APSH   Andhra Pradesh State Highway Project
  BOQ    Bill of Quantity
  BOT    Build, Operate and Transfer
  CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
  CMG    Corporate Management Group
  CSCs   Construction Supervision Consultants
  GIS    Geographical Information System
  GOAP Government of Andhra Pradesh
  GOA    Government of Australia
  GOI    Government of India
  EMP    Environment Management Plan
  ERR    Economic Rate of Return
  ICR    Implementation Completion Report
  IDS    Institutional Development Study
  IPC    Interim Payment Certificate
  JV     Joint Venture
  LA     Land Aquisition
  MDR    Major District Road
  NPV    Net Present Value
  PAP    Project Affected People
  PCC    Project Coordinating Consultant
  PIU    Project Implementation Unit
  PMS    Pavement Management System
  QAG    Quality Assessment Group
  RAP    Resettlement Action Plan
  RBD    Roads and Buildings Department
  RDC    Road Development Corporation
  RIS    Road Information System
  ROB    Railways Over Bridge
  RUB    Roads Under Bridge
  SH     State Highway
  TTL    Task Team Leader


      Vice President:      Praful C. Patel
    Country Director:      Michael F. Carter
     Sector Manager:       Guang Z. Chen
  Task Team Leader:        Stein Lundebye

                                              INDIA
                   ANDHRA PRADESH STATE HIGHWAY PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                   Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   9
6. Sustainability                                                                     12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    14
9. Partner Comments                                                                   17
10. Additional Information                                                            17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 30
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation                                                        31
Annex 9. Stakeholder's Workshop                                                       38
Annex 10. Implementation Progress of Institutional Development Action Plan (IDAP)     44

Project ID: P009995                                                  Project Name: ANDHRA PRADESH STATE
                                                                     HIGHWAY PROJECT
Team Leader: Stein Lundebye                                          TL Unit: SASEI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: November 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: ANDHRA PRADESH STATE HIGHWAY                             L/C/TF Number: SCL-41920; PPFB-P2490
                            PROJECT
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (97%); Central government administration
                            (3%)
                  Theme: Municipal governance and institution building (P); Other urban
                            development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/15/1995                                     Effective: 10/02/1997                10/02/1997
     Appraisal: 03/10/1997                                         MTR: 10/02/1999                  10/29/1999
      Approval: 06/17/1997                                      Closing: 01/31/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOI/Roads and Buildings Department (RBD); GOI/GOAP
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Robert S. Drysdale
Sector Manager:                 Guang Z. Chen                                  Jean-Francois Bauer
Team Leader at ICR:             Stein Lundebye                                 Chris Hoban
ICR Primary Author:             Ashok Kumar


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1    The original project objectives were: (i) to reduce transport costs and transport constraints on
economic activity; and (ii) to improve the State's institutional capabilities to manage road programs and
assets. These objectives were clear, realistic, measurable, directly linked to economic growth of the state,
and fully consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for India (1995) as well as with
the Bank report: "The India Transport Sector - Long Term Issues", which recognized improved
infrastructure as critical to the growth of India's economy. The CAS placed emphasis on investments in
high return projects, strengthened public sector planning and project management, increased use of private
sector engineering capacity, and modern road design and construction technologies for the road sector. All
these were fully integrated and covered in the project design. The project objectives were also supportive of
the current CAS objectives including investments in state highways carrying high traffic volumes and
resulting in high returns on the investments.

3.1.2    Before the project start, the state road network had a low carrying capacity (53% of the state
highways and 90% of the major district roads were single lane with inadequate pavements) and poor riding
quality, and was unable to cope with the traffic growth. The first development objective aimed at removing
these constraints to promote economic growth. The Roads and Buildings Department (RBD) also had
limited implementation capacity, little exposure to international practices, and required a series of
reforms/institutional development initiatives (identified through an Institutional Development Study - IDS)
to improve its business efficiency and core procedures. The second development objective was focused on
building up the capacity of RBD in core business processes and to implement the proposed IDS initiatives.
The project components were limited in number and fully consistent with the project objectives. The project
design has integrated most of the Bank experiences from previous infrastructure projects including: (i) more
comprehensive project preparation prior to project appraisal; (ii) adopting international 'good practice'
engineering services; and (iii) introducing modern highway construction technology for high traffic
corridors. Overall, the project design was sound, clear, realistic, and directly supportive of the Government
of Andhra Pradesh (GOAP) needs. The project design included several good practice examples available at
that time for the road sector including innovative pavement designs, performance based maintenance,
pavement management system, and quality assurance.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1    The project development objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1    The project consisted of the following three major components:

·        Component 1 - Road Widening and Strengthening (US$400.6 million): Civil works for widening
         and strengthening of about 1,400 km of high-traffic volume State Highways (SHs) and Major
         District Roads (MDRs) of the State primary core network; consultancy services for engineering
         designs and supervision of works; and rehabilitation assistance to the project affected people.




                                                     - 2 -

·        Component 2 - Road Maintenance (US$73.7 million): Heavy periodic maintenance of 1,750 km of
         primary core network roads to reduce the periodic maintenance backlog for SHs and MDRs
         networks; pilot performance based road maintenance contracts on 1,200 km of roads to
         demonstrate more effective routine maintenance practices; and consulting services.

·        Component 3 - Institutional Reform and Strengthening (US$8.8 million): This component included
         consultancy services for development and implementation of an institutional strengthening program
         for RBD, development and implementation of RBD staff capacity building and training program,
         equipment support, and other services.

3.3.2    All the three components were clearly linked to the development objectives. The project focused on
removing transport constraints through road improvement and heavy periodic maintenance works on the
primary core road network (Components 1 and 2). The road improvement works included priority projects
having high returns on the investments, selected on the basis of a detailed feasibility study and economic
analysis. Component 2 focused on reducing the maintenance backlog, and introducing performance based
maintenance contracts incorporating best international practices. The institutional development component
was directly linked to the second development objective and included many fundamental reforms such as
restructuring the existing RBD; establishing a Road Fund and dedicating selected road user charges to it;
and to operationalize the Road Development Corporation (RDC). While these concepts were sound, the
complexities involved to introduce these in terms of hard political decisions seem to have been
underestimated in the project design. It would have also been preferable to prepare and implement an
overall road sector policy, including various good practices introduced under the project to ensure their use
in the entire state and sustainability after project closure.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1    The project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1    No formal Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA) was carried out by QAG. The quality at entry is
rated as satisfactory for the following reasons: (i) clarity, relevance, and importance of the project
development objectives; (ii) sound project design incorporating previous Bank experience in the highway
sector and good practice examples; (iii) project preparation placed adequate emphasis on feasibility studies,
road designs, procurement planning, and various assessments (including social and environmental) to
ensure readiness for implementation; (iv) adequate risk analysis carried out and mitigation measures
identified; (v) the primary core network from which all the project roads were selected, was identified
during project preparation; (vi) draft bid documents for 30% of the road improvement works were received
by the Bank before the project appraisal; and (vii) various outputs related to the project development
objectives were well identified and an institutional development action plan prepared before the start of
project implementation. The project developed a set of well-defined and measurable performance
indicators.




                                                       - 3 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1    Summary: The overall outcome of the project is rated satisfactory as the project objectives were
achieved. The road users and stakeholders perceived significant economic benefits from the project (Annex
9). The main achievements of the project are given below:

Reduce transport costs and transport constraints: The achievement of this objective is rated satisfactory.
Out of a total primary core network of 10,266 km, about 7,330 km of roads were improved during the
project period (of which 3,150 km under APSH). The concept of establishing a core network of primary
roads before the project start was found very effective to prioritize the investments and focus them on
priority needs. The core network roads in poor condition have been reduced from 70% to 28% during the
project implementation. The following were achieved on the roads improved under the project: (i) overall
travel time reduced by 30 to 50%; (ii) average travel speed has gone up to 60-70 km per hour from the
30-35 km per hour; (iii) average roughness reduced to about 2,200 mm per km compared to the pre-project
level of more than 4,000 mm per km; (iv) traffic increased by 150 to 250% - the average traffic growth is
about 20% per annum much above the appraisal estimates of 7-8%. The road users and stakeholders
perceived substantial improvement in riding quality and road geometry; reduction in congestion level, travel
time, and fuel consumption; lower freight charges; better connectivity of the minor roads with the state road
network due to the project; improved availability of modern vehicles; and enhanced road safety especially
during night driving on the project roads. The stakeholders have rated the overall benefits of the project as
high (Annex 9).

4.1.2    The project has significantly contributed to poverty reduction by promoting agriculture
development, employment generation (direct and indirect), and various economic activities in the corridor
of impact of the project roads. Due to the improved road network, spoilage of perishable agricultural
products during carriage is substantially reduced, access to major agricultural markets/business centers is
improved, and the farmers receive better prices for their agriculture produce. The stakeholders also
perceived significant increase in economic activities due to the project.

4.1.3    Improve the State's institutional capabilities to manage road programs and assets: The
achievement of this objective is rated satisfactory. The key performance indicator for this objective was
implementation of the Institutional Development Action Plan and out of the 12 major items listed under the
Plan, the outcome is highly significant for 2, significant for 5, modest for 3, and insignificant for 2 (Table
4.1 and Annex 10). The project has facilitated many improvements in several core business processes of
RBD, including procurement, maintenance management, database planning, and quality assurance. The
RBD have undertaken the following: (i) introduced e-procurement for all civil works more than Rs.
500,000 in value; (ii) established and put to use a computerized road management system in GIS
environment for its entire network (65,000 km); (iii) decided to scale-up the performance based
maintenance contracts, introduced under the project as a pilot, in all districts from FY04/05; (iv)
implemented road safety engineering measures on RBD roads; (vi) established a Pavement Management
System (PMS); (vii) introduced private sector participation through (BOT) projects; and (viii) prepared a
draft road sector policy. The GOAP is also preparing a Road Act to introduce performance based
maintenance, improved corridor management practices, and other good practices.               The GOAP has
increased the overall maintenance funding, during the project implementation, by about 76% from the
pre-project level. The RBD staff has improved their skills and business procedures through overseas and
local training, study tours, and through counterpart training with international consultants.




                                                     - 4 -

         The stakeholders have also perceived (Annex 9) significant improvements in the overall capacity
and business procedures of the RBD, general level of road maintenance, procurement procedures, private
sector participation, and in the capacity of local construction and consulting industry.

4.1.4    However, more fundamental reforms such as reorganization of the RBD and operationalization of
the Road Fund anticipated at the time of appraisal under the project have not been fully implemented.
Nevertheless, the project has made significant contribution to improve institutional capacities of RBD and
has laid a solid foundation for such reforms in future.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1    Road widening and strengthening (Road Improvement)component:

4.2.1.1 The outcome of this component is satisfactory. All civil works on 1,400 km roads and one major
bridge on Krishna River have been completed and opened to traffic. One small road improvement package
(30 km in length) was dropped from the project due to land acquisition and other problems. The level of
service of the roads is very good and well appreciated by the general public according to the road user
satisfaction surveys and stakeholders workshop (Annex 9). Some short isolated road sections faced quality
problems like potholes and cracks, which were rectified by the contractors and now all the project roads are
reported to be in good condition. The riding quality of the project roads is good (roughness level 2,200 mm
per km) and the rate of roughness propagation is relatively low when compared to the roads constructed
with traditional specifications. The RBD used innovative road pavement designs (unbound crushed stone as
a main base layer covered with a thin bitumen surfacing of 30 ­ 40 mm) which provided substantial
savings (about 30%) over the conventional road design specifications. These designs were used for the first
time in India on this scale and the RBD could improve about 1,400 km roads compared to only 900 km, if
they had followed the conventional designs. The RBD adopted a total pavement width of 10 m to
effectively segregate the non-motorized traffic from the motorized traffic. The RBD conducted safety audits
on all 1,400 km of roads and implemented road safety engineering measures such as improved lane
marking, crash barriers, and reflective studs, which significantly improved the road safety and driving
comfort during night driving. These measures have significantly reduced the head-on collisions during night
driving and other types of road accidents. The RBD has now started to use these measures on non-project
roads also.

4.2.1.2 Environmental aspects:       At the project start, the general awareness about transport related
environmental concerns was low. Consequently, implementation of the Environmental Management Plans
(EMPs) was also weak in some areas, which improved considerably during project implementation phase
through the training of contractors and tighter control of the contract conditions by the supervision
consultants. The excavated bituminous material from the old pavements was reused for the improvement of
rural roads in the project area. The afforestation was implemented successfully. However, in some cases
difficulties were faced to implement the tree plantation work through major civil contractors due to their
reluctance to undertake such works and due to inadequate time available under the contract for plantation
of trees and their subsequent care.

4.2.1.3 Land acquisition and Resettlement: The Resettlement Action Plan (RAP), despite delays in land
acquisition and payment of compensation, has been implemented satisfactorily. The project acquired 521
Hectares (Ha) land for which the acquisition process has been fully completed and all the persons losing
land received their compensation. Even though the overall compensation norms were found acceptable,
some landowners have gone to the court for enhancement of their compensation. Out of a total of 3,329
Project Affected Persons (PAPs), 1,902 moved out of their places before the start of works and the



                                                     - 5 -

remaining 1,427 PAPs were provided the agreed support by the GOAP. By and large, the quality of
housing of the PAPs and their income level have significantly improved through the assistance provided and
the employment opportunities created by the project (including direct wage employment). The project has
successfully dovetailed government schemes, particularly in providing house sites and housing, to help
PAPs in their resettlement.

4.2.2    Maintenance Component

4.2.2.1 Heavy periodic maintenance: The outcome of this component is rated satisfactory. About 1,750
km of the core network roads received heavy periodic maintenance under the project which substantially
cleared the maintenance backlog and reduced the vehicle operating costs by about 20% on these roads. The
RBD in-house staff supervised the works. The investments in these works were found to be good value for
money. The level of service of some of these roads is comparable to the improved roads under component
1 but the costs involved are only 30%.

4.2.2.2 Pilot performance-based road maintenance contracts: The RBD has successfully implemented
pilot performance-based road maintenance contracts for about 1,200 km of roads, involving both lump-sum
and BOQ payments, respectively, for the routine and periodic/special maintenance works. These contracts
introduced: (i) quality/performance assured contract documents and administration; and (ii) new/improved
material specifications (Chip seal), equipment, maintenance works methods, and surveillance and
monitoring system for the maintenance. Unit costs for these contacts are comparable with that of traditional
maintenance practices. However, for the same cost, about 25 well-defined maintenance tasks were
implemented under these contracts, compared to only five in the traditional system. These contracts were
found to be very effective, especially for routine maintenance works. The GOAP sees these contracts as a
potential substitute to the traditional labor gang system. The GOAP has now decided to scale-up this pilot
project to all districts in the State. These contracts were used for the first time in India under the project
and the experiences gained are now also being used in other States, including Uttar Pradesh and Kerala.

4.2.3    Institutional Development Component

4.2.3.1 This component included implementation of an Institutional Development Action Plan (prepared
during project preparation), which covered a series of institutional development initiatives to improve the
business efficiency of the RBD. Annex 10 shows the detailed progress made on implementation of the
Action Plan and the Table 4.1 below shows a summary of the outcomes. While most of the initiatives for
the existing RBD were more or less implemented, the initiatives requiring organizational restructuring and
complex decisions could not be implemented.

Table 4.1 Outcome of Various Institutional Development Initiatives Planned at the Appraisal
 Initiative            Outcome         Initiative            Outcome          Initiative              Outcome
 Restructuring of      Insignificant    Dedicating Road User Insignificant    Establishing Corporate  Modest
 RBD                                    Charges to the Road                   Management Group
                                        Fund
 Procurement and        Highly          Increased            Significant      Road Act                Modest
 Contract              Significant      Maintenance Funding
 Management
 Maintenance           Significant      Business Efficiency  Significant      Project Management      Significant
 Management
 Road Safety           Significant      Human Resources      Modest           Planning and            Highly
                                        Development                           Design                  Significant



                                                       - 6 -

4.2.3.2 The RBD has achieved the following: (see Annex 10 for details).

l        Procurement and contract management: The GOAP has introduced e-procurement throughout the
         state for all civil works more than Rs.500,000 in value. This has improved transparency,
         efficiency, and competition. The RBD has also improved their procurement procedures based on
         the experiences gained through the project. The GOAP has also established a "National Academy
         for Construction" (mostly using funding from contractors) to develop the technical capacity of the
         construction industry.
l        Increased Maintenance Funding: The GOAP has increased the overall maintenance funding for
         the state roads by about 76% during the project implementation period, from Rs.2,700 million for
         FY95/96 to Rs.4,755 million for FY04/05 as well as started toll collection on major bridges on the
         improved roads. The total maintenance funding for FY04/05 is about 84% of the maintenance
         requirements projected by the 11th Finance Commission.
l        Road Information System (RIS): The RBD has established and put into use a comprehensive road
         information system in GIS environment for the entire road network under its jurisdiction (about
         65,000 km), using remote sensing imagery. Private sector consultants are used for data collection
         and updating of data. The GIS is web enabled, operational in all the districts, and updated every 15
         days. The RBD has also conducted video photography for the core network roads.The RBD has
         started to use this database for overall road planning, budgeting, and preparation of annual
         maintenance plans. The RBD also plans to link the database with the Highway Development and
         Management Model (HDM-4) and to undertake a road reclassification exercise for the entire RBD
         network.
l        Pavement Management System (PMS): The RBD has established a simple computerized PMS for
         the core road network and started to use it for preparation of annual plans for road rehabilitation.

l        Private sector participation: The GOAP introduced private sector participation for road project
         on BOT basis. So far, 13 projects costing Rs.1,360 million have been completed, and 12 projects
         are under preparation.

4.2.3.3 The GOAP engaged international consultants (funded by the Government of Australia (GOA)
through AUS-AID grant funds), to assist the RBD to plan and implement the institutional development
initiatives mentioned above. The GOAP was required to establish a new organizational structure to
implement the proposed initiatives but this did not happen. The GOAP could not appoint a Head of the
Department (HOD) of the RBD to function as its Executive Director since there was major resistance from
within the RBD. However, the GOAP established a Corporate Management Group (CMG) which identified
and implemented the following initiatives using existing structure of the RBD: (i) quality management; (ii)
maintenance management; (iii) strategic project planning; (iv) procurement and contract management; and
(v) financial management and cost accounting. The consultants demobilized in July 1999 due to the
sanctions imposed by the GOA on the grant funds and the institutional development initiatives suffered a
setback. However, the RBD continued with implementation of many initiatives (See Table 4.1 and Annex
10 for the outcomes).

4.2.3.4 The consultants again remobilized in early 2001. The GOAP decided then to use the remaining
consultancy inputs to operationalize the RDC, established through an Assembly Act in 1998 and to build
on the earlier initiatives on maintenance and quality management. The operationalization of RDC was not
anticipated during project appraisal but became feasible during project implementation after establishment
of the RDC. The consultants developed policies, procedures, structures, staffing, performance indicators
and business systems for the new organization but the GOAP neither made a final decision nor deputed the


                                                    - 7 -

required staff to operationalize the RDC. Before the completion of their services, the consultants delivered
the following: (i) an implementation plan to operationalize/modernize the RDC together with a business
management system, policies and procedure manuals, and data-bases; (ii) training of RBD staff in key
business processes; and (iii) agreed outputs on road maintenance and quality management. The RBD has
now started to adopt the business processes proposed by the consultants in its existing organization.

4.2.3.5 The initiatives to reorganize the RBD and to establish a modern RDC were seen to be lacking
ownership by majority of the RBD staff. The RDC was meant to be a lean organization with limited staff.
Many of the RBD staff had no clear idea about their future role and functions, once the RDC was
operationalized, and this created apprehensions and reluctance at various levels to operationalize the RDC.
Rather than aiming at a new RDC-type organization from the beginning, it would have been more effective
to first focus on modernization of the parent organization to give wider opportunity to the RBD staff to
participate in the reform process and increase their awareness. The project relied rather heavily on
operationalizing the RDC, consequently somewhat neglecting the parent organization (RBD) that, even
after full operationalization of the RDC, would have been responsible for 56,000 km (85%) of the state
road network.

4.2.3.6 The RBD has prepared a draft Road Act, which includes road safety, mobilization of additional
resources for maintenance, and corridor management practices. The RBD has also prepared an overall road
sector policy which includes adequate and regular funding for road maintenance particularly for the
primary core network; rational/economic criteria for investment decisions; use of GIS/PMS as a road
planning and management tool; improved procedures for quality assurance and contract administration;
road safety; and preparation and implementation of annual road maintenance plans.

4.2.3.7 Other Aspects: The RBD has also: (i) computerized all its field divisions and established its own
website (www.aproads.com); (ii) started to use staff performance as a criteria for transfers and postings -
providing incentives to performing staff; (iii) prepared a comprehensive quality plan as well as quality
procedures for the RBD and used them for the project; (iv) prepared comprehensive manuals for pavement
design, maintenance, quality assurance, road safety audits to document and mainstream the significant
experiences gained through the project; (v) trained a large number of the RBD staff, including overseas
training at the University of Birmingham, UK, study tours to USA and Australia, and counterpart training
with the help of international consultants; and (vi) established and put to use quality control laboratories in
each division, and established dedicated quality monitoring divisions directly that report to the
Engineer-in-Chief.

4.2.3.8 Thus, the outcome of this component is also rated satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1    Upgrading component: Detailed data on traffic and other variables was collected on 8 of 13
packages for road upgrading, involving about 78 percent of the total expenditure under the component. The
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the 8 project roads varied from 26% to 72% with a weighted ERR
average of 39% as against the estimated 27% at the time of preparation. The economic rate of return for
the project component improved due to lower discounted project costs and higher traffic on some of the
project roads. The impact of reduced cost and increased traffic outweighed the reduction in benefits due to
delay in completion of the project roads and the reduced duration of the benefit stream from 17 years to 15
years. Economic evaluation of the project component was also carried out `without' time benefits and the
results showed an ERR of 27% and a Net Prevent Value of Rs.8,345 million (US$189.67 m). All the
project roads had an ERR of above 12%, based on only the savings in vehicle operating costs.



                                                     - 8 -

4.3.2     Maintenance component: A total of 21 project roads were selected for detailed economic analysis
using HDM. The data on traffic and roughness was collected before and after the completion of the project
roads. The combined ERR of these project roads was estimated at 33% with timesavings and 19% without
time benefits. The final ERR were lower than estimated (58%) at the project preparation stage when all the
works were assumed to be undertaken and completed in the first year of the project. The NPV of costs,
after the costs were adjusted to 1998 prices, for these roads was Rs.1,572 million and the net benefits
Rs.3,742 million. All the project roads had an ERR of above 12%. The rate of return is lower at the
completion stage because of delay in the completion of projects and long time for construction on some of
the project roads, which resulted in loss of benefits in the starting period. Annex 3 provides further details
of the results of the economic analysis.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1     The project did not envisage direct charging for the use of roads and all the funding was by the
public sector. Since no user fees accrued on the project, financial analysis was not carried out.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1. Institutional development impact of the project is rated to be modest. Major outputs of the
institutional development component have already been given under Section 4.2.3 above. The stakeholders
perceived (see Annex 9) the following impacts due to the project: (i) improved capacity and several core
business procedures of the RBD, (ii) increased capacity of the domestic construction industry and
consultants, (iii) improved availability of the road network data and its use, and (iv) improved procurement
procedures used by the RBD. The project has significantly contributed to improvements in road engineering
practices, construction technologies and design standards, procurement, maintenance management, quality
assurance, private sector participation, and road safety in the State. A large number of the RBD staff have
been exposed to modern road engineering and contract management practices. They also developed the
capacity to handle such large projects in future. The construction time for normal RBD works is now
significantly reduced due to the increased capacity of contractors. The RBD has also started to use private
sector engineering capacities. The RBD staff has started the preparation of a new project proposal for
external funding, applying the expertise gained under this project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1     The road construction industry in India is still developing and has limited capacity to meet the
current heavy demand. Most of the contractors found it hard to mobilize and retain professional/skilled
staff, to mobilize needed equipment, and to get adequate supply of quality aggregates from local sources. In
some cases even basic staff like surveyors and equipment operators had to be brought from abroad. Some
of the foreign contractors had to establish their own crushing plants and hot mix plants, involving huge and
unexpected capital expenditures, unlike other countries where such material could be procured easily from
local sources. Lack of local experience, different procedures for taxation and audits, and different work
environment were also found to be constraints by the foreign contractors. Many of the foreign contractors
in JVs were found to be absent during implementation, leaving practically all the works to their local
counterparts who lacked the required capacity and experience. The foreign contractor's role, in most Joint
Ventures (JVs), was apparently to make the local contractors qualify for the award of work, rather than to
actually participate in execution of works. Some of the contractors appear to have not used the mobilization
advance for the intended purpose and not pass it on to their sub-contractors. The capacity of many



                                                     - 9 -

contractors to handle big contracts was limited. They did not carry out proper cash flow analysis, and
planning for use of equipment and manpower. Many of them ran into serious cash flow problems and made
losses as manpower remained idle due to lack of equipment or vice-versa. Some of the contractors were
awarded multiple packages but their capacity to execute them was found inadequate, despite meeting the
qualification criteria.

5.1.2    The project suffered a lot due to frequent changes in the consultant's staff. Many key positions
remained vacant for long intervals due to inability of the consultants to provide suitable replacements. The
supervision consultants seem to have not adequately enforced many of the contract conditions including
those for Joint Venture arrangements; sub-contracting; and deployment of technical staff and equipment,
and submission of as-built drawings by the contractors. The original Phase III supervision consultants
could not fully mobilize for 10 months and their contract was ultimately terminated. The RBD also issued
the Notice of Suspension to Phase I supervision consultants on account of poor performance but
subsequently lifted it. The RBD received large numbers of claims from the contractors, and many of them
seem to be due to poor performance of the consultants. Lack of experience of the RBD and other
government departments with FIDIC conditions of contracts was found to be a major constraint during
project implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1    Delays in land acquisition, shifting of utilities, forest clearances, and permissions required from
railway authorities at various stages caused serious delays and cost escalations during project
implementation, which was also confirmed through the stakeholders surveys (Annex 9). The procedures
involved for land acquisition, forest clearances, shifting of utilities, and railway clearances were very time
consuming and complex. The problem was further compounded due to inadequate coordination amongst
various government departments as well as their insensitive attitude to the requirements of the project.
Many of the road designs were substantially changed during project execution to avoid land acquisition,
shifting of utilities, and removal of trees. The land acquisition process went on almost until the end of the
project. Most of the milestones were not achievable due to non-availability of work site. The loan period
was extended twice (total duration 17 months) mainly to allow for the completion of 15 ROBs and some
small road sections involving land acquisition.

5.2.2    The GOAP faced serious financial problems during 2001, which resulted in payment delays to the
contractors. The implementation of maintenance works was put on hold during that period due to
non-availability of funds. Subsequently, from May 2001 onwards, the Bank raised its financing share from
70% to 90% for funding of civil works at the request of the GOAP. Thereafter, the funding problem was
resolved. Implementation of the institutional development component was affected due to the lack of key
decisions by the GOAP, including restructuring of the RBD, and operationalization of the Road Fund and
the RDC.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1    While there were no major issues for the implementation of heavy periodic maintenance works, the
following factors have affected the implementation of the road improvement works:

5.3.1.1 Design Changes during Execution: Initial designs of the road improvement works required
substantial changes during execution, including changes in alignment and road formation levels, changes in
bridge designs and additional bridges/structures to suit site conditions, changes in the material
specifications and pavement design, use of gabion wall instead of concrete retaining wall as a protection



                                                    - 10 -

work, and increase in pavement width from 2 lanes to 4 lanes in built-up areas. The local RBD engineers
and other concerned departments were not effectively involved during the preparation of initial road designs
(Even during the implementation phase, the RBD divisions were not fully clear about their role and
responsibilities). There were also delays in communicating decisions about design changes and variations to
the contractors as these were to be referred to the Project Coordinating Consultants (PCC) by the
Construction Supervision Consultants (CSCs) through the Employer and routed back through the same
route. Consequently, the contractors had to wait for unduly long times. The design changes were
unexpectedly high and the PCC was not equipped to handle them. Due to the design changes during
execution, it was difficult to hold the contractors responsible even for the delays on their part and liquidated
damages could not be imposed on any contractor.

5.3.1.2 Recovery of Advances: The recovery of advances caused serious cash flow problems to most
contractors. The international practice is to start the recovery at 30% and complete it by 80% of the
progress. However, the RBD added an additional condition to start the recovery after 9 months irrespective
of the progress made (based on the PCC estimate to achieve 30% progress). The time schedule/program of
construction was found unrealistic and in most cases the recovery started much before the achievement of
30% progress. In some cases the recovery started at 3% progress and finished at 53%. The cumulative rate
of recoveries amounted to 53% in some cases, which was too high. Phase I packages were adversely
affected as the notice to proceed was given just prior to monsoon period during which practically no
progress could be made.

5.3.1.3 Size of the Contracts: The road length covered under the road improvement contracts varied from
63 to 213 km and the bigger contracts were too difficult to implement by a single contractor. It was too
difficult a task to mobilize the needed equipment and manpower, and to manage and supervise such big
works under a single contact. The problem was further compounded due to the same supervision resources
(man and transport) provided for each contract (irrespective of its length) - leading to inadequate resources
for the supervision of large contracts.

5.3.1.4 Other Factors: Many of the contract conditions on local taxation, price escalation, and discount
offered by the contractors were not understood in the sameway by the contractors and the employer. The
bid documents did not include the custom and excise duty exemptions (notified by the Government of India)
for the equipment imported for civil works under the externally funded projects as the GOAP was not
aware of these exemptions. These issues became a source of disputes between the RBD and the
Contractors. The design consultants seem to have not appropriately defined the requirement of equipment
and trained staff under the contracts and many contractors got awards of works without having the required
equipment or staff. Duration of rainy seasons and site availability was not appropriately considered while
deciding the construction program and fixing the progress milestones.

5.3.2     The Project was implemented through a dedicated Project Implementation Unit (PIU) headed by an
Engineer-in-Chief. While this arrangement was found broadly acceptable for the civil works component, it
was not suitable for the institutional development component which required wider involvement of the road
agency staff. Consequently, implementation of the institutional development component suffered. The
RBD could not second its staff to the team of international consultants as was initially planned.

5.3.3     The RBD also noticed large discrepancies in the earthwork quantities and in other items on some
contracts (Contract Packages - APSH2, 4, and 10) during project implementation. The RBD found: (i)
large increases in the earthwork quantities certified for payments compared to the original bill of quantities;
(ii) treating of local earth as the borrowed earth (from distant borrow areas) having higher unit rates; and
(iii) discrepancies in measurements in some of the IPCs.          On the request of the RBD, the General


                                                      - 11 -

Administration (Vigilance and Enforcement Department), GOAP conducted field investigations on these
contracts. The investigations established excessive clearing and grubbing/stripping done by the contractor
as the main cause of the excess in earthwork quantities. Even though the RBD has now recovered the
excess payments made to the contractors, this issue remained a major source of dispute between the RBD,
consultants, and the contractors for several months. The Institutional Integrity (INT) division of the Bank
also reviewed the discrepancies under contract APSH 2.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1    The appraisal estimate of the total project cost was US$485.5 million, with an IBRD share of
financing of US$350.0 million. The ICR estimate of the project cost is US$424.71 million. The reduction
in cost is mainly due to appreciation of US$ against the Indian Rupee, cancellation of one road
improvement package, and savings under the consultancies and goods categories. At the request of the
GOAP, the Bank had cancelled US$17 million from the loan in June 2004. While the Bank share of
US$333.0 million is fully utilized, the GOAP share is reduced from US$135.50 million at appraisal to
US$91.72 million at the ICR mainly due to reduction in the GOAP share of counter part funding for civil
works form 30 to 10% during project implementation. (See Annex 2 for further details of costs and
financing).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1    Sustainability of the project outcomes is rated likely as the project roads are part of the core
network of the State, and the GOAP is committed to their further improvement and maintenance. Apart
from the 3,174 km of core network roads improved under this project, another 4,156 km have also been
improved under other projects. The GOAP has increased overall maintenance funding for road sector by
about 76% from the pre-project level and the current maintenance funding is adequate to fully meet the
needs of the core network as well as to substantially meet the needs of non-core roads. The GOAP has also
started toll collection on the improved roads under the project. The maintenance backlog of the core
network has been reduced by this project. The core network consists of important traffic corridors and there
are high demands from the public and industry on the RBD to maintain these roads to high standards. The
stakeholder's survey (Annex 9) also reveals significant improvement in the general level of road
maintenance. The GOAP has shown ownership for several institutional development initiatives like
preparation of the road policy, preparation of a Road Act, scaling-up of performance based maintenance
contracts, establishing a computerized database in GIS environment and its use, E-procurement, ISO 9000
certification, road safety, and documenting the technical knowledge generated through the project into
technical manuals for wider use by the RBD staff.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1    The supervision consultants have now handed over all the improved roads to the regular RBD
divisions. These divisions will now regularly monitor the performance of these roads to ensure rectification
of any defects during the defect liability period by contractors; deal with contractors' claims; release final
payments; and issue necessary certificates after completion of defect liability period. The RBD divisions,
who implemented the heavy periodic maintenance works, are now responsible for regular maintenance of
these roads. The new road policy of the RBD provides for adequate funding as well as arrangements for
planning, budgeting, and implementation of maintenance works required for the core road network. The
roads under the widening and strengthening component will require regular inspection to identify various
defects; and regular and timely routine, periodic, and special maintenance to avoid premature deterioration.


                                                    - 12 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1    Satisfactory: The project was consistent with the Bank's country strategy for India and the
country's transport sector strategy. It included international best practice examples and the Bank's
experience in the highway sector, and it focused on road sector needs of Andhra Pradesh. The Bank
deputed an experienced team which provided valuable assistance to the Borrower and conducted detailed
assessment of various institutional, technical, social, environment, procurement, financial management
issues - resulting in good quality project preparation, and compliance to Bank policies. The project included
adequate focus on the key issues of road maintenance and institutional development.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1    Satisfactory: The Borrower has appreciated the role of the Bank. The task team made considerable
efforts to ensure effective project implementation, resolve implementation problems, and to keep the project
on the track. Bank supervision missions were well organized, had a good skill mix, and were responsive to
the implementation issues and client needs. There was effective back-up support from the World Bank
New Delhi Office to maintain regular contact with the Borrower and to offset any adverse impact of the
change in Task Team Leader (5 different TTLs during the project implementation). The project was
implemented as per the Bank policies and procedures and all major legal covenants and project agreements
were complied with. The Bank missions made several suggestions, including road safety enhancements,
scaling-up of the road maintenance contracts, implementation of the EMP and the RAP, and skill
enhancements of the RBD staff, which were well appreciated and implemented by the Borrower. The Bank
raised the reimbursable financing amount from 70% to 90% during project implementation in response to a
justifiable request from the GOAP, and extended the closing date of the loan by 17 months.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1    Satisfactory: The Borrower developed a very well designed project focusing on main road sector
issues and showed strong ownership and commitment throughout the project preparation. All major studies
and project preparation activities were implemented effectively. The GOAP established a dedicated PIU
headed by an Engineer-in-Chief, which ensured effective project preparation as well as subsequent
implementation. The quality of project preparation, including economic analysis, institutional assessment,
bid documents for the first year of works, social and environmental assessments, and implementation
arrangements was satisfactory. The GOAP also established a high level Tender Committee to facilitate the
procurement of major civil works and consultancies. The RBD was very receptive to new ideas and
incorporated most of them in the project design, including innovative pavement designs and pilot
performance based maintenance contracts. All the conditions of appraisal as well as negotiations were met.




                                                     - 13 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1   The overall implementation performance of the GOAP is satisfactory. The GOAP has shown
commitment to various activities during project preparation and implementation as well as delegated
adequate powers to the Engineer-in-Chief in-charge of the PIU for project implementation. The counterpart
funding was adequate except for a short spell in 2001 during which the GOAP faced financial problems.
The GOAP also made considerable efforts to resolve the land acquisition problems and to pay
compensation to all the project affected people. However, the GOAP could not make final decisions on
some fundamental reforms - the most important of them was to operationalize the RDC. The GOAP has
now shown renewed interest and started revision of the draft Road Act, including several good practice
examples in road sector.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1   The performance of the implementing agency is satisfactory. All the civil works, despite delays,
were completed. The RBD has effectively handled the problems of land acquisition, shifting of utilities,
forest clearances, and design changes during project execution, and contractual issues during
implementation. Both the EMP and the RAP were implemented satisfactorily, all the project-affected
people compensated, environmental mitigation measures implemented, and there were no significant issues.
The RBD has successfully used private sector engineering capacities during project preparation and
supervision. The RBD has significantly improved many of its business procedures during the project
period. The RBD in-house staff successfully implemented the entire heavy periodic maintenance
component.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1   The overall Borrower's performance is rated as satisfactory.          All the initially planned road
improvement works and heavy periodic maintenance works are fully implemented, open to traffic, and
providing substantial reduction in road user costs and travel time. The Borrower has complied with all loan
and project agreement covenants, and Bank's procedures and guidelines.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1     Performance of consultants: While private sector consultants have been successfully used for
engineering design and supervision of works under the project, there are key issues to be resolved regarding
frequent changes of key staff, inadequate enforcement of contract conditions, quality of designs,
accountability, poor performance of some consulting firms/their staff, and inadequate manpower available
with consultants. The lessons learnt include: (i) financial disincentives for change of key staff by the
consultants; (ii) improved monitoring to ensure that consultants assign adequately trained and experienced
staff at all the positions; (iii) the Borrower to expedite selection process of the consultants to ensure
availability of the proposed staff by the consultants; (iv) any design changes during execution to be handled
directly by the supervision consultants; (v) the supervision consultants to be provided independent
laboratory and transport rather than getting these through contractors as was done under the project; (vi)
the role and responsibility of Engineer and Employer to be clearly and consistently defined; (vii) introduce
capacity assessment criteria for consultants (similar to bid capacity criteria for contractors); and (viii) a
centralized system to share past performance (based on suitable rating criteria) of consultants and their
staff amongst various road agencies.




                                                     - 14 -

8.2     Performance of Contractors and FIDIC Conditions of Contracts: While FIDIC conditions of
contracts and international contractors have been successfully used under the project, there are issues to be
resolved about lack of familiarity of road agency/government departments (and also the staff of supervision
consultants) about the FIDIC conditions of contract, lack of compatibility between the FIDIC conditions
and local practices, unexpectedly large number of claims made by contractors especially after the
completion of works, inadequate capacity of contractors, and poor performance of Joint Ventures between
local and international contractors.

8.3     Qualification criteria, Joint Venture and sub-contracting arrangements: The role and
responsibility of Joint Venture (JV) partners should be clearly defined under the contract and closely
monitored during project implementation to ensure active participation of all the partners. The
pre-qualification criteria should be reviewed to obtain a more realistic evaluation of the financial strength,
general technical experience, equipment availability, and technical manpower of the contractors. The bid
capacity criteria should also be reviewed especially for award of multiple contract packages to a single
contractor. The issue of formal and informal sub-contracting should be studied in detail to avoid the main
contractor merely functioning as an intermediary. The Government of India also needs to review its policies
to make a conducive environment for the participation of reputed international contractors in the highway
sector in India.

8.4     Upfront capacity building and involvement of Borrower's staff: The road agency should depute
adequately qualified and motivated staff for project implementation from the early stages of project
preparation; arrange their upfront training (especially in the FIDIC conditions of contract and contract
management); and ensure their continuity until the project completion. Wider involvement of road agency
staff should be ensured in the project especially for institutional development initiatives. Technical manuals
on various subjects should be developed for wider use and sustainability of the new/improved road
engineering practices introduced under a project. Secondment of road agency staff to international
consultants should be encouraged for transfer of technical skills and sustainability of project outcomes.

8.5     Capacity Building of the Contractors: Training facilities for contractor's staff, including
construction workers and equipment operators should be established/strengthened in the country by the
Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MORTH). Training of contractor's staff (preferably at the
beginning of work) could be included as part of the contract. The construction supervision team could
include a construction management specialist and field supervisors to train contractor's staff in
construction management and various work methods to be used under the project.

8.6     Recovery of advances, Time Period for Claims, Local Taxation, other Contract Conditions: The
current contract conditions need a review (i) to bring the recovery of advances to a more affordable level by
the contractors; (ii) to clearly and unambiguously define local taxation, custom and excise duty exemptions,
statutory taxes, and tax deduction at source; (iii) to ensure deployment of the agreed technical staff and
needed equipment, use of mobilization advance for the intended purpose, compliance of the work plan, and
timely submission of as-built construction drawings by the contractors; and (iv) to check the tendency of
contractors to withhold their claims to the end. The Conditions of Particular Application (COPA) also need
a review. Dispute Resolution Board (DRB) recommendations should be implemented binding and
immediately, subject to the final outcome of any future arbitration/legal proceedings.

8.7     Contract Package Size and Milestones: Maximum of 60 to 80 km of road length should be
covered in a single contract for road improvement works in future projects. Progress milestones could be
fixed as percent road length completed or percent physical progress, instead of completion of a full road
section if the same is unlikely to be fully handed over to contractor due to land acquisition and other
problems.


                                                    - 15 -

8.8     Make Realistic Estimates for Work Completion and the Resources Required: The experience from
the project implementation shows that it takes much longer to complete major road improvement works
than originally anticipated. Future projects should ensure: (i) more realistic estimates of the project duration
by duly accounting for monsoon season; (ii) clear definitions of the type and number of various equipment,
technical manpower, and other resources required by the contractors to complete the work within the
defined timeframe; (iii) realistic estimates of the technical manpower, support staff, and other resources
required by consultants; and (iv) a realistic resource based construction program (as per clause 14.1)
included with bid documents. The initial estimates of manpower and equipment could be used as a criteria
to evaluate bids/proposal from contractors/consultants to identify major discrepancies or unrealistic
proposals.

8.9     Ensure Adequate Quality of Road Designs: Future highway projects should emphasize adequate
quality of road designs to avoid time and cost overruns during implementation. The lessons learnt include
the following: (i) a detailed peer review of road designs by independent experts as well as by the
supervision consultants before commencement of works; (ii) providing adequate time and resources for
preparation of road designs; (iii) active involvement of road agency staff and other concerned government
departments during design stage; and (iv) adequate field surveys and investigations to realistically identify
the complexities involved due to land acquisition, tree cutting, forest land, shifting of utilities, water
features, railway lines, and other topographical features. The Indian Roads Congress (IRC SP 19) manual
for project preparation should be updated to clearly define the standards of field surveys and investigations,
and the quality of designs to be met by the consultants for preparation of modern highway projects.

8.10    Site Readiness: The current practices of land acquisition, forest clearances, and shifting of utilities
require a thorough review (including amendment of the LA Act) to avoid implementation delays. The
lessons learnt include: (i) active involvement of the staff of the road agency, forest, revenue, and other
departments while finalizing road alignment; (ii) more reliable surveys and investigations during
preparation; (iii) more upfront actions during the pre-construction stage; (iv) improved mechanisms to
protect road corridors from encroachers; (v) shifting of utilities and land acquisition to be a BOQ item
under the contract; and (vi) establishing a high level project coordination and implementation committee
having participation from the concerned government departments including revenue, forest, railways,
finance, planning, auditor-general, law, transport, and traffic police.
8.11    Railway Over-Bridges (ROBs): The ROBs could be better executed through separate contracts as
the main road contractors were generally found to neglect them. The procedures for design, construction
and approvals for the ROBs should be streamlined/finalized by senior officials of the railways and the road
agency before a project starts.

8.12    Ensure Client Ownership for Reform Agenda: Successful implementation of institutional reforms
requires wider involvement of road agency staff and their acceptance of the reforms. The Borrower's
commitment for the reforms should be carefully assessed and all crucial decisions should be ensured before
a project starts. To ensure adequate focus on the reforms during project implementation, project funding
could be divided into different phases, and each phase made contingent to progress on reforms/institutional
development initiatives during project implementation, using measurable and agreed performance
indicators.




                                                    - 16 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Please refer to Annex 8 for Borrower's evaluation.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

10.1    Overall Road Sector Development: Future road projects in India should emphasize the
improvement of road engineering practices as there is considerable scope for improvement of current
practices by introducing new and improved planning approaches, road and bridge designs, material
specifications, construction technologies, methods of execution of maintenance works, and other business
procedures. The technical knowledge and implementation experiences gained through Bank-funded projects
could be incorporated in the Indian Roads Congress (IRC) documents for wider use and to avoid
duplication of efforts. The Bank and GOI/IRC should jointly develop standard TOR for project preparation
of highway projects and contract supervision through consultants, including standardization of various field
surveys and investigations, and the resources to be deployed by consultants.




                                                    - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
              Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Reduced vehicle operating costs in real    The travel time on improved core road        The travel time on improved core road
terms on project road sections.               network reduced by 30-50% and road           network reduced by 30-50% and road
                                              roughness reduced from 4,500 to 2,200        roughness reduced from 4,500 to 2,200
                                              mm/km.                                       mm/km.The weighted Economic Rate of
                                                                                           Return (ERR) for project roads estimated at
                                                                                           about 39 %
2. Reduction of the proportion of the core    The proportion of core road network in poor  The proportion of core road network in poor
network in poor condition from 70 to 30       condition is about 28 %                      condition has been reduced to 28 percent at
percent.                                                                                   the end of project
3. Improve GOAP institutional capabilities in RBD has implemented action plan covering     RBD has implemented the following
the road sector.                              the following institutional strengthening    institutional strengthening activities:
                                              activities: road management, procurement,    established GIS based Road Information
                                              FMS, road safety, road maintenance, private System (RIS) and Pavement Management
                                              sector involvement, and training courses for System (PMS), procurement reforms
                                              RBD staff.                                   including e-procurment, established FMS,
                                                                                           introduced performance based road
                                                                                           maintenance operations, adopted safety audit
                                                                                           procedures, introduced private sector
                                                                                           participation in road sector through BOT
                                                                                           project, developed road sector policy, and
                                                                                           implemented capacity building and skill
                                                                                           enhancement programs for staff.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
              Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Average journey times reduced by 20% and      Travel time reduced by 30-50%, and road      Travel time reduced by 30-50%, and road
finished road roughness less than 3.5 IRI on roughness reduced from 4.5 RI to 2.2 RI on    roughness reduced from 4.5 RI to 2.2 RI on
completed sections.                           project roads.                               project roads.
Annual funding at least 80% of needs for      The annual maintenance funding is adequate The current maintenance funding is adequate
Core Network.                                 to fully meet the needs of the core network  to fully meet the needs of the core network.
                                                                                           The total maintenance funding for FY04/05 is
                                                                                           about 84% of the maintenance needs
                                                                                           projected by the 11th Finance Commission.
Percent funding increase in total             About 76 % increase in road maintenance      About 76% increase in road maintenance
maintenance allocation in real terms relative allocations since start of project.          allocations since start of project.
to the average for the preceding five years.
Number of KM of periodic maintenance          About 1,750 km of State Highways (SH) and About 1,750 km of State Highways (SH) and
completed: 600 km by March 2000, 1800 km Major District Roads (MDR) received heavy         Major District Roads (MDR) received heavy
by end of project.                            period maintenance work and                  period maintenance work and
                                              performance-based road maintenance was       performance-based road maintenance was
                                              carried out on about 1,160 km of RBD road    carried out on about 1,160 km of RBD road
                                              under the project                            under the project

1 End of project




                                                                  - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                             Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                             Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                        Component                            US$ million   US$ million
1(a) Civil Works                                              373.90          319.05          85.33
1(b) Design & Supervision                                      25.30           18.34          72.49
1(c) Land acquisition, resettlement & rehabilitation            1.40             6.88         491.4
2(a) Works                                                     72.50           77.51          106.9
2(b) Technical assistance for maintenance management.           1.20             0.00             0
3. Reform and strengthening of the State road agency            8.80             0.58          6.59
Technical Assistance, training and equipment.
4. Repayment of Project Preparation Facility                    2.40             2.35          97.9

Total Baseline Cost                                           485.50          424.71
                          Total Project Costs                 485.50          424.71
                   Total Financing Required                   485.50          424.71


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB                2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                            363.90            79.20         3.30          1.40       447.80
                                   (254.70)          (55.50)      (2.30)          (0.00)    (312.50)
2. Goods                            0.50              1.20          0.30          0.00        2.00
                                    (0.50)            (1.10)      (0.20)          (0.00)     (1.80)
3. Services                         0.00              0.00         33.30          0.00       33.30
Consulting Services, NGOs           (0.00)            (0.00)      (33.30)         (0.00)     (33.30)
and Training
4. Repayment of Project             0.00              0.00          2.40          0.00        2.40
Preparation Facility
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)      (2.40)          (0.00)     (2.40)
   Total                            364.40            80.40        39.30          1.40       485.50
                                   (255.20)          (56.60)      (38.20)         (0.00)    (350.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB                2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                            319.05            77.51        0.00           6.88      403.44
                                   (253.00)          (63.10)      (0.00)         (0.00)    (316.10)
2. Goods                            0.47              0.00         0.11           0.00       0.58
                                    (0.41)           (0.00)       (0.05)         (0.00)     (0.46)
3. Services                         0.00              0.00        18.34           0.00      18.34
Consulting Services, NGOs           (0.00)           (0.00)      (14.08)         (0.00)     (14.08)



                                                   - 19 -

    and Training
    4. Repayment of Project                 0.00               0.00              2.35             0.00              2.35
    Preparation Facility
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.35)            (0.00)           (2.35)
        Total                              319.52             77.51             20.80             6.88             424.71
                                          (253.41)           (63.10)           (16.48)            (0.00)          (332.99)
   NBF: Not Bank Financed - LA, R&R as per PAD page-2
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1(a) Civil works for part      261.70       113.60                   253.00        72.93                 96.7      64.2
(1) of the project widening
and strengthening.
1(b) Civil works for part      50.80        21.70                    63.10         14.41                 124.2     66.4
(2) of the project
(maintenance, periodic and
routine).
2. Goods                        1.80         0.20                     0.46         0.12                  25.6      60.0
3. Services: Consulting        33.30                                 14.08         4.26                  42.3
Services, NGOs and
training.
4. Repayment of PPF.            2.40                                  2.35                               97.9
Total                          350.00       135.50                   332.99        91.72                 95.1      67.7

   Notes:
   The Government share under Item 1(a) Civil Works includes LA cost of US$ 6.88 Million.
   The Government share under Item (3) Services includes taxes on consultancies




                                                           - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                                  Andhra Pradesh State Roads Project

                                            Economic Analysis


Preface

1.     The economic analysis is carried out for the two components of the project viz.,

l      upgrading, widening and strengthening, of the 1,400 km of roads through 14 packages, including
       bridge over river Krishna; and
l      maintenance of 1,747 km of roads in 94 packages.
l      for the upgrading component, economic analysis was carried out for each corridor/section for
       which the traffic data was made available after the completion of the project while for the
       maintenance component only 21 packages were considered for detailed economic analysis.

2.     It summarizes the economic evaluation methodology used in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD). The economic evaluation is based on re-evaluation of the traffic data, cost of construction and the
year-wise distribution, and the cost and benefits of project components.

Economic Evaluation Methodology - Project Appraisal Document

3.     The methodology used for economic analysis for the upgrading component of the project is
summarized below:

(i)    Net benefits were evaluated using the Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM-3)
       developed by the Bank. The model determines the vehicle operating costs and time costs for the
       "with" improvement and "without" improvement scenario for each project road. The operating
       costs for each vehicle type depends on the road condition, traffic volume, road capacity,
       deterioration progression of the pavement and the maintenance policy used for the project road.
       Safety benefits were not considered since safety impacts are uncertain due to offsetting effects of
       improved roads and higher expected speeds. The effect of non-motorized traffic was taken into
       account by using a friction factor (<1) affecting traffic speeds.

(ii)   The traffic growth rates used for the first three years were estimated based on growth of population
       and per capita income for the passenger vehicles, and growth rate for agriculture, mining and
       industrial activities for the freight traffic. The growth rates varied from 6 to 15 percent for
       different vehicle types. For rest of the period of 17 years, a growth rate of 5 percent was assumed
       for all traffic.

(iii)  The construction period for the upgrading projects was considered varying between 1 to 3 years
       starting 1997 and the benefits from the improved project roads were to flow after the completion of
       the project. The total period for the cost-benefit study was taken as 20 years including the period
       for construction.




                                                     - 21 -

(iv)     A factor of 0.9 was used to convert the financial construction costs to economic costs. While for
         vehicle operating costs, the economic cost of each component was computed by excluding the taxes
         and duties on them.

(v)      A salvage value of 10 percent was considered at the end of the project.

(vi)     Value of time was taken at Rs.24.2 per passenger-hour for car users, and Rs.21.7 for bus
         passengers.

4.       No detailed economic analysis was carried out for individual project roads considered under
maintenance. The economic benefits for the maintenance component were estimated using HDM model for
a matrix of 36 `typical links' having varying traffic volume and road condition using information on overall
network lengths in each category. Alternative maintenance strategies were considered for each cell of the
matrix to arrive at an overall priority maintenance program within the budget.

Economic Evaluation Methodology ­ ICR

5.       The economic analysis for project roads taken up for upgrading followed the methodology
adopted at the time of project appraisal. However, since the project was sanctioned at the end of 1997, the
start date for economic analysis was taken as 1998 and the analysis was carried out for a 20 year period
including the construction period. However, due to longer construction periods (five years) than assumed
during appraisal (three years), the benefits streams were reduced to 15 years only. The economic analysis
used the HDM model with input data on year-wise costs, traffic before and after the project completion and
the road condition on completion of the project.

6.       Cost of the project roads: For each of the project road data, actual annual expenditure was
collected from the records. The annual cost was then converted to 1998 prices for each project using the
CPI for construction industry. In this case the expenditure made on the project road in the year 2003 was
multiplied by a factor of 0.81 to convert the cost at 1998 prices.

7.       Traffic forecast: Traffic forecast was revised during the project completion period using the
average growth rates derived from the traffic data available at the start of the project and completion of the
project. The growth rates for future traffic were considered the same as used during appraisal since those
were quite realistic and matched with the trends in actual growth rates in general.

8.       The economic analysis was carried out for eight packages out of 13 packages for which all the data
was available. The combined results of these eight packages were projected to reflect all the packages
taken up for upgrading.

9.       For project roads taken up for maintenance, a sample of about 25 percent of roads were selected
and detailed data collected on year-wise cost, the type of improvement carried out, traffic before start of
construction and in 2004, and the condition of the road before and after the maintenance The economic
analysis for these project roads was carried out using HDM model. The cost was adjusted through the
index for the year of expenditure as described above. The traffic growth rates were assumed similar to that
of the roads taken up for upgrading. The benefit stream was considered for a period of 10 years after the
completion of the works.




                                                     - 22 -

Economic Benefits and Evaluation

10.      Upgrading component: The detailed data on traffic and other variables was collected on eight of
the packages out of 13 packages for road upgrading. The total expenditure on these packages was 77.5
percent of the total expenditure incurred on the upgrading component of roads at 1998 prices. Therefore,
the economic analysis results for this component arrived from the detailed analysis of the 8 packages could
be interpolated for this component. The ERR for the eight project roads varied from a low of 26.4% to high
of 72.3% with an overall ERR of 39.2% for this component. The economic results of this component
determined after the completion of the project and at the time of appraisal are compared below:

Table 1: Comparison of Economic Costs and Benefits
              Parameter                                Values at Appraisal                       Values at ICR*
    NPV of Benefits Rs, m                                                               25,573.0
                           US$ m               720.0                                    581.2
    NPV of Costs Rs. m                                                                  6,947.0
                         US$ m                 257.0                                    157.9
    Net Benefit, NPV Rs. m                                                              18,626.0
                            US$m               463.0                                    423.3
    ERR, in %                                  27.0                                     39.2
* The values are for the eight project roads contributing about 77% of the cost for upgrading component.


11.      The ERR for the project component improved due to reduced value of discounted cost of the
project and higher traffic on some of the project roads. The discounted costs declined because the
expenditure got spread over six years with the bulk of the expenditure in the last years, whereas during
appraisal the construction was assumed to be completed in the first three years. The impact of reduced cost
and increased traffic outweighed the reduction in benefits due to delay in completion of the projects roads
and the reduced duration of the benefit stream from 17 years to 15 years.

12.      Sensitivity Analysis: Economic evaluation of the project component was also carried out `without'
time benefits and the results showed an ERR of 27.3% and an NPV of Rs.8,345.0 million (US$189.67 m).
All the project roads had an ERR of above 12%, based on only the savings in vehicle operating costs.

13.      Maintenance component: A total of 21 project roads were selected for detailed economic analysis
using HDM. The data on traffic and roughness was collected before and after the completion of the project
roads. The combined ERR of these project roads was estimated at 32.7% with time savings and 18.8%
without time benefits. The NPV of costs, after the costs were adjusted to discount for the inflation and
adjusted to 1998 prices, for these roads was Rs.1,572 million and the net benefits Rs.3,742 million. All the
project roads had an ERR of above 12%.

14.      The maintenance works were initiated in different years from 1998 onwards and were completed in
2004. Most of the project roads took two years for construction with some taking upto four years. The
results of the economic analysis at the project completion are compared to the estimated benefits at the
appraisal in Table 2 below:




                                                             - 23 -

Table 2: Comparison of costs and benefits for maintenance roads
              Parameters                                 Value at PAD                Value at ICR*
  NPV of net benefits $ m                    321.0                         85.0
                            Rs m                                           3,742.0
  NPV of costs              $ m              21.0                          35.7
                            Rs m                                           1,572.0
  NPV of benefits           $ m              342.0                         120.7
                            Rs m                                           5,314.0
  ERR (%)                                    58.0                          32.7
* The values are for only 21 project roads including the NH.


15.      The NPV of costs, US$21 million, stated in the appraisal document does not match with the
estimated cost of maintenance works, which is US$64.2 million (as stated in the Annex 2). The ERR
would have been lower for the maintenance works for the right value of NPV of costs. The rate of return is
lower at the completion stage because of delay in the completion of projects and long time for construction
on some of the project roads which resulted in loss of benefits in the starting period.

16.      Sensitivity Analysis: The economic analysis was also subjected to the sensitivity analysis by
reducing the benefits by 20% in the future due to lesser traffic growth than used in the analysis. The ERR
for the upgrading component would decline to 34.6% with the NPV of net benefits declining to US$337.6
million (only for the eight selected project roads). While in the case of maintenance works, the ERR would
decline to 28.4% and NPV (for the selected 21 works out of 92 project roads in total) would decline to
US$60.8 million. The benefits have to decline by 70% for the maintenance component and by 80% for the
upgrading works for the net NPV to become zero.

Other Project Benefits

17.      The road users have benefited from the project besides reduced vehicle operating costs and savings
in time. Road safety interventions included safety audits of the project roads which led to implementation
of physical road safety engineering improvement measures. The accident rates and the fatalities in almost
all cases, except for one project road improved under the upgrading project, have declined between 1999
and 2004. The fatalities in the six packages declined from 52 in 1999 to 39 in 2003 while in one package it
increased to 18 from 9.




                                                            - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              07/25/1994                5    SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER;
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                                             CONSULTANT; INST.
                                             SPECIALIST; ENV.
                                             SPECIALIST
              02/1995                   6
              07/17/1995                5    TASK MANAGER/SR.
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER;
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                                             ANTHROPOLOGIST;
                                             HIGHWAYS ENGINEERING
                                             CONSULTANT;
                                             INVOLUNTARY
                                             RESETTLEMENT SPECIALIST
              11/19/1995                5    TASK MANAGER/SR.
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER; INST.
                                             SPECIALIST; HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER (CONSULTANT);
                                             CIVIL ENGINEER
                                             (CONSULTANT); URBAN
                                             DEV. SPECIALIST
              03/05/1996                6    TASK MANAGER/HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER; FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST; INST.
                                             SPECIALIST; INVOLUNTARY
                                             RESETTLEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST; TRANSPORT
                                             ECONOMIST
                                             (CONSULTANT); HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER (CONSULTANT)
              06/03/1996                3    ENVIRONMENTAL MGMT.
                                             SPECIALIST; SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST;
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/24/1997                6    TASK MANAGER/SR.
                                             HIGHWAY ENGINEER;
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST; PROJECT
                                             ASSISTANT; HIGHWAY
                                             ENGINEER;
                                             ANTHROPOLOGIST; SR.
                                             ENV. SPECIALIST
              04/21/1997                7    TASK MANAGER/SR.



                                              - 25 -

                           HIGHWAY ENGINEER;
                           PROJECT ASSISTANT;
                           COUNSEL; SR. DISB.
                           OFFICER; PROCUREMENT
                           SPECIALIST; SR. ENV.
                           SPECIALIST;
                           ANTHROPOLOGIST

Supervision

           10/17/1997    5 MISSION LEADER (1);          S    S
                           HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                           RESETTLEMENT (2);
                           PROCUREMENT (1)
           02/04/1998    2 MISSION LEADER (1);          S    S
                           RESETTLEMENT (1)
           07/23/1998    3 MISSION LEADER (1);          S    S
                           HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                           RESETTLEMENT (1)
           11/25/1998    4 TASK LEADER (1); HIGHWAY     S    S
                           ENGINEER (1); TRANSPORT
                           SPECIALIST (1);
                           RESETTLEMENT SPECIALIS
                           (1)
           05/28/1999    5 TASK LEADER (1); HIGHWAY     S    S
                           ENGINEER (1);
                           RESETTLEMENT SPEC. (1);
                           CONSTRUCTION SPEC. (1);
                           INSTITUTIONAL SPEC. (1)
           11/25/2000    5 TASK LEADER (1); RURAL       S    HS
                           ROADS SPECIALIST (1);
                           HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                           PROGRAM ANALYST (1);
                           SOCIAL DEV. OFFICER (1)
           06/09/2001    3 SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST        S    S
                           (1); TRANSPORT SPECIALIST
                           (1); SR. HIGHWAY ENGINEER
                           (1)
           06/09/2001    1 TASK TEAM LEADER (1)         S    S
           12/15/2001    4 TASK LEADER (1);             S    S
                           TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1);
                           HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                           SOCIAL DEV. SPECIALIST (1)
           07/23/2002    5 TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1);      S    S
                           T.LEADER/FIN.ANALYST (1);
                           HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                           ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIAL.
                           (1); SOCIAL DEV.
                           SPECIALIST (1)
           02/25/2003    5 TTL/FINANCIAL ANALYST        S    S
                           (1); HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                           TRANSPORT ENGINEER (1);
                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST



                           - 26 -

                                                (1); SOCIAL DEV.
                                                SPECIALIST (1)
               11/07/2003                  6    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                                HIGHWAY ENGR. (1);
                                                TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);
                                                SOCIAL DEV. SPECIALIST
                                                (1); PROCUREMENT
                                                SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                                MGT. SPEC. (1)
               06/05/2004                4*     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                                HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1);
                                                TRANSPORT ECONOMIST (1);
                                                PROCUREMENT SPECILIAST
                                                (1)

 ICR
               06/05/2004                4*     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                                HIGHWAY ENGINEER
                                                (1); TRANSPORT
                                                ECONOMIST (1);
                                                PROCUREMENT
                                                SPECILIAST (1)
               07/17/2004                 2     SECTOR MANAGER (1);
                                                HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)
               09/22/2004                 1     HIGHWAY ENGINEER (1)

* Some work on ICR preparation was also done during this mission

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                     No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  7.3                          27.3
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    131.6                         441.6
  Supervision                              183.8                         537.3
  ICR                                          13                          27.8
  Total                                    322.7                         1,034




                                                - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.   Project Appraisal Documents, India Andhra Pradesh State Highway Project, May 12, 1997.

2.   Conformed copy of the Loan Agreement (Andhra Pradesh State Highway Project) between India
     and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, dated July 30, 1997.

3.   Conformed copy of the Project Agreement (Andhra Pradesh State Highway Project) between India
     and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, dated July 30, 1997.

4.   Identification mission reports.

5.   Preparation missions' reports.

6.   Supervision missions' reports.

7.   Project Status Reports.

8.   Mid-term review mission reports.

9.   Quarterly Progress Reports.

10.  Project audit reports.

11.  Reports on Environmental Management Plan.

12.  Reports on Social Development Plan.

13.  Consultant's reports.

14.  Borrower's Project Implementation Plan.




                                               - 30 -

  Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation

1.         General: The Government of Andhra Pradesh (GOAP) received financial assistance from the
World Bank through Government of India (GOI) for the "Andhra Pradesh State Highways Project (IBRD
Loan No. 4192-IN) amounting to approximately US$ 350 million equivalent. The Project was originally
scheduled for completion by 31.01.2003 but extended upto 30.06.2004.The objective of the projects were to
(i) to reduce transport costs and transport constraints on economic activity by improving capacity and
conditions of selected highly trafficked segments of the State Highways (SH) and Major District Roads
(MDR); and (ii) to improve the State's institutional capabilities of the Roads & Buildings Department
(RBD) to manage road programs and assets.

2.         Implementation Details: The objectives and benefits of the project have been substantially
achieved through the following:

2.1        Road Widening and Strengthening: The Achievement of this component has been highly
satisfactory. All the 1400 km of the high-traffic volume roads have been completed in three Phases and open
to traffic. The GOAP has identified 10,266 Km of the high density roads comprising of State Highways and
Major District Roads as the core network roads. The investments under the project were applied to the core
network. A Road User Satisfaction Survey (RUSS) has been conducted on the roads improved under the
project and the findings indicate that the overall travel time on the improved roads has been reduced by 30%
to 50% and journey speeds have gone up by 50% . The percent core network roads in poor condition have
been reduced from 70 % to 28 % during the project duration. The average roughness of the improved core
network roads have been reduced from 3500 to 2200 mm/km. The traffic has been increased by 150-250%
after the road improvements under the project. As compared with previous road condition and present traffic,
the percentages of accidents have come down considerably.

2.2        Heavy Periodic Maintenance: The outcome of this component has been highly satisfactory. About
1734 km of state highways and major district roads pertaining to the primary core network received heavy
periodic maintenance to clear the maintenance backlog. Works have been supervised entirely by the R&B
department. No difficulty is faced in execution of these contracts. The Road User Satisfaction Surveys
indicate that average speed on these roads increased to about 60 km per hour from the pre-project level of
about 30-40 km per hour. The riding quality of the maintenance roads have been improved significantly ­
average roughness after improvement is about 2200 mm/km compared to 3500 mm/km before the
maintenance. The percentage of roads in poor condition in the core network reduced to 28% from the
pre-project level of 70%. The average traffic growth on the maintenance roads has been about 20-30% per
annum. The vehicle operating costs on these roads reduced by 20% and provided immense user satisfaction.
The investments in the heavy periodic maintenance works were good value for money.

2.3        Development of Performance based Maintenance System: Pilot performance based maintenance
contracts were successfully implemented by RBD for 1162 km of roads in 8 slices in 4 districts. These
packages were new for the industry and the contractors were reluctant to take up these works initially but
this issue was resolved by organizing several workshops for the contractors. After successfully implementing
the pilot performance based maintenance contracts, the RBD is planning to implement these in all the
districts. But the constraint now is that these contracts are viable for a contract period of more than 2 years
but the non-plan budget to fund these contracts is available for a maximum period of one year. This issue is
being addressed by the GOAP. Further the performance based contract system does not address the need to
carry out periodic maintenance at the correct time in life cycle of the road pavement. RBD also prepared a
new bid document for these contracts.



                                                       - 31 -

 2.4       Supervision Consultancy for civil works: International Supervision Consultants were engaged to
 supervise the widening and strengthening works to ensure stringent adherence to the quality of work specified
 in contract agreement. The work of Construction Supervision Consultants can be rated as satisfactory under
 the constraints in which the whole project has been implemented. The RBD officers were also associated in
 the monitoring and supervision of these works as Employer's representatives and gained indirect experience
 of the duties of Engineer. RBD has also provided their staff to work as secondment to CSC staff and on their
 roles.

 2.5       Institutional Strengthening: The achievement of this objective is satisfactory. The RBD has taken
 up major activities including (i) establishment of a computerized road management system in GIS
 environment for the entire RBD network (65,000 km); (ii) scaling-up of the performance based maintenance
 contracts in all the districts; (iii) enhancements in the Pavement Management System (PMS); (iv) road safety
 enhancements on the project roads; (v) documenting the significant experiences gained from the project in the
 form of manuals and guidelines for wide scale adaptation; (vi) development of a road sector policy; (vii)
 introduction of e-procurement; and (viii) capacity building of RBD engineers on modern contract
 management practices and other aspects. RBD has also started the following initiatives to improve business
 efficiency:

 i.        Develop a road sector policy with special emphasis on the maintenance of the roads improved
           under the project;
ii.        Introduction of the Information Strategy (including use of Lotus Notes) suggested by VIC Roads
           and
iii.       Adopting the Implementation Plan, prepared by VIC Roads in the overall structure of RBD.

 2.6       Equipment for monitoring and management of State Highways and Major District Roads:
 Computerization of all the RBD divisions has been done with a local area network in the Engineer-in-Chief
 Campus. This set up was used for monitoring the project. Mobile computers (laptop) are also provided for
 all inspecting officers up to the level of Superintending Engineers        to record their observations while
 inspecting/and or at Head Quarters.

 3.       Main Conclusions and suggestions:

 3.1      Reasons for Delays: Even though the project could be successfully completed but it was delayed for
 about one and half year: The main reasons for the delays were:

  i.       Some stretches of road could not be handed over to the contractor in time due to delays in land
           acquisition.
 ii.       The works progress was hampered due to shifting of utilities and encountering underground cables
           and water pipe lines not envisaged during the initial investigations.
iii.       The ROBs works were delayed on account of delay in approvals from the railways for the designs,
           drawings and commencement of work.
iv.        Contractor's poor planning and mobilization of cash flow also contributed to the delays.
 v.        Quality control problems have also erupted due to poor performance of the staff of the contractors
           and supervision consultants.
vi.        The site conditions required modifications in the initial designs and thereby the scope has increased
           and the contractors scheduled program was altered. The modifications included: (i) changes in road
           alignment and formation levels in several road packages as per site conditions; (ii) modifications in
           the design of ROBs for adding viaduct spans in place of solid embankment to avoid land


                                                         - 32 -

        acquisition in urban portions; (iii) missing culverts and structures in the initial designs; (iv)
        modifications to provide 4 lane road in built-up/town areas. Design of road in built-up areas was
        not adequately addressed at DPR preparation stage; (v) changes in pavement design; (vi) change of
        road base specifications from Cement Treated Base (CTB) to Crusher Run Base (CRB); (vii)
        Change of aggregate size specifications for surface dressing; and (viii) change of specifications for
        granular sub-base to reduce PI value.

 3.2   Suggestions for improving Project Preparation:

  i.    Deficiencies in DPR: Several design changes had to be made during implementation. The quality
        of field surveyors and investigations should be improved. The TOR should clearly specify the type,
        frequency and details of soils, materials and geotechnical investigations required. Use of modern
        survey equipment and techniques should be insisted upon.
 ii.    Monitoring the performance of PCC: The capabilities of the design consultant for Survey &
        Investigation (S&I) should be evaluated. The TOR must clearly require consultants to furnish in
        their proposals the details of in-house capabilities/details of specialized agencies if proposed to be
        associated for the S&I work.
iii.    Proposals regarding realignments, bypasses, new structures, final road levels should be based on
        detailed consultations with the PWD officers, concerned agencies and local people to incorporate
        their views and local requirements. Active involvement of R&B engineers in project preparation
        work will be useful.
 iv.    Performance of design consultants/PCC should be monitored. The TOR/Agreement should
        incorporate suitable clauses for: (i) Quality assurance for DPR; (ii) Responsibility for accuracy of
        design with economy/aesthetic; (iii) Disincentives and deterrent action for deficiency in designs and
        consultancy services; (iv) Performance appraisal report. This should be an open, transparent report
        which can be shared by current/previous clients. This should clearly indicate the changes occurred
        in designs in implementation stage, cost over runs on account of the modifications in design.
  v.    A standard TOR should be prepared and followed uniformly. The TOR among other things should
        clearly specify design responsibility and performance monitoring mechanism.
 vi.    The DPR should be examined thoroughly. For this prior review of project by an independent expert
        before bidding is recommended.
vii.    The responsibility for carrying out design changes during construction should be given to CSC to
        avoid delays.
viii.   Interaction with RBD and other concerned departments and stakeholders while preparing detailed
        project reports and incorporating their views.
 ix.    Giving due consideration to local site conditions and needs.
 x.     Engaging more than one design consultant (PCC) for project preparation for large size projects
        comprising several packages.
 xi.    Time gap between project design and project implementation should be minimum possible.

 3.3    Pre-construction activities - delays in LA, forest clearance and shifting of utilities:

  i.    A high-level coordination committee of concerned departments should be constituted to expedite
        implementation of LA, shifting of services, social component and other project activities.
 ii.    Realignments, new alignments should be finalized in consultation with the concerned agencies,
        Forest department etc. in order to avoid land acquisition problems.
iii.    Proposals for shifting of utilities coming in the right of way should be made based on proper
        surveys and consultations with the concerned departments.



                                                    - 33 -

 iv.    The work of land acquisition and shifting of utilities should be well planned and coordinated. All
        pre-construction activities should be completed before award of work.
  v.    In exceptional cases, if any utility shifting is required to be done by main contractor, the provision
        should be included in the BOQ on the basis of detailed quantities instead of L.S. provision.
 vi.    Review of L.A. procedure including amendment of the Land Acquisition Act to expedite
        proceedings

 3.4   Construction of ROB/RUBs:

  i.    A committee consisting of senior level officers from railways and R&B Department should be
        constituted.
 ii.    The work of ROB/RUBs should form a separate package in case designs, LA and other procedural
        requirements are not completed before inviting tenders.
iii.    Streamlining the procedure for expeditious approvals by Railways for construction of ROB/RUBs.
        An agreed procedure for approvals of designs and construction aspects should be finalized at
        senior level officers of the Railways and the Roads & Building Department to ensure that the
        ROB/RUB designs and other related aspects are finalized at the DPR stage itself and no delays are
        caused during project implementation.

 3.5   Construction Supervision Related Issues:

 3.5.1  Performance of Supervision Consultant

  i.    Frequent changes in personnel were made. Consultants were not able to provide timely
        substitution, thereby affecting the work.
 ii.    Most of the personnel are hired for the job and have no allegiance to the consultant or to the work.
iii.    CSC should keep record of daily log of men and machinery of the contractor and analyse short
        falls and delays and ensure that the contractor deploys the requisite resources to complete the
        project on time.
 iv.    Inordinate delay in submission of Variation orders.
  v.    Unsubstantiated excess and negative quantities in the IPCs certified by consultant.
 vi.    The CSC has certified some of the BOQ quantities more than the contractor's entitlement as per
        contract conditions. For which the Employer has to get it verified by the third party of ascertaining
        the actual quantities and lot of efforts are to be made for recovering the excess payment from the
        contractor.
vii.    The Employer has observed from the As-built drawings and the draft final statement that the CSC
        has made numerous misclassifications among the BOQs and also resulted in negative amounts
        ranging from to Rs 20.00 Lakh to 50.00 Lakh. From which it can be inferred that the CSC has not
        acted as per agreement conditions while measuring and certifying the quantities.
viii.   Consultant's active involvement in the work and timely action is required to avoid claims. There
        were large numbers of contractors claim at the time of substantial completion of the work stating
        that the work has been completed as per the instructions of the Engineer.
 ix.    CSC should not demobilize key personnel before completion. A clause in the agreement may be
        required to this effect.
 x.     Consultants should be made accountable for their lapses.
 xi.    Employer is not aware of the correspondence made by the Engineer and facts of the case to defend
        before DRB & Arbitration.




                                                     - 34 -

 3.5.2  Remedial measures:

  i.    Frequent changes in CSC team: (i) Review the contract conditions; (ii) Restrictions on changes in
        personnel say not more than 25%; (iii) Disincentives in the form of reduction in fee for changes
        exceeding the limit; (iv) Deterrent action for deficiencies in services; (v) Performance Appraisal by
        Employer/ Employers representative.
 ii.    Inadequate supervising staff and experience of FIDIC: Specify in RPF the numbers, qualification
        and experience of supervising staff to be deployed. It should be linked to project size. Adequate
        exposure to FIDIC contracts should be essential.
 iii.   Key personnel qualification not reflective of performance: Ask for certificate of performance from
        previous clients along with CV of key personnel.
 iv.    Delay in decision making; variations orders, claims: The role of Engineer should be clearly
        defined in the contract. There should be no discrepancy between the Civil works contract and the
        Consultancy contract about the role of the Engineer.
  v.    Lack of accountability: CSC should be accountable for his lapses. A suitable system for
        monitoring performance of the consultants and for deterrent action for deficiencies in services
        should be established and stipulated in the TOR/Contract.
 vi.    Role of CSC during defects liability period: CSC services required during defects liability period
        should be defined in the contract and requisite man months and other expenses included in the
        payment schedule.
vii.    Defending claims after mobilization: Employer staff should be made fully acquainted with the
        records before demobilization for defending the claims. CSC agreement should address this aspect.
        Strengthening of in house capabilities of R&B Dept. to deal with EOT, variations, claims, etc. is
        required.

 3.6    Suggested Modifications to the Agreement Conditions

  i.    ROBs should be delinked from road packages.
 ii.    Tree Plantation should be entrusted to the Forest Department as a separate work.
 iii.   Adequate conditions need to be incorporated in the agreement to effectively implement the
        Environment Mitigation Plan.
 iv.    The length of package should be 60-100 Kms.
  v.    The taking over of completed work should be made more clear and defined. Completed stretched
        could be in lengths of at least 10 km multiples of.
 vi.    Local taxation aspect needs to be adequately addressed in the contract conditions.
vii.    Clauses related to statutory taxes, deductions at source should be clearly defined so that there is no
        ambiguity.
viii.   Any incentives and exemptions to the contractor such as custom duty exemption, excise duty
        mention should be clearly stipulated in the contract documents and the contractors should be asked
        to quote rates accordingly.
 ix.    Active participation by all partners of JV should be made mandatory by a suitable clause in the
        agreement.
  x.    Sub-contracting clause should be made more specific. Limits for sub-contractors and number of
        subcontractors to be allowed to be defined.
 xi.    Methodology for working out rates for new items should be clearly defined in the agreement.
xii.    Price escalation clause should be more specific in terms of its applicability to the portion of the
        work done.
xiii.   The procedure for recovery of advances should be made clear.
xiv.    Some more clauses need to be incorporated for addressing the Environmental issues.


                                                    - 35 -

xv.     CSC is doing misclassification in respect of Items of work in the contract while preparing the
        IPCs. The employer could able to know this only after the as built drawings are submitted. This
        has taken much of employer time and such practice of recommending payment on prorate basis
        may be discouraged.

3.7     Engagement of Consultants:

 i.     Number, qualification and experience of supervising staff should be adequate. Consultants do not
        make realistic provision in their bids to keep the bid amount low. Inexperienced personnel at junior
        level affects quality and progress of work.
ii.     The Consultant should name the Engineer in the Technical proposal.
iii.    Fielding of personnel from the regular establishment of the Consultant should be insisted on.
iv.     Along with CVs of key personnel, performance certificate from employers for the last two jobs
        should be furnished. Preferably, Employer interviews key personnel.
 v.     Age limit should be specified.
vi.     Procedure for monitoring the performance of CSC should be evolved and incorporated in the TOR.
vii.    It may be desirable that the PCC is engaged as the Supervision Consultant. This will enable quick
        decision and ensure reduction in variations.

3.8   Training:

 i.     Training should be given R&B personnel in FIDIC conditions, quality procedures, and Project
        management.
ii.     The RBD should have a Claims Specialist for defending the claims.
iii.    Training to contractor's personnel should be made compulsory.

3.9 Suggestions for World Bank:

 i.     The clause 67.2 which has a scope for mutual settlement in between the contractor and Employer
        may be incorporated for the benefit of the Employer for avoiding the legal battle in settling the
        claims and paying huge interests at later date by which time the loan amount may not be available.
ii.     World Bank is presently allowing 4 months for submission of Claims of expenditure for
        re-imburesement. This period is not adequate as the contractors is submitting the As-built drawings
        late and only after verification of it, the final payment can be processed. A minimum period of 6-8
        month is essential.
iii.    CSC is also getting demobilized along with loan closure itself. As many important close up issues
        normally will be there in large projects, a provision may be made to engage the CSC services
        beyond 4 months of loan closing date.

3.10    Claims:

 i.     The Fee for DRB members should be fixed uniformly in India.
ii.     The panel of DRB members may be constituted along with their performance data for enabling the
        Borrower to choose from the list.
iii.    No legal attorney may be allowed in the DRB meetings for arguing on behalf of
        Employer/Contractor. The persons involved in the project such as Project Manager of Contractor
        and Project Director of Employer may only be allowed to represent before DRB.
iv.     The Recommendations of DRB must be made binding on both the parties and implemented in the
        first instance and then they may approach Arbitration if either of them desires.


                                                      - 36 -

v.      The Contractors are giving claims as high as 60 % of the contract value itself. Hence the World
        Bank may investigate the genuineness of all such claims by invoking the clause under which the
        accounts of contractors can be checked (As per SBD). Also they may impose some penalties in
        approving such contractors in the next pre-qualification undertaken by Bank.

Engineer in Chief (R&B) Admn & NABARD & A/c Managing Director, APRDC




                                                  - 37 -

Additional Annex 9. Stakeholders Workshop

9.1       Background: The Roads and Building Department (RBD) organized a stakeholders workshop on
July 20, 2004 during which more than 50 participants comprising of the RBD staff, consultants,
contractors, and other stakeholders participated. The workshops were organized to seek feed-back form the
participants on (i) achievement of the project objectives; (ii) the factors affecting project implementation
and problems encountered; and (iii) the lessons learnt towards improving the quality and effectiveness of
the future Bank projects. A stakeholders opinion survey was also conducted for the major development
impacts and constraints. The key issues and recommendations emerged from the workshops are given in
Section 9.2 and the results of the opinion surveys are given under Section 9.3.

9.2       Key Issues and Recommendations

9.2.1    Too many design changes required during execution of road improvement works:
Recommendations: (i) Ensure adequate quality of initial surveys and investigations; (ii) make a standard
TOR for detailed engineering designs clearly defining the type, frequency and details of soils, materials and
geotechnical investigations required; (iii) capabilities of design consultant for surveys and investigations to
be a criteria for evaluation of their proposals; (iv) actively involve road agency, concerned government
staff, and local people in project preparation especially regarding realignments, bypasses, new structures,
and final road levels; independent review of the detail engineering designs before the construction; and (v)
promote the use of modern equipment for surveying and field investigations.

9.2.2     Delays during execution

The design changes and variations during execution involved the following chain: Contractor - CSC -
Employer - PCC and back, which took long time in communicating the decision to the contractor.
Recommendations: (i) The supervision consultants could directly handle the normal design changes during
execution; (ii) regular review meeting of consultants, contractors and employer; (iii) ensure full
mobilization of equipment and personnel by Contractor; (iv) regular updating of the work program which
should be updated regularly and supported with details of required equipment, manpower and other inputs;
(v) a construction management specialist to be included in the CSC team; (vi) the PCC and the CSC could
be same; and (vii) regular interaction between Project Director and Team Leaders of the consultants.

9.2.3     Delays in pre-construction activities (Land Acquisition, forest clearance, and shifting of
utilities): Recommendations: (i) advance action for pre-construction activities; (ii) ensure adequate surveys
during the design stage; (iii) shifting of utilities and land acquisition should be made BOQ items; (iv)
review of LA procedure including amendment of the Land Acquisition Act to expedite proceedings; (v) A
high level coordination committee of concerned departments should be constituted to expedite
implementation of LA, shifting of services, social component and other project activities. All
pre-construction activities including land acquisition, environmental and forest clearances, shifting of
utilities should be completed before award of work/scheduled date of commencement.

9.2.4    Delays in finalization of designs and construction of ROBs: (i) ROBs should be made a separate
contract package; (ii) streamlining the procedure for expeditious approvals by Railways authorities; (iii)
senior officials of the railways and the road agency to agree on design and construction issues and the
procedures for various approvals before the project starts.




                                                      - 38 -

 9.2.5 Bid Documents and Contact Clauses

  i.   Details of major plant and equipment and their mobilization schedule should be indicated in the
       contract.
 ii.   The recovery of advances caused serious cash flow problems to the contractors (It started after 9
       months from the date of commencement of works irrespective of the progress made). It should be
       according to the spirit of FIDIC conditions.
iii.   The contract clauses about local taxation, statutory taxes, deductions at source, custom duty and
       excise duty exemptions were not clearly defined. COPA as well as Clause 70 should be reviewed to
       make the price adjustment formula more rational.
 iv.   Contract Size and Mile- stones: A single contract size should cover 60 ­ 80 km of road length for
       effective supervision and administration. Milestones could better be fixed as percent physical
       progress as a full road section is unlikely to be available due to land acquisition or other problems.
  v.   Monsoon Period: Adequately consider the impact of monsoon period while planning the
       construction program and issuing notice to proceed.
 vi.   Contract conditions and contract administration practices need a review as these are not effective to
       ensure: deployment of requisite professional staff and equipment; compliance to the
       sub-contracting provisions; compliance to the Contractor's work plan; use of mobilization advance
       for the intended purpose; submission of claims expeditiously (the contractors has a tendency to
       hold the claims to the last); and submission of as built drawings by the Contractors. The contract
       conditions are also not effective to ensure participation of all the JV partners.

 9.2.6 Performance of Contractors

  i.   Contractors deployed inadequate professional staff and equipment;
 ii.   Mobilization advance taken but not utilized for intended purpose (Payment of mobilization advance
       to be linked to actual mobilization);
 iii.  In Joint Ventures, international partners did not participate actively. In some cases they merely
       deployed a few personnel.
 iv.   Subletting to local contractors was a serious problem. It defeated the very purpose of
       pre-qualifying the contractors. Many contractors off-loaded the work to subcontractors at big
       margin of profit.
  v.   Capacity of some contractors were not found matching to the contract packages for which they
       were pre-qualified.
 vi.   Project management and financial planning by some contractors was poor. They did not have
       adequate capacity in these areas resulting in poor management and cash flow problems.
vii.   Suggestions for improvement: PQ criteria should be reviewed; improved monitoring of the
       performance of the contractors; contract should have stringent requirements for JV and subletting:
       failure to comply with those will be a default of Contractor for action under clause 63.
viii.  CSC must report about the performance of JVs, unauthorized Sub-letting, deployment of needed
       professional staff and equipment in their monthly progress reports.
 ix.   Poor planning and Financial Capabilities: PQ criteria should be reviewed for a more realistic
       evaluation of financial strength, experience, equipment, personnel, and bid capacity.
  x.   Delays in submissions of claims and as built drawings.
 xi.   Contractor's work programme did not adhere to time and was not updated regularly.
xii.   Inadequate exposure to FIDIC contracts: Training for contractor's personnel at the start of the
       work should be made a contract requirement.
xiii.  Compliance of safety requirements during construction need to be insisted by the Engineer.




                                                    - 39 -

 9.2.7 Performance of the consultants

  i.   Frequent changes in consultant's team: Restrict the changes in personnel say not more than 25%. A
       disincentive through reduction in fee for changes exceeding the limit; deterrent action for
       deficiencies in services; and performance appraisal by PD.
 ii.   Non availability of required trained and experienced personnel; and lack of familiarity of the
       consultants with local conditions.
iii.   Personnel and other resources should be linked to the size of package for better construction
       supervision and contract administration. CSC should have its own transport arrangement and
       laboratory instead of depending on the contractors for these inputs.
 iv.   Inadequate supervising staff and experience of FIDIC: Specify in RPF the number, qualification
       and experience of supervising staff to be deployed. It should be linked to project size. Adequate
       exposure to FIDIC contracts should be essential.
  v.   Key personnel qualification not reflective of performance: Ask for certificate of performance from
       previous clients along with CV of key personnel.
 vi.   Delay in decision making, variations orders, and claims: The role of the Engineer and the Employer
       should be clearly defined in the contract.
vii.   Lack of accountability: CSC should be accountable for his lapses. A suitable system for
       monitoring performance of the consultants and for deterrent action for deficiencies in services
       should be established and stipulated in the TOR/Contract.
viii.  Role of CSC during defects liability period: CSC services required during defects liability period
       should be defined in the contract and requisite man months and other expenses included in the
       payment schedule.
 ix.   Defending claims after mobilisation: Employer staff should be made fully acquainted with the
       records before demobilization for defending the claims. CSC agreement should address this aspect.
       Strengthening of in house capabilities of R&B Dept. to deal with EOT, variations, claims, etc. is
       required.
 x.    Processing of bills was not according to specified time schedule due to delay in submission of bills.
       Thorough scrutiny of bills by CSC is suggested.

 9.2.8 Standardization and Updation of Documents

  i.   A Standard TOR for Design Consultants/PCC and for Construction Supervision consultants
       should be prepared to ensure adequacy of services and quality of output.
 ii.   Standard Bidding Documents for procurement of Civil Works: The ITB and COPA should be
       thoroughly reviewed and redrafted as a Standard document, fully addressing in a equitable manner
       the issues and concerns of the Employer and the Contractor.
iii.   Review of Quality Control Procedures and Tests: The frequency of quality control tests required
       under existing IRC/MORTH guidelines require a review as with increased level of mechanization
       and use of modern equipment, a much better control and uniformity in construction operations and
       quality of end product can now be achieved. The IRC should prepare a standard Quality Assurance
       Manual (QAM) to be followed uniformly for large projects. Similarly, QAP for contractors should
       also be standardized.
 iv.   Guidelines for Highway Project Preparation: IRC/MORTH should prepare a standard document
       for preparation of Detailed Project Report (DPR) for highway projects covering field investigation
       and surveys, traffic studies, economic analysis, detailed design, drawings and environmental and
       social management aspects. The existing IRC publication "Manual for Survey and Investigation
       and Preparation of Road Projects" ­ IRC : SP 19 ­ 2001 could be updated or a new document
       brought out through IRC to meet this requirement.


                                                  - 40 -

 v.     Pavement Design Manual: The current IRC guidelines for design/strengthening of flexible road
        pavements need a review as these cover only conventional pavement structures and have other
        limitations. With the increasing investment and thrust on quality and durability of road
        infrastructure, the immediate need is to update the pavement design guidelines to enlarge its scope
        to incorporate: (i) new materials; (ii) improved pavement compositions; (iii) regional climatic
        factors; (iv) drainage; and (v) assured performance and durability.

9.2.9   Traffic Safety and Related Aspects

 i.     Provide improved communication system and better infrastructure facilities to police traffic/road
        safety department ­ adequate staff and vehicles, breath analyzer, radar speed measurement
        equipment, and other equipment.
ii.     Need for active involvement of the departments like police, transport, forest and local bodies during
        project preparation and implementation.
iii.    Install road safety devices like crash barriers, road markings, cat eyes, reflectors, signboards,
        traffic signs on state roads and ensure their regular maintenance.
iv.     Provide yellow flashing lights at entrance of villages/towns.
 v.     Provide service roads at roadside villages/towns.
vi.     Provide other facilities and wayside amenities like truck lay-byes, dhabas, petrol pumps, first aid,
        telephone, resting place, and repair shops on highways.
vii.    Establish effective mechanisms to regularly monitor and control/remove encroachments along the
        highway.

9.2.10 Project Management: The Project Implementation Unit of RBD required strengthening to deal
with road safety, contractual and legal issues, and project management. More attention was required on the
training of RBD staff and their active involvement during the project preparation and implementation.
Suitable incentives, and better transport and other facilities need to be provided to the project staff.
Monitoring mechanism to be made more effective.

9.2.11 Role of the World Bank has been effective by carrying out periodic reviews, visits, and providing
technical guidance to the Borrower from time to time.

9.2.12 Other Aspects

 i.     A time bound program should be drawn up by R & B Dept. for effective implementation and
        utilization of studies carried out under the APSHP. Areas of priority include: (i) implementation of
        performance based road maintenance. Intervention levels on regional basis should be expedited for
        its further refinement and extension; (ii) fully operationalising PMS; (iii) calibration and use of
        HDM-4; (iv) safety auditing of projects; (v) use of rapid methods for data collection and
        augmenting road inventory; (vi) access to central database to district level, and (vii) organization
        for controlling and removal of encroachments.
ii.     Performance based maintenance contracts: System has been implemented on pilot basis in four
        districts with good results. Intervention levels need to be set on regional basis for different climatic,
        traffic and terrain conditions for its further refinement and extension. A longer maintenance
        contract period, minimum 250-300 km length and review of data collection method are suggested.
iii.    Modification in the PMS developed by VIC ROADS has been suggested. The modification
        incorporates assessment of the pavement condition using a weightage system instead of directly
        assessing the quality of road for deciding priority of roads.




                                                     - 41 -

9.3     Results of the Stakeholders Opinion Surveys: Shown on the next pages.


                 Fig 9.1 - Stakeholders Perception of various impacts/ outcomes of the projects

                                                                    Weighted average


                                                     0.5     1    1.5   2      2.5     3      3.5

                            Improved riding quality

                             Increased travel speed

                                Reduced travel time

                        Reduced fuel consumption

      Increased mechanization of road construction

                           Overall project benefits

             Increase in bid capacity of contractors

         Improved availability of road network data

                          Reduced congestion level

                     Improved construction quality

                      Increased economic activities       h



                 Improved procurement procedures

          Increased capacity of local const. industry

           Improved availability of modern vehicles

                       Private sector participation

       Overall technology upgradation in the sector

                       Improved way-side facilities

                    Improved level of maintenance

               Increased employment opportunities

                         Skill development of RBD

                      Introduction of new policies

                          Agriculture Development

                           Reduced road accidents



Note: Total number of respondents = 51; The responses were obtained as "high", "low", "medium" &
"indifferent", and are converted to a common scale using the following weights: high = 4; medium = 2; low
= 1; and indifferent = 0.




                                                          - 42 -

                 Fig 9.2 - Stakeholders perception of various contraints/ factors which
                                                 affected the project

                                                                         Weighted average


                                                             0.5   1   1.5      2      2.5     3       3.5

                                 Delays in land acquisition

                      Permission from Railway authorities

                                Delays in forest clearances

                              Delays in shifting of utilities

                      Low level of involvement of RBD staff

                     Lack of local knowledge to consultants

                   Frequent changes in team of consultants

                     Inadequate surveys and investigations

                          Inadequate staff deployed by RBD

           Poor performance ofJoint venture arrangements

                  Inadequate involvement of Stake-holders

                          Lack of inter-agency coordination

                                    Familiarity with FIDIC

    Lack of compatibility between FIDIC and local practices

          Inadequate technical staff deployed by contractor

                 Design changes required during execution

                     Inadequate capacity of the contractors

                              Poor quality of initial designs

                 Inadequate resources for supervision team

                 Recovery of advances from the contractors

                               Unexpected rains and floods

Note: Total number of respondents = 51; The responses were obtained as "high", "low", "medium" &
"indifferent", and are converted to a common scale using the following weights: high = 4; medium = 2; low
= 1; and indifferent = 0.




                                                         - 43 -

Additional Annex 10. Progress Made on Implementation of Institutional Development
Action Plan


SN                 Initiative                      Planned Out-Put                  Status/Progress made
 1   Reorganize Roads and Building          GOAP to agree on the new        New structure was agreed by GOAP
     Department                             organizational structure        in 1997
                                            proposed under Institutional
                                            Development Study
 2   Appoint Head of Roads and              Head of reorganized Roads and   HOD could not be appointed. RBD
     Building Department (HOD)              Building Department to function had two Engineer-in-Chiefs at that
                                            as its Executive Director       time, only one of them could have
                                                                            been appointed as HOD. Instead
                                                                            GOAP constituted a Corporate
                                                                            Management Group (CMG) to
                                                                            initiate and implement the reforms
                                                                            in existing RBD.
 3   Establish new management               New organization structure      The progress made is modest as
     structure and consolidate              effective                       detailed below:
     department functions, staffing, and
     responsibilities under the new
     organization
Many of the positions proposed in the new structure, more or less, already existed. The major change was
appointment of HOD of RBD which did not materialize. All the Chief Engineers of RBD were directly reporting
to the Secretary, RBD and they were apparently reluctant to report to the HOD under the new structure. This to
some extent was also the reason that GOAP could not appoint the HOD for the new structure. GOAP finally
decided that CMG jointly manage the entire reform program through the existing RBD structure. Each Chief
Engineer/Engineer-in-Chief was assigned additional responsibility to implement one of the key reforms identified
by CMG.
 4   Take charge of and facilitate          CMG established                 CMG was established by GOAP who
     regular review of the reform                                           implemented Phase I reforms as
     process and enhance decision                                           detailed below:
     making
The CMG identified the following key initiatives (i) quality management; (ii) maintenance management; (iii)
strategic project planning; (iv) contract procurement and management; and (v) financial management and cost
accounting. The achievements made in many of these reforms are encouraging, as detailed under Sections 4.1.3
and 4.2.3, and in this Table. However, the reform progress suffered a set-back when the Institutional
strengthening consultants demobilized due to sanctions imposed by the Government of Australia on India. The
AUSAID grant funds, which were used to fund the consulting services, were stopped due to the sanctions. The
CMG continued to function even after the demobilization of consultants for some time. CMG was not involved in
Phase II reforms implemented after remobilization of the consultants.
 5   Consulting Services guiding            Institutional Strengthening     Consultants mobilized on 05/98
     facilitating the institutional         Consultants appointed
     strengthening and reform process
 6   Government Statutory powers to         AP Roads Act                    RDC Act was prepared and passed by
     the Road Department                                                    the AP Legislature in 1998.

                                                                            GOAP has also prepared a draft Road
                                                                            Act by incorporating issues such as
                                                                            road safety, corridor management,
                                                                            collection of service charges from
                                                                            road users, and several other items.



                                                        - 44 -

 7    Provide for assured funding              Establish Road Trust Fund and      The road users charges could not be
                                               Dedicate Selected road user        dedicated to the Road Fund but
                                               charges to this fund.              GOAP did enhance its maintenance
                                                                                  allocations as detailed below:
GOAP established a Road Fund in 1997 and decided to dedicate 50% of the incremental revenue of the following
taxes to that fund: (i) Motor Vehicle Tax; (ii) Fees (License, Driving, Registration, Permits); and (iii) Commercial
Tax on petroleum products, tyres, tubes, and spare parts. This decision was not implemented. However, GOAP
raised the maintenance funding by 76% during project implementation from the pre-project level and the current
level of funding is adequate to fully meet the demands of the primary core network and to significantly meet the
demands of the non-core roads.
 8    Business Efficiency                      Introduction of quality            The RBD prepared a comprehensive
                                               management system (QMS);           quality plan as well as quality
                                               improved financial management procedures for all aspects involved in
                                               system; and cost accounting        RBD and used them for the project. A
                                               principles                         customized financial management
                                                                                  system (FMS) developed, its manual
                                                                                  prepared, and training of staff
                                                                                  completed on the use of FMS. The
                                                                                  FMS was applied on project
                                                                                  activities.
 9    Improved planning and Design             GOAP transport and BOT             Substantial progress made as detailed
                                               policies; and Plans for            below:
                                               maintenance upgrading
(i) RBD has successfully implemented innovative pavement designs using crushed stone as a main base layer
providing substantial savings (about 30%) over the traditional designs. RBD also used improved geometry (10 m
paved width with 7 m carriageway and 1.5 m hard shoulders on either side) which was found very effective to
segregate non-motorized traffic from the motorized one.

(ii) GOAP had enacted an "Infrastructure Enabling Development Act in 2001" to invite private sector investment
for road projects in Andhra Pradesh on Build -Operate-and Transfer basis. The GOAP provides upto (i) 30% of
the project costs as a subsidy on a case to case basis; (ii) land required for the project including assistance for
shifting of utilities, tree cutting, and resettlement and rehabilitation of the affected people; (iii) assistance for
environmental clearances; and (iv) risk coverage due to any future change in government policies. The private
investor can collect toll upto a maximum period of 30 years, develop wayside facilities, and undertake certain land
use changes along the corridor to recover his investment.

(iii) RBD has also established a Pavement Management System and a comprehensive Management Information
System in GIS environment as detailed under Section 4.2.3.
10 Human Resources Development                 Staff Development and Training Significant progress as mentioned
                                               program                            below:
RBD with the assistance of consultants, has prepared comprehensive manuals for pavement design, maintenance,
quality assurance, the road safety audits to document and mainstream the significant experiences gained through
the project in the entire RBD. 20 RBD engineers attended the Road Management Courses organized by the
University of Birmingham, UK. The RBD engineers have also undertaken study tours to USA and Australia to
study good examples of road maintenance and management. The Project Coordinating Consultants, Institutional
Development Consultants, and Supervision Consultants organized a number of training courses for the RBD staff
on project organization and management, project preparation and design, procurement and contract
administration, road safety audits, quality assurance, and other aspects. About 12 RBD divisions and PIU staff
(more than 100 in no) has significantly improved their skills through counterpart training while working with
international consultants and contractors. The staff of 3 RBD divisions have received extensive training from the
consultants on performance based maintenance contracts. The trained staff is now expanding these contracts to
other distracts.



                                                           - 45 -

11 Project Management                        Project management guidelines     Project management guidelines were
                                             and Training program for          prepared and used for the project.
                                             project managers                  Training to RBD staff on project
                                                                               management delivered. RBD also
                                                                               effectively used the Software such as
                                                                               PERT, MS Project for project
                                                                               management.
12 Contract Administration and               Improved documentation,           Substantial progress as detailed
     Supervision                             specifications, pre/post          below:
                                             qualification criteria,
                                             supervision procedures
RBD has significantly improved its normal procurement of works by using many recommendations of the Country
Procurement Assessment: India 2001. RBD has prepared a standard bidding document based on the Banks NCB
document; modified the outdated PWD schedule of rates and the procedures for rate analysis by accounting for the
modern construction machinery and equipment now being used; stopped price negotiations for works contracts;
introduced standard guidelines for procurement procedures and tender evaluation; improved the qualification
criteria for contractors; and modified contract clauses to introduce transparency, improve dispute resolution, and
to introduce severe punishment for fraudulent contractors. GOAP has undertaken a major step to introduce
e-procurement throughout the state for all civil works more than Rs. 500,000 in value as mentioned under Section
4.2.3. GOAP has also taken several steps to enhance the contractor's capacity including establishing a National
Academy of Construction for training of the contractors staff, and improved emphasis on quality of works.
13 Improve Quality Control                   Standard procedures for quality   Significant progress as detailed below
                                             control of all civil works
RBD has (i) established laboratories for quality control in each division, which are effectively being used for its
regular road works; (ii) made it mandatory for contractors to establish a site laboratory for each contract and
perform quality control tests; and (iii) strengthened quality monitoring mechanisms through dedicated quality
monitoring divisions. RBD has prepared a quality assurance manual that defines all the quality procedures to be
followed for road works. These efforts have significantly improved the general awareness about quality as well as
the quality of road works of RBD, as also perceived through the stakeholders surveys. RBD also developed a
project procedure manual containing 69 quality procedures for receiving ISO 9001 certification (yet to be
received).
14 Maintenance Management                    Routine maintenance by area       Progress made is significant. RBD
                                             contracts                         has successfully implemented the
                                                                               pilot performance based maintenance
                                                                               contracts and decided to expand them
                                                                               to all the districts from FY04/05.
                                                                               (See Section 4.2.2.2 for details)
15 Traffic Management and Road               Improve road safety operations,   Significant progress made as detailed
     Safety                                  reduce accidents, and road safety below:
                                             strategy and program
RBD prepared a manual for conducting road safety audits, trained its staff, and conducted the audits on 1400 km
of roads improved under the project. RBD implemented road safety engineering measures like improved road
signs, lane markings, crash barriers, junction improvement, traffic claiming measures, and reflective studs on
these roads. These measures have significantly improved road safety and driving comfort especially during night
driving, and received lot of appreciation from road users. Head-on collisions during night driving are
substantially reduced. GOAP has also established a road safety council and passed a Road Safety Act.




                                                         - 46 -

- 47 -

