Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Re.w No. 7131.GUW
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLtC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 18, 1988
Population and Human Resources Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
his duM_nt Mas a reskleftd  _sbu&m d oWay be used by red s ocb E  e peifonuane of



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 30, 1988)
Currency Unit    -  GB Peso
US$1.00          -  GB Pesos 970
Pesos 1 Million  -  US$1,031
-SURES
.m 1w -  1.09 yd.
1 *2 - 10.76 sq. ft.
I km2 - 0.38 sq. sile
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            African Development Bank
CEEF           Center for Eduicational and Training Experimentation
CBE            Complementary Basic Education (Grades 5-6)
EBE            Elementary Basic Education (Grades 1-4)
EEC            European Economic Community
ESP            Polyvalent Secondary Education
EST            Technical Secondary Education
DECREE         Department of School Construction and Renovation
DSI            Department of School Inspection
GEP            Gabinete de Estudos e Plan (Office of Planning)
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA            International Development Association
INDE           National Institute of Educational Development
i          ~~~LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
MECD           Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports
SAP            Structural fijustment Program
SIDA           Swedish International Development Authority
SINAPSE        National System for Training Teachers in Service
SOE            Statement of Expenditure
TBEP           Transitional Bilingual Education Program
UCPE           Education Project Coordinating Unit
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
UNSF           United Nations Special Fund
Fiscal Year                           School Year
January 1 - December 31                     October - June



10a3 FAML Un ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                            i
I.    INTRODUCTION  ...... ......... .........                        1
II.   THE EDUCATION SECTOR  ..............................I.          1
A* Sectoral Context  I..eeeeee            .....eee              1
B.  Issues   ..............    ..............................   2
1.  Educational Issues             .ee*eeeeeeooeeee, e     3
2.  Managerial Issues   .ee..e.e..eee.e..e..e.             6
C.  Government Strategy and Policies        ....................  7
D.  Aid Coordination         .aeee....eeeeeeceeeeee             8
e.  The Bank Group's Role   eee.....   ..      .....  ,        8
III.  THE PROJECT  e...eee..e.e.eeeeeooee.o.eoo oeeeee oeeo.....      9
A. Project Objectives and Description  .................        9
1. Improving Quality, Efficiency and Access
in Basic Education       o..........................  9
2.  Strengthening Education Management and Planning .    12
B.  Project Costs and Financing Plan       ....................  15
C.  Project Administration   *...........   .......e........   16
1. Project Preparation, Management and
Institution Building        ........................  16
2.  Procurement   Ce..................          ....ee    17
3.  Disbursements e......eeeeeceeeee    19
4.  Special Account       0...............*........*.......  19
5.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting    ..............  20
IV.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  .....eeee.e         ......   .    21
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....      .............   22
This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission that visited
Guinea-Bissau in November 1987. The mission consisted of Messrs. L.
Concepcion (Architect, Mission Leader), P. Hebert (Institutional
Development Specialist - Consultant) and Ms. I. Silva (Bilingual Education
Specialist - Consultant). Mr. E. Marques (Education Economist -
Consultant) and Ms. C. Hoppy also contributed to the writing of this
report.
This document has a nstried ditribution and my be ued by ripients only In th perfomance
of their offBcial dutle.& Its contents may not otherwie be dbciod without World bnk authorizato.



ANNEXES
Annex  1-1    Basic Data Sheet
Annex  1-2    Comparative Education Indicators
Annex  1-3    Selected Documents and Data Available in Project nFles
Annex  2-1    Existing Structure of the Education System
Annex  2-2    Existing Organizational Structure of MECD
Annex  2-3    1987 Operational Budget of MECD Departments by
Level of Education
Annex  2-4    Student Progression Rates, Primary Education
Annex  2-5    Status and Qualifications of Primary Teachers
Annex  2-6    Data on Classroom Conditions
Annex  2-7    Present Staffing of MECD
Annex  3-1    Improvement of Curriculum and Materials
Annex  3-2    Proposed Program of Study for Teacher Training Institutions
Annex  3-3    Strengthening of School Inspectorate Services
Annex  3-4    Criteria for School Selection/Repairs
Annex  3-5    Proposed Organigram of the Ministry of Education,
Culture and Sports
Annex  3-6    StrengthenioZ of MECD
Annex  3-7    Summary of Account by Project Component
Annex  3-8    Project Implementation Schedule
Annex  3-9    Performance Indicators
Annex  3-10   Project Implementation Arrangements
Annex  3-11   Technical Assistance Requirements
Annex  3-12   Procurement Procedures
Annex  3-13   Disbursement Profile
Map No. 20564



- i -
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DRVEWOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUWBARY
Borrower:                 Republic of Guinea-Bissau
Ben ficLary:              Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports
Credit Ahouat:            SDR 3.1 million (US$4.3 mllion equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard
Project Description:      The project would provide the institutional and
policy framework for integrating investments in
the education sector. It has been designed in
coordination with other donors In order to inprove
overall resource allocation in the sector. To
support the Government's major policy objectives
for educational development, the project aims to:
(a) improve the quality, efficiency, relevance and
access of the primary education system; and (b)
develop the institutional capacity of the Ministry
of Education, Culture and Sports (MECD) to plan
and manage the education system. Specifically the
project would:
1.  Upgrade the quality and increase access to
primary education by: (a) improving the content
and relevance of the primary education curriculum
and teaching materials; (b) improving pre-service
and in-service primary teacher training programs,
strengthening the teacher inspectorate services
and training about 3,000 primary teachers; and
(c) rehabilitating existing dilapidated primary
schools.
2. Develop the institutional capacity of MECD by:
(a) establishing .n efficient organizational
structure for MECD; (b) implementing a staff
development program; (c) providing basic office
equipment, materials and improved physical
facilities; and (d) introducing budgetary and
efficiency measures to reduce costs and link
expenditures to educational development
priorities.



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Su ary of Project Cost Estimates
Local      Foreign     Total
-.--- (US$ mlllion) -
Estiasted Project Costs: I/
A.  IMPROVEMENT OF QUALITY, EFFICIENCY
AND ACCESS OF PRIMARY EDUCATION
Improve Curriculum and Materials            0.03         0.16       0.19
Teacher Training                            0.25         0.20       0.45
Strengthen Inspectorate Services            0.03        0.18        0.21
Rehabilitation of Primary Schools           0.91         1.54       2.45
B. DMPROVEMENT OF MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING
CAPACITY IN THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Strengthening of NECD Structure             0.06        0.23        0.29
Project Management                          0.06        0.26        0.32
Total Baseline Costs                        1.34        2.57        3.91
Physical Contingencies                      0.11        0.21        0.32
Price Contingencies                         0.18        0.24        0.42
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         1.63        3.02        4.65
Financing Plan
IDA                                         1.28        3.02        4.30
Government                                  0.35        0.00        0.35
TOTAL                                       1.63        3.02        4.65
zsw     _
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Annual                 0.17    0.83    1.18    0.97    0.67    0.30    0.19
Cumulative             0.17    1.00    2.18    3.15    3.82    4.11    4.30
1/ Net of taxes and duties.



Economic Rate of
Return:                   Not applicable.
'roJect Benefits
and RSlks:                The project would provide the institutional
framework needed for the continuous improvement
and future investments in the sector.  In the
medium term, the project would produce benefits
through improvements in teacher competence, access
to learning waterials, better quality of
instruction, and school places to children now
locked out of the system. It would allow the
Government to provide the full six years of
education in smaller villages. In the longer
term, the project would improve the quality and
efficiency of basic educatiou, and increase
access to further levels of education. Increased
literacy would contribute to higher productivity
in agriculture and other sectors because of the
improved trainability of the labor force.
There are several risks: (a) the demand for tight
coordinatlon in implementing the various
components may be too complex for IMECD; (b) the
Institutional development objectives could be
difficult to achieve; and (c) the need to
accommodate the demands of the culturally diverse
society could necessitate changes to the approach
in reforming the basic education structure as
experience is gained. The first risk would be
minimized through administrative reform to
deve&op staff competence and introduce efficient
management procedures, and engagement of
management consultants to provide implementation
support. The second risk would be minimized
through continuous dialogue at the highest levels
of Government to maintain its commitment to the
reform, and annual and mid-term reviews of project
performance to identify weaknesses and prescribe
corrective measures. The third risk would be
minimized through evaluation of the pilot phases
of the reform before nationwide application. The
annual and mid-term reviews by the Government and
IDA would be conducted in collaboration with the
African Development Bank (ADB), the European
Economic Community (EEC), the Swedish
International Development Authority (SIDA) and the
United Nations Development Program (UNDP).
Population and Human Resources Division
Western Africa Department
may 18, 1988



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1       The Republic of Guinea-Bissau has requested IDA assistance in
fivancing a project to improve the quality and efficiency of the basic
educatlon system, improve access to education, and strengthen the sector's
management and planning capacity. Total project costs are estimated at
US$4.65 million equivalent (net of taxes and duties), with a foreign
exchange component of US$3.02 million.  The Government would contribute
about US$0.35 million, and the balance, US$4.3 million, would be financed
by an IDA Credit.
1.2       The proposed project would be the Bank Group's first contribution
to the education sector and it would support country efiorts to implement a
structural adjustment program (SAP) to help redirect the country's economy
toward sustainable growth following several years of negative economic
growth. A two part lending program has been developed: a wide-ranging
lending program including a structural adjustment credit; and a core
program of investments in infrastructure, institutional support, and human
resource development. In accordance with the SAP objectives, the project
would support Government efforts to increase the productivity of its human
resources by improving the quality and efficiency of the basic education
system and increasing access to educational services. In addition, through
better planning and management of the sector, the Government would be able
to better allocate its limited resources. The Basic Data Sheet and
Comparative Education Indicators are found in Annexes 1-1 and 1-2,
respectively. The list of selected documents and data available in project
files is found in Annex 1-3.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A.   Sectoral Context
2.1       The Republic of Guinea-Bissau, with a GNP per capita of US$170 in
1986, is one of Sub-Saharan Africa's poorest countries. The relatively
young population of about 915,000, of whom 45X are under age 15, an 85X
illiteracy rate, and a society comprising 25 to 30 ethnolinguistic groups
pose daunting challenges to the education system of this newly independent
nation working to establish its national identity and to address the human
resource development needs of a heterogeneous society.
2.2       Guinea-Bissau's education system retains most of the
characteristics of that of the colonial period* It comprises: (a) primary
education with two cycles: elementary basic education (EBE, grades 1 - 4)
and complementary basic education (CBE, grades 5 - 6); and (b) secondary
education with two cycles: lower secondary (grades 7 - 9) subdivided into
polyvalent (ESP) and technical (EST) streams; and higher secondary with
only a technical stream (EMP, grades 10-13). Post-secondary education is



only a technical stream (EMP, grades 10-13). Post-secondary education is
available in a law school (enrollment of 45 in 1986) and in a teacher
training school for secondary level teachers, but these courses do not
terminate in university degrees. Full university education is acquired
abroad mostly through grants from foreign donors (87 fellows in 1985/86).
In 1986/87 about 81,900 students were enrolled In 638 officially listed
primary schools (89% in EBE and 11 in CBE), and 6,200 In 12 secondary
schools (89% in ESP/EST and 11 in EMP). These enrollments include
students within a subsidized self-contained system of 7 boarding schools
(Instituto Amizade) run by the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports
(MECD) for orphans and children of veterans of the war for liberation. Of
the total, 21% of primary and 30% of secondary enrollments are in the
capital; there are no secondary schools in three of the nine regions of the
country. 7here are also religious (Koranic) and privately run and tutorial
schools whcse operations are not supervised by MECD. Enrollment data on
"unofficial" schools are imprecise, but Koranic school attendance was
estimated at around 16,000 in 1979, and another 4,000 in other "private"
schools in 1983. The Institute of Technical and Professional Trainir9
(ITFP) provides technical education in its four centers: industrial
training at the Center for Industrial Training (CENFI) in Bissau and a
technical school in Quinara, commerce and administration at the Center for
Administrative Training (CENFA) in Bissau, and community education at the
Educational Center for Community Training (CEFC) in Tombali. The National
Institute for Educational Development (INDE) provides teacher training at
its facilities and affiliated institutes: two teacher training schools
(Bissau with 143, and Bolama with 112 students) for EBE level teachers; and
one for training CBE and secondary school teachers (in Bissau with 209).
2.3       Since independence, the organizational structure of MECD has
undergone successive transformations. In the absence of formally approved
statutes, MECD's growth has been ad-hoc resulting in a proliferation of
units and overlapping of functions. Currently, MECD has two main
divisions: Education, and Culture and Sports. In keeping with the
national administrative structure of Guinea-Bissau, MECD has 9 Regional and
37 Sectoral offices. The national system is administratively managed by a
central office in Bissau which contains 45 different units: minister's
office; 2 secretariats-general; 6 directorates-general; 20 departments;
4 councils; 3 autonomous agencies; 2 institutes; 2 federations;
2 associations; 1 museum; and 7 offices.
2.4       In 1987, MECD was allocated about 11.2% of the total Government
recurrent budget: 9.2% for education (20% average for Africa); 1.3% for
central administration; and 0.7% for culture and sports. Out of the MECD
budget, primary education was allocated about 43%; and general secondary,
technical and higher education including teacher training, 21%. The
current structure of the education system is described in Annex 2-1. The
organizational structure of MECD is described in Annex 2-.. Details of the
MECD budget are provided in Annex 2-3.
B. Issues
2.5      The national education system of Guinea-Bissau has been unable to
respond effectively to the demands of the post-colonial period, or to
supply the trainable manpower needed to direct the economy towards
sustainable growth. It faces critical educational and managerial issues.



- 3 -
There is low quality in the system which is attributable to a language
problem (the medium of instruction), inappropriate curricula, poor
preparation of teachers, lack of appropriate instructional materials, and
defective school infrastructure. There is also lack of access in the
system resulting from the lack of school facilities, a low internal
efficiency and socio-economic factors (e.g., children's responsibilities
for household chores, parental reluctance to educate girls, etc.). Only
about 58% of the primary school age (7-12 years) population are in school.
Lesa than 2% of the population have completed secondary education. The
managerial Issues involve the delivery of educational services. Four
critical administrative problems include: (a) weak organizational structure
of MECD; (b) lack of trained staff at all levels; (c) poor physical
facilities and lack of basic equipment and materials; and (d) lack of
financial resources. Both the educational and managerial issues result in
a number of inter-related problems (e.g., the defective functioning of the
Department of School Inspection resulzs in poor supervision and internal
efficiency of classroom instruction). Addressing the management issues to
minimize their negative influence can assist in resolving, to a degree, the
educational issues.
1.   Educational Issues
2.6       The Government's aim to provide basic education faces
interrelated problems of low quality and limited access. The pocr quality
of schooling reduces internal efficiency as poor achievement levels of
students increase repetition rates, contribute to student dropout and
reduce available places. Annex 2-4 contains information on student
progression rates.
2.7       Quality.  Reliable indicators to measure the educational
achievements of Guinean students are virtually non-existent. Powever, the
poor quality of the education system is apparent: internal efficiency is
low, it invests about 57 teaching years to produce a sixth grade graduate.
Comments by high Government officials, interviews with school teachers, and
observations of students' class performance reinforce these views. These
low achievement levels are largely attributable to problems concerning the:
(a) language of instruction and appropriateness of the curriculum; (b) poor
preparation of the teaching force; (c) the lack of appropriate
instructional materials; and (d) lack of school facilities.
2.8       Language problems.  Language is a major concern within Guinean
society and seems to have a major eEfect on educational achievement.  All
ethnic languages are designated as 'national languages," but Portuguese,
spoken by about 11% of the populatipn, is the only official language of
instruction. Very few teaching materials are available in a national
language, and few teachers have training in bilingual education. Because
most teachers are not proficient in Portuguese, a deficient system has
evolved whereby a child with no understanding of Portuguese is taught by a
poorly trained teacher unable to communicate effectively in the language of
instruction. Crioulo, spoken by 44% to 50% of the population, is used for
wider communication, but not as the medium of instruction except in an
experimental Crioulo/Portuguese transitional bilingual education program
(TBEP) at the EBE level run by the Center for Educational and Training
Experimeatation (CEEF). The TBEP has shown encouraging results more than



doubling the 45Z promotion rate to Grade 2 in the regular program, but no
moves have been taken so far to adopt its positive features in the general
curriculum.
2.9       Inappropriate curriculum.  Poor educational achievement is
due to curriculum deficiencies. An ineffective teaching methodology is
still employed emphasizing memorization, over the understanding of
concepts, as a key factor in school learning and evaluation of student
performance. Classroom hours (20 hours weekly) are inadequate for teaching
too many subjects. Little classroom time is left for teaching basic
literacy and numeracy skills. The primary education system is structured
for students with a command of Portuguese upon entry to grade 1. Teaching
concepts are not properly developed sequentially and extend beyond the
comprehension capabilities of many students. The transition in curriculum
content between grades 4 and 5 is particularly abrupt. Handicapped by a
weak educational base, many pupils who continue on to grades 5 and 6 are
unprepared for the more advanced CBE subjects, which are more appropriate
for secondary education curriculum. Thus, they either repeat the grades
several times or drop out before completing the cycle. Only about 92 of
those who enter grade 1 finish grade 6. The high repetition rates
exacerbate the low absorptive capacity of the system for new students.
Although general attitudes in the country toward education are positive,
parents are concerned that the kind of schooling available has produced
individuals unable to find gainful employment and that those schooled
develop a disdain for manual labor.
2.10      Poor teachlng practices.  There are three major constraints to
teaching practices in Guinea-Bissau: (a) inadequate in-service and
pre-service training programs, particularly in the teaching of literacy and
numeracy; (b) lack of essential instructional materials; and (c) poor
working conditions and teacher support services.
2.11      In 1987 there were 3,222 primary school teachers.  Only about 700
(202) were certified to teach in grades 1 to 6, but of these, about 680
taught only one of the four major subjects in grades 5 and 6. Deficiencies
in training of the teaching force are a major factor responsible for the
poor quality of education. Teacher training programs suffer from
organizational and planning weaknesses - the in-service training programs
offered only in Cacheu and Bafata were ineffective and phased out in 1986,
and replaced by the National System for Training Teachers in Service
(SINAPSE) which is in preliminary planning stages. The institutions
(Bolama and Bissau) which offer three-year pre-service programs for primary
teachers do not meet the country's needs in basic education in terms of
both quality and number of teachers tra .ned. Improvements in program
content for teaching literacy and numeracy more effectively have yet to be
made. Too many subjects are taught in the pre-service program. More
emphasis is given to teaching methodology to the detriment of acquiring
mastery of subjects taught in primary schools. Student teachers also have
very limited access to books and other pedagogical materials. A further
constraint to the quality of pre-service training is the low level of
professional competence and lack of qualification of many members of the
teacher training faculty. Because of the poor status and unstable working
conditions (contracts are renewed annually) of the teaching profession,
many qualified teachers usually obtain non-teaching employment. The lack
of adequate housing and means of transportation make placement of good
teachers in rural areas difficult.



-5-
2.12      Teacher support services are virtually uon-existent.  The
Department of School Inspection (DSI), organized in 1985, offers technical
support to classroom teachers, but services have been inadequate due to
shortage of staff, limited skills, and meager resources (transportation,
materials, etc.). The DSI currently has 20 inspectors (16 for EBE and 4
for CBE). Except for Bissau and Biombo, with one inspector each, there are
only two EBE inspectors per region. At the CBE level, the coverage is even
thinner: the 4 inspectors are distributed by discipline groups but each CBE
school is served by only one inspector such that teachers do not receive
assistance in many subject areas. DSI depends upon INDE to train its
personnel, but to date INDE has not been able to extend assistance in this
area. The DSI needs resources to expand its inspectorate staff, train them
along multi-disciplinary lines to respond effectively to a wider range of
issues during their infrequent visits to schools, and equipment (transport
facilities and materials). Details on the status of teachers are provided
in Annex 2-5.
2.13      Lack of appropriate textbooks and teaching materials.  Textbooks
are scarce, limtea quantities of two types of textbooks are avail able
locally: (a) textbooks published abroad of fairly sophisticated standards
(4-color illustrations, high quality paper, etc.); and (b) those published
locally with less expensive specifications by the National Printing Press
(INACEP). Except for the grade 1 curriculum manual, there are no teacher
manuals for any grades or subjects, and teachers and students spend
valuable classroom time copying lessons. In addition to its teacher
training responsibilities, INDE undertakes the development of the
curriculum and teaching materials including textbooks. INDE takes care to
link textbook content to the curriculum, however, there is room for much
improvement in scope, sequencing of instructional content, presentation and
standards of publication. The lack of funds, local textbook publishing
expertise and organizational deficiencies are constraints to improving
textbook quality and increasing the textbook supply. In addition, MECD has
no established evaluation mechanisms to assess the suitability of textbooks
and teacher manuals for instructional purposes. Textbook distribution is
complicated by two factors: first, the rural population is dispersed and
many village schools are difficult to access; and second, thtere is no
effective distribution network in place for textbook delivery nor
established procedures for keeping track of book deliveries, stocks, and
accountability.
2.14      Lack of access and low internal efficiency.  Only about 58Z of
the primary school age (7-12 years) population is accommodated by the
country's education system. About 43% of 7-year olds are locked out of
grade 1 as the available places are occupied by the high number of
repeaters. This is in turn compounded by the low average student-teacher
ratio of 25:1 because the deplorable conditions of primary schools do not
permit increasing class sizes. Consequently, it takes about 57 teaching
years compared to a theoretical 6, to produce a primary school graduate,
raising unit costs per graduate to unsustainable levels.
2.15      Lack of school facilities.  School mapping exercises recently
completed in the 9 regions of the country show the existence of 788 primary
schools with about 1,840 classrooms of all types of construction and
capacities. These facilities could adequately accommodate the country's
primary school age population were all classrooms fully functional,



- 6 -
operating in two shifts and large enough for 40 students. About 250 of
these classrooms are makeshift huts (barracas) with tree branches and palm
fronds as walls and roof covers. Barracas accommodate 10-15 students and
are built by the communities when a teacher is found. For these reasons as
well as the impermanence of the barracas' location and the tenure of the
teacher, MECD lists only about 632 primary schools officially of which only
22 (3X) schools provide the full six grades of primary education. Due to
long neglect and lack of funds for maintenance, most of the schools need
repair and about 60Z are in dangerous and dilapidated condition and cannot
be fully occupied. In most schools, there are few serviceable school
desks, no book shelves or teachers' desks. Toilets and clean water sources
are non-existent even in schools of more permanent structure. The
deplorable school conditions have in some cases reinforced the scepticism
among parents about the benefits of schooling (para 2.9). The investments
made by various multilateral and bilateral agencies (SIDA, EEC, United
Nations Special Fund (UNSF), etc.) for building primary schools, have
hardly kept pace with the need to replace rapidly deteriorating
classrooms. Data on classroom conditions is shown in Annex 2-6.
2.   Managerial Issues
2.16      The organizational structure of MECD is unnecessarily complex.
Many administrative units are no longer functioning, others have developed
too much autonomy, most are functioning ineffectively and inefficiently.
The existing organizational structure and its weaknesses in personnel,
facilities, equipment, materials, and finances result in poor management
and little systematic planning, and directly affect the appropriate
rendering of services.
2.17      Organizational structure.  The MECD has no formally approved
statutes identifying its component units and their correlative duties and
responsibilities. The structure has developed in an ad hoc fashion. A
proliferation of units with overlapping functions has resulted. For
example, there are two separate Directorates General for Administration
(Finance, Personnel, Facilities), one for Education and the other for
Culture and Sports. Little liaison exists between the two sets of
services.  Two units (Instituto Amizade and INDE) operate, receive and
expend external funds with little MECD control or supervision.  Unlike
other MECD units, INDE is well organized and competently staffed, but its
seeming isolation from MECD's day to day operations constrain it from
contributing more dynamically to educational development. Overall
management practices under such conditions are poor with subsequent results
of: (a) lack of coordination among heads of units; (b) overly-centralized
decision-making; (c) ill-defined operational policies and procedures; (d)
unclear designation of responsibilities; (e) unnecessary duplication of
efforts; (f) little or no evaluation of programs; and (g) lack of
coordination of externally-funded projects. The appropriate mobilization
of MECD's resources is seriously impeded. Planning for the maximum
utilization of such resources is virtually non-existent. Annex 2-2 shows
the current organizational structure of MECD.
2.18      Personnel.  Total professional and non-professional personnel
(excluding school administrators) in MECD number 989: Education 803 (82X);
Culture and Sports 186 (18X). Only about 101 are professionals or possess



- 7 -
the skills relevant to their functions and responsibilities and most of
these professionals are in INDE. There are serious staffing deficiencies
in the finance, personnel, and educational inspectorate sectors, no staff
are trained In educational administration and planning. The
non-professional staffing patterns demonstrate a bloated unskilled
personnel force (e.g. 81 are classified as carpenters, against tte
personnel position quota of 2; 18 electricians against 1 legal position;
and 209 warehousing and supply staff against 14 legal positions). In the
light of this critical lack of qualified and trained personnel, MECD cannot
handle the complex issues of the national educational system nor can it
adequately plan for its development. Annex 2-7 details the present
staffing of MECD.
2.19      Physical facilities and materials.  Given its ad hoc development,
the Education Division units of IIECD are Located rather haphazardly, making
an integration of functional services difficult. Central administrative
facilities need repair and renovation. Office furniture and office
technical equipment (typewriters, calculators, reproduction machines) are
antiquated and lacking in most units. The lack of such equipment is even
more serious in the branch units (Delegations). This lack and poor
condition of technical equipment jeopardizes the quality of services and
the efficiency of functions. The lack of materials and supplies for daily
operations is also serious, and their limited availability on the local
market compounds the problem necessitating the importation of office
supplies.
2.20      Constraints on current expenditures.  Public recurrent
expenditure on education has declined from 12.9% of total government
recurrent expenditure (excluding debt service) in 1982, to 11.2% in 1987.
Of the 1987 recurrent budget, 82.3% is allocated for education, 6.5% to
culture and sports, and 11.2% for central administration. The 1987
education recurrent budget was equivalent to a recurrent unit cost of less
than 2% of GNP per capita, one of the lowest in Africa (20.7% average
recurrent unit cost of primary education for Africa as % of GNP per
capita). Of the total MECD budget, expenditures for central administration
represent about 20%. About 43% of the MECD budget is allocated to primary
education, of which 98% goes to salaries. Virtually nothing is left for
teaching materials (currently 0.1%), qualitative improvements in the
system, let alone for maintenance of rapidly deteriorating primary
schools. Unit recurrent costs at the pre-primary and secondary levels
represented about twice that for primary. Within primary, unit costs at
the EBC level were about 69% higher than EBE, without substantial
improvement in the quality of instruction offered. These inadequacies and
imbalances in the use of limited resources are reflected in the low quality
of the basic education system. Details of the MECD budget and unit costs
are shown in Annex 2-3.
C. Government Strategy and Policies
2.21      The priority accorded to education, especially the universal
six-year basic education system, in the draft Second National Development
Plan is indicative of the Government's strategy for developing its human
resources and thereby its economic health. The Government's policies call
for: (a) rationalization in the use of education resources to produce
maximum impact; (b) improvement of the quality and efficiency of basic



- 8 -
education and its relevance to the country's development needs; and (c)
strengthening of institutional capacity to administer and plan the
development of the education system. In keeping with its new strategy for
the education sector, the Government has prioritized the improvement of
primary education. However, in order to accomplish these goals within a
reasonable time-frame, there is an urgent need to strengthen institutional
capacity to manage and plan sectoral development - via administrative and
technical reform - in the MECD and undertake the educatioval and
administrative reforms in tandem. These efforts would increase the pool of
basic education graduates and lay the foundation for developing higher
levels of education and training.
2.22      The Government has set the stage for implementing its education
strategy.  It has: (a) declared an integrated six-year primary education
structure (eliminating the EBE/CBE distinctions) as national policy; (b)
agreed to increase student teacher ratios in primary to 40:1 in accordance
with a planned timetable; (c) initiated steps to restructure MECD and
reduce redundant staff - a draft organic law is in preparation; (d) drafted
rules governing teacher remuneration and qualifications to provide
incentives to retain qualified teachers in the service; and (e) completed
the school mapping program - MECD's Department of School Construction and
Renovation (DECREE) has prepared design standards for economical school
buildings.
D. Aid Coordination
2.23      The Government has approached various donor/financing agencies
rfor assistance in redressing the problems confronting the education system:
(a) SIDA is financing improvements in textbook publishing in INDE and
INACEP, textbook printing and building primary schools in Cacheu; (b) ADB
for rehabilitating primary schools in the capital and improving technical
education. ADB is currently financing the expansion of INDE's training
facilities; (c) UNDP is financing technical assistance in curriculum and
teaching materials development and education planning; (d) EEC in building
primary schools as part of a wider rural rehabilitation project in the
regions of Bafata and Gabu; and (e) UNSF is building primary schools in
Bolama. Notwithstanding these efforts, substantial investments are needed
in the education sector, particularly in the areas of institutional
strengthening, staff development, teacher quality, and school
rehabilitation and construction. The Government needs to establish a
mechanism for coordinating and channelling investments in the sector from
bilateral and multilateral donors, and in this context, has approached IDA
for assistance in an education project.
E. The Bank Group's Role
2*24      The Bank Group has, to date, extended assistance (US$81.0 million
via 11 credits) to various sectors and activities in Guinea-Bissau
(transport, petroleum exploration, health and family planning, agriculture
and macro-economic management - both technical assistance and balance of
payments support). It recognizes the urgent need for a comPrehensive
approach to education and, in the context of its country assistance
strategy, it intends to play a major role in helping the social sectors.
The proposed Basic Education Development Project would be the first Bank
operation in this sector. The proposed project would support the



- 9 -
Government's strategy in basic education and would: (a) reinforce the
country's program for the development of its human resources; (b) establish
conditions for sound sectoral development by means of policy and financial
measures and investment programs; (c) produce long-term improvements in the
management and delivery of educational services; and (d) foster much needed
coordination among multilateral and bilateral co-donor agencies, thus
improving overall resource allocation in the sector. IDA's involvement in
the project is intended to provide an integrative element in development
efforts in the sector.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
3.1       The proposed project addresses the major policy objectives for
the education sector as defined in the Government's draft Second National
Development Plan (para 2.21). To foster aid coordination among other
donors and improve overall resource allocation in the sector, the proposed
project has been designed in consultation with other multilateral and
bilateral agencies operating in the country. It would provide the
institutional and policy framework for and complement current investments
in the development of the education system. The project focuses on
improving primary education and building institutional capacity in the
education sector and aims to: (a) improve the quality, efficiency,
relevance and access of primary education; and (b) strengthen the
institutional capacity of MECD to plan and manage the development of the
education system.
1.   Improving Quality, Efficiency and Access in Basic Education
3.2       This objective would be attained through a reform of the primary
education structure and teaching practices in a manner that would
facilitate student progression from grade 1 to 6 by: (a) improving the
content and relevance of the basic education curriculum, and textbooks; (b)
improving teacher pre-service and in-service programs and strengthening the
inspectorate services to increase the competence of primary teachers; and
(c) rehabilitating existing dilapidated primary schools. The combined
application of these measures is expected to improve internal efficiency
and reduce the time invested per six-year primary graduate from 57
teaching-years to about 30.  Expected reductions in drop-out rates, as a
result of quality improvements, would increase access to 7 year-old
students now locked out of the system from 58Z to about 95%, and increase
the proportion of primary graduates from 9X to 37X of entrants to Grade 1.
The diminishing of drop out rates could further increase the proportion of
graduates to more than 50%.
3.3       Improvement of curriculum and teaching materials content.  The
existing primary curriculum would be improved to facilitate learning and
student progression through grades 1 to 6 by implementing the following
measures: (a) the two sub-systems (EBB and CBE) would be integrated under a
unified six-year curriculum with properly structured and sequenced
subjects which include: Portuguese taught as a second language to a
national language, mathematics, elementary science, and environmental



- 10 -
studies; (b) automatic promotion would be introduced in grade 1 in 1992 and
progressively applied up to grade 5 according to the timetable set for full
implementation of the reform; (c) examlnation policies would be reviewed,
and national testing standards designed as tools for measuring student
achievement instead of being applied as simple measures for student
selection and promotion; and (d) the appropriate textbooks and teaching
materials would be developed and produced for students as well as
teachers. The project would support the testing and implementing of the
curriculum reform at the national level as outlined in an agreed
timetable. This undertaking would complement the investments by other
donors: SIDA in financing improvements in textbook publishing and the
printing of primary textbooks; UNDP in financing consultant services in
curriculum reform and teaching materials development. INDE, which has the
most qualified staff in MECD and is able to operate effectively due to wide
experience in educational development, would be responsible for curriculum
reform and implementation. INDE's Department of Programs (DEPRO) would be
responsible for curriculum development and the continuing evaluation of
classroom experiences, and would recommend the appropriate changes (in
curriculum, textbooks and training programs) for improving and/or modifying
targets. The learning process for non-speakers of Portuguepe would be
assisted by the wider application of bilingual teaching metLods tested
under the transitional bilingual education program run by CEEF/INDE.
During negotiations, agreement was obtained on the timetable for
implementing measures (a), (b), (c) and (d) above.
3.4       The project would finance the following elements: (a) about 36
staff months of fellowships and study tor. s abroad in, among others,
subject matter specialization (for the teaching of Portuguese as a second
language, mathematics, environmental studies, science), educational
measurement, testing and evaluation for MECD staff responsible for
curriculum teaching materials development ad4 evaluation; (b) materials and
local training and operational costs to extend the coverage of the ongoing
TBEP in Crioulo to two additional sites where Crloulo is the lingua franca
of the students; and (c) training of primary teachers and administrators,
materials and operational costs for the testing and evaluation of the new
primary curriculum in 12 representative schools (in Bissau, Cacheu and
Bafata) starting in school year 1989 in grades 1 and 3, 1990 in grades 2
and 4, 1991 in grade 5, and 1992 in grade 6. Details of this component and
the proposed structure of the education system are shown in Annex 3-1.
3.5       Improvement of teacher competence and inspectorate services.  The
project would increase the competence and availability of qualified primary
teachers by: (a) improving the quality of the pre-service and in-service
training programs; (b) strengthening the teacher support and inspectorate
services; and (c) introducing incentives to retain qualified teachers.
3.6       The project would assist INDE in strengthening the pre-service
program in terms of improving program content and training key program and
teaching staff. The pre-service program would run for three years, the
third year devoted to teaching practice in the classroom. The course
content would be restructured to balance the student teacher's mastery of
both subject content and teaching methodology. The entry level requirement
for students would be nine years of basic education. Graduates of the
course would be qualified to teach in all six grades, and would be trained
in multi-grade teaching techniques. This would permit the establishment of



- 11 -
complete six-year primary schools in small villages not now having access
to a full primary cycle, and ultimately increase the efficiency of the
system through the improved use of resources. The medium-term output of
the two teacher training facilities (Bissau and Bolama - 80 per year) would
replace about half of the current attrition. The increased competence of
teachers would, however, permit higher student-teacher ratios. To achieve
the qualitative improvements in the pre-service course, the teaching and
administrative staff of the teacher training schools would be upgraded
through in-house and external training programs. The project would
finance: (a) 60 staff months of long- and short-term fellowships for
teaching staff of the teacher training schools; (b) 6 staff months of
specialist services; and (c) procurement of books and reference materials.
3.7       The in-service teacher training program would be strengthened to
increase the competence of primary teachers in the service and equip them
to teach in all six grades and in the use of the revised curriculum and
textbooks. The program would run for four years: completion of the first
three years would provide adequate teaching skills in grades 1 to 4; the
fourth year of the program would equip those teachers who successfully
complete the initial three years, as well as those already qualified under
the existing system, to adequately teach in grades 5 and 6. The in-service
program would begin in September 1988, and would be presented during
weekend study group sessions, and during the longer school breaks. Courses
would be presented in a system of modules which include: (a) the core
subjects - mathematics, Portuguese, environmental studies and integrated
science; (b) pedagogical methods including the teaching of Portuguese as a
second language, and multigrade teaching; and (c) classroom management.
The in-service training program would be coordinated at the central level
by a core of trainers at INDE's Department of Teacher Training (DEAC).
DEPRO would be responsible for preparing course materials and developing
the appropriate evaluation criteria and evaluate teacher performance in the
training courses in collaboration with DSI. Training coordinators at the
"tabanca" (district) level and teacher in-service group leaders, would
assist the central staff in distributing materials, group discussions and
in trainee evaluation. The project would finance: (i) seminar costs for
the in-service training of about 3,000 teachers including internal travel
and subsistence costs during training; (ii) costs of acquisition,
preparation and distribution of training materials and related operational
costs; and (iii) basic office equipment, furniture and a motorcycle for
each sectoral office.
3.8       An attrition of about 25-30X in the ranks of presently
unqualified primary teachers is expected to occur due to the inability of
some to complete the in-service training programs. To revitalize the
teaching force, the Government has agreed that teachers unable to
successfully complete the first three years of in-service training, would
not be guaranteed continued employment in teaching.  Recognizing the need
to attract and retain competent teachers in the service, the Government has
drafted provisions that would provide incentives to qualified teachers: (a)
new regulations governing the teaching profession describing the required
qualifications and upgraded remuneration; and (b) longer-term contracts.
The new remuneration schemes are being considered in the context of the
SAP. During negotiations, the Government presented the draft regulatory
provisions for the teaching profession for IDA's review. The project



- 12 -
would finance 2 staff months of specialist assistance to MECD to assist in
setting up the new provisions for teacher employment. Details of the
teacher training programs and costs are shown in Annex 3-2.
3.9       DSI would be strengthened to carry out its role effectively in
school supervision, teacher quality control, dissemination of
technical/educational innovation, and intellectual cross-fertilization of
the teaching force. The number of inspectors would be increased to provide
one inspector/teacher-trainer In each of the 36 geographic sectors outside
Bissau. Members of the inspectorate would have a minimum qualification of
12 years of education, 3-4 years of classroom teaching, and a good command
of Portuguese. The inspectorate staff would also receive training in
teaching methodology and classroom/school management practices at INDE.
The project would finance: (a) local training of inspectorate staff
including internal travel and subsistence; (b) 6 staff months of study
tours for key DSI staff and related operational costs. Annex 3-3 describes
this component in detail.
3.10      Rehabilitation of primary schools.  To improve access to basic
education, about 324 dilapidated classrooms located in the four regions
(Quinara, Biombo, Tombali and Oio) which have not received any school
construction assistance from other donors, would be rehabilitated/replaced
and furnished under the project. This would improve about 14,500 places
(30Z of existing capacity in primary schools). The schools were selected
In accordance with criteria agreed on at project appraisal, among which
are the availability of teacher housing or community effort to put up one.
The building structures would be renovated in accordance with the standard
economical school designs developed by DECREE which are adaptable
countrywide, easy to maintain and maximize the use of local materials.
Classrooms would accommodate up to 40 pupils and be provided a bookcase and
simple school furniture. Each school would be provided a small locker for
school materials, sanitary facilities, a manual water pump, a maintenance
kit and a bicycle for the teacher as an incentive for asslgnment in rural
schools. To the extent possible in building/repairing the schools,
community supplied labor would be tapped, supported by a full-time site
foreman contracted by DECREE, and closely supervised by DECREE personnel.
Community assistance is expected to raise local consciousness on building
maintenance and relieve MECD of some of the administrative and financial
burden of school upkeep. IDA would finance civil works, procurement of
construction materials (including on-site fabrication of some furniture),
the services of construction site supervisors and community organizers, and
the procurement of school furniture and equipment. During negotiations,
IDA approved the construction plans, bill of materials, construction
bidding documents and site selections for the first 30 schools to be
rehabilitated. Details and estimated costs of this component are provided
in Annex 3-4.
2. Strengthening Education Management and Planning
3.11      To develop and improve the institutional capacity of MECD the
project would: (a) support the establishment of an efficient organizational
structure at MECD with the appropriate functions, policies, and procedures
of the relevant institutional units (central/Delegations); (b) implement a
staff development program; (c) upgrade physical facilities and provide



- 13 -
technical equipment; and (d) introduce budgetary and efficiency measures to
reduce costs and to link expenditures to established education development
priorities.
3,12      Reform of MECD organizational structure.  The objectives of this
component are to: (a) develop a sound institutional framework within which
sectoral operations could be conducted efficiently; and (b) strengthen
management and planning capability within MECD. In developing the new
structure, integration of units and delineation of lines of authority,
functions and responsibilities were the principal factors considered.
These are described in the new Organizational Law of MECD which would
initially be effective on a provisional basis (3 years), to allow for
appropriate revisions and amendments. Some of the more important
structural changes are: (i) the branch units (Delegations) of MECD would be
made operative in accordance with the national administrative divisions of
the country (i.e., provincial-3; regional-9; sectoral-37); (ii) the
Minister of Education would be advised by an Administrative Council
comprising the Secretaries of State for Education and Culture and Sports,
as well as the various Directors-General, in the general management and
planning functions of the sectoral system; (iii) The Office of Planning
(GEP) would be strengthened and be responsible for educational planning,
research and implementing all externally-funded projects and programs thus
providing an important coordinating dimension to the planning and
implementation of projects.  DECREE would be incorporated into GEP, as MECD
considers the rehabilitation of school facilities a critical element in
planning educational development; (iv) INDE would be responsible for
curriculum and educational materials development, preparation of textbook
manuscripts, teacher training (pre-service and in-service) and training of
school inspectors; and (v) DSI would be strengthened in terms of staffing
and equipment for more effactive assistance to teachers (para 3.9).  During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it would take all
measures necessary for the adoption of the Provisional Law of MECD by
December 31, 1988.
3.13      Staff development.  In order to improve management capacity in
MECD, the competence and skills of the technical staff would be developed
under a comprehensive staff development program comprising both short- and
long-term training abroad, locally and in-house. Support would also be
given to improve records management, accounting and budgeting practices,
through training and technical assistance. In the context of the
Government's plan to reduce public sector employment as part of the SAP,
the administrative staff of MECD would be reduced in accordance with the
needs assessment under preparation by MECD personnel department in order to
strike an appropriate balance between professional and support staff. The
provision of adequate facilities and materials to MECD have a direct
bearing on the efficiency with which various education services are
provided. The project would provide basic office equiment and furniture,
vehicles and finance the repair and renovation of MECD's central
administrative offices.
3.14      MECD would prepare annual work programs, agreed to and monitored
by the the Administrative Council, to ensure that institutional units
attend to priority tasks and appropriate performance standards are met.
Initially, the work program for most units would focus on gathering and
analyzing data related to their responsibilities, developing internal work



- 14 -
procedures and evaluation instruments to monitor performance and work
output. Work programs for future years would be included in the annual and
mid-term reviews to be undertaken by the Government and IDA. During
negotiations, agreement was obtained on the timetable for restructuring
MECD, defining responsibilities of organizational units and developing
professional staff. Details of t:he proposed organizational structure and
timetable are shown in Annex 3-5.
3.15-    Budgetary and efficiency measures.  Improved budgetary measures
would be introduced linking expenditures to educational development
priorities, namely basic education and quality improvements. Improvements
in the sector would be achieved primarily through the reallocation of
resources among subsectors and programs, and the reduction of unit costs
and increased access through efficiency gains. Specific measures include:
(a) restricting the growth including reduction of personnel expenditures in
the central administrative units and intermediary institutions by about 10%
yearly from 1989-1991, 5% in 1992-1993 and maintained constant thereafter;
(b) realignments within MECD's budget, increasing the allocations to
primary education, teacher training, inspectorate support and teaching
materials. The allocations for primary teaching materials would be
increased annually to 0.25% of primary recurrent budget by 1990, 0.6% by
1992 and 1.0% by 1994; (c) gradually increasing student-teacher ratios from
25:1 up to 40:1 at the primary level and improving student flows (automatic
promotion, para 3.3) to decrease per pupil costs and allow greater access;
(d) more rational use of existing training facilities; and (e) better
coordination of educational investments including bilateral and
multilateral assistance. Improvements in school inputs (paras 3.3 - 3.7)
such as better textbooks, classrooms and better trained teachers
knowledgeable in multigrade teaching methods would permit the introduction
of grades 5 and 6 even in small villages. Theae measures would improve the
trainability of primary graduates, increase access to grade 1 to 7
year-olds from 58% to 95%, and increase the number of graduates from 9% to
37% of students entering grade 1 by 1995 in regions where both adequate
physical facilities and qualitative improvements are in place. During
negotiations, agreement was obtained on the timetable for reducing MECD's
non-technical staff, increasing budgetary allocations for primary teaching
materials, and gradually increasing student teacher ratios from 25:1 up to
40:1. The implementation of these measures would be reviewed jointly by
the Government, IDA (and SIDA, UNDP, EEC and ADB) during the annual and
mid-term reviews in order to spot problems and prescribe appropriate
changes or adjustments to achieve project objectives/targets.
<.16      Private education.  The proposed project would finance a study on
the extent, quality and needs of privately financed schools now operating
outside MECD's supervision (para 2.2). The objective of this component
would be to develop appropriate Government policies that could harness
private sector initiatives to expand education opportunities in
Guinea-Bissau, and among others: to set the standards of quality for the
curriculum, class hours, pedagogical materials, school facilities, teacher
qualifications, and validating graduates. Since many 'private' schools
represent a possible model for multigrade, single teacher classrooms, the
study would also consider ways these techniques could be implemented in
rural and multilingual areas. The proposed organizational structure of
IMECD includes the establishment of an office to oversee efforts in
expanding private education possibilities in the country. The study would



- 15 -
be completed by December 31, 1989. During negotiations, the Government
provided assurances to furnish the recommendations of the study for IDA
review an-ommen;it"by March 31, 1990.
3.17      The project would finance: (a) 11 staff months of short-term
specialists; (b) 20 staff months of fellowships abroad; (c) local training
of MECD personnel; (d) studies on the prospects of private education in
Guinea-Bissau, and the preparation of future projects; (e) the costs of
project administration on a declining basis; 'f) furniture and equipment
for MECD; and (g) the repair/refurnishing of MECD's existing administrative
offices. The detailed list of project elements and detailed cost estimates
of this component are shown in Annex 3-6.
B. Project Costs and Financing Plan
Table 3.1 - Summary of Project Cost Estimates
(Net of Taxes and Duties)
Local      Foreign      Total
US$ million
A.  Investment Costs
Civil Works                                 0.63         0.89        1.52
Furniture                                    0.28        0.33        0.61
Equipment and Vehicles                        -          0.43        0.43
Teaching Materials                             -         0.04       0.04
Specialist Services                         0.08         0.52       0.60
Training and Fellowships                    0.23         0.20       0.43
Studies                                     0.03         0.03       0.06
B.  Recurrent Costs
Incremental Operating Costs                 0.09         0.13       0.22
Total Baseline Costs                         1.34        2.57        3.91
Physical Contingencies                      0.11         0.21       0.32
Price Contingencies                         0.18         0.24       0.42
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                          1.63        3.02        4.65
3.18      The total project cost is estimated at US$4.65 million equivalent
(net of taxes and duties) with a foreign exchange component of US$3.02
million or 65%. An IDA Credit of US$4.3 million equivalent would be
provided towards financing 92% of the total cost of the project, or 100X of
the foreign exchange component and 78Z of local costs, excluding taxes.
The Government would contribute US$0.35 million equivalent to finance 22Z
of local cost. Base cost estimates are cal ulated on the basis of March
1988 prices. The total contingencies of U4$0.74 million represent 19X of
baseline costs (US$3.9 million). Physical contingencies of 10% have been
applied to all categories of expenditure, except for technical assistance
which is 5Z. Price contingencies represent 10Z of baseline cost plus
physical contingencies, and are based on: (a) the implementation schedule;
(b) the following expected price increases: foreign prices - 3.0X in
1988-1990, and 4.01 in 1991-1994; local prices - 15Z in 1988, 8Z in 1989,
5X in 1990-1994; and (c) mission estimates of the foreign exchange content
of each expenditure category: local materials, labor and overhead costs of



- 16 -
civil works, 152; Imported construction materials (cement, roofing, steel
bars), 1002; furniture, 60%; equipment, school and building materials, and
foreign fellowships, 1002; consultants' fees and travel, 100%; subsistence
costs, 302; local training, operational costs, 15%; and salaries of local
staff, 0. The summary of total project cost by project component and by
category of expenditure is shown in Annex 3-7. The project implementation
schedule is shown in Annex 3-8.
3.19      Recurrent cost implications.  In line with the SAP in
Guinea-Bissau, the project has been designed not to generate incremental
recurrent expenditures for MECD during the structural adjustment period.
The quantitative improvements in basic education would be achieved mainly
through efficiency gains and quality Improvements in the system. The
teacher salary increases following the upgrading of teacher skills, would
be offset by the expected attrition in unqualified teaching staff (para
3.8). Similarly, increased remuneration for upgraded MECD personnel would
be offset by the elimination of redundant positions following
reorganization of MECD. School maintenance would mostly be supported by
community contributions. Arrangements to transfer the costs of upkeep
(8.6Z of total allocation to education, or 6.5Z of total MECD) of Instituto
Amizade wards from education to the social welfare sector would free MECD
resources for other areas of educational development. At its already low
share of total Government budget, education quality improvements cannot be
sustained unless education's share be gradually increased to support
further expansion of primary and developments in secondary and other levels
of education. In order to support the reforms, the Government provided
assurances at negotiations that during 1988-1991, the MECD recurrent budget
would not be reduced from its level of 11.2% (the 1987 share) of total
Government operatonal budget, and increased as mutually agreed with IDA
during annual reviews. Within the MECD operational budget, the Government
would take steps to gradually increase the budgetary allocation to primary
education from 432 in 1988 to 55.42 in 1992 and 59.42 in 1994. Annex 3-9
shows the performance targets and measures to be adopted to achieve these
targets.
C. Project Administration
1. Project Preparation, Management and Institution Building
3.20      Project preparation.  Implementation of the project is expected
to be concluded within six years, by June 30, 1994. The following
activities would ensure the project's completion by 1994; (a) key project
implementation staff have been appointed. The project director and liaison
officer completed training visits in early May 1988. The training of other
project staff in implementation of projects would be completed by July
1988; (b) equipment and furniture lists are complete and bidding documents
are being finalized; (c) preliminary architectural designs of standard
school buildings and draft specifications and bidding documents are
complete, detailed building plans are being prepared for the first 30
schools to be rehabilitated; and (d) terms of reference for consultants
have been done. Activities deemed critical in implementing the
organizational reform of MECD are in progress. First a consultant has been
engaged to assist MECD in finalizing the provisional law of the Ministry of
Education, Culture and Sports. Concurrently, MECD is conducting a review
of personnel staffing patterns, qualifications and subsequent training



- 17 -
needs, as well as an inventory of MECD's physical facilities. Consultants
and project start-up activities are being funded through a PPF of
US$150,000, approved by IDA and concurred by the Government in December
1987.
3.21      Project management. The implementation of the project would be
coordinated by the Education Project Coordinating Unit (UCPE) established
under GEP and fall under the overall magement of the Secretary of State
for Education. UCPE would comprise a project director, deputy director,
accountant, procurement officer and support staff. IDA has indicated no
objections to the appointments of the Project Director and Deputy. In
addition, management consultants and a full-time UCPE staff responsible for
monitoring project performance and liaison with the administrative reform
committee would assist UCPE's managers. The various project components
would be implemented by the MECD operational units enabling these units to
acquire the necessary skills and experience for developing the education
system. GEP, utilizing the staff of DECREE which it would absorb under the
new MECD organizational structure, would manage the implementation of civil
works; INDE, which has experienced staff in its departments for curriculum
development (DEPXO), teacher training (DEAC) and teaching materials
development (DEME), would implement curriculum reform and teaching
materials development, and teacher (in-service and pre-service) and
inspectorate training. Procurement under the project would be undertaken
by UCPE, with the Director of Patrimony participating in needs assessment
and contract reviews. UCPE would also handle credit disbursements with the
Director General of Administration and Finance providing administrative
support. Implementation of the MECD organizational reforms would be
carried out by a specially constituted Reform Committee chaired by the
Secretary of State for Education, and the following as members: Secretary
of State for Culture and Sports; the Directors General of Education,
Administration and Finance, and INDE; and otbers as needed, External
consultants commissioned under the project would participate in
deliberations. In order to monitor investments in the education sector and
in line with the aid-coordination arrangements with other donors, UCPE
would also coordinate the implementation of projects financed by UNDP,
SIDA, EEC and ADB. The project implementation arrangements are shown in
Annex 3-10.
3.22      Implementation. Project implementatiou is expected to be
concluded within six years, by June 30, 1994. The project would provide
about 60 staff months of expatriat-e specialist services and 97 staff months
of overseas fellowships for key educational, administrative, and finance
staff of MECD. About 3,000 teachers and 50 school supervisors would
undergo in-service training to upgrade teaching skills and train in the use
of the revised curriculum and textbooks. Project implementation is closely
associated with the school calendar which begins October. The training of
MECD curriculum staff would start by May 1988, at which time the
consultant(s) on curriculum reform and educational materials development
under the separate SIDA and UNDP educational assistance projects are
scheduled to begin their services. They would closely assist in organizing
the activities envisioned under the proposed IDA financed project. The
project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 3-8. The list of
technical assistance and training requirements is shown in Annex 3-11.



- 18 -
2.   Procurement
3.23      The procurement arrangements for the project are summarixed In
the following table.
Table 3.2    Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$'000 - Figures in parentheses indicate amounts of IDA financing)
Total
Category                              ICB      LCB     Other   N/A      Costs
1. Civil works, construction          912 a/  269 b/  663 c/   -         1844
materials and professional fees  (912)   (188Sf  (494)       -       (1594)
2. Furniture, equipment, school       504 dt  753 e/   41 f/   -         1298
materials and office supplies    (504)   (753)    (41)       -       (1298)
3. Teacher training,                  -        -       308 /   255 h/   563
Fellowships and studies            -        -      (308)    (255)    (563)
4. Specialist services                -         -      689 L/   -         689
-        -     (689)      -       (689)
5. Project Administration Costs       -         -       -       260 h/   260
-        -       -       (156)    (156)
TOTAL          1,416   1,022    1,701       515    4,654
(1,416)   (941)  (1,532)   (411)  (4,300)
a/ Construction materials would be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures according to IDA guidelines.
b/ Contracts for new classrooms would be awarded through local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA.
c/ The repair of schools would be undertaken through direct contracting.
d/ Equipment and vehicles would be procured through ICB procedures
according to IDA guidelines.
e/ Furniture would be procured through LCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
TI School/office materials and supplies would be procured through shopping
procedures (3 price bids) for expenditures of less than US$5,000
(US$40,000 aggregate).
g/ Specialist services, training, fellowships and studies would be procured
in accordance with the Guidelines for the Employment of Use of
Consultants by the World Bank and its Borrowers.
h/ Project administration costs (incremental salaries of UCPE staff,
utilities, travel, services, per diems, rental, etc.) would be procured
through regular Government procedures.
3.24      Bidding/contract review.  Announcements for bidding, bid
documents and proposed contract awards for procurement packages valued at
or exceeding US$50,000 equivalent, which are expected to represent 80% of
the total value of contracts for goods and services, would be subject to



*                          ~~~~~~~~- 19 -
IDA's review prior to contract award. The remaining 201 of the total value
of contracts vould be subject to random or post-award review by IDA.
Procurement procedures are further described in Annex 3-12.
3.   Disbursements
3.25      The IDA Credit would be #disbursed as follows:
Table 3.3   Disburseent of Credit Proceeds
AMount of the
Credit Allocgted
(in US$          % of Expenditures
Category             equivalent)           to be Financed
1. Civil works, construction                 100X of foreign expenditures
materials and                                  awd 60% of local
professional fees          1,3.8,000           expenditures.
2. Furniture, equipment,                      100X of foreign expenditures
materials, supplies                             and 852 of local
and vehicles               1,126,000           expenditures
3, Consultants' services        579,000       1002
4. Teacher training,
fellowships and studies      494,000      1002
5, Project administration
costs                        136,003      502
6. Refunding of Project         150,000       Amount due pursuant to
Preparation Advance                        Section 2.02(c) of the
Credit Agree,ment.
7. Unallocated                  477,000
Total Credit Amount   4,300,000
3.26      The IDA Credit would be disbursed over a period of 7 years
(July 1, 1988 to June 30,1995), shorter than the regional sector profile (8
years).  However, since no school repair/rehabilitation work would exceed
three classrooms in scope, and implementation is packaged by geographical
grouping of schools, the period of disbursements is deemed adequate.
Disbursements on expenditures for technical assistance and training
programs come within the Implementation period. The estimated yearly
expenditures and disbursements of the IDA Credit are shown in Annex 3-13.
4.   Special Account
3.27      A Special Account of US$250,000, denominated in US Dollars, would
be established in a commercial bank, and would be used to prefinance all
IDA eligible expenditures. The amount is estimated to cover an average
four months of project expenditures. The Special Account would be



- 20 -
replenished monthly, or whenever the Special Account balance falls under
US$100,000, whichever occurs first. Withdrawal applications would be fully
documented except for expenditures related to in-country training, studies
and fellowships, operating costs, staff salaries, and works, goods and
services contracts valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent, which would be
reimbursed against certified statements of expenditure (SOEs).
Documentation for SOEs would be retained by the project director for review
by IDA and project auditors. Reimbursement applications would also include
a statement of account movemcnts since the last application, with the
balance certified by the bank holding the account, and a reconciliation
showing that the balance represents the o'4qinal amount less payments
awaiting reimbursements.  The Special Accousit would be operated under terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA, and shout.; any disbursements made
subsequently be disallowed by IDA, the GGve,^nment would be responsible for
reimbursing the Special Account for the corresponding amount.  By December
31, 1988, the Government would open a project account in a domestic bank
for the Government's financial contribution to the project.  The Government
would deposit into the project account, the appropriate amounts needed to
finance its contribution in achieving the periodic implementation targets
agreed with IDA during yearly reviews. By June 30, 1989, the Government
shall have deposited in the project account an amount of not less than
US$30,000 equivalent. This amount corresponds to average Government
counterpart needs during a four-month period.
5. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
3.28      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that: (a)
the UCPE would maintain separate accounts for the IDA credit and the
Government's counterpart financing, These accounts would further be
divided into expenditures incurred for each component; (b) all accounts
under the project and all disbursements against SOEs would be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA; (c) the Government
would submit to IDA the audit reports on project accounts and on SOEs as
soon as possible but not later than four months after the ern  of each year;
and (d) the project director would submit semi-annual reports to IDA on
project implementation and expenditures, special reports on a need basis,
and a final report on implementation experience and project outcomes within
six months of the credit closing date.
3.29      Reviews, monitoring and reporting.  In view of the project's
complex educational and ilstitutional objectives, the Government and IDA
would convene joint annual implementation reviews with UNDP, SIDA, AfDB and
EEC in November of each year, and a major mid-term review (February-March
1991) in addition to normal supervision in order to: (a) assess performance
on the implementation of the various project components (para 3.15); (b)
provide an opportunity to modify project implementation and (c) prepare
future work programs (para 3.14). At the annual reviews, the Government
would be represented by MECD, the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of
Planning. These reviews would focus particularly on evaluating the
progress in implementing the revised primary curriculum, the outcome of the
teacher in-service programs, school repairs, developments in MECD budget
and investment program, as well as the work programs of MECD institutional
units. UCPE would coordinate the preparation of periodic reports by the
various MECD units on each of their specific areas of responsibility
related to the project, and liaise between the Government, IDA, SIDA, UNDP,



- 21 -
EEC and the ADB. The reports of MECD institutional units would be
consolidated by the UCPE into semestral project implementation reports
submitted to IDA by the end of February and July of each year. The
Secretary of State for Education would chair the annual and mid-term
reviews of the project. The UCPE would be responsible for the preparation
of the Borrower's Project Completion Report and submit this to IDA within
six months of the closing date of the credit agreement. During
negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it would convene
joint annual (November of each year) and mid-term (January-March 1991)
reviews of project implementation progress, MECD budgetary allocations and
investment and work programs.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1       The project would provide the institutional framework needed for
the continuous improvement and future investments in the sector by focusing
on the establishment of teacher training programs, and strengthening
planning, management and implementation capabilities. In the medium term,
the project would produce a profound change in the nation's perception of
the benefits of education because of the improvements in teacher
competence, access to learning materials and better quality of
instruction. Without expanding the educational infrastructure and
increasing the number of teachers, the project would provide more school
access to children now locked out of the system. Enrollment of seven-year
olds is expected to increase from 58% to about 95%. A more efficient
system would be the platform for future expansion. In the long term, the
project would improve the quality and efficiency of basic education, and
would increase access to further levels of education. Increased literacy
would eventually contribute to higher productivity in agriculture and other
sectors because of the improved trainability of the labor force. In
addition, the expected reduction of regional imbalances of access to basic
education would allow the Government to provide the full six years of
quality education in smaller villages. The efficiency of the education
system would be increased by improving its management's capacity to plan
and allocate resources more effectively.
4.2       There are several inherent risks: (a) the demand for tight
coordination in implementing the various components may be too complex for
MECD due to weaknesses in the lower echelon of MECD and UCPE and the
limited possibilities of recruiting experienced local staff; (b) the
institutional development objectives could be difficult to achieve; and (c)
the need to accommodate the needs of the culturally diverse society could
necessitate a rethinking and possible changes to the approach in reforming
the basic education structure as experience is gained. These risks would
be addressed as follows: (i) the need to develop local capacity argues over
handing project implementation completely to external consultants. The
first risk would be minimized through administrative reform which would
develop staff competence and introduce more efficient management
procedures and engagement of management consultants to provide
implementation support and guidance to the UCPE; (ii) the project
complexity lies in the fact that the basic problems of the sector cannot be
addressed effectively without considering all factors and ensuring that



- 22 -
the corrective measures are complementary. A piecemeal attempt at
addressing these issues merely continues what has been done to now, with
less than satisfactory results. The second risk would be minimized through
a continuous dialogue with the Government at the highest levels in order to
maintain its commitment to the reform and obtain the needed support for the
endeavors, and carrying out annual and mid-term reviews of project
performance to identify weaknesses and prescribe corrective measures; and
(iii) the third risk would be minimized through careful evaluation of the
results of the pilot phases of the education reform before these are
applied nationwide. The education reform would be implemented at a
measured pace, and monitored through annual and mid-term reviews by the
Government, IDA and the other non-governmental organizations involved in
the project. The necessary changes would be made during these reviews to
ensure the successful nationwide introduction of the reformed basic
education system.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECQMIENDATIONS
5.1       During negotiations agreements were reached on the timetable for:
(a) the nationwide implemention of the unified six-year primary
curriculum with properly structured and sequenced subjects
(para 3.3);
(b) introducing automatic promotion progressively from grade 1
through grade 5 (para 3.3);
(c) the review of the revised student examination and testing
standards (para 3.3);
(d) the development and production of appropriate textbooks and
teaching materials for primary students and teachers
(para 3.3);
(e) restructuring MECD, defining responsibilities of
organizational units, reduction of non-technical staff, and
development of professional staff (paras 3.14 and 3.15);
and
(f) the gradual increase of student-teacher ratios from 25:1
to 40:1 (para 3.15).
5.2       During negotiations the Government provided assurances that it
would:
(a) take all measures necessary to adopt the Provisional Law of
the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sports by December
31, 1988 (para 3.12);
(b) present the recommendations of the study on private
education for IDA review and comment by March 31, 1990
(para 3.16);



- 23 -
(c) maintain the share of MECD in the operational budget for
1988-1991 at least at 11.2% of total Government and
increase this gradually as mutually agreed with IDA during
annual reviews. Within the MECD operational budget, the
Government would take steps to gradually increase the
budgetary allocation to primary education from 43% in 1988,
to 55.4% In 1992 and 59.4% in 1994 (para 3.19);
(d) convene joint annual (November of each year) and mid-term
(January-March 1991) reviews of project implementation
progress, MECD budgetary allocations and investment and
workl programs with IDA and other major donors (para 3.29);
and
(e) open a project account in a domestic bank, by December 31,
1988, for the Government's financial contribution to the
project. The Government would deposit into the project
account, the appropriate amounts needed to finance its
contribution in achieving the periodic implementation
targets agreed with IDA during yearly reviews. By June 30,
1989, the Government would have deposited in the project
account, an amount of not less than US$30,000 equivalent.
This amount corresponds to average Government counterpart
needs during a four month-period (para 3.27).
5.3       Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable
for a credit of US$4.3 million equivalent to the Republic of Guinea-Bissau
repayable over 40 years with a grace period of 10 years.
Population and Human Resources Division
Western Africa Department
May 1988



- 24 -
Annex 1-1
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BASIC DATA SHEET
General (1986)
GNP                               US$170
Land area                         36,100 sq.km.
Total population                  915,000
of which - rural             81.5Z
- urban            18.51
Population growth rate            2.1
Female population                 51X
Z under 15 years old              45X
Literacy rate                     151
Enrollments in Education (1986)
Enrollment
Total              Ratio
Primary                   81,447               58X
Secondary                 10,717               -
Higher                        258
Education Expenditures (1987)
Total MECD Operational Budget: GB Pesos 1,688.8 million
US$2.25 a. equivalent in 11/87
1 of Total Government operational
Budget (excl. debt service):   11.21
Sources: Ministry of Education: Anuario Eatatistico da Educacao, May 1987
Ministry of Finance:   Orcamento Geral do Estado e Balancos,
Nov.1987



- 25 -
*sg6x 1-2
C AwUnnV  MUcMO  INCO                                                             ia     of 2
032Db t0  19U
093U>13*r 1r.  
on  DOUCAIION  URCOURE?    A10.T             RATE PM1             Mt? cmS  PUoUSSIoL
cmP PM              AS P3X2l    hZMTUUMS  Lt11381 f           rEW P2351R    PUlSE   ft2938    8k12 MM    S1OUD*t tE    It AIGN
S       P. CAPITA  PRCEN  OM tOTAI. CENRAL  AUnAIIO lOi RAIR un        r1. 9Q1             I  IIUrCTION  PULSI Io  3003L..  STUD"   WNW".
03 ILLS. (Us$)   DVOTED 10  COVRN                  sWC  Mt    (2)   RATIO   CTCL6  U             AS NLCENTM   US8  M     PATIO    U          RATIO
(1979) (1979)      CTI01 EZPUIDITO3           ()        (1976)   (2)        (X)    1RACR  (P/CApIST         (X)        (2)    TEACIR       (2)
(1)     (2)       (3)          (4)          (5)         (4)       (7)      (6)       () I  (10)            (11)        (12)      (13)   (34)
AUSM  IU6 eonlqu    14.6b :s870          6.32       14.6                                 1032  O 00          21       -                        713      I       20.0
CANADA            3    23.7b  94b07  7.7A          1s.54Y  30t 301  23't  9b            106'    170         21        19.9't      100    9a7           1s      22.605
GeIum r.3.        79    61.2  12,200     4.6         9.9t       -     -     -    gIO    _         10oo       -        -            3006        9S       -       12.10I
NETNRIANDS        79    14.0  10.4S0     7.9         S.1        20   35   25    sobt    96         95        18        15.3                    $ 82     1        2 S1.40
NNi ZEALAND       80     3.2b  6 031b    S.5 W       33.4             31                                                                                            3 ,1b 100  t00  24  11.0  100  62  as  25.10"
Swam              79    8.3  12,250      9.0        18.2        31   10   10    99b       99'    100         la$       19.9        100         79       10to    36.5021
EASTSRX AMRC
10189*314         s3     1.0b    920b    6.0        22.0        4  3422          40      100       77        32        30.0         40         20       21       1.s0
WUfDI             81     4.2     235     2.9bv      19.0       43   28  2        25       29'      35        37       20.2          12          32      17       1.00
com0  s           84     0.4b    345     3.8'       28.0        49   29 22       49       76       40        39       -             45         36       28       0.60
DJIBOUTI          84     0.4    480      1.0        11.9        7   26   ...   10         42       66        40       07.0         40          10       19       0.60
rIOPIA            85    43.0    110      3.6P        9.5        55  28  17    39          37       30        63       19.3          930            44            0.50
EE3m              62    17.4b     2,0b    5.Ewb     20.1b      65   16   11    40b    133          Ss   s     0        14.4         is         1s       26       -
LESOTO            82     1.4b    435b    5.1        16.9        38  32  26    53b        116'      41        48        9.6          46         21       23       1.30
HADACASCAR        77     8.5     330     4.02       24.0        53  28  19    so          9402     53         55       6.0          38         14       23       1.1007
NuALAV            8t    6.1b    230b    3.5         11.4        38   1   25      2)b      62       23        65        5.8          12          4       21       0.40
rAIIITIUS         83     I.Ob  1 170b    4.3        34.0       44   36    7    60b        93       72        23       13.0        1oo          so       22       1.00
WANADA            83     5.9b    270b    3.6        27.4       71  16  13    37b          65       30        o0       16.0           9          5       16       0.40
SRICIELLRS        79     0.6   1,770     5.9        22.46       34  338 10       -                           25       -             -          -        -_-
SOMALIA           el    4.5      280     1.5         30.5       50b 44b   6b    S0b       22b      80b       29b       9.0b         Sob        12b      22       1.00
RVUDAM            So0   19.2b    380b    3.0        -           66   39   ...   32        5l"      68        34        1.4         44          16       16
I   SWAZtLAND     83     0.7b    940b   3.8pb       20.4        51  34 15        65b      93       50        33       I1t.          98         29       18       3.OD
TAWANIA           80    18.5    260      5.9         17.7       47   30  16    79b        9gb      87        43        13.0         39b         3       w0       0.30
UGANDA            so    12 6b    300b   -           16.IV       23b  37b 20b   48         5W       61        34       -             17          5       23       0.60
ZAIRE             81    29.8b    230b    7.7        26.4        -    -    30    54b       76       25        30       21.0          40         i8       28       2.00
Z AMBIA                 so     5.7b    5b6b    4.9P        11.1       48   23  22      44b               so         46 u      2.9         19         16       22        I SO
ZIIIANE           833    7.7k    700b    5.1        39.5        62   32    6     44b      90       Ss        n,       20.0         85          l5       23       O.so
Buis              79     3.4b    120b   6.5V        35.0        43  21    5    33b        42       30        46       14.0          30         11       43       3.001
NIJKtuA           83     6.s     210b    2.3V       21.7        43   29  28      9        16       25        57       24.3          16          3       24 *  0.03
CAMEROON          84    10.0    810b    3.1P        -           33   382        20        89         b       so       -            -           23       28       2.70
C.A.L.            86     2.6b    260b    3.860       24.7'?    49  36  24    -            79       45        65.      18                       18       67       1.40'?
CHAD              76     4.4     120     2.4b05     21.7b            _          15        251      -         77       -             -           3S"     23       0.201
COND              78     l.5    670      9.0awy     27.7         -   _                              -        56by     -             30         -        43bY     4.00'
e(QU3. GUINRA     83     0.3b    270b   2.8          3.8        47   24  ...   ab         13       1o        s0        5.2         40          25       l761     -
GABON             77     0.6   3,420     3.7by       8.4Y       -    -    -                                  46       --            -          -        39bY     2.80',
c0*IA             77     0.6    220      3.3 "       6.5b       46   25'  6P  job         40by     90*       27b0     4.7          40          12027    17       -
C093              76    13.3    400      4.0         15.b       _    _    _    -          71b0y    -         270Y      _            -          36021    23       -
COINRA            79     1.3    290P    4.6P        -           25_  28  280   20         34       36        56       20.0w        s5          16       29       7.00'
ocWINII  BISSAU      66     0.90     70b    -            9.6       6632         -                     I.-                                         - .6               .
IVORY ODAST       83     9.3'   720      7.3         2.8       51  00    9 40                                         29.0         49          22       3
LINRIA            60     1.9    s20      4.6        19.6       43   23  24   30           S2       32        S5       20.0          76         22       20       2.90
82l               81     7.0b    190     4.2'       23.7'       38  21   It    1          20       60        44       15.7         66           I       11       0.920E
MAURITANIA        78     1.6b    320b    5.5        16.9        33   43   25   37b        32       60        44       2z.O         30           9       25       0.37
RICER             64     5.2     300     2.8        21.0        40   25   20    34        25       20        36       03.0          37          6       28       0.50
NIGERIA           83    93.6b   760b    7.41         16.0      -    -    13   56          93       70        16       19.5         47          23       30       2.00
$88200*           84     6.4    328      5.00       24.0       46035039028                52       59        46       26.0          19'        36A      24       2.20'
SIERA  3N8        77     3.4    250      4.0b       16.0b       -     -     -   15b       37       -         35       2s.ob        8u          IS1      22       0.60b0
TOGO              78     2.4    400      6.5qw      26.Sq       30' 28' 21   18           74      40         S4by     38.0         52          32b2    468b      1.60by
LATIN ARCA AIID TPE CARIIRAN
8    27.3   2.2,0     2.7        10.9       43' 31   18'  93b         89       52         17       -            67          it       8       23.00
BAHAMAS           79     0.2   2.770     5.7        19.1        36   36   1    93b        99       97        24       -             97         75       39      -
8*r8A0OS          78     0.2   2.880     8.5"y      22.3'       43  31  16   990b        10o       99        2n       19.9'         99         787      207     -
ROLIVI            60     5.4    550      4.1t?      30.5'      -     -     -    63        741      -         a20      -            -           IsT      -       i2.600
ZIL              79   114.5   1 770     3.8         6.2        51   -    14   76         73'?     -         232y      4.5b        61'         15'?    346      12.62b
CWILE             76   10.9   1.890      3.2b0      13.0b         -       -     -         3l92b1    -        34_b     -            -           55b0y    200b    11.90b0
C001.93           60    26.7b  13160b    3.3        25.0        35  20  20    6lb         78       36        32        6.6          -          47       20      10.02'
COSTA RICA        80     2.2b  1.10b   8.4         31.1       40   27   33   90          93       77        33        5.5          77        o0        27      34.O0
Cum               78     9.8     -       8.0         31.0       -       -     -    96    11201    9          1by      -             96         71b0y    35      19.02by
D093ICN UEP.   80       5.3   1.030     2.9        13.0       39  21  22    68b          80       31        D         3.2         94          30       33      16.00
EU7ADOt           60     8.40b  3.30     6.0P       36.7        45  31   16   81         1o5       -         36       12.6         86          47      16       29.00
EL SALVADOR       77     4.4    640      3.4by      23.3bY      64    8   27   62         82021    32        39       -             41         26b2    270b      7.90b0
OUATENA           78     6.8   1.010     1.78       12.6b      -    -    -     -         69b,y    -         s0by     -            69          35b02    19by     5 .5
CUYAl4            76     0.6    630      8.1by      13.6by      -    -    -     -         9bxy    _ -          by     -            -           5gb90    -        3.000b
1AtT1             SO     5.0b    230     3.4w        7.927      65    9    6    23b       so       20        43       19.0         62'          4       27       0.o0
110OUD            76     3.6    520      3.5bY       14 3bY     62' 15  I9'  60           89b2     30'       41bY     32.8'        68'         21'?    39        8.00Y
JA3AICh           60     2.1   1,310     6.5        13.7        37  43   20   90          98       98       o0         2.5         95          81       22       8.00
032ICO           80    65.5   1e880     4.7        17.02       46  39   5    92                   53        44        9.5         86          36        7      10.30
NICARAAUA         76     2.6b    610b    3.0bw       14.0b     -    -    -    90b         85bx     24        37b                   -           26b0     30b    -
PArU              78     .80b     550ob   s5*b0y    21.8b0      42' 13' 33   82b          95by     -         25b0     11.6         65          50bY    27by    20.40b0
PARIAUAY          79     3.0   1.140     1.4'       14.2       42   17  20   84           83       u2        as        5,          76          22       12       0.70
PM        1       88   16.6   1.000      3.6        14.3        53  15  19   80           83       56        39        9.8         89          39       22      14.40?
TRNID6D A Too.  77       1.1   3.930     4.8by       8.8by      48   32  20    95         96       91        30       3o.5t        49          62       24       _
UR03000           78     2.9   2.500     2.5         9.4b      -        -     -  94     s35bx      -         24b       -           -           64b0     -       17.60
vENEZUEA          78   14.4   3.440      5.1?        18.9b                      82       106b0     -         is 2                              3-b5     17      21.10Y



-26-
llh 10. 19S
GM ror                    AS rom          a Clml U      1 L   TT   noX  ctcs       ru y  "M r             "  POOR te   ODMI o          l t slam
M AA MD TM             A,        310b   3.1           7.1       35  *0 nC    *1           t1       52         25        0.0 ?                   35       17 I.S
1       A        W5.31  150L.5 CUTO) 28600    1   m0                                          t31  b                   11.0 04                  27 3 0            3.70
(t218) (197)            We      W0.ui   3           I 3) 31   (96    (          (       1 35           1.0        a      #             22       4.1
OlF^lS            80    16.lb  I.0bS    6.7          16.3       3   40   22      70b      ED        "         22       11.50        61 72                23       4.00
*                 ?~~~~~~~UA   NA.C.  83   3.0'   620      2.4         19.0       40   17  22      -        AC        no'       31'      11.0          31         128      21'       1.00
I*.e.t            79    48.36b   690b   2.6          14.0      64   36   -       756b             3S- 31                 .           n 13A                       2I.00
sNAPR             80     2:  4.420       2.1          6 7       3940   I         63       92       82         31        8.           96        s5        22       5.00
*La         _ 1    2     0.b    640       .GPM       I,.ob      43 3      20     Is      7i        60         n        40.15        40          20       Is       2.SO
*  uIsLu          82    49.0b    00W    3.4          20.3        9   34  0o    86b        101       is        21        9.38         44         44       to       4.00
VyJj              91     0.1b    -       8.1         23.5       Al  2    4       13      l3s       60         24       13.0         2a          20       16       2.00
79 A2,1b 90            3.1P       10.181      SI   1   39      2h       637      -          S3        3.6          -          A        23       3.43
Iuto              s0     3.2      so     3.6         11.0       -       -     -  30       12        -          _        -            -           _        -       _
NDIA              77 169.6       210     2.97        9.9vy      -        -     -  36      79       -           l       -            -           28       -        8.304Y
mm,               62    is ob    110b    t.4       -            -9                        70 -                38       -            -           21       23       3.0
PAXIWTA           82    81.1b    301Q    2.0          7.0       36  20  24    22          so       41         30        S.9         16          21       Is       3.O0
W82. 1tDL8 r)ss 61 13102t9 U21CA
*           IIIS1I   77  15.5    -        1.7         3.7       47  1915         12       3b6      69         3Db      -            62           a   U     b      1.0D7
*1131             19    19s .3   1.70    3.6         32.3       34' 266 210    35         837      498        37        1.0?        351         297      26       S.J7Y
can0r             82    43.31    650'   6.6'          7.9       31- 33' 24    44          73        m0m       3'        9.9         836         43'      129    31.00
clam              16     9.1   4.140     2.6'        10.6b      31  26  21       -        97bi      -         29b       6.2?         -          19b6    217b     17.80by
t1a               19    36.9     -       1.7'!       14.1s7     -    -    -      50      101"      -          320      -            -           448      24'      4.90'
1A                79    12.   2.710      4.367       6.987        -    -         -       100       -          28       -            -           4        2        9.30
1331.85           81     3.Sa.b 480      6.367       11.65!     -               -    -  o9                   29        -                        1136     14      11.00
J0oSm             81     2.2b  I 420b    4.9w        10.2       19  44 8         70b      92'      83         32       15.1         -           66       38       8.90
-n69              79  2.3  -   -                     18.611  ---   -    96   -                                19   -                -           4t   -   v.soo
*9200            86    21.8    610b    6.09        2.9         36  43   19    31         31_       9         33       11.1         -           140      38       8 90.
0683              8s     3-2b 6,490b    3.2          12.7"                       30k?     11"x    61'         21'      -             90         II'      14'      .
p0261             91    10.2b  1.970b    4.6         13.5       so   26   13     so      132       70         t8       16.9         A6          55       16       8.00
SO1A,             76    22.1   2.100     3.9by       6.27        -    -    -    98       106b6     -          23b      -            Ss          6b6      22b     10.601b
SPAM              16    37.0  4*920      2.1U        16.9?       _    -  _ _              98b7     -          296 -           -                 617b      -      24.106b
b11t              18     6.6   1,170     4.4P        10.3       3    25  26      5        876b     s0         3b       -                  46    4b1      2,b    32.60 -
7LS01A            79     6A   1.130      1.0P        19.0       42   39  16    62b        0o0t     80         39b      12.8         10          30t      30       6.00
iPUI              13    47.3 1,230       1.3         16.2          02    24      7         0b uo    n         31        6.0         s5          26       1L       6.00
tIM A.S.          84     9.3b    930b    7.VP        17.7       60 20 11         21       ss       28         31       27.9        sA            9       20       I.90
V   P.D.2.        u2     2.0b   420b    7.6           9.7       63  14'  6'   53          61       34         25       22.0'        46          I7       20       2.50
0     7r4 oC.steTde.t 8C                              93       10  69 67        6        92       66        91        63           73          91       58      85
See$                                   (3.4-          (3.7-  (23- (6- (3    (6-        (12-     (12-        (17-     (1.-         (10-        (1-      (8-     (O.03
10.0)         54.3) 94)  46)  33)    99)       119)    99)      )            67.0)         100)       64)      48)     29.0)
Q.enh.f,t Iper,                         3.6           21.71    136   22         el       96       80        43        20           67          41       26      11.0
0045,s                       4.0          16.1      4S   2  19       53       83       61        35        13           61         26        22       3.7
e.o                         . 3.0          13.0     362313           23       A0       3s         8         9           40          14       19       1.0
0ertstl DOesaottool                     1.3            5.4    6.5  7.5 4.5   26.0    19.0       Z2.3        7.0      1.4         21.5        16.5      3.9       5.0
o.                                      4.4           117.0    46        28   18  3      76       59        26        16           62          31       2)        9
Sfte    Doitsot.:                       1.9            8.7     12   to    7     29       2        24        11        i3           27         23         1       7.4
.edut                                   4.0           16.0     41 2919          13       623      63         31       13           63          26       22       3.7
*LS1                                                                 wOr.t
-    DAYI 086At*1A5                                           A - DSAIN FUIC  0 IISD    TUA                  S * 1Q        F  noAo  (D3) ONLY
...1       M081L OR UCLIGIIEt                            S - D=m mm   CGU?             SU losa          T   Mt MM 6WM  SIUUI   991.
t    Dam Q038116A31                                           U - 005533 PmaS                                  - PUSUC UPSIS  U 91 Om
a    t9103  PA22-111  50006615                                   *T 53?       M SATtO  31                    1X - ICICUC  O nR Aft  U35{
r - cams  uartj          two                   It - uNe    _OR
SGSsml          CDolmit I and 2: Usrld lek atl   er Adwcstion weswor f ied  to tono.
Coleum   3 to 14, Wor1d Sack 3adtatin eeetor  erdoas, ove,meot sore"
aondis the Ueseo Stattatittl Yearbook.
Cooperative Idacatios Data eo ushl to the eral.attos of vertwo  eAc m sjre  ad mielis  of atnive stepse of
deAtoeal dvlepsot bt_a  vartus  tro.u .tet       .  Ilovr. an the b68sf of tbh  prest dean, cooe_-astioal tor4tl es
sbmid be appuechd w,th gren  tMtton. Out& prresete  to the Above table ct  bsss oslleted 1ly by 3k utelons
Ito  Ao eo t eest; the remiteder *tff esti_t_ or dat  tre Usee. Sffottor   ba   bee 81d1 to saoa rdle
defttttioe od, within UwAts. to dock the w8 recy of the date. WevertbI,ee,  sch data ae still lopteet tI
v"ral ropete 65  the Seek Is wosktio  to tqpro_  thm ptotreotvely on tbJ occestec of Its oeretloeal work. ts the
am of the  data, the folloIn  qellfttlcttles do 1d be lkpt to dsd.
(13)   61destios' 8 def bed In the tabl. leebdes  al1 eadcation ed treloisg. both torAl Ad M-formal.
(2)   'Prisva     eA.cetion refere to edstatios at the fitst abst. and  _secoader  ddetief  fefet  to811   w batioa
at the seosdaqy levsl regprdle_  of t"e (e.S.. gsrsl  t choiLa, l   grl Its tel).
(3)   'itetry ree' (col. 6) ere often obtaisad ftm toutry eoq tw.  ts emy co.otries tbh  are sel7
eproimtions  md it tod btl.1 that sy  stdfor. dsf tt,et    of 'lterate  h ba, h8  tollowd eetaltetly.
(4)   -  bite ependiture t nbcoattoe (tole. 4 ad 5) rWter  to eli capital 8d rourrent  qedbtt4t     dncted ro
bett8o  b         ceb ity e ae  qet"-WbIe aegesee.
(3)    So71_u   t ratiLae  (cole. 7. 12 sd 14) retfr to .chool "ar ed o   the perreetap of elIgIble ctIldr
Mrolld fil-tim to tooe Wpprspetla echool. pabite nd  prvat6 by leve. Te ewe oftes sbjec  to 1    wtde
ange of arror ta the developing coatel"  .4"  to variattoom 10 the attorney of buasc date (i.e..
ese-epeitt  pope ltios   d qrollussie). Enroll7nt fiprne fvuuetly re h1r t thea the o.et at
sl det. AtDS1l1y In ethool. Ord-eged  ades  swy be iobe.dud 10 thee.   ttrec ed ta e        s let. the raiol.



- 27 -
Annex 1-3
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMEWT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AhlD DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILES
Doc.No.                             Document Title
Project Request Documents
GB-001      Programmes pour le Developpement du Secteur de l'Bducation et
de la Formation. Premier projet d'assistance de la Banque
Mondiale
GB-002      Educacao - Missao de Assistencia Tecnica, I Parte, Octubro/1986
Fundacao Calouste Gulbenkian
Education Sector Documents
GB/ED0O1    Anuario Estatistico da Educacao, Ano Escolar 1979/1980,
Dezembro de 1980
GB/EDOO2    Anuario Estatistico da Educacao, Ano Escolar 1980/1981,
Fevereiro de 1982
GB/EDOO3    Anuario Estatistico da Educacao, Ano Escolar 1981/1982, Marco
de 1983
GB/EDOO4    Anuario Estatistico da Educacao, Ano Escolar 1982/1983, Abril
de 1984
GB/ED005    Anuario Estatistico da Educacao, Ano Escolar 1983/1984, Abril
de 1985
GB/EDOO6    Anuario Estatistico da Educacao, Ano Escolar 1984/1985, Maio
de 1986
GB/ED007    Anuario Estatistico da Educacao, Ano Escolar 1985/1986, Maio
de 1987
GB/EDOO8    Education n Guinea-Bissau 1978-81, SIDA, September 1982
GB/EDOO9    Perspectives de Developpement du Systeme
d'Enseignement-formation, Unesco, Decembre 1983
GB/ED01O    A Educacao na Republica da Guine-Bissau, Analise Sectoral,
Fundacao Calouste Gulbenkian
GB/EDO1l   L'Aide Exterieure a l'Education et a la Formation
Professionnelle en Guinee-Bissao en 1986 et en Projet,
Juin 1986
GB/EDO12    Cursos Estrutura Curicular Saidas Profissionais, CENFA
GB/ED013    CENFA, Informacao 1, Marco 1987
GB/ED014    Institut National pour le Developpement de l'Education,
Programme General de Cooperation 1986-90, Novembre 1985
GB/ED015    L'linstitut National pour le Developpement de l'Education,
Mars 1985
GB/ED016   Apoio Sueco ao Sector da Educacao da Gu4ne-Bissau, Relatorio
das Conversacoes entre o MECD e a SIDA, Fevereiro de 1985



Annex 1-3
Page 2 of 2
GB/ED017    Rapport de la Mission d'Assistance Technique au Departement des
Politiques de l'Education de l'Institut National pour le
Developpement de l'Education de Bissau, Novembre 27 - Decembre
6, 1985
GB/ED018    A Producao de Livros Escolares na Guine-Gissau, Relatorio duma
Visita de Estudo 11/25 - 12/13, 1985
GB/EDO19    Objectivos e Estrategias da Alfabetizacao de Adultos,
Janeiro de 1986
GB/ED020    Producao de Livros Didacticos, Swedish Industrial Dev. and
Consulting Co., Outubro de 1986
GB/ED021    Etude Adequation Formation/Activites Productives, SODETEG,
Janvier 1987
GB/ED022    Etude Adequation Formation/Activites Productives, Annexes,
SODETEG, Janvier 1987
GB/ED023    Etude Adequation Formation/Activites Productives, Resume,
SODETEG, Janvier1987
GB/ED024    Documento de Preparacao para as Coversacoes do MECD com ASDI,
BM, PNUD/Unesco, FAD, CEE
GB/ED025    Projecto de Reforma das Estruturas dos Servicos da Educacao,
Abril de 1986
GB/ED026    Ministerlo da Educacao Nacional, Estatuto Organico, Junho 1983
GB/ED027    Ministerio da Educacao Nacional, Direccao Geral do Ensino, Lei
Organica, Maio '83
GB/ED028    Fonds d'Equipement des Nations Unies, Assistance a un Projet du
Gouvernement de Guinee-Bissau, Accord de Projet
GB/ED029    Apoio a Reformulacao e Implementacao de uma Metodologia
Adequada ao Ensino da Lingua Portuguesa como Lingua
Segunda/Estrangeira no Ensino Basico, Agusto 1987
GB/ED030    Estruturacao do Gabinete de Estudos e Plano. Bissau, Dec. 1984
GB/ED031    Projecto de Definicao e Regulamento de Funcionamento da UCPE
GB/ED032    Projecto e Estrategia de Desenvolvisento do Sector da Educacao,
Outubro 87
GB/ED033    Projet du Governement de la Republique de Guine-Bissau Document
du Projet, UNDP Jan. 1988
GB/ED034    Analise do Sector Educacional da Guine-Bissau e dos Actuais
Acordos de Cooperacao ASDI-MECD, e Preparacao do Proximo Acordo
Trienal 1987-1989, 12 a 24 de Marco de 1986
GB/ED035    Projecto do Regulamento da Carreira Docente, Marco/88
General Information
GB/GENOO1   Ministerio do Desenvolvimento Rural e Pescas, Anuario
Estatistico 1985, Abril 1985



REPUBLIC OP GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC ZDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EXISTING STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM
ns.getut gdndral               EnsemgnmMn suptieur
(hors du pays)
pr_00w         B&SM               ftwd
!htsn. oElw teacher-traiin  chand OMfrom grde6 to gAd9
1 2    4_
commwci'''
Co 839
, i0
. fZ%
m~ Sryd ci a                              .wrnf
hrne  to ED teahr-tranin  chnged fro grde   to grade 9



.411            i!Ig *t~rtitrtrii
.4I0           -f         W
 W W S WW~~~~
ttSt          tSSSi14:bi
tSt   '       .Wi__    ni



Annex 2-2
Page 2 of 2
LEGEND:
AAGB       Associacao Arbitros Guine-Blssau
ANFD       Associacao Nacional de Pomento Desportivo
CCR        Casas de Cultura Regionais
CE14N      Complexo Escolar 1' Novembro
DAC        Departamento Alta Composicao
DAF        Departamento de Adaiuistracao e Financas
DAP        Departamento de Admiuistracao e Pessoal
DC         Departamento de Controle
DDS        Departamento Desporto Social
DEA        Departamento Educacao de Adultos
DEB        Departamento Ensino Basico
DECREE     Departamento Construccao e Reparacao de Estabelecimentos de
Ensino
DEMS       Departamento Ensino Medio e Superior
DEPE       Departamento Educacao Pre-Escolar
DES        Departamento Ensino Secundario
DF         Departamento de Financas
DGAE       Direccao Geral de Administracao Escolar
DGAF       Direccao Geral de Administracao e Financas
DGC        Direccao Geral da Cultura
DGD        Direccao Geral dos Desportos
DGIA       Direccao Geral Instituto Amizade
DGS        Direccao Geral do Ensino
DIP        Departamento Inspeccao Pedagoglca
DMP        Departamento de Material Pstrimonio
DP         Departamento Patrimonio
DTP        Departamento Tecnico Docente
ENEFD      Escola Nacional da Educacao Fisica e Desportes
FDEGB      Federacao Desporto Escolar Guine-Bissau
FFGB       Federacao Futebol Guine-Bissau
IRA        Instituto Nacional de Arte
INDE       Instituto Nacional para Desenvolvimento do Ensino
INLD       Instituto Nacional de Livroe e Discos
INEP       Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisa
ITFP       Instituto Tecnico de Formacao Profissional
MN         Museu Nacional
SG         Secretaria Geral



Tax*  of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUNA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I17 OPTI.K  MET I ECO WTTS
IT LIWI V UMCII
(Caits is 16 Uftm,o    hl
TECN                                        I  f       TOTAL          sf
Em-OL         II2   SEChIMI          EaI       U 1311     am          MTT        TUTU     as  KY  TT.
OfFICE V THE IUIP             0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0   193.5            0.0   1373.5         11.232
*  *is.um.amiuimmine         o0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0   112933.7         0.0   1193.7         L.in   1123.7          LIZ
SECTIRUTIIor  CTI             0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0      "96.5         0.0     6496.5        0.40     4,16.5       0.4?
DILGEOR EPOTO                 0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0    2923.5          0.0    292335        1.72   29233.5         2.112
BEPT.F-     L MIL.        1204.0         0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0    12104.0       0.75       1704 wo92
KVT.fSC 13113                 0.0   731105.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0   73105.0        4.322    13115        52.6a
OERT.SECI O5I     Bil.        0.0        0.0     0075.5         0.0        0.0         0.0    3075.5          7 11 "5075           5.71
TME LIC                       0.0        0.0   122Y15.3         0.0        0.0         0.0   122595.6       7.2U   1298            Lin
OISTITUTO A01431              0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0    077O m.3m.                LO.50t  17M.3          7.-0
MIUEM  14 COiWER              0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0    24312.3    242.3           1.47    2432.3         .79
IIE                           0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0    79050.5    7900.5         4.43?   79050.5        5.L6
MIm                           0.0        0.0         0.0    63450.5        0.0         0.0      50.5        L1    6450.5           4.5n
CEFCt                         0.0        0.0         0.0     U07.1         0.0         0.0     4307.1       0.23      407.1        0.352
f L4                        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0      79         9".4         0.47? 7190.4           0 o0.
Wm1 TECUItL IaO               0.0        0.0         0.0     3481.3        0.0         0.0     36           0.21?       S 3.       0.252
SCMRY.ClIIRESIU               0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0   109964.    1099.           L.511
TOT. R1EDA    amI         12704.0   731605.0   202671.3    71743.9   333663.2   3509.3  J613.2              00.06  1319192.9     100.0
I of T*tal                   0.152     43.32?      12.00       4.251     20.052      19.63     100.00?
TOTA. EfuOUIUT                729      ml19        10931        497                             95
a of total                   0.74      17.251      21.44?      0.521                           100.002
93401   "lOLh           #UC_      TMC EI
UIT WED'ST COST
1917 Ueln                   17.4        3.3        33.5      14.4
s I of Prieov              I9L      .03100.       210.2    1641.44?
2.0        1.0        2.1        11.4
5O0IEs Ohcouto 6wl do Est o  197 IW   a ECD  preodtsan    ourullsat statistics



iag. !  .f 3i
ANALYSIS OF ESUCTIU1 RECIUREIT EUOITUIES
(199 S6Ps1os milliuls
196     195     196      17
Gross Dometic Product              33154.5 34611.4  32634.0  48273.0 a/
WEA Recurrent Budget                 1317.1  1293.2  1254.2  1669.8
Primary Educ 8udget                   n.6.    n.a.   882.9  1174.4
NECD as I 6P                          3.97n    3.74?   3.82?   3.501
Primry as I NECD                                       70.401  69.54%
Growth of lECD Budget                         -5.95?    2.231  -8.41?
Grouth of Priury Budget                                         -1.21?
198     195      199      1997
Estimated Total Population          8U5000   70000  600    904000
Total Enrollment                                       92239   95700
Total Priwry Enrollment                                61900   92570
NECD Recurrent Cost/Student                             13.6    17.6
29.flM
Primary Recurrent Cost/Studeat                          10.8    14.2
31.94?
SOURCEt Ninistry of Finance - Orcamento Geral do Estado 1954185186
and Balances.
al  Estinate



Page 3 of 3
11960 UDOET (GOP ml 1on)                 COST/STUDENT (G8P thousand)
TOTAL
R curent Invest nt   TOTAL  ENROLLMENT Recurrent Investent   TOTAL
PRE-SCHOOL                 9.36        .         9.58        715       18.1        0.8       18.4
PRIMARY                  577.9      143.69\   721.56       61447        7.1        1.6       8.9
Grade 1-4 (EBE)        432.74     166.29    U7.94        07069        6.4        1.5       7.9
Grad. 5-J (EBC)        145.24      33.49    l1.64        13476       19.6        2.6      15.6
SECONQ/MO/NIONER         296.65    45.69    662.65         11852       18.4       49.9      68.4
OTHER UNITS a/           194.29      29.89    224.99        2074       93.7       14.4     1098.
TOTAL EDUCATION          990.28    627.62    1617.90       93514       10.6        6.7       17.3
CENTRAL ADMINIST. b/     162.63                162.63
CULTURE/SPORTS,          101.31    586.60    637.91        77667
vi, INC
TOTAL MECD              1254.22   1164.22   2418.44    171171
COMPARISON OF UNIT RECURRENT COSTS:
RECURRENT
COST/PUPIL    A x       A x       As x of
(UBP'6Y   of EBE   o. EBC    PRIMARY
PRE-SCHOOL                 13.1      235.61     121.51    164.SX
PRIMARY                     7.1      111.51      65.9x    199.OX
EBE                      6.4      199.6X      69.11      ss.7x
EBC                     19.0      169.3s     199.9X    151.9x
SEC/MID/HIGHER             18.4      2sa.7x    179.6x    265.0x
a/  Inet.Amizade, Coeplexo 14 Nov, INDE (teacher training), CEFC
b/ Minister, D0r.Gen.Aduln/Flnan., Secretary of State/Education



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STUDENT PROGRESSION RATES
Primary Education
RATES   70/6  8/81 81/82 82/8a 8S/84 84/85 65/$0
WDE 1   PROWO 9.4M99 9.4265 9.4344 9.4626 0.870 9.389 0.4000
WET o.85c9 9.8874 0.3434 9.3832 9.699 1.4786 0.4573
DROPOUT 8.2392 0.299 9.2222 0.2943 .1015 0.1221 0.1420
ORWIE 2   PRMOII 9.656 9.62W 9.4744 9.5128 0.8674 0.4081 0.4259
WET 0.2810 9.26 09.112 9.3os  9.6286 0.4708 0.4827
DWROUT 0.1534 0.1840 9.2974 0.1l41 0.1189 0.1211 0.1414
MAE 8   PROMO 0565W 9.6317 9.6199 9.612 0.4312 0.444 0.5619
REWET 9.2138 9.2528 9.347 0.2738 9.5076 0.4168 0.8994
DROPOUT 9.1269 9.1155 0.0443 9.1160 0.0813 0.1188 9.9987
GADE 4 SPROMO 9.3827 9.8747 0.3819 0.4989 9.8594 0.s536 0.8723
WET 9.2894 0.2631 0.8967 0.2858 9.5981 0.4188 0.4926
DROPOUT 0.37890 9.823 9.3114 9.3SI 9.1375 0.2276 0.2251
ADE 5   PROMO 9.5123 0.5126 0.4068 0.4442 0.4518 9.8848 9.4201
REPET 0.2586 0.2620 0.3964 9.8972 9.8968 0.3494 9.3216
DROrOUT 0.2291 9.2354 9.2273. 9.249 0.2393 0.2873 0.2604
WDE 6       MO 0.5594 0.0581 9.5952 0.5618 9.29 O.322 0.4381
REPET 0.1684 9.1s65 9.1856 0.1989 0.2370 9.3696 0.2669
DROPOt 9.2871 9.156 0.2198 0.2442 0.2491 9.8921 0.2959
Source: Mission estimates based on enrollment data from MECD.
Anuario Estatistico 1979/1980 to 1985/1986.
pI



- 36 -                            Annex 2-5
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATUS AND WJALXPICATIONS OF PRIMARY TEACHERS
School Year 1966/87
:    ENSINO BASICO ELEMENTAR   t               ENSINO 8ASICO COMPLEMENTAR a/       : TOTAL
REGION                                  I         :                                         : GERAL
:PEBD  P3E  PEB PPo ME  sTotal:Port SSci NSct Moth VisAr Mil AgArtPrArtPhyEd:Tot*l aENS BAS:
BISSAU      14 111   46  78 12  s371   68  84  S2  49  26  26  18  16   15 :363    674:
SIOUO   :1    68  14 8         80 :196 :         1   8   8   8   2    1   1   0:  17:  218:
a                        :     :                                             :    :       :
CACHEU   :2 168  86  116 1   623: 20   8   15  18    6   7   6   1   4 :2:   605:
010      :1 18   46   79 146 3751 1    8  12  18    6   6   4   4    5: 70:   445:
a                        :     :                                            :     ::
BAFATA   :1    9 88   78   9:  297 :18    7   9   10    6   6   6   4    6: 64:   3861:
aU       :2 96    4 0        3  7 :22 :7   5   6    7   4    6   4   e    2: 40 :292:
*                        :     s                                            :       
TONALI:  1  62   18 651 63: 1 :                  6   6   S   4   4   4    2   2: 45:  230:
2~~~~~~~~ :              a                                            :    :        :
qUINARA:   9  18  11 883   6 :16:8    2   8   8   2   2   1   1   1 :1:   201:
SOLAMA   : 1  48    24 59 81 :56   a    6                  0 9   4   4   2   2    8: 4:   201
TOTAL    a 28  688  816  564 784 :256: 141  75  116  115  68  61  40  31    7:6 82:  3222:
LEOBt:                         :    Qualification  :   Teaching Load  .
PEII  Protessor do Ensino     :11agisterio Primiro :   Grade   1 to 6  :
Basico Diplomado       :                   s
PEBED Profossor do Enaino     tTraining In Normal a   Grade  1 to 4  s
Baslco Elem_ntar       :  School I
PEBE Professor do Ensino      :Grade 9-11          :   Grades 1 to 4  a
Basco. El_ ntar Diplo:                            
PP. Profesor do Pceto         :Gre 6-9 incomplete:   Grade* 1 to 4  :
ME  Monitors Escolares      :Grad* 4-6 incomplete:   Grades 1 to 4  :
*/ Tench only one subject In Grades 5-6
Source: MECD - Departamento do Ensino Basico, Data on Primary Teachers
Nov. 1987.



- 37 -
Annex 2-6
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DATA ON CLAIN M CWODITIONS
1967      Ne1o.   FPeramet   Makeshift    TOTAL
ItEGalO   EBUOIM      SCHOOLS   Clwre.s Clieroom  CUSSROOM
STSSAU           126U2    *     4         216          76         294
S.tfi          16o          12        1i           12         40
Prablo         1773          1J         17          22          so
Quinhumel      20U           17         21          to          St
CAOIEU
Cachu          20           24          29          19         40
Sao Deln       1"            is         22          26         a6
Blow1          21i           20         26       2I            U8
Dus            55m          1i          82          25          S7
Canchuon      0Om            20         S2          42         94
Catl           13U7          17         14          17         31
010
Forl-          2415          29         46          11         so
Manmb          12"           2S1         9          24         JU
S3esaer        2604          Jl         45          22         67
mans.          38            24         41          32         78
3harer         1491          14         10          20         36
BAFATA
s.f.t.         4436          2J         so          26         es
Grom-ds         762          14          *          11         10
Saubandln      1444          25         17          17         J4
KItol.          780          20         14           7         21
Contubeel      1464          22         26          1C         86
Gelosao         964          17         16           6         23
Ga                                                                 0
Gau             1U61         32         23          so         so
Pitch*         2104          27 n                   34         42
Soneeo         1510          29          9          22         31
Pirod          143           2g         14          16          32
ae              418          14          2          12          14
Bube            oe           13         11           9         26
Fulecund       1665          14         24           J         27
Tito           1251          29         26           7         aS
Eaped          1626          20         27          14         41
tOMBALu                                                            0
Cat1.          2961         4S          65          10         64
quebo           964         1i          26           1         29
Bedbnda        1271          29         26          14         40
Coln.           607          19         21           6         27
BOUMA
Bolis"         2991          20         sO          11         s
Casrvele        429          6           7           4         It
Bubeque        1262          12         10          17          n
Uno             66U          i          10           0          l
TOTAL            93473        790        1114         720       133
X of tote I
Ctaerooa                              0.74X       39.263    1l6.66
Source: Mission's Summary of Information gathered from MECD/DECREE
school mapping exercise.



OD
l~~~ u                                                                                                                                                        co
4                                                                                                                                                                   D0
1.4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~@
.. -   -------       -  --
- - -;Si  --'-~'  t - -_---              .'                      C -  -      -* 'o
-,             -      .~V--   t  2                    -------
ax         1         | O=   ------         ^ f-----  ------- --------*g-t----^------w---------------------------
~~~~~~~~  - ~~~~~                            ~~                 ~        ~        992-ed------
S                   | - - - I -- - ---- -     - -- -J----------                        -  -- -- - -        -   -                          i - -o
I         I         a                                   l                                    I i 3              a .                        
I'#5    ilijili                                                                         l!
0



- 39 -
Annex 3-1
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMROVEMENT OF CURRICULUM AND MATERIALS
Background
1.        This component aims to improve the learning process for primary
students, facilitate student progression through primary level, and
increase the pool of trainable graduates by reducing repetition and
dropout. The proposed project defines ;he policy framework linking two
important contributions to educational development in Guinea-Bissau: (a)
assistance provided by UNDP to MECD/INDE for strengthening the primary
curriculum and teaching materials; and (b) assistance provided by SIDA to
increase capacity of INACEP in textbook printing and INDE in textbook
development skills, as well as the proposed intervention of AfDB in
textbook printing. Both the UNDP- and SIDA-financed projects are scheduled
to begin implementation in the first semester of calendar 1988.
Project Content
2.        The proposed IDA project would support the following measures:
(a)  Integration of the primary education structure.  The primary
curriculum would be revised by INDE/DEPRO supported by specialist
assistance provided by UNDP. The EBE/EBC distinctions at primary level
would be eliminated to evolve a unified six-year curriculum with properly
structured and sequenced subjects, whose core elements include the teaching
of Portuguese as a second language, mathematics, general science and
environmental studies.  The appropriate student textbooks and teacher
guides would be developed by INDE/DEMS following the revised curriculum,
and printed locally by INACEP with funds/materials/specialist assistance
provided by SIDA. The IDA project would support the testing and evaluation
of the revised curriculum and materials in 12 representative schools, and
support materials and testing to expand the transitional bilingual
education program administered by INDE/CEEF. Curriculum and materials
development, tryout/evaluation, and introduction in primary schools
nationwide, would be implemented by phases - grades 1 and 3 in Phase 1,
grades 2 and 4 in Phase 2, grade 5 in Phase 3, and grade 6. Each phase
would take three years to put in place nationally. Phase 1 would be in
place by 1991, and succeeding phases go into effect in each following year
(see Annex 3-8? Implementation Schedule). Related to the curriculum and
teaching materials development are concurrent modifications to be done by
DEPRO in the teacher training programs. The improved pre-service and
in-service training programs would produce primary teachers component to
teach/utilize the revised curriculum and pedagogical materials.



- 40 -
Annex 3-1
Page 2 of 4
3.        Application of automatic promotion.  A year after the new
curriculum and primary education structure are in place, automatic
promotion would be introduced gradually starting in grade 1 in 1992 and
yearly thereafter through grade 5. The delayed introduction of automatic
promotion would give adequate time for the new structure to settle and any
immediate corrective measures to be applied. The results of annual
evaluation of the system would Indicate where processes could be speeded up
to realize efficiency gains earlier. Target introduction dates of
automatic promotion are shown below.
4.        Improvement of examination systemo3tandards.  Examination
policies and national testing standards would be reviewed and amended as
appropriate to devise an instrument for masuring student achievement
instead of a simple tool for student selection and promotion. Examinations
would be applied in grade 6 to determine student qualifications for entry
into secondary level. INDE/DEPRO would assist the MECD ExamiRnation Council
in developing the appropriate testing standards and instruments. The use
of the revised examination standards would coincide with the application of
automatic promotion. The project would provide specialist assistance to
MECD/INDE as well as materials/operational support during development and
testing of the examination system.
5.        Increased student/teacher ratios.  The gradual increase in
primary student/teacher ratios from 25:1 up to 40:1, is one of the
interrelated measures that would enable the education system to increase
its enrollment capacity. Achievement of yearly target ratios, however,
depend on the availability of appropriate classrooms. The progress in
providing additional school places under the IDA project as well as those
funded by other agencies/donors, would be taken into account during annual
reviews to determine more realistic target levels. The projected
student/teacher ratios are shown below.
Targets              1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Introduce new curriculum:
Grade 1 and 3                                X
Grade 2 and 4                                       X
Grade 5                                                     X
Grade 6                                                            X
Automatic promotion:
Grade 1 and 3                                       X
Grade 2 and 4                                              X
Grade 5                                                            X
Student/Teacher:           25      25     25    31.5   32.5   33.5   36.5



-41-
Ainnex 3-1
Page 3 of 4
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED STRUCTURE OF THE 1DUCATION SYSTEM
22                      Eti~~~~~SINO
21     s                       SUPEIOR
T;
is  12                          ENSINO
Ii_    _
17
t6   1                        POLITtico
oE =mSN                    ..fl.s-                  .-..
-. .    PIO                      PlSSIvO         :4
12 _
11                                               E___ __ __S _ __ _
10                      ENSINO                      BAStCO
8   I                                           P6&ALFABET!Z.
7   l                  .                         AZ ABETIZAliO
6          PRh-PRrMRIA  JGOS/APREINDZAGEI
JARIDINS
SUBSISTE14A DE EDUCACAO GERAL E TiCNICA   SUBSISTEHA DE EDU-
CACio DE ZDULVS
Source: MECD - Anuario Estatistico da Educacao, May 1987.



- 42 -
Annex 3-1
Page 4 of 4
IMPROVEMENT OF PRIMARY EDUCATION, CURRICULUUM
AND TEACHING MATERIALS
IPLSW
Sta,d.v of TotaSl Imc. Cont
Quntity                                        lecal
.... ................ ...............Duts 
Unit      19U  t989  1990 1991 1992 1993 total  Unit Cost  for. txct  lams)   Ima          Rtail
1 IIVES1IlICI COSTS
. ......... -
A  O6VEIDPPINNt1 CURRICULUR Ft IUllRI Wl SCotAIlRS
... .. ....... ......... . ..... ............
SPICIAIISII EWC9610WN EltICtGUE                       ocm int       2      2                            -    -    s.596.soo  28.350               28.350
SPECIAtISIE DISIRIBUIIIION 11ERIAIU  SCOtAiRI        Iow   w. is                     I               2 5.U6.500        14.660        -            14. 80
SPCmI4l1St tV1IU01011 PED4GOCIUE                    olae..  -s             I         I         I    3 5.S96.S00        23.154            -        23. 14
SPICIMLISIE SYSIEN D ElArt                              ma ss        *          -    I         I    3 S1596.500        23.154                     23.154
VOYAGE SPtC14lSTIS                                  tler/raotour     -    1          3         2     8  2.593.000      28.231                     28.231
Pit OIEII SPECIALISMES                              li     mota    60   IS0         90        60   360     98.748       9.296  19.295         -  2. 591
EiluRSIS A                                             rm_ sois      *    3    3    3    *           9  2.06G.400      24. 66t       -            24.6tGB
V89ACA BOIRSIERS                                   4lI.r/reteur      -     I    1            I       3  1.549.800       6. b7        -             6. lb7
LIVuRS Dt RtFElIEWCE                                Homm                                                8. I  10.1  c   I 1. l92                  t1. 92
Sub lotal DL'WttWIPift4NI CURRIWtUIN tIt  AIER IAU  SCoLAIRtS                                                             159.479  19.295        -  t8U.765
11 Rl CURRI 41 COSIS
...... opc m  6  9. .
sl. CPtt"Rl cott4sEU
..... .... .......
fOURIIURI      tI                                  PaR arMe               I    I    I    I    I    6 2.177.600         MM.209   6.7116           17.S21
Sub lotl OfPERAIIOI BUELAU                                                                                               11.205   6.716             17.921
total RECURRENI COStS                                                                                                        11.205   6.716         -   17.921
total                                                                                                                        180.679  24.0il         - 206. S6S
........ ...P.....o ...   cheque .our S moja........ ....... ......
/s  3 herscw  chaq  pour 3 mels



- 43 -                        Annex 3-2
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Program of Study
for Teacher Training Institutions
(Week y Hours)
First    Second    Third       Total
Year     Year      Year        Program
COURSES                 S1  S2    ST3S4    S5  S6       Hours      Percentage
A.  Content Areas
Portuguese         7   7      6   6                   364         17.3
Mathematics         5   5     5   5                   280         13.3
Science                       5                        70          3.3
Geography                     5                        70          3.3
History                 5                              70          3.3
Psychology                        4                    56          2.7
Sub-total                                             910        43.3
B.  Pedagogy/Methodology
Pedagogy           5                                   70          3.3
Methodology of:
Portuguese                  2                        28          1.3
Science                     2                        28          1.3
Mathematics                     2                    28          1,3
Riot/Geography                  2                    28          1.3
Classroom Observation             2                    28          1.3
Practicum                               25  25        700         33.33
Sub-total                                             910        43.3
C.  Other Courses
Militancy Trng      4   4                             112          5.3
Phys. Ed./Hygiene  5                                   70          3.3
Gardening                     4                        56          2.7
Manual Arts             4                              56          2.7
Sub-total                                             294         13.3
TOTAL             25  25    25  25    25  25        2,100         100



I SAC         __         VICE AND    '-S2 Xv:.c
A'  'G PROGRAM
-   0tsited Cost lable
IPESOI
Breslkdown or totals Ir'cI. Cant
(US$3
quantity                                       --- - - --    -- - - - -- - - - - - - -
------- ---- --------- ------------------                           local   lExad.   Du ie     A
unit            1988     1989     1990      1991   1992 1993  Total      Unit Cost  for. Each.    Taxes$       lsaxs    fatal
1. INVESIMENT COSIS
A. FORMAT ION CADRE ECOtE NORMLE
BOURSES5 /a                                         Horns mole              8       24        22        6                   60  t. 033.200      80.162             -             0.162
VOYAGE SOURSIERS                                   AIIe.r/ratour            2        3         1        -                       1.549.800       11.694             -            11.694
Sub~-rofta  FORMATION CADRE ECOIE NORMALE                                                                                                          82.656             --92.656
1B. PROGRAIINE DU RECYCLAGE
I. ANIMATION STAGE PAR LEUIPE REGIONAL
SPECIALISTE PORNIION DISTANCE                    Roome acis            1.5      1.5         -        I    -               4  5.595.500       28.930                      -28.930
VOYAGE SPECIALISIE                              Allor/rotour             I        I                  I    -     -3  2,583.000                10,081             -            10.08at
PER DIE"1                                       10mg jour,              45       45                 30    -             120     53,.748       3,004        6. 197        - 9.201
FONCIIONNAIRES /b                                Porsonmos             120      120       120      120    -             480                              -               --
PARTICIPANIES Ic                                 Persoaines          3.200    2.800    2.500    2.400     -          10.900                              -               -                      I
PER DIEN PARTICIPANTES                          licmg jours         16.000   42.000   37.500   36.000    -          131.500      1.200            -      211. 279        -211.279
VOYAGE PARTICTPANIES                          Par participwant       3.200    2.800    2.500    2.400    -           10.900      3.000            -       43.360         - 43.360               p
DOCUMENTATION PEOAGOGIOUES                    Per participant.       3.200        -         - -    -      -           3.200      5.740      24,009             -   -         24.009
SAb-total ANIIIATiON SIAGE PAR fQUIPE RlEGIONAL                                                                                                 65. 025     260.836         -325. 862
2. EVAtUATION PROGRAMMES 0E fORMATION
SPECIAI.ISTE EVALUATION                          Roamol MO                        1 a              1. 5    -            3.5  5.596.500      26.9O8              -        - 26,988
VOYAGE SPECIALISTE                              A)Ierp/rtourw                     I         I        I         I          4  2.583.000       14.100                          14. 105
PER DIEN1 SPECIALISTE                              Unite                         30         -       45        so3       log     58. 748      2.803         5.885              $ .688
Sub-TotaI EVALUATION PROGRAMMES OE FORNIATIOM                                                                                                   43.869        5.885             49.783
Sub-lotal PRORAMME DU3 RECYCLAGE                                                                                                                  t09.921      266.721         - 376.642
total IN1VEST11EN1 COSTS                                                                                                                             202.577      266.729         -  469. 298
It. RtECURRENI COSIS
A. OPERAIION / ENTREIIEN TRANSPOR(
COMMNICATION / TRANSPORT                           Par amnae               I        i         I        I    I    I          6  2.722.000       14,006        8.395-   22.401              x
FOUIRNITURES / MATERIEtS PEDAGOGIQUES          Dotat ion par am"~          I        I         I        1    I    I          6  2.722.000       14.006        6.395             22. 401t
Sub-Total OPERAIION / ENIRETIEN TRANSPORT                                                                                                         28.012        16.791        -   44.603 
total RECURRENF COSTS                                                                                                                                 26.012        16. 791        -  44.803 
:25:5::::: -...2. -=Z= ... 
Total                                                                                                                                                 230.589       203.512        -514. tOt    Ht.
/a 8 Sourms,
lb 3 Porsonnes par sectour pendant 11 sasiros par an
/c 3200 maitres. 3 stages par an an MYown



4.-)               ..1   , ~~~~~ A   a   .J
-    -)                      Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STRENGTHENING OF SCHOOL INSPECTORATE SERVICES
1.        Issues.  School Inspection was organized in 1985.  The Department
of School Inspection (DSI) provides technical support to classroom
teachers. However, these efforts are greatly limited by the lack of staff,
limited skills, and lack of material resources (transportation, pedagogical
materials, etc.). DSI has currently 20 inspectors - 16 for EBE and 4 for
EBC. Two EBE inspectors are assigned to each region except Bissau and
Biombo which have one each. At the EBC level, the coverage is even
thinner: the 4 inspectors are distributed by discipline groups (i.e., 2 for
Portuguese; 1 for mathematics and natural sciences; and 1 for militancy
training and social sciences). Even so, due to the lack of resources, each
school is served by only one inspector, thus, teachers do not receive any
assistance in many subject areas. DSI is directly responsible to the
Director General of Education, and depends upon INDE for the training of
its staff. However, INDE needs to structure an appropriate training
program for school inspectors which responds to the multi-disciplinary
needs of teachers.
2.        The Project.  Under the new organizational structure of MECD, the
inspectorate staff of DSI would be increased to cover the school network
more effectively, and trained in the role of providing technical assistance
to teachers. The department would be headed by a director; 3 regional
supervisors (one per region); and 36 inspectors/trainers (one per
geographic sector). Members of the inspectorate would have minimum
qualifications of 12 years of education, 3-4 years of experience as
classroom teachers, and a good command of Portuguese. The inspectorate
would comprise two training groups, one for mathematics and natural
sciences, the other for language arts and social sciences. The 36
inspectors would be divided into 18 teams of two, with each team member
being proficient in one training area. Each team would be responsible for
providing pedagogical support to teachers in two adjacent sectors to which
the team members are assigned. The inspectorate staff would also
periodically observe classes and collect data for evaluation of educational
programs.
3.        Training of inspectorate staff would be provided by INDE. INDE
would develop the appropriate program with the assistance of the specialist
contracted under the project and in coordination with the UNDP curriculum
specialist contracted under UNDP's technical assistance project. The DSI
staff would also undergo training in teaching methodology and school
management skills. To strengthen DSI and facilitate supervision of
teachers in the field, the project would provide: a motorcycle for each
school inspector; a vehicle for the central DSI office in Bissau; 4 staff
months of overseas study-tours for key DSI staff; and 4 staff months of
consultant services to assist in setting up the inspectorate training
progRam at INDE, the operations of DSI, and teacher evaluation instruments.



STRENGTHENING OF TEACMER INSPECTORATE SERVICES
Ostel led Cost Table
IPISO)
Breakdoen of Totals mnd. Cant
@uant i t                                           lcalI
--------------------------                              lfEzo.    Sili*$  8
unit         IOU8 1989  1990 1991 1992 1993 Total  Unit Cost   for. Each. Taxes)   Taxes    Total
I. INVESINENT COSIS
A. f004*110N INISPECTORS PEDAGOGIGUES
SPECIAtISiE lNSP"C1lON ACADERIQUE                           Units           1.5   1.5                I          4   5.596.500        29.237        -- 29.237
VOYAGE SPECIAEISIE                                       Aller/retour         I     I                I          3        3.444           14        --                 14
PER OlIN SPECIALISIE                                        Unite           45    45    -          2 0        120       58, 748       3.030   6.281          -    9.31?
SOURStS /a                                                NIow~is mt                2    2                      4   2.06b.400        to.782        -         - 10.782
VOVAGt BOURSIERS                                         AII.r/retowr               1     I                     2   1.549.800         4.043                       4.043
PREPARAIION SENINAIRES                                   "am"ir jows        30-30                                                         -        - 
PER  lifN PARITCIPANIS  /b                                  Unite             -   225    -                    225        1.200            -      344         -      344
VOYAGES PARTICIPAEES                                     Par persorne         -    45    -     -          -    45        3.000            -      172         -      172
FOURNIITURE PEDAGOGIQUE                                par participante       -    45    -                .    45        3.444          209        -         -      209
Sub-Total FORIIATIONI INSPECTORS PEDAGOGIQUES                                                                                           47.321   6.797          - 54.118
S. TRANSPORT P01R INSPECTIONS ENISEIGNIEIIENI DU BASE
VEIHICULES 4 X 4 POUR INSPECTIONS RURAtES                   Unite             -     I    -                          18.081.000       23.23?                      23.237
NOIO lIGERE POUR CONSEIELIIJRS PEDAGOGIQUES                 Unite-    36                       -    -          35   1.549.800        71. 701-   71. 701
Sub lot.1 IR1ANSPI)Rt POUR INSPECTIONS tNEIGSIkENtNI DU1 BASE                                                                           94.938                      94.938
tota  INYLSINtNT COSIS                                                                                                                    142.259   6.797             149. 055
II RECURRENT COSTS
A. FONCTIONNENENT
FR8IS ENTRETIFNI / ESSENCE VEIIICULE                       units            -                 I    I    1      4     979. 920        3.472   2. 105        -     5.57?
FRAIS ENIRlETIEN / ESSENCE ADTOS                           Unite            .          36   36   36   36   144       326.640       41.604  25.262               66.926
FOURANIIURE                                              Inspection         -      - 36   36   36   36   144          108.880       13.888   8.421              22.309
Sub- total FONITIONNEIIENT                                                                                                             59.023  35,S8S              94.812
Total RECUIRRENT COSTS                                                                                                                     59,023  35,78 .W9.1
Total                                                                                                                                      201.282  42.586          -243.868
:2:2.:: :5;::;:: ;             ~~~00  :
/a  2 Sours"s                                                                                                                                                                                  0  1
/b T5 personnes pendant 5 ,jours
-- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -  -- - -- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- -- -



Annex 3-4
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CRITERIA FOR SCHOOL SELECTION/REPAIRS
Selection Criteria
1.        Regions.  Four regions whieb have not received assistance for
schools construction/repairs are given priority for inclusion under the
proposed IDA project.  The regixns and status are as follow:
Existing  Of which   Schools to be  No. of Classrooms
Region         Schools   Permanent  Rehabilitated  Repairs   Replace
Biombo            42          22           25           40         12
Oio              108          72            50          94         18
Quinara           67          45           30           61          4
Tombali          107          82           45           90          5
324        221            92         285         39
2.        Schools.  Priority is given to schools in villages with more than
60 students enrolled, as optimum utilization is possible with classes given
in two shifts. In small tabancas (villages) close to each other, the
school to be rehabilitated should be located in the most centrally located
tabanca. The number of classrooms rehabilitated should accommodate the
total enrollment in the group of tabancas based on double shifting of
classes.
Rehabilitation Criteria
3.        Design.  Classrooms are designed to accommodate 40 students using
the building prototype prepared by DECREE which features: metal roofing
with ventilation slots around room perimeter; wooden roof structure; plain
mortar finish on walls of stabilized soil or concrete blocks; raised cement
flooring; wooden window shutters and door; painted smooth plaster finish on
end walls to serve as blackboards; minimum use of paint (primarily for
trimming and to protect wood).  Furnishings include one set teacher's desk
and chair, 20 sets of double student desk/chair unit, one bookcase.
4.        Repairs.  Repairs of existing structures of a permanent nature
would have priority over new construction.  To the extent possible, repairs
or remodelling of existing buildings would utilize the DECREE designed
prototype provide accommodations for 40 students. If the existing
structure cannot be modified accordingly, only then should the replacemnt
of classroom or barraca be considered. In any case, in any selected
school, the total number of classrooms to be rehabilitated should be
estimated in terms of accommodating total school enrollment in two shifts.
5.        Other Provisions.  Each school rehabilitated under the project
would be provided a manual water pump, and a standard four-cubicle latrine
block situated well away from the classroom block and the source of water.



Annex 3-4
Page 2 of 2
REHABILITATION OF PRIARY SCHOOLS
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ta                                                                 td Coo; l.;.b; 
bIat                                                                    o      f t  nn l WC 1lw
i                                                                                                                           aXU sl$g aw:a .   * t$  4$Utz satsa3 &XUt +Ss;s $1z&. $ss:ts .zz. .... . .|.$s$a; ; .............. XEl. . : . . .   . . .   . . . . . . . . . . 
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~to Ilel lit1  t1tCI
.. . ...... ..... ......
t  OtWI4011C11111 tAUMS                                        at eas w             12                1   4. SW 3b                       $.14                              ael  12 -4 
3. 1*161:111111101 SMttt5 lalSlullS                            4el" closs     1    so                 *0 Ul11317                           cm          4xs71                U. 57
*. misADS IIE1IU11i  l04  UtiS                                PAW  los         -   40         -           -     - .40  1. SS1|7           n 07. -2f                         m ON
s. nl"sIOIO 1e 1111K                                          hp go"s         to   is                                  Is  1. S.ioo         S11.43      2 sa                St. 1J4
t. lOSlatiAtsili u   ftRl    D EAU                            Pa t clss             10      IS            -         5      b "I t         44.          . 75                 4 
a846282 lettOSI                                               Pr Cl                                                                                                                                      S #  -        m  U. Om  12. 0S
S- 1w13     81 b tlU ltil&St(  rtntEs 35I30 0ItS                                                                                            314           06. Ic              4se sm
W uIIII&tIIC ecotis tttClCIOII0
...............................
1. KMtatCA     Baum                                           PM elasm.,            t2                                 IS  2r4t036         8ei   sao4e                - so  r .s
t  8AI831181115 2111T2 t                                      Pa. clsso        t -   o    10 40  SWt310                                     .8t         42  1".40
1     UMtiltAttO  S IAlS t1lSrtIAlls                          P r eloss             30 Xe    4    10            -       4    991 312      2LSN        le  G"              C10. 49
4. 301118122 B1N3161181001 SOuLs                              P..cI,,  time-    -                                      40  1.03 t20 In     0.262             -              8o.on
a  C88SI80CTIO ste02511                                       PAt  clW t..          4    0           110 2S  1. 33. 300                   OL082        4S.04          -    s0224
t  Wit l8 1 s1       IS 0t                                         Laoret22s*                  20lt                   t 2  t.Ott.080     13.024        OMN131.4l
1. lssmiS2ao2I8  Ulvict 0 Ia)                                 P.. clot,.            20      30    20                       1. "I. 60      so. "                             go 41141
a  8l22tiSi                                                   P.4  toe. 1t2 tECIO2 012.200                                                 no."06                         t2S.OL
Sib bIaS 88818111181188 ECC11S 815188 SS                                                                                                    2312.246     318.418             . 480 O8a
C.  18301128118  teCtIs R81G1t DIG
.... .+*..................
1. 8t11UCLt9l  sB CS                                          Pa, ctm.,        -             S *   -           -       *  2.943.836        3.439       It.8m.0       -
*  r ll0l80Kft 1    E2M8 02  AICOS                            P.r eto          -             S                         2  4.8 VA .0       30.                         -    1Su. 4Io
D. KN118t1     8  t8t1S  bISTmlES                            Par  lomt        -    '       10    tS   tO       -      45   11.3t12       21.0l0 1      03.0t 1324t
4. mTK IU I t mKuatiians sotl                                 P  et"o                       s o8   t            .      s  1.8 03. 120    "0.222                       .    0  222sa
0. 30S2t2I88I L8181811                                        P..  ~la",                    to    i 30    20               1.W&230        Is.10        82.424 16           120$.30
L. USMtlilS $00t01115                                         9.. cm.,.             4       24    20   is               2  1.512.000      2.1          112..88SO      .   320L.208
1. to$SctiII88n                                                hrC1t 0 VW  h ia0            2      is    t4 *5    In.824                                     .        . s2290
8.B1C121                                                       .   I8.              212             .                        212cla.20lb 0ILS  20&80                        U 4.46n
Smst otl sltitilattIG [CuttS StCIG4 tGSAtlstt 3                                                                                                                      l4 - t
a  trtmmlltatoe   tcolts  tGIG4 e3um
S. 8t13388  UNOCOS                                            P..  tels        .                   4                   4  2.843.00         2.4e07       I .14 2?24.
S.  s821810K $1881t8018tts t0 lSl                                 c .re        -    -             2                        4 is    Is  1    11.280  2.8 s.                     "4G
2. t11tm211t11     ShtilStltn S2LS                            Ptt eclt,.            e        0    2I0                        041          22.202        4 30 -; 14 la.41
4. totiEltlS s3taHl12 SUlS P. c4                                                                  25    Is    LS 0         1. SU300        Mm .n          t                    VA
t. 30528812188 18281810                                       Us.cla              -      -        rs   rs              te .IXttStl        10.081       -42            -    10.3
L8.     ItL SCOMI&S11811                                      P.. toss".                          a     a0     a       80  1.622.00       ox on11      M4UG3          .   22.8
1 1C1011til8l u$18100 to                                      Pot c tm*                     20          Is             40 -.000            2.0                              U2 .86
t sttmislc4                          41tt4 et""                                                   lb                   is    lit. t 4   tltC                               ML "bz
8. 0I$TCLEIIES           Pot Class.              -      00     -                         212.240      22.880~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ......  ..... ........
9.6j10ta  8880011118138  RULES 816188 We""1                                                                                                 80886        221.2 G"             822.202
2..    I.....1............P...................................                                                                                                              11.48
SSfttsl4 I CG Sl  iCtGrs SWt lits  /4                         PM Om                  * a     0     S     a     *       40    tWe so                    wIn3         *1 21,2
m. 881123CP c                                                                        a        1    a     a     4      4     .    3 8       t0 28.414      so                28.414
SKC110KA 28188$811  UISI8I2LS                                 p* dais.,                      I    ~     2      S       I  S.  12 S"          84        22.82                184,1
KR DIEN81   8h8l1218  20C111S                                 Potr jour,                          822.603.in                             14.14          &             .    1, 4424
"WAGESA NIbr*r ewr                                                                           I           -I tsx                            S. a4r           -3.41
t  (88      sr2028  1825241  Pt*S   reooo t    1                               -0                                      20   ..0 -  -  -  te
Ka DIEN1818  $180100MI    0810                                Pp                            so,.      0  82                  1. 20.0       43.                        .    57135
8. SIWII   It10821                                            P -ot Class.                        80I.                       11.404         0480 "S.                          .
ttnAo   AI                                                                                 ISOt188 21  hr02te         tw                 300S toIX Sl                        l.St2
Svb-lesl sm ls     StIG g ist Utn ato     yu     Stit anitttt ott opitltn* 4ttSt
tl. 801$ ttE,./s-.lcw                                                          .                    . .   . t              2.0.080      2.418                         . ....tGS
tota   0218w 98ICOSTS                                                                                                                     LAKILM  . 80    .  0  120022   2.  9.120
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ...... ...... ........- ..
It. 8 1S1  cots$
thetlG     EN Ino     k lirtitl4 PM                          brteb -I  is                  1s   as   IsO             mt      1. l ti          11       LEN S   ts. w
VaCg  iitmit /l 11288 8tlr P                                      cl*       t     Ise10   IS    no   28  t0         rte      10.88 at      .48         $.40V                0.642
I*le-    l 1c18Nt10  G t82180 (9UOIrhhS                                                                                                     11.122        1.1 8         _8.402
eoal        m  costs                                                                                                                            I2.81         1.222        ;      140S
votes                                                                                                                                          .81. 880 US   .2223280          I.30.014
......................... ............................ ..........       
ao  Por,W pW 111vow
40 part - 51591te&
/4 *        _~f4.
id 91, c5m* _     0*0  dn  1tr   .ma t-       "Pt
....._............ ....___.. .._._. ............................. ..... ..... _.... ... ............................................................... .............................................................. .. _. ...... ------------------



Annex 3-5
FEPRJIC (F G rMFABISSAUJ                   Page 1 of 4
BASIC EWrATIN IEVEL0FJh P:JECr
PWtg&%    AN CXM OF w             OY CF WDUM;N, CAMD AND
MIN I S T R 0
E 3 Chaefe GGerbte MnxOla Wm '  i
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~[D- lS4c d 
Dir. IqiciulMg   Nw
FScBta b   e1e hi1o      Ssc. fttmo
_ J  y do Fzine datDln                        . Oulture aBa Sportss
waft Organic LwMr.ftoial
I~~~~I-E
B                 --              |      I ~~~~~~~~~M .   ig on
g               -               ,                      X                     7|   I    m          1~~~~~~~~~~~I 
Sol mintr of altm    itae ar S                         d      tE DrJ                     l tsr 
-mf Oriid   LawB



Annex 3-5
Page 2 of 4
LEGEND:
AAGB       Associacao Arbitros Guine-Bissau
ANFD       Associacao Nacional de Fomento Desportivo
CCR        Casas de Cultura Regionais
CENFA      Centro de Formacao Administrativa
CENFI      Centro de Formacao Industrial
DAC        Departamento Alta Composicao
DDS        Departamento Desporto Social
DEAC       Departamento de Accoes de Formacao
DEB        Departamento Ensino Basico
DEME       Departamento de Malos de Formacao
DEPOL      Departamento de Politica de Formacao
DEPRO      Departamento de Programas de Formacao
DESMS      Departamento Ensino Secundario Mbdio e Superior
DF         Departamento de Financas
DGAE       Direccao Geral de Administracao Escolar
DGAF       Direccao Geral de Administracao e Financas
DGC        Direccao Geral da Cultura
DGD        Direccao Geral dos Desportos
DGIA       Direccao Geral Instituto Amizade
DGS        Direccao Geral do Ensino
DIP        Departamento Inspeccao Pedagogica
ENEFD      Escola Nacional da Educacao Fisica e Desportes
FDEGB      Federacao Desporto Escolar Guine-Bissau
FFGB       Federacao Futebol Guine-Bissau
GEP        Gabinete de Estudos e Plano
INA        Instituto Nacional de Arte
INDE       Instituto Nacional para Desenvolimaento do Ensino
INLD       Instituto Nacional de Livros e Discos
INEP       Instituto Nacional de Estudos e Pesquisa
ITFP       Instituto Tecnico da Formacao Profissional



- 51 -
Aanex 3-5
Page 3 of 4
REPUELC OF GU? A-BIS
BASIC EDUXCATCM 1UXIW? PFaW
KNMO EWGN,,, ,,= AM SU MGD
-               -EFM TETA
PM= .ER1pM 1988 - 1995
TDANAKZ
ATCfVflY                                 (S)                  -,
r-PRfomn Repwatim
phase I
1. Prepaatiw  of New  ranic Iw (Draft)          Jai-Apr'88    Minister; SSE; Coraukat
2.  eview/Study of M3CD Struc                   jan-pr'88    Mirister; SSE; Cultaxt
3. AVolntzent of Reform Cbmdttee                Jan4pr'88    Minister
4. Visit of SlDrt-teln C3Az1tant (46 ik)        Mar-Apr'88    Mitdster/SSE
5. IL-idw of Punctions/ ii tie (lbits)*   Jnrl88              Unit Heads/COrUltnt
6. Reviw of Persone  alad    califlti  (thlts) Jan-Apr'88    unit Heas/CBultavt/DAP
7.  1ea of Work Plicies & ftaoc&res (Ihits)   Ja-,Apr'88    Unit Heads/Coiwltant
8. ILview of Work Iomtnm ts (Units)             Jan-Apr'88    Unit  l     sutart
9. lwentory of  EOD Phycal Faciltes             Jan-Apr'88        ster/ ree
10. Inventory of FumitrFum                       jan-A4pr'88    Unit Heas/UP
Phase l
1. Visit of lig-tezm Comutant (2 yrs)           My 88-1eb'90 Mlnister/SSE
2.   llloti  of   to/ Poibilitie8
(units)                                   Apr-Ju'88      Minister/SSE/Uit  s
3.  tifica     of Persmnel Ibeds (Units)        Apr-Jua'88    Unit Ibars/Dw
4.  tication of StaEf Trainirg Hes (Units) Apr-Jun'88    SSE, DAP, Unit Hls
5. Dev. of Staff Trailig Plan (Units)           MW-s'88    SSE, DAP, Unit Pbads
6. Prepartion of Nw Work Policies/Proc.         Apr-Jun'88    SSE, Unit lHals
7. Eparatiqm of Nw Woxk lItnsumats              Apr-Jum'88    SSE, Unit Heads
8. PrratIon of P /si   for RenovatIm
of MXD Facilities                         4r-Jun'88    SSE, Duee
9. Identification of Fum. & EquLpt. nses        Apr-Jum'88    Urit Heas/IP
10. Dow. of Plan for Purdise of F/E              Apr-Jui'88    Dept. Patrinio
11. Dev, of Reorm               Tlmtable             -
12. Aproval of New Oranic Lw                     Jue 1989    Coxxdl of Ministers
13. Proclation of Nw MDC Structure               Jne 1989      Minister
*For each M3D Unit



- 52 -                          Annex 3-5
Page 4 of 4
ReformbTzpmmtatim
1. OEfcial A4pintnt of Now Unit Heads         h-Sep'89    Midster/SS C/SD
2.  4pointmnt of Provincial Delqgtioin        Jun-Sep'89    Mirster/SSE/SC)
3. App ncmu of Reiona1 Iblegatiixu            J-Sep'89    Ninster/SS&/S(
4. *PoLntlmt of Sectoral Deliigataxs          Jua-Sep'89    Minister/SSE/S(D
5. Fomtlion of Natiold Educatiom  Comci       Oct-Dec'89    Minister
6. Pnovatin of N9= Facilitie                  Jtl'88-Ji'89  GEP/PIU
7. Staff Traini4g Progc - 7ocal               Sep'88-Sep'93 CEP/PIU
8. Staff 1Vir Program - Abrd                  Sep'88-Sep'95 GEP/FlU
9. Pwd fase of ERture/Emppnt                    '88-Jtm'89 GEP/PIU/tP
10.    aln           of Nw  1get/
Finand.al measures                      June 1989    G.EP/DGAF



- 53 -
Annex 3-6
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMET PROJECT
STRENGTHENING OF 1NECD
Wbtied C t lobt.
IPI 601
st.Ikdowan of I*tss Ilmci. cunt
luss$
QOuntity                                         Local
Unit      IOU  f940  1900 1191 19t2 1993 total Unit Cost  for. fxch. Tax")   lases    total
.4:5::S  :    X: 4.         :t I...    :l-   -$..  :::.::::   . . .. -...  ._ .:   : .........: . _.,._.::.
I 1!4WSlNttEl costs
.....  ...........
IL fOIAlIJON ElI IWJIEBWE68III1 CONSUtIANIS
1. 1fftt1O181 EQUIPt IAlIWSALE
: ~~~~~. _._.._.............._._
must Si                                 Home mots        4     4    4    4    4    -   20   2.066.400        b4.979       *            s4.979
VOYAGE IDURSIfQ                       8AlIr/erto,r    2        2    2    2    2         10 to    t49.s00    20. 6t7                    20.617
Subilot&I FO9110110 EQUIPE NATItIAtL                                                                            76.697                    I S 697
2. SPECIALISIES
I                ~~~~~~..     ...   .. .
ISlION I P/ERSOSNlEL                    N    mois        -    2          I    -    -     3  s.596.500       22.052                 -  22.052
OtVtlO4PPftElI tlNSIUIONLLLE             omm mois       2      t    *         -    -     3  S. 596. oo      2  158        -            21. 1ss
IUFRUIllAUE                             "a  mo           -     -   2    -    .   -    2   55S96.soo          14. 16               -   14.816
COuIIS El FINAICELMIN  0 1F0C6TION      "m  m,s m         o         1   - I        -     3  5.S96.500       21.M83       2* 21.683
VOVaOLS SPECIAlISlES                   AlIer/r tour      2     3    2    1               a *    8   2.563.000  26.781     .            2b.781
PtR DIft SPECIAIISIES                   Home mois    90   120  s0   30                .330      58.748       8,267  17.026             25.292
SA-lotIl SPECIatislIs                                                                                         114.658  ;7.025           131.683
3. LIUUES
fIOICAIIONU PRIVEE                      HOM  Ois         -          I              -     1  16.110.000       11.397  10.176            21.573
PIEP6aKAIIOII FUIUtt PRWt1t              to_ omi                 -       -    1    -     I 40.27s.000       30.bt2  28.047              8. 7ts
Sub-lotil ETUDES                                                                                               42.058  38.222             80.291
Sub-total FORMAlWS1  El INIltRVLNIION CONSUOLIAilS                                                               232.323  55.247         * 287.570
8. AINfAGtNMt t068UX IXISTANIE
t. tOUIPMtLNI suIIAU                                                                                                                           -
MICRO                                     Unite          I                               t  S. 166. 000      6 753                      6.173
AcHlILE ICRIRE                            Unit.         12      .12                            68s.800       10.804       -            10t.04
CAICU!AIRICE                              Unite         3      -                                n -3 20*         -                        b75
PuelocopituR                              Units          I      .                        I  4.306.000        6.62?                 -    b.621
Su% Iotal  EUIPLLENI 801RSU                                                                                   23.859                 -  23.859
2  1116V8U1  CLIG!E CiVit                    Unit.       0.2   0.8    -                     I *                 2.110 lO.b77          -  12.731
Sub lntael AIENAtCtIMi  tfOCAUX EUISIAIIEL                                                                        259.;s  tO. b21            3b.59)
otal IMVLSilItKtI COSiS                                                                                             26  292  bS 674            324.6b6
It. RECIIRRFNI COST'
.... . .. .....
A  IOURflIIRES
POUR MICeO                                par &nme         I     I    I    I    I    I    6    979.920         6.042   3.022              8.064
Sub loldI FOURIIIlUIII.S                                                                                          6.042   3.022              8.01,41
lta  RfLURRItttI COSIS                                                                                                s.042   3.022              8.054
lotal                                                                                                                263.335  G88'J6b           332.23t
/a  10 souwsii.



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY ACCOUNT BY PROJECT CO1MPONENT
AEIqttlSIlON El EIPAUSION Ot L ENSEIOANtINI 0010810!
..............................................ANELLIOPAIION GESIION El P18N1116A1l01
AuLIaooallou DEt  INSt IGNINENI                                        01 1 EDUCATION
*9811*1104 06s                 OSLIIOUATION                        REISUUCIURAI ION ET                                           PhyS.c.I
NOITRiS Di I                   09A1111 Of t                         SINFORCIMNIII DU         jUNITE 0                          Cant$ p.e-ss
(Costs  in  GB  Pesos)                        00:0*10!      I INSPECIOPI    PRINOIRE    SAhIES DE CLASSE            IDUCITION              Pmill             total        2       A.mot
I. INYISIHIUl COsiS
A. COuSlRUC ION
601110115I 6&NLIIOUI                                                                                              S . 583. 121                         9. 83. 121  10. 0     "S.8313
CONtRAIS el EOIs.                                                                        640. 64. 2296                     -                         S 40.642.218  1:.00   64. 064.230
NtAIIRIAUX CONS1RUCIION                                            --                    664. 114.240                                          -     684. 114.240  I0.    66. 411.424
Sub total CONSIRUICTION                              -                                    1. 301. 196. 538           0.183. 121                       1. 314. 779. 661  10.0  t31.47.1 66
a  NOIIIIR It                                                                                2t. 964. 000                     -4.022.100                525.921.100  10.0   52. S". 110
C. LOIJIPLRNLN
vifiIcui *S                                      -       3.8073.800                                -                      -         I. 081.000       01.914.800   1 0    4.107.106
IQUIPININIm GLmiIlAl                                                                     212. 100.800            18.2b3.200           S. 903. 950    276. 337. 10  10.0   27.633.101
Sudbu ltlQIUIPINtl                                 -       33.873,600             -       2b2.100.800             18 2b3.200          24, 064,910     3M.22.750   0.8   32.231.121
o NAI(RIauI P&0AO.OGouES
NAIIRtIAII  PFDAGOGIOUIJS                18.368.000          134.900    a, 610.000         3.444. 000                                                 30,176.9110  40 0    3.017T.598
Sub Iow.l 08A1fR8A11 PLOAGOGIQIUtS          18.308.000          114,9860    8,610.000         3.444.000                       .305760080  40.0    3.0b7.598                                         J
I SIRVItI SPECIAIISIIS
SPtCIAtiSItS INI1LIIN*IlOlAAIX           73,272.938      29.446.032  108.071. 100         17,300.81Q            101.612.171         181.533.425      116. 136.b20   1 0   2b,O106.826
Sub lolal SIRVICt SPiCiAtiSiLS              73.272.930       29.446.032  108.971. 100        17.300.850            t0l.012.17b         416.b33.421      516. 136.520   b.0   25.1.006.826
I IOIlNAIIOII
IORtNAIII7I  ft I IIRANGfR               71.790.800       11.365.200   23.247.000                                16.026,000          11.361.200      174.094.200   S 0    8.104.710
1014118110  10ULAt1                     19o. 10.000          401.000             -            96.000                       -                         191. 001 000   S. 0    9.1 0.010o
Stub hImaI IOIINAIIOIi                     261. 790.800      11.770.200   23.247.000             96. 000            56. 826,000          11.361.200     361.09M20    1. 0    S. 254. 780
I 111011.                              .            .                                14.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b 38b.000  16. 381.000   1 0    2.019.210
5ub blotd  I I11ID1.                                  .                                                              6.361. 000                          55. 38'). 000   1 0    2. 011.250
lade  INVISININI CONII                       353.431, 738     111.241,012  140.828. 100      2. 100. 102, 186         242.669.SOO         224.991.071   3, 17.17.6W11   8  .4  268.24?.1III
PiNCUR'lINI  MDII
A  foNI11NNtNHINI                         32. 664.000      66.634.560   13.061.600         t3. 773.320             1.8$79.1b20        42. i 9i. 000   174.208.000   1 0    0.710.400 
B   ONCIIONNAlkIS UAIIONAUX                                         -                                .                                  23200          1.1200 1                1.0 
total VIItIlNtIttl COSIS                       32. 664.000      66. 634.550   17.061.600        13. 777 Vil             1.879.120          S4.503.000      186.120.000   1 0    9.326.000              w
liaIl IIASitiNI CUSIS                          386. 090.738     101.879.172  113.893.700      2. 113. 87b. 600         248.139.0)0         279.494.071   3. 353.777. 611   8 2  271,173. III
PhySiCal CvfI ntirskWeKte                    20. 221. l87      9. 101. 726    8. 121.181     200.89. V042             13.818.167          14.471. 276    271. 173. 181   0 0            0
Pr ice LonI ingenc .e                        97.908..30       bi. 104. 122   42.110.562       13. 44g. 904           01. 2b4. 171        72. 262. 1015    978. 936. 614A  7. 6   74. 7gb. 034
total I'IojICI COSTS                           104.227.514      242. 401.421  204.b69.547     2.977. 111.452           323.621.959         366.231.516   4.616.287.450   7.6  350.389.219
forolgn hmchango                            224. 881. 741    200. 125.370  178. 961, 113   1.846.910.340            216. 201. 316       791.19J.946   2. 990. 784.0827   7.5S  224. 262.288



_ 55 _                        Annex 3-8
Page 1 of 5
_ _ a.. .____ ......  . _ _ni .9.....  ..nn ..... _9 _.......... _- . .. .. 9fl   _ _ln*   a .*9*       f
- -                    ---"----                   ------  ---'  --- --'-  ---   - --'
I I
I  --14--               --------- -"-"- -- -- -- -- - -"---" --- -
El~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
9~~. an  a fn..   ... a.......n..n   .. ....n     ... nana
i---'------ - --------------    --                                 ""'-'----- -- --
- - -- -----  - --   -- --------                      ------  -   - -    - --  -  --    - -- -I
-Ii -           a - -----      .. -  .- -  .. - iflnnnnnanna  .. .. --             
-i                                      -- -----------  -- -ll l  --,l  -l'  - - - -,g - --- 
9-I                                                   # d                           to
DElof  .20
III   ..nannn.. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.61



- 56 -                            Annex 3-8
Page 2 of 5
.-                    -n                     - -   -n -                           - - - - - - -- - -
LIw|    1. iS                                                           5 
,-  ,     ""  . . .a- .. ......-n        . .
I " I ~~.. "..nnnn    ..n..n..n.. n ... .t ...a...
!i ' -g"" ""I                                            ii          ..3 ""
C14
- . .  .  . .  .   ....-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.....-.-.-.-.-.-.....- -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  
Zn.                              Ad ii.. i *    *
I-  IL         9                        L d           64        L
.f| i.   nu          . si it *   * i |   ii ** - ii  E it na nti.  itn{ 
i    g 8s8888888      i  8.8gz88g8.' 



------  -       --S-----~-:  ---------         ----                -----S----I                         S  
Year: 197s   1990    s   1999           1990    s   191    s 1992    t   1to" 194
A C T I V I T Y         Calandar:-------------                                           ---
Months789012: 1234678902:1234f6789012:123456789012:1246C6769012:123456789012112345678012:12845670122
14.00 INSERVICE TRAINING PHASE B (64)  :     s           s            :           s            s            
14.01   Prep Trainint  Progr Phe      s      :           :            s:1234U6                 :           :            :
14.02  TraIn Teacher Trainers                            I s                789   :            :           s            :
14.03  Foro Trainino Groups           s      s           s                  789  s             s           s            s
14.04  Print Program Mtla (mimeo)     s      s           s            s  45676    s            s           t            s
14.06  Distrlb Material to Te:cher           :           :            s       901 s            :
14.06  TraIning PeriodPhose B         :      :           s            s          2:1    789 2:1    789 2,1    7   2:1    79   :
14.07  Evaluate Tralnees                             s s   :2s                    .20                      : :20 2               0 :
14.08  Revise Training Program-Phose B    :              :               :                U4C   :     U4   s S45        :
15.00 PREPARE MOULES RODEC                      :        :                        :            :           :
16.01  Prpnre Modules Grade           :      :           :                     012:123460      :           :            : 
15.02  Prlnt/Distrlbut. Modules          :         :           :            :         4576    :            s
1.00 CURRICULA  TRYOUT OADE C         :        :                      :           :            :           s            :           :
10.01  Select T deaera-Pilot Schools   :     :           :            :           :12S4        :
16.02  Train Techor-PllotSoole    :          :           :            :           :      789               :            :
16.08  Tryout Period Ords 5           :      :                                              012:12U3467 012:12347       s:
16.04  Program EveotlatonR.vision     I      :I                :        s                7890  :12S456700012:1214561    :           s
17.00 PUBLISH TEXTSOOKSOIUDEC         :      :           :                                                              I :  :  s
17.01  Revs" Manuscripts Book 5                                                                   4 s  s  s  :  s  45673012:
11.02  Print Rvied Book a             s      :                        I s                               012s12845
17.03  Oistribut Boohk  Nationwide   s       s           :            s           s            :           s  456                   :
18.00 NATIIDE APPLICATION4RADE C    s                       s         s 
16.01  Tuela Teachers wo of now books   s                                                                          M s   :   s   s   78 :
16.02  Nationwlds Application         s      s           s            s                  :       s                     se        s
AUTOMATIC PROUOTION41WE C       s      s            s           s            s           s            s           :      XlOOO
ANUAL REVIEW: B/DA/UNiDP/AIDA/NDS/EECt       s           s            :           s            seI  a s                             :w
0o



Ys1r: 1967 t   1966         1989    t   1990    s   1991         9lm      :   1993         1994
A C T I V I T Y         Calendar:-- --:                           ------:--:
Month:7602:12345607 l212:128458769012:124567612:l23456769l2:123456769012:1234c90n12:1284367Is92:
- ~ ~~~~~~~~ --    -------                              : ----:  ss--  -:                                     :      
19.00 PREPARE MODULES ORADEs                    :                      s           :                        s            s            :
19.01   Prepre Modul. .ra,e           :                   ,           :            :         012:1245::
19.02   Print/Distribute Mdul.        :      s            :           :            :            :  4367     :            :
20.00 CiRiCuLW  TRYOUTAPES             :            :                  :           :            :            a           :            :
20.01   Train T.ncher.-Pilot Scheoln    :    s                                                         M :  :  7 ?
20.02  Tryout Period OradeS               :                     :        :                               012:1234367 012:123457
20.03  Program Eyaluation/R.vieon      :                    :          :           :123:6799012:                                      :
21.00 PUBLISN TEXTBWKS IAES                            :               :                                     :           : 
21.01   Revi. Manuocripte Book 6                                                                                45  :  :  :  :  4673912:
21.02  Print Revised Book 0            :                  :            :           ;                                  012:1234
21.03   Distribute Book 6 Nationwide                                            :   : :          : :                         436      :OD
22.00 NATIONWIDE APPLICATION-ADE       a                  :                        : s  :  I
22.01  Train Tachers use ot now books:       I                                                                 :                799 
22.02  Nationwide Application                   : s                                       :                              ae:
ANNUAL REVIEW: GB/IDA/UNDP/SIDA/AfDB/EEC:    s                  :                  :                  :             t 1               :
:               a           :            :            :           :                         2
23.00 TRAININ Of SCHOOL INSPECTORS     :                  :                        :            :            :           :
23.01  Propr. Training Progr_/Utle              :12346                 s     :                  a-
2a.02  Recruit School Inspectors          :                  J4S       s :         a                                                  :
23.03  Training Period (at INDE)       :     s                   789   I           :
23.04  School Inopectorn in Plaoe      :     c            :        *e :. *   eoe:e.*    eoo:one_oo   eeoe o   e e50o o    eo
23.0S  Evaluation                      a                  :            :     XX   a       XXX                            s            :
:                  :            :           :            :            :                :a
FINAL REVIEW: 00/DA/IWP/SIDA/AtOB/EEC        s                                                                           s a                  o :
s               a           :            :            :           :            s  :  
c I
co



~~~~~~~~~ . 
22 2 222   22                 . . . . . .     .PP               I 
Ai    2288   i   28"S2i2G  22 2288a 
a F                        l!s   i-"!ti
a1        3R                   3 t t
~~~~~~~~~~ I
a *.  "|"   I  X I  *1
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                  S
30~.I'                                 iiiS
B-C~~~~~~~~~~~~'



- 60 -
Annex 3-9
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ul   IR2    tR$   YR4   YRO   Yt    YR7   YR8
MEAURES ADOPTED           CEDR 19U I 190   1000  1991  1902   1993   1004  1990
1. Incer_e Studnt/T.acher Ratio                   25    25    25  81.5  82.5   88.6  86.5    89
2. Numbr of Prlmary Teachers:                   8222  3162  2010  2704  2786  2708  2681  2645
teacher Attrition Rato:                             -1.01 -6.05 -C5.0X  -1.O0X  -.OX  -1.OX  -1.8X
S. Introduce Automtic Prmotion
Nationally In Ora,d 1i                                                X
Orad 2:                                                        K
Grade 8:                                                X
rade 4:                                                        X
0rud  5:                                                              X
4. Estltated Govt BUdget Growth                  0.05  0.05   O.OX  1.OX  2.01   2.5X  2.51   2.51
5. MECD Budg ts X of Govt                       11.2X 11.2X 11.21  11.2X 12.0X 12.4X 12.7X 18.05
MECD Budget Growth Rate:                   05  O.0   O.OX  O.OX  7.1X  8.8X  2.41  2.41
6. MECD Central Administration Budgets
as X of MECD Reurrent Budget            20.05  10.OX  16.2X 18.65  12.21  11.OX 10.5X 10.8X
Adan Budget Growth Rate:                   as  -105   -105  -1OX   -1X  -CX    as    OX
7. Primary Education Budget:
as X of MECD Reurrnt Budget             48.81  45.8X 47.1X 52.6X 55.41  57.7X 59.4X 60.OX
Primry Budgat Growth Rote:                 0O  4.6X  4.05  11.61X  .8X  4.2X  2.8X  1.OX
B. Primary School Materials Budgat:
* X of Prlary Education Budgt           0.00   0.1lOX 0.25X 0.40X 0.605  0.80X  1.00X 1.00X
Materials Budget Growth Ra                             150 OX   605   50X   88X   25X  o.0x



- 61 -
Annex 3-10
Page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Arrangements
1.        The project has two principal components: (a) improvement of the
educational system - curriculum, programs, and facilities; and tb)
improvement of MECD's organizational structure.  The first component (b)
would be implemented by the Education Project Coordinating Unit (UCPE)
which has been established under the Office of Planning (GEP) of MECD. Due
to the sensitive nature of the organizational reform of MECD, the
implementation of this component (b) would be the responsibility of a
specially constituted Administrative Reform Committee (ARC).
2.        Education Proiect Coordinating Unit.  The UCPE would comprise: a
project director; deputy project director; project accountant; project
procurement officer; and support staff including among others;
secretary-typists; accounting aides; procurement aides; and driver. The
head of DECREE has been appointed as Project Director, and the Director of
INDE has been named as Deputy Project Director. By virtue of their
professional qualifications, the two key staff of UCPE would also assume
the roles of project architect and project educator, respectively. They
are responsible to the Minister and consult with the Secretary of State for
Education. Specifically, UCPE would:
(a) coordinate with INDE, the Director General of Education
(DGE) and the department heads of Inspectorate, Basic Education and others
as needed to facilitate the implementation of matters concerning the
improvement education quality, training, curriculum and materials
development. fellowships and technical assistance;
(b) coordinate with DECREE, which would be directly responsible
for the rehabilitation of primary schools;
(c) be responsible for bidding, procurement and disbursement of
the proposed IDA Credit, and coordinate with the Ministries of Finance and
Planning, MECD's Director General of Administration and Finance (DGAF), and
the department heads of Personnel, Accounting and Patrimony to facilitate
the processing of contracts and payments for the acquisition of goods and
services;
(d) monitor the performance of consultants hired under the
project in coordination with the DGE, INDE, the Administrative Reform
Committee (see below), and the department heads of Basic Education,
Personnel, and the Inspectorate; and
(e) be responsible for the preparation of periodic reports,
annual reviews of project performance, and the Project Completion report.



AUL . A ~ LU
- 62 -                       Page 2 of 3
and liaison with other agencies (Ministry of Planning, UNDP, SIDA, EEC,
AfDB, etc.) on matters affecting the implementation of the project.
3.        Administrative Reform Committe.  The Committee (ARC) would:
(a) coordinate dvelopment of the proposed new organizational
structure of MECPt
tb) assist the Minister in the finalization of the new
Organizational Law of Education;
(c) coordinate the appointment, assignment and allocation of
physical facilities to the various institutional units and personnel of
MECD in accordance with the reform policy; and
(d) coordinate the staff development program of MECD.
4.        The ARC would comprise: the Secretary of State for Education
(SSE) as Chairman; the Secretary of State for Culture and Sports; the DGAF,
the DGE, the Director General of INDE; and others as needed in implementing
the reform. There would be two sub-committees formed:
(a) the Policies and Procedures Sub-committee would review,
recommend revisions to, and supervise and coordinate the preparation of
manuals/handbooks, of policies and procedures governing the organizational
reform. This subcommitte would include the DGAF as Chairman, and
representatives of the Departments of Finance, Personnel and of the DGE;
(b) the Technical Assistance and Staff Development Sub-committee
would review staff development needs, prepare the staff development plan,
and supervise the implementation of the staff development program in
collaboration with specialists contracted under the project. The
sub-committee would comprise the Department Head of Personnel as Chairmen,
with the representatives of INDE, the DGE and of the Inspectorate as
members.



- 63 -                                         Annex 3-10
Page 3 of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUIEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
Watled CEot Table
treaife  of SoDs lac   Cum
Qwntity                                          local
-----------------------------------                          IE cl.  Duties 8
init              IUSOM  tW  1931 1992 1193 Total Unit Cot  For. fich. Tasses   lases   fotal
tfl:200SSSt$SSSSS   5..  ...2 t .:.:z: . :..   S:. S.:;  :5:::::  ::.:: :::::: _:::::  ;;n;:::
1. ImvESltIl COSTS
AL EOUIIPfPIttt
. ........
Il811iR                                            Unit*            I   -       *                  I  4 027.500        2.614   2.500         -   5.314
MICRO                                              Unit             I      -I  3.013.500                               3.939        -             3.939
KACI4CiltS fCRt                                    thUnite          2      ..                      2     688.800        1.801       -        -    1.801
P1NOICOCPItul                                      Unite            I            -I   1.291.500                         1.688       -             1-6U
CAtCU1ATRICES                                      Unite           S                               5      60.270         394        -        -      394
tWICUtES 4 X 4                                     UnitU            I.I  IA.081.000                                   22.S60                 -  22.560
510-Iotal tOOUIPEMIRI                                                                                                    33.19S   2.500             35. 696
Q. APPUI PCHCIUtt
SPtCIAIIStE GEStIO4 PM0et.1                        mem ti          3    3    3    2    2    2    IS  5.596.500       112.621                 -  112.621
VDTYA(t SPiCeAIISIE                            Alter/etow           I         I    I    I    I     6   2.583.000      21.009        -            21.009
PFR 0l1tK SPECIAtISTE                              jOa            90   90   90  60   60   00  4S0         S8.748      11.695  24.446             36. 141
AIDII AIIUttL                                    umm  mais          I    I    I    I    I    1    6   b.b96.500       45.519        -            45.619
VOYAiE SPECIAtISTE                             AItIr/srtow          I    I    I    I    I    1    6   2.S83.000       21.009                    21.009
PER OliN SPECIALISIE                               Jowu           30   30   30   30   30   30   180       58.748       4.727   9.917         -   14.644
Sub-Total AtWtl PONtCTUft                                                                                               216.581  34.363            250.944
C. IOlM4AtII
1. QitSTe,  O1a                                   _    ais         4. -    -                      4   2.066.400       10.313       -        -   10.313
2. VOYAGE                                      *Ilweretour         2                               2   1.549.S00       3.86?                      3. 6?
Sub-total FORlATION                                                                                                      14.160 t                   14. 10
Total IVtESINECT COSTS                                                                                                     263.956  36.864         - 300.620
TO. RICURRNtI coStS
A. INCRt4tLtIAl OPERAIIIG EXPtLttIIURtS
.......    .... ...... ..   . .   .. . .
NIlRE7IE(  t [SSEtttE VREICULES                 pop a_          O S0I I    I    1    1    I  5.5   4.899.600         23.277  13.966             37.243
FOURNITIURFS  RtA8U                         Dottion  ioue       O IT:  0.  1    I    I    I    I  5 5   2.177.600    10.345   6.207             16.552
COIIuNICAI ION I OH I  IEtEX / EtC I       Dotatlon ail          1    I    I    I    I    1    6       544.400       2.S01   1.679             4.480
Sub-lotal ItCtSEttERtt 0PR411iG EXPEIOITURES                                                                            36.423  21.852        -   S&.276
8E. Ull1E CtIJRDINAtION
DlRCiltUR                                       _iNmme             1    I    I    1    1    1    6                        - 
DlRfCIEURA.IR                                  Iteante _                1     I    I    I   1     6-                              -         -        -
RtSPOFS48L 1IAISON                             NommD awese         I    I    I   1    I    1    6       435. 200              3.654             3.654
R(SPCRxSISt PASSATION tARCHES                  _hi  en_u           I    I    I    I    I    I    6      364.800               3.063         -   3.063
COtIPIASE                                      _o _me.a.           I    I   I    I    I    I    6       364.800           .  3.063              3.063
S[CREtAItRS                                    Hnmee              2    2    2    2    2    2    12    246.800                 4.178             4. 17t
CIAUfft(UR / tUECARICIEI                          n               2    2    2    2    2    2    12      194.800           -  3.271              3.271
S,b lotIl UUII1  COORDINATION                                                                                               -  t1.227        -   17.227
lotal RLCURRENI COSIS                                                                                                       36. 423 39.060 =      - 5.S03
total                                                                                                                       300.380  15.943           3176.323
/a 2 lonctionna:r.s



- 64 -
Annex 3-11
Page 1 of 2,
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Requirements
A. Curriculum Development and Teacher Trainin
1 Specialist in Pedagogical Inspection (4 months)
- Work with Inspector/trainers and faculty of pre-service
institution in establishing teacher support services.
1 Specialist in Program Evaluation (3 months)
- Train INDE's Department of Testing and Evaluation staff in
techniques related to testing and evaluation.
- Assist the DTE in organizing its activities, including design
of evaluation instruments for: basic education students and
pre-service teacher-training programs.
1 Specialist In Teaching Language Arts/Bilingual Education (4 months)
- Upgrade skills and methodological techniques of faculty and
Inspectorate/Trainers.
- Assist the two groups in devising training program for
pre-service and In-service programs.
i Specialist in Educational Measurement (3 weeks)
- Develop student examination systems and train evaluation staff
in methodology
1 Specialist in Distance Teaching (4 months)
- Provide guidance and teach methodology in distance learning
techniques.
B. Organizational Reform of MECD
1 Institutional Development Specialist (3 months)
- Assist in organizational structuring of MECD and
defining procedures, policies and staffing profiles
1 Specialist Personnel Management
- Review of policies, procedures in-service training (3 months)
1 Specialist in Management of Educational Information Systems
- Development of policies and materials (2 months)
1 Specialist in Economics of Educational Development
- Review of policies, procedures, in-service training (3 months)



- 65 -
Annex 3-11
Page 2 of 2
C. Project Implementation
1 Project Management Specialist (15 months)
- Assist and train UCPE managers
1 Financial Auditor (6 months)
- Yearly audit of project accounts
1 Specialist in Maintenance of Physical Plants (2 months)
- Train DECREE staff in maintenance techniques and develop
maintenance manuals.



- 66 -
Annex 3-12
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
1.        Civil works.  School construction materials such as cement,
roofing sheets (galvanized iron, aluminum or stabilized asbestos), steel
bars, rough and finishing hardware, electrical materials, plumbing
materials and pipes, and other such materials which are not manufactured
locally, would be procured through ICB procedu, 8s in accordance with IDA
Guidelines for Procurement. Bids would be grouped in packages of at least
US$100,000 equivalent (total aggregate - US$938,000), and bids would be
priced CIF Port of Bissau. Bid packages and proposed contract awards which
exceed US$50,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review.
2.        Equilment and Vehicles.  Office equipment (typewriters,
computers, etc.) and vehicles (4-wheeled vehicles, motorcycles and
bicycles) would be grouped, to the extent possible, in bidding packages of
at least US$100,000 (total aggregate - US$514,000), and procured through
ICB procedures in accordance with IDA Guidelines. Bids would be priced CIF
Port of Bissau. Bid packages and proposed contract awards which exceed
US$50,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review.
Local Comvetitive Bidding (LCB).
4.        Civil Works.  Contracts (total aggregate - US$164,000 equivalent)
for the construction of new classrooms (about 39) to replace abarracas",
and the installation of water pumps (150 units), would be procured in
accordance with competitive bidding procedures advertised locally. The
scattered locations of primary schools would make the preparation of large
packages unlikely, however, interested foreign bidders would not be
precluded from participating in the bids. Bidders would submit to prior
qualification by the UCPE. Imported building materials, which are
difficult to acquire locally, would be included as a separate bill in the
bid proposal.
5.        Furniture.  With the exception of a few office furniture, the
furniture requirements of the project (total aggregate - US$744,000) are
simple primary school furniture (pupils' and teachers' desks and chairs)
manufactured of wood and basic finishing hardware. Furniture deliveries
would have to coincide with the completion of classroom repairs as there
are no central warehousing facilities to permit bulk procurement even of
knock-down components. Consequently, most furniture contracts are expected
to be in small packages (US$10,000 - US$30,000), and would be procured in
accordance with competitive bidding procedures advertised locally.



- 67 -                         ANNEX 3-12
Page 2 of 2
Interested foreign bidders would not be precluded from participating in the
bids. Local manufacturers would be allowed a 152 margin of preference in
bid evaluation. Contracts would be reviewed by IDA during supervision
missions.
Other Procurement Procedures
6.        Civil Works.  The majority of civil works under the project
(total aggregate - US$715,000 equivalent) would comprise the repair of
dilapidated existing classrooms of permanent construction (about 285
classrooms) and the construction of latrines in widely scattered
communities. The nature of the work makes it difficult to define with
reasonable accuracy, the extent of repair work in each school.
Consequently, school repairs would be carried out through direct
contracting. To the extent possible, MECD would invite community
participation in repairing the schools, such as in the preparation of
stabilized soil-cement blocks, site clearing, demolition and the provision
of unskilled labor. The acquisition of locally available building
materials would proceed, to the extent possible, in accordance with LCB
procedures described above which are acceptable to IDA. However, it is
expected that purchases of materials for most of the repair works (average
total repair cost- US$3,000 per classroom) would be on the basis of three
price quotations. Labor would be by payroll, and disbursements would be
claimed by submitting Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
7.        Consultant Services. Fellowships. Studies.  The contracting of
specialist services and technical assistance (aggregate total - US$502,000)
under the project would proceed in accordance with the Guidelines for the
Employment of Consultants by the World Bank and its Borrowers.
Not Applicable
8.        Training. Incremental Expenses for Proiect Administration.  The
acquisition of services, materials and supplies (office stationery, fuel,
etc.) for staff training, curriculum development and operational work of
UCPE and implementation groups under the project would be procured through
regular Government procedures. These prescribe the obtaining of the lowest
of three price quotes for acquiring supplies and services. Per diems and
travel expenditures related to the training components of the project are
prescribed by Government guidelines. Disbursements on expenditures related
to these itemsjactivities would be supported by SOE's.



- 68 -                             Annex 3-13
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
(US$)
FY89    FY90    FY91       FY92     FY98     FY94     TOTAL
1. NVESTMENT COSTS
A. Clvil orks
Os_erel Contracts             12717                                                 1t?,
Scbool Rpe tr                 85575   231902  222*4C   261092   140M14    21619  916967
Cot. Matertals                        49647   240706   178216                       912403
B. Furniture                         514   172 66   2011$9   211965   128026    88561   75266S
C. Equl punt                        54241    ;J84U, 142680   106755    48198              504222
0. Teaching Materials               24009    11601     4776                                40566
E. Special let Servicee            120665    198762   108658    124706    49645    65200  6S606
F. TrainIng
Training Abrod                42541    69710    64963    84662    16195             228091
Local Training                86662    75465    71860    71799                      255286
0. Studies                                            21578             58718              60291
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS       887737  1404891  1078676   986217   4866i6  150400 4894019
2. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Operational Costs                17997    28086    47197    49672    52450    52278   242677
0. Loc l Staff                       2612     2616     2764     2928     8069      3228    17227
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS         20609   25704   49961    52795    55519    55490   260104
- - -                                  m                 = 
TOTAL AUNUAL EXPENDITURES    568J4B  1480095  1128S67  1089012   492217   20596  4654128
DISBURSEMtENT BY FDNANCIER BY SEMESTER
SEMESTER             IDA              GOaT              TOTAL
1                 0                 0
2                 0                 0
3            166976             18197            179178
4            166976             18196            179174
5            666348             26704            696047
6            6O6648             86704            705047
7            512420             41656            554278
8            612420             41656           654276
9            459902             39605            499507
10            459902             8960S            499507
11            208654             87674            246108
12            20854              27674            286108
18            166846             10108            202946
14             66845             16108            102948
4800040            354083           4654128



I
MAP SECTION
/



16'300                                                                                                            1500                                  144a                                  1eo
S            E            N             E            G            A             L
--------- -- e-. -.-    ---------} &                                                   k-
_   S  ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r Doko                                                                               ,roo,                             ToOo*w-  g,X
'   C    H  F U-  or~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sc8cr  Pirada,
.130                           -                                    
rg~~ 8017j9     T!>   R A <,                                                                                                   (                X,r
__0a__iW     X  !0   'tea 5n, -  -          <             { .    w             $/   (-i./                                                      BASIC EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJEC
w W_8 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i G o e;,,                                                                                                                                                                                         LAMA,,| - - o  -/- /.Mnsryof Edctit,Clauecn p
M Urn. OOIR,fwnm clew ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~oo nm                                                                                                                                        40
hdo7a,@* -C5,l T* W'             ,a                                                                                                                  -                                                                     -          JRegionwhereprimoryschoolsaretoberehabilita
~~~) #*n~~~~~~~~~~ do ~~~~~~~~ ~~~~           dl                                                                                                                    -    Paved roads~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M"d
C*xpma5 Theav4*ah 4le                                               *           (I        i,OXA                                                                                                              I       un-vX | /i.  1lder thie project 
.vkbn. a- li hg                                                                         < i-                                 0 M       B        sL       -                                                          Unpaved rod                Internatiol porwt
',   .-                                                                               4                                                                                                                            ^    ,Jy_- Cn   Rivers  O   Nationl capital
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                           OR rAN GO  I        L AI4 GO aze:mjuEX__iio  tooue
MAURITANIA                                                                                                                                                                                        Swamas               0 ,rivInce capitals
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                     .
SIERRA)U_a                                                                                 % COTE
I*XNE@                                                                                                                                                                       0 D'VIR0o  ,  20    3,0    40    s0    60    7,0    60
.   -  - .                                                                                                                                                                                  MILES
,                          1S,0~~~~~~W                           1530                                  15P00                                  14 30                                 14,0
AA          tA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ac



