Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1914 GUB
               (Basic Education Development Project)
                              between
                     REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 16, 1988
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1914 GUB
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 16,  1988,  between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-
BISSAU (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS (B) the Association  has  agreed, on the basis, inter
alia of the foregoing, to  extend  the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
     (a)  "MECD"  means   Ministerio   da   Educacao,   Cultura  e
Desportos, the Ministry of  Education,  Culture  and Sports of the
Borrower;
     (b)  "UCPE" means  Unidade  de  Coordenacao  de  Projectos da
Educacao, the Education Projects Coordinating Unit of MECD;
     (c)  "Project Preparation Advance"  means  the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated July 17, 1987 and October 30, 1987
between the Borrower and the Association; and
     (d)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to three million  one  hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 3,100,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of  goods  and  services  required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out  of,  the Special Account shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Page  3
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  May 15 and November 15,
commencing  November  15,  1998  and  ending  May  15,  2028. Each
installment to and including  the  installment  payable on May 15,
2008 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever (i) the  Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five  consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
Page  4
MECD with due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in conformity with
appropriate administrative,  financial  and educational practices,
and shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case  not  later  than four months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
Page  5
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  by December 31, 1988, open an account in a domestic bank
for the Borrower's financial contribution to the Project;
     (b)  thereafter during  execution  of  the  Project make such
deposits into such account  in  such  amounts as needed to finance
the Borrower's contribution to the  Project to enable the Borrower
to meet the  performance  indicators  agreed  with the Association
during the annual reviews carried  out  pursuant to paragraph 7 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  by June 30,  1989  have  deposited  into such account an
aggregate amount of not less than equivalent of $30,000.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.O4 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio das Financas
          C.P. 67
          Bissau, Guine-Bissau
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MF                              257 MF BI
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
Page  6
                          REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
                          By /s/ Alfredo Lopes Cabral
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Caio K. Koch-Weser
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                   965,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 60% of local
                                                 expenditures
(2)  Furniture, equip-             812,000       100% of foreign
     ment, materials,                            expenditures and
     supplies and                                85% of local
     vehicles                                    expenditures
(3)  Consultants'                  430,000       100%
     services
(4)  Teacher training,             356,000       100%
     fellowships and
     studies
(5)  Project adminis-               98,000       50%
     tration costs
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(6)  Refunding of                  108,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(7)  Unallocated                   331,000
                                 _________
         TOTAL                  3,100,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  7
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The  objectives  of  the  Project  are  to:  (a)  improve the
quality,  efficiency  and  relevance  of  the  Borrower's  primary
education system  and  improve  access  to  primary education; and
(b) develop the Borrower's institutional capacity for planning and
managing the education system.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Improvement in Quality, Efficiency and Access in Primary
          Education
1.   Improvement of curriculum, textbooks and teaching materials.
     (a)  Development, testing and adoption  of a unified six-year
curriculum  through  the  integration   of  the  elementary  basic
education level  (grades  1  through  4)  and  complementary basic
education level (grades 5 and 6) of primary education.
     (b)  Adoption of an automatic promotion system.
     (c)  Review  and  modification  of  examination  policies and
standards for measuring student achievement.
     (d)  Introduction  of  appropriate   textbooks  and  teaching
materials and methods into the revised curriculum.
     (e)  Extension  of   the   transitional  bilingual  education
program in primary education.
2.   Improvement of teacher competence and inspectorate services.
     (a)  Strengthening  of  the  three-year  pre-service  teacher
training program to  enable  graduates  to  teach  the six primary
grades under the revised curriculum.
     (b)  Strengthening  of   the   four-year  in-service  teacher
training program and training  of  about 3,000 primary teachers to
increase their competence to  teach  the  six primary grades under
the revised curriculum and to use the revised textbooks.
     (c)  Strengthening of the  Department of School Inspection of
MECD to increase the  number  of  qualified inspectors and provide
technical assistance to teachers in the classroom.
3.   Improvement  in  access  to  primary  education  through  the
rehabilitation, furnishing and  equipping  of about 330 classrooms
located in the regions of  Quinara,  Biombo, Tombali and Oio, each
to accommodate up to 40 pupils.
Part B:   Strengthening  of   Management   and   Planning  in  the
          Education Sector
Page  8
1.   Modification of the organizational structure of MECD, includ-
ing the delineation of  the  functions, policies and procedures of
its institutional units.
2.   Implementation of a staff development program in MECD through
training abroad, locally and in-house.
3.   Renovation and  equipping  of  MECD's  central administrative
offices.
4.   Introduction of budgetary  and  efficiency measures to reduce
costs and to relate expenditures  to development priorities in the
education sector.
5.   Carrying out a study  to  develop the Borrower's policies for
expanding access to education through the private sector.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works for construction  of  new classrooms estimated to
cost less than the equivalent  of  $10,000  per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not  to  exceed  the  equivalent of $270,000, and
furniture estimated to cost  less  than  the equivalent of $30,000
per  contract,  up  to  an  aggregate  amount  not  to  exceed the
equivalent of $750,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the  basis  of   competitive   bidding,   advertised  locally,  in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   School and office  supplies  and  materials estimated to cost
less  than  the  equivalent  of  $5,000  per  contract,  up  to an
aggregate amount not to exceed  the  equivalent of $40,000, may be
procured under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in  accordance  with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
3.   Civil works for the repair  of  schools under Part A.3 of the
Project may be carried out through direct contracting.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent  of  $50,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
Page  9
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory  to  the  Association.   Such  consultants  shall  be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis  of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers  and  by  the  World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Organizational Law
1.   The Borrower shall, by  December  31, 1988, take all measures
necessary for the adoption  of  the provisional Organizational Law
of MECD and furnish to the Association evidence of such adoption.
UCPE
2.   The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, maintain
under the oversight of the  Borrower's Secretary of State for Edu-
cation, the UCPE adequately staffed with qualified and experienced
personnel,  including,  inter  alia,  a  project  director, deputy
director, project  liaison  officer,  accountant,  and procurement
officer.
Timetable
3.   The Borrower  shall  adopt  a  timetable  satisfactory to the
Association with respect to:
     (a)  the nationwide  implementation  of  the unified six-year
primary  curriculum   with   properly   structured  and  sequenced
subjects;
     (b)  the progressive introduction of automatic promotion from
grade one through grade five;
     (c)  the  reform  of  the  student  examination  and  testing
standards;
     (d)  the development and  production of appropriate textbooks
and teaching materials for primary students and teachers;
Page  10
     (e)  the restructuring of MECD, defining the responsibilities
of organizational  units,  reduction  of  non-technical  staff and
development of professional staff; and
     (f)  the gradual increase in student/teacher ratios from 25:1
to 40:1.
Study on Private Education
4.   The  Borrower  shall,  by  March  31,  1990,  furnish  to the
Association  for   review   and   comment   the   conclusions  and
recommendations of the study  on  private education under Part B.5
of the Project.
Regulations on Teachers
5.   The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1988, put into effect the
revised regulations on conditions of teacher employment.
MECD Budget
6.   The  Borrower  shall:  (a)   maintain  MECD's  share  of  the
Borrower's operational budget for the  1988 through 1991 period at
a level of not  less  than  11.2%,  which level the Borrower shall
gradually increase, starting in the  1992 calendar year, as agreed
with the Association  during  the  annual  reviews  referred to in
paragraph 7  of  this  Schedule;  and  (b)  gradually increase the
allocations within the MECD  budget  to primary education from 43%
in 1988 to 55.4% in  1992  and  59.4%  in 1994, which increases in
allocations shall  be  reviewed  with  the  Association during the
annual reviews referred to in paragraph 7 of this Schedule.
Annual and Mid-term Reviews
7.   The Borrower and the  Association  shall, until completion of
the Project, convene,  with  the  appropriate bilateral and multi-
lateral agencies  which  contribute  to  the  Borrower's education
sector, an annual review in  November  of each year and a mid-term
review in the first calendar quarter of 1991, each such annual and
mid-term  review  to  cover  progress  in  project implementation,
budgetary  allocations  to  MECD,  reallocations  within  the MECD
budget and the  investment  and  work  programs  for the education
sector.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $250,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special  Account  shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  11
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from  the  Credit  Account  and  deposit in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  furnish  to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special  Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify.  On  the  basis  of  such requests, the
Association shall withdraw  from  the  Credit  Account and deposit
into the Special  Account  such  amounts  as  shall be required to
replenish the  Special  Account  with  amounts  not  exceeding the
amount of payments made  out  of  the Special Account for eligible
expenditures.  All  such  deposits   shall  be  withdrawn  by  the
Association from the Credit  Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in  the  respective  equivalent  amounts, as shall
have been justified  by  the  evidence  supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to  or  at  the  time of such request, such
documents and other evidence  as  the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such  payment  was  made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Association  when  either  of the following situations
first arises:
          (i)  the  Association  shall  have  determined  that all
               further withdrawals should be  made by the Borrower
               directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
               the  provisions  of   Article   V  of  the  General
               Conditions and  paragraph  (a)  of  Section 2.02 of
               this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount   of  the  Credit
               allocated to  the  eligible  Categories,  minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association deposit  into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
Page  12
not  so  eligible  or   justified.   No  further  deposit  by  the
Association into  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such  outstanding  amount  for crediting to the
Credit Account.
