Page  1
                                            May 5, 1989
His Excellency
Victor Freire Monteiro
Minister of Finance
Bissau
Guinea-Bissau
     Re:  Credit No. 1914 GUB
          (Basic Education Development Project)
          Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency:
     Please refer to the above-mentioned Development Credit
Agreement between the Republic of Guinea-Bissau (the Borrower) and
the International Development Association (the Association) dated
June 16,1988.
     Pursuant to discussions between representatives of the
Borrower and the Association and to your request of December 15,
1988, the Association hereby agrees to amend the Development Credit
Agreement as follows:
1.   In Section 1.02 (a), the definition "MECD" is substituted by:
""MOE" means Ministerio da Educacao, the Ministry of Education of
the Borrower".
2.   Wherever there is a reference to "MECDI, such reference is to
read "MOE".  This appears in:
     Section 1.02 (b)
     Schedule 2, Part A, para 2 (c)
     Schedule 2, Part B, paras. 1, 2 and 3; and
     Schedule 4, paras. 1, 3 (e), 6 and 7.
3.   Para. I of Schedule 4 is deleted and replaced by the
following:
"The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1989:
     (a)  take all measures necessary for the adoption of the
          Organizational Law of MOE and furnish to the Association
          evidence of such adoption;
     (b)  delineate the functions, policies and procedures of
          MOE's institutional units including the definition of
          staffing profiles and responsibilities of' the staff;
          and
     (c)  prepare an Administrative Manual for MOE by June 30,
          1990.
4.   In Schedule 4, para. 2 "UCPE", the phrase "maintain under the
oversight of the Borrower's Secretary of State for Education" is
deleted.
     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and
dating the form of confirmation of the enclosed copy of this letter
and returning it to us.
                         Sincerely,
Page  2
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Caio K. Koch-Weser
                         Director
                         Western Africa Department
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
By
     (Authorized Representative)
Date:
