\ ~~f- ". % j v 
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 9684-BEN
iH4 &t   Wl4-RN  Type! (SAR)
CANEL, P. / X34767 / J-3251/ AFTIN
F:rAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
URBAN REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 21, 1992
Occidental and Central Department
Infrastructure Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offilcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   CFAF
USS1   =   CFAF 283
CFAF 1   =   USS0O.0035 (June 1991)
CFAF 1 milLion       USs3.534
USS1   =   SDR .733
SDR 1   -   USS1.360
FISCAL YEAR
January 01   --  December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
1 meter (m)   -    3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m2)   =   10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m3)   =   35.3  cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)        0.62 miLe (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)   2    0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 metri: ton (t)   =   2,205 p-3undi (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Item       -------------                        English/French -----------------------------------
AGETUR      Urban Works Agency / Ager:Le d'Execution des Travaux Urbains
AIMSM       Menontin Medico-Social Association / Association Medico-Sociale de Menontin
CCCE        French Lending Agency / Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economnique
CePEPE      Center for Employment and Small Enterprises / Centre pour ta Promotion de l'Emploi et de
la Petite Entreprise
CT          Technical Unit of Urbar Admir;stration / Cellule Technique de Circonscription Urbaine
CU          Urban Administration / Ci-conscription urbaine
DROA        Roads and Works Department / Direction des Routes et Ouvrages d'Art
DUN         Department of Urban Affairs and Habitat / Direction de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat
DVU         Urban Roads Department / Direction des Voiries Urbaines
FAC         French Bilateral Aid / Fonds d'Aide a la Cooperation
FED         European Development Fund / Fonds Europeen de d6veloppement
GDP         Gross Domestic Product / Produit interieur brut
GREA/RWSG  Regional Water and Sanitation Group / Groupe R6gional de l'Eau et de l'Assainissement
GTZ         German Agency for Technical Cooperation / Office allemand de Cooperation Technique
INC         National Cartographic Institute / Institut National de La Cartographie
KfW         German Lending Agency / Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MET         Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport / Minist6re de l'Equipement et des Transports
MISPAT      Ministry of Interior, Internal Security and Regional Acdninistration / Ministere de
l'Int6rieujr, de la Securitd Publique et de l'Administration du Territoire
OPTUHIMO   Pilot Urban Works Project Using Labor-intensive Techniques / Operation Pilote des
Travaux Urbains a Haute Intensite de Main d'oeuvre
PIP         Public Investment Program / Programme d'investissements publics
PUB         Benin Urban Planning Project / Projet °lans d'Urbanisme en R6publique Populaire du Banin
RFU         Urban Land Registry / Registre Foncie, Urbain
SBEE        Water and Electricity Board / Societe Beninoise d'Eau et d'Electricite
SEM         Joint public-private enterprise / Societe d'Economie Mixte
SERHAU-SEtO Regional Habitat and Urban Development Studies Bureau / Service d'Etudes Regionales
d'IHabitat et d'Am6nagement Urbain
SIBEAU      Private waste collection company / Soci6t6 Industrielle d'Equipement et d'Assainissement
Urbains
SMEs        Small and Medium-sized Enterprises / Petites et Moyennes Entreprises
SVU         Urban Road Unit / Service de ta Voirie Urbaine
TUHIMO      Labor-Intensive Urban Works / Travaux Urbains 6 Haute Intensite de Main d'Oeuvre
UNCDF/FENU United Nations CapitaL Development Fund / Fonds d'Equipeinent des Nations Unies
UNCHS       United Nations Center for Human Settlements (Habitat) / Centre des Nations Unies pour
les Etablissements Humains
UNDP        United Nations Development Programme / Prograrme des Nations Unies pour Le D6veLoppement
(PNUD)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
URBAN REHABILITATlION AN)D MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ............. ..............                                 i
I. "HE SECTOR .1
A. Background.                                                                  1
B. Public and Private Actors.                                                   2
C. Urban Management Issues.                                                     5
D. Government Urban Policy.                                                     7
E. Bank Strategy and Project Rationale.                                         8
II. THE PROJECT    ..10
A. Project Objectives and Description ...                                      10
B. Project Cost and Financing .15
C. Project Implementation .17
D. Procurement and Disbursement .18
E. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting .21
F. Supervision Plan .22
G Justification and Risks .23
m. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION   .                             .25
ANEXES
1. Detailed Project Cost Table .27
2.  Economic Analysis of Urban Roads Rehabilitation .30
3. Detailed Description of Project Components .34
4. Documents Available in the Project File .69
SUPPORTING TABLES
Table 1: Implementation Schedule .72
Table 2: Disbursement Schedule .73
Table 3: IDA Supervision Input into Key Activities .74
Table 4: Key Performance Indicators .75
CHART
Institutional Organization for Project Implementation .76
PHOTOGRAPHS
1.  Photographs of the 1987 and 1991 Floods in Cotonou .77
2.  Photographs of AGETUR's Rehabilitation Works .78
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the Ferformance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Republic of Benini: Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project
MAPS
IBRD No. 23256: Benin: Population, Administration and Road Network.
IBRD No. 23258: Benin: Areas Subject to Flooding in Cotonou.
IBRD No. 23377: Benin: Rehabilitation Works (OPTUHIMO): IDA-financed Road RehabiliLation.
1990-91.
IBRD No. 23378: Benin: Location of Project Towns.
This report is based on the findings of a World Bank mission consisting of Mmes/Messrs. Patrick Canel (Municipal
DevelopmentSpecialist, Leader), Bertrand Ah-Sue (Sanitary Engineer), Jenifer Cornet-Vessa (Community Develokment
Specialist), Prangoise Ftrunet (Institutional Specialist, Cor.sultant), Jean-Louis Venard (Urban Planner and Ci'A.i
Engineer, Consultant), and Freddric Collomb (Lawyer, Consultant) who visited Benin in April 1991. Mrs Annie
Manou-Savina (Urban Environment Specialist, RWSG, Abidjan) and Mr. Nicholas You (Training Specialist, UNCHS/
Habitat, Nairobi) also joined this mission. Mr. Jean-Marie Lantran (Construction Industry Specialist) was the Lead
Advisor for this project, and Mrs. Maryvonne Plessis-Fraissard and Mr. Alain Bertaud were the peer reviewers for
social and economical impact assessment and land/urban development aspects of the Project, respectively. Ms. Suzanne
Snell provided editorial support. Ms. Farida Khan provided support for the compilation of project coct tables. Ms.
Margot Verbeeck with support from Ms. Marcelle Houle provided document enhancement support in ihe preparation
of this report. Mr. Michael Gillette and Mr. Alberto Harth are the Department Director and Division Chief,
respectively, for the operation.



REPUBLIC OF BENIN
URBAN REHABILITATION AND AMANAGEMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Benin
Beneficiaries:      Republic of Benin
Executing Agencies:  SERHAU-SEM and AGETUR
Credit Amount:     US$22.84 M equivalent
Terns:             Standard with 40 years' maturity
Cofinanciers:       UNDP and FAC
Project Description:  The project's immediate objectives are to support ongoing Government programs of
infrastructure rehabilitation and environmenntal sanitation in the country's two largest
cities (Cotonou and Porto-Novo), following approaches which optimize the impact
of public works on the employment and income of the urban poor, promote the
development of local small and medium-sized private enterprises and involve NGOs
and residents. The project's longer-terrn objectives are to support preparation of a
public investment strategy in the urban sector and lay the groundwork for reforms
required to improve the management of urban development in Benin.
The project includes seven components:  (i) labor-based urban infrastructure
rehabilitation; (ii) community-based environmental sanitation improvements;
(iii) urban development; (iv) management of urban services; (v) local fiscal resource
mobilization; (vi) urban management capacity building; and (vii) sector strategy.
Environmental Impact: Project-supported works involve rehabilitation and maintenance of existing road and
rainwater drainage infrastructure. Thus, these works are designed to contribute to
substantial improvements in environmental sanitation including elimination of
standing rainwater. In addition, the project will test and refine mechanisms for
neighborhood environmental maintenance and will improve development procedures
for environmentally vulnerable areas on the urban growth perimeter.
Project Benefits:   By assisting Government in carrying out its program of rehabilitation of infrastruc-
ture necessary to the functioning of the urban economy, the project should stimulate
Benin's economic development and private investment. By optimizing the impact
of urban infrastructure rehabilitation works on the employment of the urban poor
and on the development of small and medium-sized construction enterprises, the
project should also contribute to the successful economic and social transition of the
structural adjustment period. By establishing pilot procedures designed to improve
the use of land, involve residents in urban development decisions and increase the
i



RepNlic of Benin: Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project
yield of local taxes, the project would lay the groundwork for future sector reforms
in the critical areas of land administration, urban service delivery and sustainability
of urban development.
Project Risks:            There are two areas of risk.  The first risk concerns the ability of the non-
governmental execullng agencies, AGETUR and SERHAU, to carry out the project.
This risk has been reduced through the testing of their experience under an ongoing
operation and through the provision of technical assistance and support to
administrative and accounting functions for the duration of the project. The second
risk concerns the sustainability of operations by these two agencies. Various factors
tend to attenuate this risk. Both SERHAU and AGETUR have limited the number
of permanent staff so as to adapt without difficulty to a reduction in operational
volume following project completion. As local financial resources grow over time,
following project-supported improvements in urban tax administration in Benin's
main cities, municipal administrations will become financially self-sustaining and
thus will join central government and external donors as clients for the services of
these two agencies.
Summary Project Cost Estimates
LOCAL    FOREIGN      TOTAL       LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL   X OF BASE
COST
Project Component                       (CFAF million)                   (USS million)
A. Labor-based Infrastructure              1410.80   1589.20   3000.00        4.99    5.62       10.60    45.5X
Rehabilitation
B. Community-based EnvironmentaL            281.10    449.90    731.00        0.99    1.59        2.58    11.1X
Sanitation Inprovements
C. Urban Development                        246.70    444.30    691.00        0.87    1.57        2.44    10.5X
D. Management of Urban Services             622.70    840.30   1463.00         2.20    2.97       5.17    22.2X
E. Local Fiscal Resource Mobilization        37.80    132.20    170.00        0.13    0.47        0.60      2.6X
F. Urban Management Capacity Building        18.40    125.60    144.00        0.07    0.44        0.51      2.2X
G. Sector Strategy                           48.00    256.00    304.00        0.17    0.90        1.07      4.6X
H. Project Preparation Facility              -         84.9       84.9                 0.30       0.30      1.3X
Total Base Cost                           2665.50   3922.40   6587.90         9.42   13.86       23.28   100.0X
Physical Contingencies                      214.68    314.68    529.36        0.75    1.11        1.87
Price Contingencies                         169.02    304.60    473.72       0.60   1.08          1.67
Total Project Cost                        3049.20   4541.68   7590.98        10.77   16.05       26.82
H                                                                                                    -
ii



Republic of Benin: Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project
Summary Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Source             Local              Foreign            Jotal% __
Government          0.90               1.10               2.00                7.5%
Beneficiaries      0.10                0.13               0.23                0.8%
IDA                9.29               13.55              22.84              85.2%
Other               0.30               1.45               1.75                6.5%
Total              10.57              16.25              26.82              100%
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY92             FY93            FY94             FY95             FY96
Total                      0.30             4.19             7.11             8.07             3.17
Cumulative                 0.30             4.49            11.60            19.67            22.84
Rate of Return:        Calculated for urban roads pavement: > 24%
Estimated
Project Completion:   April 1996
Maps:                  IBRD No. 23256: Benin: Population, Administration and Road Network.
IBRD No. 23258: Benin: Areas Subject to Flooding in Cotonou.
IBRD No. 23377: Benin: Rehabilitation Works (OPTUHIMO): IDA-financed
Road Rehabilitation, 1990-91.
IBRD No. 23378: Benin: Location of Project Towns.
iii



I
The Sector
A. Background                                  Urban Growh and Economy
Economic and Social Context                     1.03        Benin's cities sheltered about 1.5 mil-
lion urban residents in 1990, about 650,000 of
1.01        With a per capita income of US$360,   which live in greater Cotonou, the country's port
the population of Benin, estimated at 4.7 million, is   and economic center, and 200,000 in Porto-Novo,
one of the poorest in Sub-Saharan Africa. From    the capital and administrative center (see IBRD Map
1973 to 1983, nonetheless, Benin's economy grew    23256). Over the last ten years, Cotonou's popula-
at a fairly sustai .Ad rate of nearly 3% per annum.   tion lias increased by about 7% per annum, roughly
This growth was based on a major, externally   double the rate for the population as a whole.
financed public investment program and on the    Despite a probable slowing of the urban growth rate
impact of a high volume of transit traffic destined    over the next ten years, Cotonou's population is
for neighboring Nigeria and Niger, where high   likely to exceed 1.1 million in ten years and 2 mil-
basic commodity prices were fueling rapid eco-   lion by 2015. Cotonou will then contain over half
nomic growth. Beginning in 1983, a sharp reduc-   of Benin's urban residents and a fifth of its total
tion in public investment in Benin, and in the flow    population. Such an increase will require doubling
of transit trade to Nigeria and Niger following a   of the existing built-up area, which has already
drop in petroleum and uranium prices, exposed only   spilled over the city's administrative boundaries into
too clearly the structural fragility of Benin's econ-   neighboring districts.
omy and the liability posed by its bloated public
sector.                                         1.04        Economic activity in Cotonou and
Porto-Novo is dominated by the service sector in
1.02        With arrears piling up, and finding    both public and private spheres. Critical roles are
itself unable to service external debt or to pay civil   played by transport, distribution of finished goods,
servant salaries or suppliers' invoices, Government   and import/export trade with Nigeria, largelv unde-
faced growing social unrest. This led to the col-   cared. The development of these activities has
lapse during 1989 of the Popular Republic, which    been stimulated by Cotonou's convenient location
had been installed 17 years before. A transitional   within the region and by its deep water port facili-
Government established by a National Conference,   ties. Cotonou's port provides Niger's only access
also charged with drafting a new constitution, was   to the sea and is located only 40 km from Nigeria's
given the priority task of restoring health to public   borders. The port benefitted fully from its competi-
finance while seeking to facilitate economic and   tive advantage during the boom years of the 1980s
social transition and recovery. This task was then    when Lagos' port was still congested and in poor
taken over by a new Government chosen in multi-  repair. Cotonou's main market, Dantokpa, is a-.o
party presidential and legislative elections held early    a major regional retail trading hub. Porto-Novo,
in 1991.                                       located 30 km inland of Cotonou, is home to the
1



Republic of Benin: Urban Rehabilitation and Management Poject
new Government's parliament and to many govern-   this center are poorly served by road and drainage
ment officials and private traders. Road and drain-   networks.
age infrastructure in both cities has been allowed to
deteriorate to the point where inaccessibility consti-   B. Public and Private Actors
tutes a major obstacle to the productivity of urban
activities, and a serious constraint to Benin's eco-    1.07  A number of ministerial departments
nomic development as a whole.                   and a newly cremted local level of administration
share overlapping responsibilities for urban infra-
Urban Environment                               structure, urban services management and urban
finance.  Poor performance by state entities has
1.05        Cotonou's development has taKen    created opportunities which the private sector has
place in a particularly difficult physical context.   been quick to exploit, and has set the stage for
Located on a narrow strip of land between the   future decentralization  of central government
Atlantic Ocean and Lai Nokoue, a coastal lagoon,   functions.
the city is a flat area barely above sea level, and
regularly suffers from severe flooding (see IBRD    Public Administration
Map 23258 and Photographs). Those occurring in
September 1987 and July/August 1991 were partic-    1.08     MINISTRY OF INFRASTRUCTURE AND
ularly severe.  Heavy rainfall during th_ rainy    TRANSPORT ("Ministbre de l'Equipement et des
season leads to rapid soil saturation and increased    Transports", MET).  Three departments of this
surface runoff. Serious flooding is a result of poor   ministry are involved in urban management. The
drainage of seasonal stormwater into the natural   Department of Urban Affairs and Habitat ("Direc-
stormwater outlet, Lake Nokoue, where the water   tion de l'Urbanisme et de l'Habitat", DUH) is
level has already been raised by floodwaters pour-   responsible for urban development and housing
ing in from the Oueme and So Rivers, Benin's main   policy and for urban planning regulation.  For
rivers. These difficult environmental conditions are   technical services, it relies on SERHAU, the re-
further exacerbated by the absence of urban plan-   gional and urban planning unit under its supervision
ning, the obstruction of natural drains by construc-   (see para. 1.14). The Roads and Works Depart-
tion of official and unofficial land subdivisions, and    ment ("Directiont des Routes et Ouvrages d'Art",
by dams resulting from inappropriate road design or   DROA) is responsible for national roads including
from infill from port dredging, along with an in-   their urban segments. The Urban Roads Depart-
sufficiently developed and poorly maintained drai-  nrent (Direction de la Voirie Urbaine, DVU) is
nage network.                                   mainly in charge of studies, regulations, work
programming, and physical planning of urban road,
1.06        Porto-Novo, the country's admin-   drainage and sanitation networks. The Ministry of
istrative capital, has developed in a less difficult   Infrastructure and Transport was split in August,
environmental context than Cotonou, first because    1991, into two ministries: the Ministry of Environ-
its original settlement occupies a plateau which lies   ment, Housing and Urbanism and the Ministry of
several meters above the lagoon level, and second-   Public Works and Transportation. The departments
ly, because its population has grown much more    mentioned above have not been affected and the
slowly than Cotonou's. Nevertheless, Porto-Novo    specifics of the reorganization are still being worked
suffers also from inadequate planning and infra-   out.
structure investment and maintenance. The drain-
age system  for its central district, constructed    1.09    URBAN  ADMINISTRATIONS ("Circon-
25 years ago, is now in very poor condition, and    scriptions Urbaines", CU). The CUs were created
the residential areas which have developed around    by a May 1990 law which fused local districts -- six
2



Republic of Benin: Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project
in Cotonou, three in Porto-Novo -- into a single   are the provincial divisions of the Ministry's Urban
urban administration for each city.  The main    Roads Department (DVU) and are un0er the author-
functions of the CUs are: (a) to carry out central   ity of the provincial prefects. In p,inciple, these
Government's policy at the local level; (b) to ensure    SVUs are directly responsible for carrying out by
public security and order; and (c) to manage basic   force account, routine urban road and drainage
urban services in their jurisdiction.            maintenance (street sweeping and drain cleaning),
solid and liquid waste collection (household waste
.10        While somewhat resembling local   pickup and septic tank pumping), cemetery and park
governments in having a separate legal identity and    upkeep, and construction of administrative build-
financial . itonomy, the CUs are managed by a    ings. In practice, this arrangement has not worked
Government-appointed head who reports to the    (paras. 1.28 - 29).
provincial prefect and to the Minister of Interior,
Internal Security  and Regional Administration    1.13        WATER AND ELECTRIcrryTY Trriy ("So-
(Ministre de l'intdrieur, de la Securite Publique et   cidte Beninoise d'Eau et d'Electricit", SBEE). The
de l'Administration du Territoire, MISPAT). The    SBEE, a public industrial and commercial authority,
CUs inherited the high personnel costs of their   holds a monopoly on the distribution of water and
administrative predecessors:  in Cotonou, the    electricity. Apart from the usual role of such an
combined district staffs totalled nearly 800, mostly   agency, SBEE also has played a substantial role in
unskilled contract employees. Salary costs, which   the urban sector by executing the first Bank-suppor-
had previously been underwritten by Government,   ted water supply project which included the prepa-
now absorb a major part of the new urban admini-   ration of the Cotonou Sanitation Master Plan (Coto-
strations' available resources (36%  in Cotonou,   nou Water and Sanitation Engineering Project, Cr.
56% in Porto-Novo).                              1171-BEN). SBEE also oversees the rehabilitation
of ,oads and drains in Cotonou and Porto-Novo by
1.11        To meet their expenses, CUs draw    AGETUR (see para. 1.16) under a Pilot Urban
on taxes billed and collected by the Finance Minis-   Works Project using labor-intensive te chniques
try and on their own fees (user charges and parking    ("Operation Pilo.e de Travaux Uiuains A Haute
and market stall fees). Taxes represent more than   Intensite de Main d'Oeuvre", OPTUHIMO), which
70% of income for the CUs of Cotonou and Porto-   is the first stage of a priority urban infrastructure
Novo. The main sources of fiscal revenue are the    rehabilitation program in Cotonou and Porto-Novo.
property tax and two business taxes ("patente",
"licences"), which accrue to the CUs  in their   1.14         SERHAU ("Service d'Etudes Regionales
entirety.  However, yields from these taxes are    d'Habitat et d'Amenagement Urbain"). SERHAU
limited by the lack of information on the tax base    has been an urban and regional planning unit within
and taxpayers. As for locally collected charges and   the Departnrrtt of Urban Affairs and Habitat. It
fees, the most important are linked to administrative    has financial autonomy but lacks adequate legal
services: birth/marriage/death certificates, identity   identity. Its current status is that of an admin-
cards, building permits, taxi licenses. Other in-   istrative service, created by ministerial decree in
come-producing services include equipment rental    1985.  Over the last two years SERHAU has
and mortuary services, and land-,elated fees are   continued, with the technical and financial support
collected for parking and for use of public space    of French bilateral aid ("Fonds d'Aide et de Coop-
(market stalls).                                 dration", FAC), previously initiated activities in
regirnal and urban planning and technical support
1.12        The head of Cotonou's CU directs an   to a  CUs. It has also undertaken to diversify its
Urban Road Unit (Service de la Voirie Urbaine,   activities by offering assistance in urban financial
SVU) with a staff of 300. In other CUs, such units    management and urban development. SERHAU has
3



I,q)li,' of lienin: Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project
i i6patud in tbe preparation of the proposed pro-    public works pilot projec'. (OPTUHIMO), and a
l    dei' i mior an IDA PIT' as Government's executing    secon(d stage financed by French bilateral aid
(CCCE).  AGETTUR's respoinsibilities are estab-
lished on a case-by-case basis and formalized in
lRecent developments in the type of    specific agreements co-signed by donors and Gov-
,icos t was porformiig have led SERHAU to    ernment.
.    a 11molue indlnl)QkJdelnt legal status ill which the
:.kOin slies less thlani 50%  of the assets ('societd    1.18    LOCAL CONSTRUCTION  INDUSTRY.
*; WzOniie mixte", SEM) which would allow it to    About 60 private building and construction com-
aiy a t double role:  (a) consulting, study and    panies are based in Cotonou. Some have raanaged
;,JivSOwly services on its own accouint in the field of   to survive 17 years of state domination of the
, a;im dcvelopment, inanagement and housing; and    private sector and a major contraction in economic
Qi ) contracting services in these same areas with au-,   demand since 1983 by keeping overheads, staff and
'-iiv, delegated by central or local Government    assets to a minimum.  Small and medium-sized
,iiiies, to subcontract for procure-nent of goods    enterprises (SMEs) in this sector are often sub-
.atidi scivices, including studies. SERHAU's pro-    coii.ractors to larger foreign companies, and all
,osed new legal status (SEM) is a condition of    manual labor is hired from the low-income labor
ntlit effectiveness, and the process of transfor-    pool under fixed-term contracts, often on a daily or
nation into a SEM  is technically and financially    weekly basis or for the duration of a particular job.
aJlpported by  French  bilateral aid  (FAC  and
ccc-LI).                                            1.19         The survival of these SMEs has been
I/'lw Private Sector                              'argely dependent on public sector demand, given
the low level of private sector activity. Yet private
1.16         URBAN  WORKS  AGENCY: AGETUR    enterprises are burdened with all manner of admin-
("Agence d'Exdcution des Travaux  Urbains").   istrative constraints and barriers which have limited
(AGETURce   as cratediond  Octoera   19rbainst)e   their access to public contracts. Long payment de-
(teFTxt of the SBEE-directed ObUHe  MO pilot   lays inherent in public sector administration and
iojtext ofnthonedabove (pEa-dirac.d  1 .   plTUR   account:ng procedures, compounded by Govern-
1pro~jec! mentioned above (p)ara. 1.13). AGETUR    ment's shortage of funds, have meant that only
twi(lertook to manage contracts with private firms to   large firms with substantial working capital have
i a} i y out civil works: preparation of bidding docu-    been able to cope and to win ublic contracts. The
mtolts, call for bids, evaluation of bids and contract           p            p
awa\Vird, rnonitoring of paymentS and works supervi-   extra financing charges are generally worked into
Faon, nGnTURisnlegaof paymenistan work superoi-   their bids, which increases significantly the cost of
sion. AGETUR's legal status Is that of a non-profit   cii woks
,assoc iation (NGO) whose nine-member advisory    civil works.
board, including the Government, the Archbishop
of Cotonou, public service agencies such as SBEF,    1.20        WASTECOLLECTIONCOMPANIES. Since
ilhe CUs of Cotonou and Porto-Novo, and a com-    the 1989 change in regime, many private local
mnity association in Porto-Novo, h.ave delegated    se.rvice companies have sprung up to compensate
i-,anagement responsibilities to a professional staff.   for the low level of service provided by the Coto-
nou city unit, SVU, and to fill the vacuum created
J.7'/        At present, AGETUR operates withf   by the dissolution of the six D istricts, each of which
a very small staff. IDA funds were used to pur-    performed its own household solid waste collection.
* lhaSC start-up office equipment and short-term   Most household waste collection is now carried out
technical assistance. To date the agency has been    by SIBEAU ("Societd Industrielle d'Equipement et
,ijvolved  only  with  externally  financed  pro-    d'Assainissement Urbains") and  other smaller
jects -- the IDA-funded first stage of the labor-based    private companies which are now flourishing, and



Rspublic of BoUn: Urban Rehabilfitation and Management Project
are authorized by the Prefect to collect both solid   employs are well trained, the standard of treatment
and liquid waste (septic tank pumping).  The   is very high, and the cost of meofical services is
companies collect their fees directly from  the    within reach of the poorest residents.  Generic
households served according to a payment schedule   drugs are bought in bulk and sold to patients in the
based on area and type of customer, and also sell   exact quantities prescribed.  The standards of
organic waste to market gardeners for composting    hygiene and cleanliness are high and this attracts
into fertilizer. Despite these companies' response,    many patients from other neighborhoods who prefer
lhss than 60% of the urbanized area benefits from    it to other health facilities closer to home. Within
regular solid waste collection.                  two years of its opening, the center became
self-financing. It has also become a focal point in
NGOs                                             the community for a variety of activities beyond
health care per se, including preventive medicinA.
1.21        COMMuNrrY ASSOCIATIONS. Under the    and health education for patients and theit families,
previous regime (see para. 1.02), neighborhoods    especially for women who have come for pre- and
were run by neighborhood heads who were party    post-natal visits. This aspect will be particularly
members and were responsible for maintaining    emphasized in the proposed sanitation component.
public order and safety, and for organizing w,omen
And young P -'rle to carry out regular neighborhood    C. Urban Management Issues
cleanup cai.  .bns. There were virtually no com-
munity associations, and assistance to the poor was    1.23   Operating under limited and fluctu-
provided by religious missions. Since the National   ating budgets within a poorly defined and central-
Conference and the "democratic revival," associa-   ized institutional framework, public institutions
tions have sprung up everywhere. At the neigh-   responsible for urban development and management
borhood level, these associations quickly formed to   have been unable to adequately perform  their
defend the interests of those who considered them-    responsibilities over the last 17 years, mainly due io
selves injured parties in the land subdivision pro-   poor organization and management.  Four areas
cess, as it had been carried out under the preceding    bear closer attention due to the serious long-term
regime (see para. 1.25 below). Community-based    consequences of their neglect: land use planiiing
NGOs have been formed to deal specifically with   and control at the growth perimeter, land regu-
poor or vulnerable urban groups by preparing    larization operations ("lotissements"), sanitation
young people, with or without schooling, and    services. nd maintenance of urban infrastructure.
women, for employment, and by providing techni-
cal support to improve health and environmental   Development Guidelines at the Growth Perimeter
sanitation in areas with low service levels.
1.24        There are no layout plans or subdivi-
1.22        MENONTINMEDICO-SOCLALASSOCIATION    sion guidelines on which to base land transactions
(AMSM). One such community-based NGO has been    or construction in the periurban zones now being
established to support a health program  in the    urbanized.  Thus, at the perimeter of Cotonou,
neighborhood of Menontin (about 18,000 residents)   growth is occurring at high cost to the environment.
in Cotonou. It is aimed at serving as a base for    Land being traded on the private market often lies
other coordinated activities to improve environmen-    below uie flood level (1.50m IGN), along natural
tal sanitation and social solidarity. Some members   rainwater drain paths, or may even drain directly
of this NGO are presentl involved in the operation    into the aquifer from  which Cotonou draws its
of a health center in the parish of St. Luke in Coto-   drinking water.  Uncontrolled development has
nou. This health center is considered as exemplary    begun in the area of Abomey-Calavi (2,200 ha),
for the following reasons: the doctors and nurses it  located on the Allada Plateau in the natural direc-
.s



Repasblic of Benin: Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project
tion of settlement growth to the west of Cotonou,   disease is waterborne in nature.  Poor environ-
and is expected to result in a subcenter of more    mental sanitation is aggravated by unregulated
than 200,000 residents by the year 2015.          dumping of household waste; regular waste pickup
serves only about half the population. Uncollected
Land R?egularization                              waste fills the drains and low-lying land subject to
flooding. The waste collection problem is in large
1.25        The unregulated urban development    part due to poor roads: only about 10% of the
described above has subsequently been subjected to    500 km road network is paved.  Most roads are
the imposition of regular grid layouts and tenure    badly damaged, in some cases irreparably, due to
regularization, carried out by public authorities.   the complete lack of maintenance. The remaining
These operations ("lotissements") now cover more    unpaved part of the road network is impassable to
than 90%  of Cotonou's settled area.  The sub-    motorized vehicles for at least half of the year (see
division process results in the regularization of   Photographs, p. 77).
occupancy rights in unrecorded settlements and the
reservation of land for future road and drain con-    Urban Infrastructure Maintenance
.truction. By setting aside rights-of-way for roads
and other community facilities, ceded from private    1.28     Maintenanceofinfrastructurehassuf-
landowners, this process has the advantage of   fered from  a chronic lack of resources, unclear
allowing for future infrastructure improvements in   allocation of responsibility, lack of programming,
the lotissements.                                 and inappropriate management. None of the vari-
ous institutional participants (DVU, DROA, SVU,
1.26        But the way in which this process has   former Districts) have been able to cari y out the
been carried out has also often had negative conse-    maintenance assigned to 'lem. In principle, DVU
quences for the environment, for residents and    was responsible for major road and drainage repairs
business. In setting aside land for roads and com-    in urban areas except for national highways.
munity facilities, the authorities applied excessively    However, roads have not yet been classified by type
high standards, requiring clearing of more than   to distinguish those of national interest -- under
40% of the land and the consequent demolition of   DROA's responsibility -- from local roads. Apart
a great many permanent structures, often without   from external financing of emergency programs in
compensation. However, no infrastructure has been    1987, 1988 and 1991, when flooding reached ex-
built, and much of the right-of-way has ended up    ceptionally high levels, DVU  had no resources
being occupied or even allocated to individuals by    beyond staff salaries. DVU needs to refocus its
administrative officials.   The design of these    attention on the normal functions of a ministerial
rights-of-way also often fails to take site constraints   technical department, that is planning, program-
into consideration.  For example, in some cases    ming, technical standards and design overview, and
settlements have been regularized despite their   regulation. Most of its operational staff could then
location blocking the natural path of rainwater    be reassigned to local level technical units within
drainage.                                         the CUs.
Urban Sanitation and Transportation               1.29         The SVUs, including the unit in
Cotonou CU, were responsible for minor road
1.27        Due to periodical flooding, the water   repairs.  They were intended to be financed by
table, still a main source of water for residential use    contributions from the former districts, which never
(other than drinking water), is polluted by latrines    materialized, and by service fees. The low level of
and septic waste. For at least six months of the    income, coupled with the inflexibility of foice
year, sanitation conditions are very poor over at   account procedures, soon led to complete paralysis
least half the settled area of Cotonou, and most   of the 32-vehicle fleet, partly purchased with
6



Republic of Benin: Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project
bilateral aid funds in 1988. The SVU in Cotonou    AGETUR (para. 1.16), was created to manage the
attempted to perform other services such as house-   public works contracts awarded to small and me-
hold waste collection and septic tank pumping, with   dium-sized construction companies according to
no better results, and these are now being c4rried    specific procedures acceptable to the administration
out mostly by private sector companies. The future   and the Bank. This undertaking was supervised by
role of the SVU in Cotonou is thus under question.   a VIP committee ("Comitd des Personnalites")
At the same time, the CUs need technical assis-   whose members were nominated by the Prime
tance more than ever for maintenance programming    Minister for their experience in this sector and for
and to supervise sanitation activities being carried    their probity. Thus far, AGETUR has implemented
out by the private sector.                       a pilot program  of urban works undertaken by
SMEs using labor intensive techniques (OPTUHI-
D. Government Urban Policy                       MO, see paras. 1. 13, 1.17), involving a first stage
of rehabilitation and construction of priority road
1.30        The Government established by the    and drainage works amounting to about one billion
National Conference has initially concentrated on    CFAF (see Photographs, p. 78).
structural adjustment. It has also attempted to re-
store the confidence of its citizenry by seeking to   Improved Land Regularization
make its dealings more transparent and straightfor-
ward, a priority task assigned to it by the National    1.33  Under pressure from local associa-
Conference. In the urban sector, it has initiated   tions challenging the land regularization policies and
several important reforms which should facilitate   procedures under the previous regime, Government
the economic and social transition and prepare for    has established commissions to review past subdivi-
further reform. These initial sector reforms involve    sions contested by landowners who felt unjustly
four high priority areas:  rehabilitation of infra-   treated. A halt has also been called to the opera-
structure in Cotonou and Porto-Novo, support to   tions of the one parastatal licensed to carry out land
small and medium-sized construction companies,   regularization.   Development plans for future
improved urban fiscal resource mobilization, and    subdivisions in  Cotonou's suburbs, including
improved land administration.                    Godomey, a proposed project site, have been taken
over by SERHAU under contract to local authorities
Infrastructure Rehabilitation                    and following new procedures. The new policy and
procedures are an improvement over the earlier
1.31        Government has moved to reactivate   ones in that they provide for (a) greater respect for
and expand a labor-intensive priority civil works    existing buildings, seeking to demolish the absolute
program (see paras. 1.13, 1.17) which was first   minimum  number of structures; (b) adoption of
drawn up in 1988 (see para. 1.39) with several   more reasonable standards (lOm  or 12m  road
objectives in mind: (a) to restore priority infra-   rights-of-way in the most densely settled areas);
structure required for economic revitalization; (b) to   (c) consideration of results from a genuine public
improve environmental sanitation, and alleviate   survey to determine the residents' point of view;
flooding conditions; (c) to stimulate the develop-   and (d) subsequent involvement of residents in the
ment of small and mediumsized private construction    planning process.
companies through works contracts; and (d) to help
create employment and income, however temporari-   Improved Local Fiscal Resource Mobilization
ly, for the lowest income groups of Cotonou and
Porto-Novo, the most populated cities of Benin.  1.34         In order to strengthen urban admin-
istrative and management capacity in the CUs, and
1.32        To eliminate the burden of adminis-   to implement public finance reforms related to
trative procedures, a non-governmental agency,   structural adjustment policies, Government has
7



Republic of Benin: Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project
drawn up a pilot program to develop urban land   idle/underutilized plants, and provision of lower
registries ("Registres Fonciers Urbains", RFU) in   cost and more efficient goods transit services.
Benin's main cities.  These registries and the
activities related to their creation are designed to    1.37  The Bank Group is currently support-
improve billing and recovery of the four taxes based    ing:  (a) a program  of economic and financial
on property rolls: taxes on built and unbuilt resi-   recovery by financing a second SAL consisting of
dential and commercial land, and two commercial   administrative reform and the civil service reduction
taxes, the "patente" and the "licences." The CU of   program, public enterprise reform, deregulation and
Parakou, Benin's third largest city, with more than   liberalization; (b) the strengthening of local capacity
100,000 residents, was selected for a 1989 pilot   to analyze and plan public investment through a
project financed by French aid (FAC) and imple-   Preinvestment Project (Credit 2286-BEN); (c)
mented by SERHAU (see para. 1.40).               facilitating sectoral adjustment and the transition
from a state-managed to a market-oriented economy
Support to Small and Medium-sized Construction    through agriculture and energy projects; and (d) the
Companies                                        preparation and implementation of a National Envi-
ronmental Action Plan which will help to define
1.35        In order to offer technical support to   future development needs.
SMEs in urban works to prepare bidding proposals
and carry out the works, a Task Force was set up    Previous Bank Group Involvement in Infrastructure
within CePEPE, a local NGO involved in a UNDP
sponsored small and medium-sized  enterprises    1.38         The Bank's first involvement in urban
project. Task Force support has proven effective   infrastructure in Benin was a water and sanitation
and demand responsive during the pilot urban    engineering project (Credit 1171-BEN) approved in
works project, and it is envisaged that the Task    1981 and intended to finance studies addressing
Force could become an independent, financially   long-term issues in water supply, sanitation, drain-
viable private enterprise, selling  management   age, and urban planning in the Cotonou area, and
services to small and medium-sized construction   the preparation of projects for Bank and other donor
companies.                                       financing.  Following the completion of these
studies, IDA agreed to cofinance a second water
E. Bank Strategy and Project Rationale           supply project which was approved in June 1986
(Credit 1721-BEN). The project's objectives were
Lending Strategy                                 to restore financial viability in the water supply
sector and to expand water distribution networks in
1.36        Prior to 1982 the Bank's assistance    Cotonou and Porto-Novo.  A low-income water
strategy focussed on financing traditional investment    connection program carried out under the credit
,rojects. The broadened economic policy dialogue    proved very successful, and similar measures will
after that date led to a shift in assistance strategy    be incorporated in the proposed project for the
towards support of macroeconomic management and    Menontin neighborhood.
rehabilitation of key sectors, with a view to meeting
the conditions for initiating a comprehensive struc-    1.39  An  October 1988  Bank  mission
rural adjustment program. Following the advance-    preparing sectoral measures to accompany the first
ment of the policy dialogue after 1988, the Bank's   Structural Adjustment Loan, SAL 1, signed in 1989,
assistance strategy was redesigned. It aimed at re-   assisted Government in the preparation of an emer-
establishing export competitiveness (cotton and    gency road and drainage works program for Coto-
secondary cash crops) through a first SAL and    nou based on studies financed under the earlier
sectoral adjustments including the implementation of   engineering project and designed to be carried out
cost-efficient  solutions  to  the  problem   of   by labor-intensive techniques. In September 1990,
8



Republic of Benin: Urban Rehabilitation and Management 1'/, v
an amendment to Credit 1721-BEN was signed with   the works carried out required only unskilled 1l."i'
the aim of financing the OPTUHIMO, (see para.   In addition, the roadway paving standard adolj'-
1.17), corresponding to a first stage of priority   (interlocking cement sections) is very well suited v
works. In order to address severe floods affecting    difficult sites, less difficult to maintain and l;
Cotonou in June 1991, additional financing was    expensive.  Invoices were paid in less thati n\,
provided to AGETUR through an amendment of   days.
Credit 1807-BEN in order to carry out urban roads
rehabilitation works using OPTUHIMO procedures.    Project Rationale
Lessons from Past Experience                       1.42        Besides supporting key urban se'
reforms, the proposed project constitutes an imp. -
1.40        Improvements  in  fiscal resource   tant complement to other Bank Group eftfrts n
mobilization for the Urban  Administration of   support of Government's overall program of e,
Parakou have been successfully worked out with    nomic and financial recovery. Urban infrastruct:w
SERHAU's  assistance  under FAC  financing.    rehabilitation is a necessary prerequisite to econni ;,
Agreed actions range from  the creation and the   ic recovery, and should act as a stimulus to luw
updating of land occupation records ("Registre    private investment. The project will also fwlp
Foncier Urbain", RFU) to training of fiscal agents   ease the economic and social transition during ti..
in charge of assessing, billing and collecting these    structural adjustment period by creating a kii-
taxes. A similar program is currently being carried    number of unskilled jobs in the local constructtif,
out in Cotonou, also under FAC financing, and is   sector.
being proposed for Porto-Novo in this project (see
para. 2.16).                                      1.43         IDA has already played a key rnhk, t
financing the first stage of the OPTUHIMG p),
1.41        A  pilot operation of labor-based    gram and supporting AGETIIR's start-up and h1
urban roads and side drains rehabilitation (OPTU-    assisted the Government in obtaining othei domi
HIMO) has been successfully carried out by AGE-    cofinancing, such as that of the French (C,i
TUR in 1990-91, an agency for contract manage-    Centrale (CCCE). The Government is eager i
ment with local construction SMEs modeled after   IDA continuing in the role of investment cailJ
AGETIP in Senegal. The success of this operation    and donor coordinator, as it did in the OPTUWI-i
is already evident. The IDA-financed first tranche,    program.
divided into 15 contracts a-'eraging CFAF 25
million each, was carried out by eight small- and    1.44      Lastly, by  emphasizing  sirnw:
medium-sized local enterprises over a period of six    neously the implementation of pilot prorei i
months. During this period more than 800 laborers   designed to accomplish a more rational use c( i
were hired to rehabilitate about three kilometers of   resources,  development of urban land in . ! 1
roads in Cotonou and Porto-Novo, clean about    cooperation with local residents, and greater mnin
10 km of open drainage canals, and build six foot-   zation of local fiscal resources, the proposed proi.
bridges (see Photographs, p. 78, and IBRD Map    seeks to lay the groundwork for reforms in i
23377). Most of the wage bill paid to laborers has    management,  environmental  protection,  flt,
benefitted the lowest income groups, since 95% of    control and urban development.



II
The Project
A. Project Objectives and Description         improve the urban environment (roads and drain-
age conditions) and the economic functioning of
Objectives                                    Benin's two largest cities; (c) to promote the devel-
opment of SMEs in the construction sector; and
2.01        The project's immediate objectives   (d) to strengthen the operational capacity of the
are to support ongoing Government programs of   implementing agency. Specifically, this component
infrastructure rehabilitation and  environmental   supports five activities:
sanitation in the country's two largest cities (Coto-
nou and Porto-Novo), following approaches which   (a) rehabilitation of roads (essentially repaving)
optimize the impact of public works on the employ-  and storm drains;
ment and income of the urban poor, promote the
development of local and medium-sized private   (b) clearing of main open rainwater collector
enterprises and involve NGOs and residents. The   drains;
project's longer-term objectives are to support
preparation of a public investment strategy in the   (c) detailed engineering for these works;
urban sector and lay the groundwork for reforms
required to improve the management of urban   (d) technical assistance to the executing agency,
development in Benin.                             AGETUR, for review and follow-up of de-
tailed engineering and for works supervision
Description                                        (18 staff months); and
2.02        In order to address these policy   (e) periodic technical assessment of works carried
objectives, the project includes seven components:  out and of AGETUR's performance by an out-
(a) labor-based urban infrastructure rehabilitation;  side expert (four visits of two weeks each).
(b) community-based  environmental  sanitation
improvements; (c) urban development; (d) manage-   2.04   A preliminary program of priority
ment of urban services in Cotonou and Porto-Novo;   road and drainage works in Cotonou and Porto-
(e) local fiscal resource mobilization; (f) urban    Novo was reviewed during the appraisal mission.
management capacity  building; and (g) sector   They are suitable for execution by SMEs using
strategy.  The content of these components is  techniques which maximize the use of labor and
summarized below and given in full detail in An-   also meet technical and economic requirements
nex 3. The location of project sites is indicated in   established for this project (IRR > 24%).
IBRD Map 23378.
2.05       Within the framework of the Public
2.03        LABoR-BASED uRsAN NFRAsmucruRE   Investment Program  (PIP), the Interministerial
REHABiLrrATiON. The main objectives of this compo-   Steering Committee will prepare the program to be
nent are (a) to increase employment, however   executed by AGETUR broken down into annual
temporarily, of the urban poor by intensive use of   slices in consultation with IDA.  Decisions on
unskilled labor in the execution of works; (b) to   specific works to be carried out and status of works
10



Republic of Benin: Urban Rehabilitation and Manageman Ptject
underway will be reviewed by IDA supervision    2.08        The community team, and in particu-
missions and external coasultants, and agreed at the   lar the urban community development agent ("l'ani-
annual meetings of the Interministerial Steering    mateur urbain'), will motivate and organize resi-
Committee. The first annual program has been    dents to contribute funds for solid waste collection
reviewed and will be finalized prior to project   (about a third of costs, i.e., about CFAF 200/
startup. It must be forwarded to IDA for approval.   household/month) and for minor works in public
areas, sanitation installation or repair in private
2.06        CoMMuNrTY-BASED ENVIRONMENTAL   homes, maintenance, digging of ditc:ies to lay water
SANITATION IMPROVEMENTS. The objectives of this   pipes, and water use payments in advance for
component are (a) to improve environmental sanita-   600 connections to be installed by SBEE.  The
tion in the neighborhood of Menontin through a    achievement of an adequate level of financial
range of activities from hygiene and preventive    contribution from the community will be ensured
medicine to the treatment of disease; (b) to promote   during project implementation.
the assumption of responsibility by the community
for identification, financing and implementation of   2.09  Official recognition by the Ministry
activities to improve living conditions, including    of Interior of the statutes establishing the Menontin
infrastructure maintenance and upgrading; and (c) to    Medico-Social Association (AMSM), which is to
develop a model for comprehensive neighborhood    operate the health center and the community activi-
improvement that can be applied in other urbanized   ties, was obtained prior to negotiations. Signature
areas in Cotonou and secondary cities. The compo-   by Government, which will hold title to the building
nent supports four activities:                 itself, of a management contract ("mandat de
gestion") delegating authority for running the center
(a) a program of primary infrastructure works to   to AMSM, was obtained prior to Board Presenta-
link this isolated area into the city networks;    tion.
(b) construction of a health center which will   2.10       URBANDEVELOPMENT. Thepurposeof
serve as a base for other community-supported   this component is to establish environmentally
activities and will ensure their sustainability;    sound procedures for orderly extension of urban
areas. This will require formulation and implemen-
(c) an outreach program using community devel-  tation of improved subdivision and tenure regu-
opment agents to ensure participation of the   larization procedures including financial participa-
population in the promotion of public health   tion by landowners, provision for upgrading of in-
and self-care; and                         frastructure standards as household incomes and
municipal revenues rise over time, and preparation
(d) monitoring and evaluation of the sociological   of layout and land use plans and related investment
and environmental impact of these activities.    programs covering future growth areas of Cotonou.
The component supports three activities:
2.07        With the exception of the health
center which is going to be procured under ICB, all  (a) preparation of detailed engineering and bidding
civil works to be financed under this component of  documents for pilot development of the Godo-
the project will be carried out by SMEs using labor  mey-South area, including adjustments to
intensive construction methods. Construction and   private plot boundaries and required road
civil works contracts and service contracts for     alignment, subject to IDA prior review;
household waste collection will be managed by
AGETUR in close cooperation with the Technical   (b) execution of a program of infrastructure works
Units to be established in Cotonou's local adminis-  in Godomey-South. It is expected that this
tration under this Projeci. (see para. 2.12).       program would include: (i) 3.2 km of new
11



Repulic of BDnin: Urban Rehabilitauion and Managemen Project
paved roads; (ii) 7.6 km of roads to be realig-   units specialized in the management of urban
ned; (iii) 3.2 km of new primary drains; (iv)   services in the urban administration of Cotonou and
1.5 km of secondary drains; and (v) one dump    Porto-Novo; (b) to provide for contracting out of
site for precollection of household waste; and    routine and periodic road and drain maintenance
while local tax yields are being improved; and
(c) preparation of urban planning documents   (c) to assist and train future staff of CU technical
covering the larger Abomey-Calavi plateau    units in programming techniques for road and drain
area and other future growth areas at Coto-   maintenance work, and in management of works
nou's periphery, including:  (i) a detailed    and service contracts with the private sector. This
layout plan for the Abomey-Calavi plateau, de-   component inclu 'es:
lineating areas to be developed and those
which are environmentally vulnerable and    (a) roads and drain maintenance and waste collec-
require protection; (ii) an operational action   tion to be contracted out to private sector
plan required to implement the layout plan for   enterprises;
the plateau; (iii) detailed plans and program-
ming to develop a pilot area of about 400 ha;   (b) establishment of Technical Units ("Cellules
and (iv) identification of other growth areas in  Techniques", CTs) to program and manage
Cotonou and Porto-Novo which are candidates      urban services for Cotonou and Porto-Novo;
for urban development operations over the
next ten years.                              (c) technical assistance to the CTs for work pro-
gramming and management of private sector
2.11        Godomey-South benteficiaries will be     contracts for urban road and drain maintenance
expected to contribute to the lai"d development      and waste collection; and
operation in three ways: (a) by ceding a portion of
their land (to be negotiated on an individual basis   (d) preparation of an instituticnal study to recom-
but in no case more than 40%  of plot area) for       mend arrangements for an overall reorganiza-
public use as infrastructure rights-of-way; (b) by   tion of urban service operations in the two
providing for labor required for secondary drains    cities, covering the future of the SVU and its
construction; and (c) by paying a share of survey    staff, and including appropriate organizational
and engineering fees. The extent of financing to be  and management structures.
borne in this way will be revised during the annual
implementation  reviews  and  agreed  during    2.13          In order to providc minimal services
supervision missions. Detailed financial participa-   in Cotonou and Porto-Novo and to give the new
tion of the residents is described in Annex 3, and    CTs hands-on experience with full-scale service
the final detailed design for the public works of the    delivery operations, before iocal resource mobiliza-
South Godomo'v development project will be re-   tion efforts can provide internal financing for such
viewed by IDA prior to their execution.          service levels, the project would finance a decreas-
ing annual percentage of the cost of road and
2.12        MANAGEMENTOFUR.ANSERVICES. The    drainage maintenance works.  The CUs  would
objectives of this component are: (a) to take the   finance an increasing share of costs, as indicated in
first steps required for the establishment of technical   the table which follo ns:
12



Rqpublic Qf &nin: Urban Rehabilitaton and ManagEmet Project
Financing of Priority Urban Services in Cotonou and Porto-Novo
(in FCFA millions)
Year I    Year 2      Year 3    Year 4      Year 5
FCFA       FCFA       FCFA       FCFA       FCFA
Cotonlou
Project          72         116         63         30         0
CU              38         155       292        325        355
TOTAL            110        271        355        355        355
Porto-Novo
Project           0         30          39        22           0
CU               0         15         54        100        122
TOTAL              0         45         92        122        122
2.14        Annual inplementation reviews would   two business taxes (the "patente" and "licence")
compare actual with target achievements for sharing   through better property valuation, broadening of the
of these costs and would examine the reasons for   tax base, better identification of taxpayers, and im-
any delays and any discrepancies in the level and    proved collections performance; (b) to rationalize
timing of CU contributions.  Shortfalls in CU    task assignment and improve motivation for local
performance will lead to delay in the execution of   Ministry of Finance officials in the Tax Directorate
reliabilitation works included in the Infrastructure    who are responsible for billing and collection of
Rehabilitation Component of the project (paras.   local taxes; (c) to improve land occupation records
2.03, 2.42).                                    and records management for tax purposes and for
possible future tenure regularization; and (d) to
2.15          Formal adoption of a document   build capacity in the National Institute of Cartogra-
classifying all urban roads in Cotonou and Porto-   phy with regard to maintenance and use of plot spe-
Novo, according to whether Government or the CU    cific mapping data. The component will replicate
is responsible for their maintenance, was obtained   in Porto-Novo the successful French-financed pilot
prior to negotiations. Nomination and IDA approv-   fiscal resource mobilization effort carried out in
al of staff for the CTs in the CUs of Cotonou and    Parakou and Cotonou (see paras. 1.34, 1.40). It
Porto-Novo is a condition of credit effectiveness.   would support five activities:
The continuation of the execution of the annual
program of works under components (a), (b) and
(d) will be subject to timely deposits by the Coto-   (a) the introduction and computerization of simpli-
nou and Porto-Novo CUs for their contribution as    fied base maps covering the Porto-Novo urban
detailed in the table above.                         area, including the identification and systemat-
ic encoding of lot-specific data;
2.16        LOCALFISCALRESOURCEMOBILIZATION.
This component has four objectives: (a) to increase   (b) a door-to-door fiscal and land survey for the
yields of the four roll-based local taxes in Porto-  purpose of establishing a computerized data-
Novo, i.e., taxes on built and vacant property, and  base ("fichier d'assiette");
13



Repbic of Bnin: Urban Rehailitaiaou and Management Project
(c) preparation of a database on property owners     UNDP project (BEN/88-009), which is being
and businessee ("fichier des contrituables")     extended; and (iv) community development
and installation of computer programs for        staff:  three staff members assigned to the
automatic updating of tax rolls from this data-  Menontin health center and one to SERHAU
base;                                            ("animateur urbain");
(d) logistic and training support, and operational   (b) formulation and preparation of teaching mate-
guidance, for tax billing and collection agents  rials, and information and communications
in Porto-Novo for a period of two years; and     support to project activities; and
(e) preparation of a fiscal urban property registry   (c) preparation of a national training strategy for
("registre foncier urbain", RFU) by the Land     urban management. This would include: (i)
Bureau of the Finance Ministry, including        a study to assess local professional training
procedures for updating the database, and        capacity; (ii) a planning seminar to deveiop a
training for land agents in the use of the regis-  national strategy for training local government
try.                                             staff involved in urban management; and (iii)
training of trainers at the main local training
2.17        An agreement covering the respective      centers and of local-level regional administra-
responsibiPties of the Porto-Novo CU  and of         tive staff.
SERHAU in the implementation of this component
was signed prior to Board Presentation.          2.19         SECTOR sTRATEGY. The purpose of
this component is to assist the Government of Benin
2.18        URBAN MANAGEMENT CAPACITY BUILD-   in the definition of a medium- and long-term strate-
ING. The immediate objective of this component is   gy for developing the urban sector, based on analy-
to provide operational expertise and practical sup-   sis of the role of the urban sector and construction
port to urban management staff directly involved in   industry in the national economic development
project implementation. Anticipating future needs,   strategy, integrated medium-term action program
the component also supports measures to ensure the   for the urban sector, and a revised legal and regu-
sustainability of project-related results and their   latory framework for urbaa development, land
further dissemination through training of local   management, and local contractors. The component
trainers. It will liaise closely with the Municipal   supports five activities:
Development Program (West Africa Module) based
in Lome, Togo, a regional support program spon-   (a) formulation of an urban public investment
sored jointly by the Bank Group, UNDP, UNCHS-        strategy compatible with the national public
Habitat, and bilateral aid agencies. Three types of   investment program  and  decentralization
activities are involved:                             policy, and which takes into consideration the
capacity of the construction sector, coupled
(a) training of urban management staff directly      with a short- and medium-term action plan for
involved in project implementation. Staff to     implementing this strategy;
be trained include: (i) Tax Bureau staff (four
agents) and the City Treasurers of Cotonou    (b) a study of the current and anticipated spatial
and Porto-Novo; (ii) future managers of the      distribution of population and economic activi-
urban service delivery units (CTs) being set up  ties in the region of which Benin is a part,
with project support in Cotonou and Porto-       including neighboring countries (with separate
Novo; (iii) staff providing support to SMIEs in  treatment of Nigeria), and an analysis of trade
the construction sector in the context of a      within this region to reveal urban-rural eco-
14



Republic of Bnin: Urban Rehabilitation and Mana8m.u P~jct
nomic linkages, along with the current and      track during implementation, and to work out
future roles of specific cities and towns in    a comprehensive urban sector strategy.
regional economic development;
(c) a study of the construction sector in Benin    B. Project Cost and Financing
covering supply, both formal and informal,
and the demand for services by public and    Project Cost
private customers, including its volume and the
procedures followed;                        2.20         Total project cost is estimated at
US$26.8 M  (CFAF 7,591 M) net of taxes and
(d) support for the finalization of land use plan-   duties.  Base costs are in April 1991 prices, as
ning regulations ("code d'urbanisme") and the    determined by the appraisal mission on the basis of
rationalization of legal texts goveming the   recent contracts signed for civil works with local
nature, transfer and preservation of tenure   enterprises in a pilot operation under IDA financ-
rights in the urban and periurban areas; and  ing. The project will be executed over a five-year
period (1992-96). Detailed project costs are provid-
(e) seminars for the Project Interministerial Steer-   ed in Annex 1. Price contingencies are based on
ing Commitee designed to keep the project on   the following annual inflation rates:
Annual Inflation Rates (%)
1992          1993          1994          1995          1996
Foreign Exchange       3.4           3.4            3.4           3.4           3.4
Local Currency        2.5           2.5           2.5            2.5           2.5
15



iRhplic qf &in. Urban RIhabilitadon and ManagEntw Project
|                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Estimate Costs
(VSS million)
Project Component                     Local       Foreign        Total      Base Cost %
A. Labor-based Urban Infrastnic-
ture Rehabilitation               4.99          5.62         10.60          45.5
B. Community-based Environmen-
tal Sanitation Improvements       0.99          1.59         2.58            11.1
C. Urban Development                  0.87         1.57          2.44           10.5
D. Urban Services Management          2.20         2.97          5.17           22.2
E. Local Fiscal Resource
Mobilization                      0.13          0.47         0.60            2.6
F. Urban Management Capacity
Building                          0.07          0.44         0.51            2.2
G. Sector Strategy                    0.17         0.90          1.07            4.6
H. Project Preparation Facility       0.00         0.30          0.30            1.3
Total Base Cost                       9.42         13.86        23.28          100.0
Physical Contingencies                0.75         1.11          1.87
Price Contingencies                   0.60         1.08          1.67
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    10.77        16.05         26.82
Financing Plan                                Beneficiaries (CUs and residents) will also contrib-
ute financing for infrastructure development, main-
tenance and solid waste collection up to
2.21       The  proposed  IDA   credit  of   US$0.23 M.
US$22.8 M will finance 85% of project cost net of
taxes and duties. This will cover approximately   2.22    Parallel  financing  totalling
US$13.9 M of foreign costs and US$9.4 M of local   UJS$1.75 M equivalent (6.5% of total project costs)
costs. In view of Benin's budgetary constraints the   was identified during appraisal and will be finalized
Government's contribution is limited to US$2.0 M.   with FAC and UNDP.
16



Rdp.blic of #nin: Urban Rehabilitanon and Managent Projec:
Summary Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Financing Plan (USSS million) --
IDA      UNDP    FAr   Ciovt.   Bencf.    Total
Credit
A. labor-based Infrastructure Rehabilitation  10.78    --      -^      1.50    --         1'.28
B. Community-based Environmntal Sanitation  2.95               -       --       -          2.95
Improvements
C. Urban Development                        2.83     --                - --                2.83
D. Urban Services Management                5.22     --                0.50     0.23       5.95
E. Local Fiscal Resource Mobilization      --        -         0.70   --       --70
F. Urban Management Capacity Building       0.11     0.45              --                  0.56
G. Sector Strategy                          0.66     --        0.60   --                   1.26
H. Project Freparation Facility             0.30     -         --     --       --          0.30
TOTAL PROJECT COST                          22.84    0.45      1.30    2.00     0.23      26.82
Percent of Total                           85.16     1.67      4.86    7.46    0.86       100.00
C. Project Implementation                               2.24           The VIP Committee ("Comite des
Personnalites") created to supervise the pilot
Overall Organization                                    OPTUHIMO  will extend its mission to continue
supervising the civil works to be managed by AG-
2.23          Overall  project coordination  and        ETUR under the proposed project. This committee
supervision during implementation will be carried       shall meet at project start-up and every six months
out by an Interministerial Steering Committee for    thereafter.  Implementation details are given in
the project, which shall meet by request of the    Supporting Table I and Chart 1.
Ministers in charge of Urbanism and Public Works.
This committee will also include the Ministers of    2.25              ExECUTION. Disbursement of project
Finance, Planning, Interior, Labor, Social Services,    funds, procurement and contract management for
and Health. It will rely upon a Technical Commit-    the proposed project will be handled by two existing
tee  composed  of representatives of concerned          agencies, both of which will receive human and
Technical Department Directors within these minis-    financial resources under project funding. SERH-
tries. It shall meet at project start-up and once a     AU  will be responsible for studies and technical
year during project implementation. Project financ-    assistance to CUs, and AGETUR will be responsi-
ing provides for these meetings to take the form of    ble for civil works and related TA and engineering.
day-long seminars encompassing review of annual    Two special accounts will be opened for the use of
progress reports submitted by the executing agen-    these agencies, to allow rapid payment of invoices
cies, implementation planning sessions, presentation    received from  SMEs and suppliers.  Government
and discussion of institutional recommendations    will delegate authority to award and sign contracts
resulting from  studies and urban strategy sessions.    and to withdraw project funds and funds from the
Acceptance in principle of the creation of this    special accounts, to the directors of these two agen-
committee was agreed at negotiations. Actual cre-    cies. Government's written intention to create the
ation of the steering committee was confirmed by        special accounts and to delegate authority to AGE-
Government before Board Presentation.                   TUR  and SERHAU  was agreed at negotiations.
17



Republic of Benim: Urban Rehabilitation and Managpmen Projecst
The names and qualifications of the two agency   review of each ard every bid document. In order
directors and of their eventual succe~ssors will be   to avoid this, a standard bidding document will be
submitted for IDA  approval, and IDA's final   used in the proposed project. This was agreed l
approval is a condition of effectiveness. Govern-    negotiations and a binding clause has been included
ment agreed to these arrangements during negotia-   in the Credit Agreement.
fQD, along with Jhe dates on which the Project
Interministerial Committee shall meet during the    2.28     CIVIL WORKS. The main objectives of
project implementation period. Separate agreements   the programs of rehabilitation and maintenance
between Government and AGETUR, and Govern-    works are to generate employment and promote the
ment and SERHAU were reviewed during nego-   participation of local small and medium-sized
tiations. Signature of these agreements is a con-   contractors. These programs will be reviewed and
tion of credit effectiveness. Formal transformation    finalized on an annual basis with the Project Inter-
of SERHAU into a public-private entity ("Societe    ministerial Steering Committee in consultation with
d'Economie Mixte", see para. 1.15) is a condition    IDA. Slicing of the programs into contract packages
of credit effectiveness. Transmission to the Asso-   incorporating designs for labor intensive construc-
ciation of the minutes of the Round Table for   tion will be prepared by AGETUR and subjected to
potential SERHAU  shareholders showing  the    IDA review to encourage participation by small and
commitments of such shareholders was obtained    mediuin-size contractors who meet the appropriate
prior to Board Presentation. The implementation    standards of responsibility.  Since there is an
sched,ule is presented in Supporting Table 1. An    adequate number of small and medium-size contrac-
organizational chart for Project Implementation is   tors, all works contracts of amounts up to
also provided (Chart 1).                        US$250,000 equivalent each will be subjected to
LCB procedures acceptable to IDA which will at
the minimum include local advertising, public bid
2.26        OTHER INSTrrUTIONS INVOLVED. The    opening, clarity in evaluation criteria, award to the
CUs of Cotonou and Porto-Novo, and the sub-   lowest bidder and non-exclusion of foreign bidders.
prefecture of Abomey-Calavi, along with the    A minimum of four bids will be required for each
Menontin Medico-Social Association, will also be    contract tendering to justify competition. A sample
involved in project implementation and will be the    bidding document will be reviewed prior to solicita-
beneficiaries of the equipment and services provided   tion of the first LCB procurement and the approved
through the project.  Their ability to properly   document will be used for subsequent LCB.
manage the maintenance program will be enhanced
by the component for building urban management   2.29        All works contracts of amounts
capacity (see para. 2.18).                      exceeding US$250,000 will be subjected to ICB
procedures. The health center (estimated to cost
D. Procurement and Disbursement                 US$0.63 M) has been identified as suitable for ICB
procurement in accordance with IDA Guidelines for
Procurement                                     Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(May 1985). Contractors for the health center will
2.27        The table on page 19 shows expected    be subject to pre-qualification.  A preferential
procurement by category of expenditure. During    margin of 7.5% will be given to domestic contrac-
negotiations Government gave assurances that it will   tors in accordance with IDA guidelines.
apply the procurement procedures a-d arrangements
outlined below. Sample bidding documents were   2.30         GOODS. Contracts for medical and
not used under the pilot OPTUHIMO operation and    surgical equipment (estimated to cost US$0.30 M)
evaluation criteria and contra.t awards were han-    will be procured under ICB procedures. The excep-
dled on a case-by-case basis. This involved careful   tions to ICE procurement will be for goods con-
18



Republic of Benin: Urban Rehabilitatian and Managemne Project
tracts (limited  to  offlce supplies and  equipment)             equivalent each, which in aggregate will not exceed
estimated to cost less than or equal to US$250,000               US$0.39 M.
Summar of Prwowed Procurement Arrannements
(USS million equivaletd)
Arocuremem .fluh
AwJco Ukmm                                          IC#            LCS           Other         N. S. F.        Total
Cost
1. Wo,*
1.1 Infrauuctw                                                                                               2,94
Roade and Daine                                            (2.94)                                      (2.94)
1.2 Rehabilitation aad Maintenance                               14.71'                                     14.71
Urban Roads and Drainage/Sanitation                        (12.48)                                    (12.48)
1.3 Buildings
HeeIth Center                               (0,63)                                                     (0.63)
2. Goods                                                                                       0.14'            0.37
2.1 Equipnent, Office                                            (0.23)                                     (0.23)
0.06'           0.24
2.2 Equiprent, Transportation                                    (0 18)                                     (0.18)
2.3 Equipment, Medical                           (0.30)                                                     (0.30)
3. Service Contracts
3.1 Contract Managed by SERHAU                                                              0.28"'           0.64
(0.36)                       (0.36)
3.2 Contracts Managed by AGETUR
(1.62)                       (1.62)
4. Consultancies
4.1 Studies, Engineering and Supervision                                                    0.85b            3.36
(2.51)                       (2.51)
4.2 Technical A"isance
(0.87)                       (0,87)
4.3 Training                                                                                0.42'            0.52
(0-10)                       (0.10)
5. Mlsellaneots
5.1 Administrative Operating Cost                                             (0.32)                        (0.32)
5.2 Refinancing PPF                                                           (0.30!                        (0.30)
TOTAL                                                0.93           18.06         6.08         1.75            26.82
(0.93)         (15.83)       (6.08)                       (22.84)
Note:
a. Includes Goveuments' and CUs' contribution.
b. FAC cofinancing in parallel with their own procuemnent arangemen.
c. UNDP parallel financing with their own procurenent arrangements.
19



Republic of Benn: Urban Rehabilitation and Mangement Project
2.31        OTHER METHODS OF PROCUREMENT.   2.33             CONSULTANCIES.  All consultancies
Items under the category "operating costs" not   financed by IDA, totalling US$3.48 M, will be
exceeding US$20,000 and totalling a maximum of   contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines
IJS$0.15 M equivalent, could be purchased through    for the Use of Consultants (August 1981).
*         international or local shopping (LS) on the basis of
price quotations obtained from at least three reliable
i         suppliers to ensure competitive prices.          2.34        MODIFICATION OR WAIVER.  Before
agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
2.32        REVIEW. For contracts for civil works   the terms and conditions of contract which would
and goods estimated to cost more than US$250,000   increase the cost of the contract by more than 10%
equivalent each, the bidding documents, advertise-   of the original price, the Borrower should inform
ments, advertising procedures, bid  evaluation    IDA of the proposed modification and reasons
*         reports and proposed contract awards will be   therefore. The figure of 10% would be specified
:         reviewed by IDA prior to solicitation of bids and    for the purpose of para. 4 of Appendix I to the
award of contracts. All ICB procurement will be    Bank's Guidelines.
subject to prior review. All LCB civil works pro-
curement will also be subjected to prior review for
the first year of implementation. For the second    Disbursement
year of implernentation, LCB procurement for civil
works exceeding US$100,000 will be subject to    2.35        The IDA credit will be disbursed on
prior review. For the third year of implementation,   the basis of the categories shown in the table which
LCB  procurement for civil works exceeding    follows. The closing date will be December 31,
US$150,000 will be subject to prior review. Post   1997. Given the availability of the Special Ac-
revi-.w procedures will be applied in th; second    counts, the minimum application for direct pay-
year for civil works contracts below US$100,000    ments will normally be for the equivalent of
and  in  the  third  year for contiarc,  below    US$20,000. The amounts to be financed under
US$150,000. Contracts for goods will l'e subjected    each category are shown below.  The estimated
to either: (a) post review for contracts tstimated at   quarterly disbursement schedule for the IDA credit
between US$20,000 and US$250,000 equi\ calent; or   is shown in Supporting Table 2.
(b) random post review for contracts estiriated at
less than US$20,000. For the latter, expt .itures   2.36     Minor disbursement problems arose
will be made out of certified Statements for Expen-   under the pilot operation because the executing
ditures (SOEs) and documentation will be ret ined   agency, SBEE, recognized that any delay in dis-
at the executing agencies for random review by    bursement would jeopardize quick payment to the
IDA staff and for annual audits.  In addUion,   contractors. This risk is completely avoided under
special monitoring will be introduced by requesting   the proposed project by ensuring that Government
quarterly progress reports on procurement status.   delegates disbursement responsibilitiesto AGETUR.
The content of these reports was discussed and    This was agreed at negotiations and a specific
resolved during negotiations.                   clause has been included in the Credit Agreement.
20



Republic of Benin: Urban Rehaabilitation and Management Project
Allocation and Disbursement Categories
Credit Allocation             % of Expenditures
Category                       (USS Million)                    Financed
1. Works: (a) Civil Works                        14.27                          85
(b) Health Center Conatruction          0.59                           100
2. Equipment (a) AGETUR                          0.12                           100
(b) SERHAU                           0.54                           100
3. Incremental Operating Cost: (a) AGETUR        1.50                           100
(b) SERHAU               0.63                           100
4. Consultancy Services: (a) AGETUR              1.00                           100
(b) SERHAU                    2.16                           100
S. Refunding of the PPF                          0.30                        Amount due
6. Unallocated                                   1.73
TOTAL IDA CREDIT                       22.84
2.37         SPECIAL ACCOUNTS.  To  facilitate    E. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
disbursement,   US$1.00 M    equivalent   and
US$0.30 M equivalent, both denominated in CFA        2.38         The executing agencies will maintain,
francs, will be advanced from the IDA credit and    to the satisfaction of IDA, separate accounts and
deposited into two Special Accounts opened by    records to be used exclusively for the project. All
AGETUR and SERHAU, respectively, in a local    project-related receipts and payments will group
commercial bank. The amounts are est.mated to   together expenditures incurred by project compo-
cover about four months of expenditures.  The    nent and will be recorded in accordance with
Special Accounts will be replenished through the    consistently  applied  accounting  principles and
submission of fully documented withdrawal applica-    procedures.  Beginning in 1992, the executing
tions to IDA. However, expenses related to con-    agencies will furnish to IDA as soon as available,
tracts valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent each    but in any case not later than April 30 of each year
will be reimbursed against certified statements of    (four months after the end of the Government's
expenditures (SOEs), for which documentation will   fiscal year): (a) annual financial st-tements of the
be retained at the executing agencies for post-review  executing agencies and project accounts and records
by IDA staff during supervision missions and for    (including a separate SOE audit and semi-annual
regular semi-annual audits. Reimbursement appli-   statements in the case of the Special Accounts);
cations submitted against the two Accounts will   (b) separate opinion reports, satisfactory to IDA,
include a bank statement showing account activity    from competent and independent auditors, accept-
since the last application, with the balance certified    able to IDA, as to the accuracy and authenticity of
by the bank holding the Special Accounts, and a    such  financial statements; and  (c) certificates,
reconciliation statement.  The executing agencies    satisfactory to IDA and from the same auditors, that
will submit replenishment requests to the Special   the value and quantity of services are adequately
Accounts on a quarterly basis, or whenever the    reflected in such financial statements.  Auditors
accounts are diminished by one third, whichever    acceptable to IDA  will also issue management
comes first.                                         letters and such other information concerning such
21



Rep.ubhic of Bnin: Urban Rdhabili:auon and Management Project
accounts and records, audits and certificates as IDA    no later than one month after the end of the quarter.
may from time to time reasonably request. Quar-   Quarterly progress reports shall also include status
terly progress reports following a format dis,issed    of procurement (para. 2.32). AGETUR's reports
and finalized X negotiations will be transmitted by    will be forwarded to IDA by the VIP Committee,
:         the executing agencies at latest one month after the    and SERHAU's will be sent by the Ministry of
end of each quarter (see para. 2.41).            Urbanism.  To complete semi-annual audits of
special accounts, supervision missions will need to
F. Supervision Plan                              compare invoices paid to subcontractors for works
with the corresponding quantity of works carried
2.39        Specific pilot activities in this project   out at the site.
require close supervision and specialized expertise.
Sociological and environmental aspects of the    2.42         The annual meetings of the Inter-
Environmental Sanitation  Component will be    ministerial Steering Committee will be scheduled to
supervised by the Regional Water and Sanitation    coincide with the IDA supervision schedule present-
Group (RWSG, Abidjan). UNCHS/Habitat (Nai-   ed in Supporting Table 3.  They will cover an
robi) will supervise the Capacity Building Compo-    assessment of financial contributions by beneficia-
nent. These agencies will schedule their visits to   ries (cost recovery); the CUs' contributions to the
coincide with IDA supervision missions. Routine    cost of priority urban services, and Godomey and
missions should normally include a procurement   Menontin residents' contributions to the cost of civil
specialist or a civil engineer, and a financial ana-    works in their areas. Should the CUs fail to con-
lyst. Full-scale missions should also include an ex-   tribute to urban services, according to the timetable
pert in public finance, an urban economist/planner,   and in the amounts agreed during negotiations and
a financial analyst and a community participation    shown in Annex 3, continuation of the execution of
specialist (see Supporting Table 3).             the annual program of works under the Infrastruc-
ture Rehabilitation, Environmental Sanitation, and
2.40        The number of Bank Group staff-    Urban Services Components will be delayed until
weeks required for supervision is 26 for the first   the contributions are deposited into AGETUR's
year and 16 for each subsequent year.  Initial   account.  This condition was agreed with IDA
supervision missions should take place no less   during  negotiations.    Annual  programs  of
frequently than every four months and pay special   labor-intensive works for the Infrastructure Rehabil-
attention to assessing the performance of the imple-   itation Component, will be defined by common
menting agencies, SERHAU and AGETUR, with   consent of IDA and Government at the conclusion
respect to procurement:  time required to issue    of the annual meeting of the Interministerial Com-
requests for proposals (RFPs), select the winning    mittee.
bid, sign contracts, and pay invoices; conformity
with Bank procurement procedures and with RFP    2.43         The Borrower and the Association
conditions; and ability to anticipate and deal with   shall not later than January 31, 1994 conduct a mid-
cost overruns, especially in civil works (AGETUR's   term project implementation review in order (a) to
responsibility). Supervision missions should also    monitor progress in carrying out the project and
scrutinize the agencies' operating costs.        performance of the Government and the execution
agencies under the respective agreements; (b) to
2.41        For this purpose, at negotiations, a    discuss and agree on (i) studies and programs
list of performance indicators was drawn up jointly   identified during project implementation; and (ii)
by representatives of the Bank and the two agen-   procurement and financing of the rest of such
cies. An assessment of performance by indicator   studies and program; and (c) to propose coordinated
will be attached to the quarterly progress reports   solutions to any current issues. To enable such a
which each agency is required to forward to IDA    review, the Borrower shall cause AGETUR and
22



Republic of Benin: Urban Rehabilitation and Managemen Project
SERHAU to employ independent consultants on    estimated that about 350,000 residents will benefit
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA to carry   from these reductions in exposure to waterborne
out an evaluation of activities completed by October   diseases.
31, 1993. Not later than December 31, 1992, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its   2.46     Tie project's impact on the revival of
review and comments the report prepared by the   the construction industry in particular, and of the
consultants, including the comments of the execut-   local economy in general, is expected to be consid-
ing agencies and the Borrower in such detail as the    erable: at least 40% of project financing will flow
Association shall reasonably request including: (i)   directly into the local economy, through civil works
an evaluation of progress achieved in project imple-    which can be carried out by local SMEs, and
mentation by the Borrower and the executing   through management fees paid to the two local
agencies, in particular in accordance with their   implementing agencies.
respective agreements; and (ii) a draft action pro-
gram covering the period through project comple-   2.47      The project's impact on local re-
tion.  The draft action program shall cover the    source mobilization should lead to a doubling of
following:  (a) program of works; (b) detailed   income for the Porto-Novo CU by 1994 (see An-
procurement program; (c) detailed technical asis-    nex 3).
tance and training; and (d) detailed financing plan
including cost recovery measures and government   Urban Poverty and Employment
counterpart financing. Promptly after completion of
the mid-term review, those recommendations arising    2.48   Assuming that at least 30% of local
out of the said review as agreed by the Borrower   contracts for civil works will be spent in salaries
and the Association shall be carried out. Assurance   and wages for unskilled labor by private SMEs in
was given by Government at negotiations that this   the construction sector, more than US$5.5 M
mid-term project implementation review would be    should benefit the poorest urban workers. This
carried out under the conditions and on the pro-   would create 1,375,000 work-days of mostly (95%)
posed dates detailed above.                     unskilled jobs.
G. Justification and Risks                      2.49         Environmental sanitation improve-
ments resulting from drainage works and mainte-
Economic Analysis                               nance to be carried out under the project will
benefit about 350,000 urban residents, mostly urban
2.44        Road and drainag. works to be    poor.   Other community-based  improvements
carried out under the project are part of a larger   carried out in the Menontin area will benefit resi-
program of priority infrastructure rehabilitation; the    dents of that area and of neighboring areas as well
internal rate of return (IRR) of all urban road works   (Zogbo, Agla) for a total of 50,000 beneficiaries,
to be carried out under this project will be greater   also urban poor.
than 24%. Economic benefits resulting from road
improvements derive from vehicle operating cost   Environmental Aspects
savings on the improved road network. The meth-
odology and detailed calculations for the road works    2.50  Concern for improving environmental
IRRs are presented in Annex 2.                  conditions is a major project objective and therefore
informs the design of all components, in particular
2.45        Non-quantified health benefits due to   the Environmental Sanitation Component.  The
reduction in waterborne diseases will result not only    Urban Development Component would introduce
in the Menontin area but also in the areas where    major improvements in land development practices,
drainage works will be rebuilt or extended. It is    which will mean treating the land and its residents
23



Republic of Benin: Urban Rehabilitatien and Management Project
with greater respect. Th'e Urban Services Compo-    contribute to a substantial improvement in environ-
nent should also introduce maintenance programs    mental sanitation by eliminating standing rainwater.
which would help to alleviate the adverse effects of
flooding.
Project Risks
2.51        Because Cotonou's unfavorable low-
lying location, which has been further damaged by    2.53       The ability of AGETUR and SER-
poor sanitation and settlement practices in the past,    HAU to manage a heavier contract workload than
constitutes a major constraint to sound urban devel-   either has previously handled is critical to project
opment, environmental concerns were given special    success.  This risk has been minimized by the
attention during project preparation and design. An    provision of technical assistance to both agencies,
environmental study for the Cotonou metropolitan    along with administrative and accounting support.
area was carried out during the preparation period
and has provided an overall framework for spatial    2.54      The survival of these two agencies
planning and environmental impact studies.  An    beyond the project period and the sustainability of
assessment of the project's environmental impact   their programs with local funding cannot be guaran-
led to the redefinition of the Urban Development   teed. However, two considerations mitigate this
Component, involving better measures to protect   risk. First, both agencies have limited the number
urban development sites and their natural resources,    of permanent staff so as to adapt without difficulty
especially for the Abomey-Calavi plateau area in   to a reduction in operational volume following
Cotonou which is particularly vulnerable.         project completior..  Secondly, as local financial
resources grow over time, as a result of the creation
2.52        Most project-financed civil works will   of urban land registries in Benin's main cities, the
involve rehabilitation and maintenance of existing    CUs will become financially self-sustaining and will
roads and drains, and therefore not only are free of   join central and external donors as clients for the
negative environmental consequences but will   agencies' services.
24



Republic of Benin: Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project
III
Agreements and Recommendation
3.01        Prior to negotiations, the Government   (c) a statement of official recognition by the
forwarded the following documents to IDA:           Ministry of Interior of the statutes creating the
Menontin Medico-Social Association, which is
(a) a letter confirming the Government's agree-     responsible for the operation of the Menontin
ment in principle to take the following steps:  health center to be financed under the project
(i) to establish a special account for each of the  (para. 2.09).
two implementing agencies, SERHAU and
AGETUR; and (ii) to delegate authority for   3.02       During negotiations of the Credit
procurement and disbursement (contract award    Agreement, the draft agreements between Govern-
and signature of disbursement requests) to the    ment and SERHAU, and Government and AGE-
directors of these  agencies (para. 2.25).   TUR, were reviewed and found satisfactory. Ar-
Attached to the letter were separate draft   rangements required for opening of the two special
agreements between Government and AGE-   accounts and for disbursements have been included
TUR, and Government and SERHAU, detail-   in the Credit Agreement (paras. 2.25 and 2.37). In
ing these arrangements.  These agreements   particular, arrangements for annual project reviews
were reviewed durinz negotiations. Specific   and a mid-term review (para. 2.43), and for pre-
clauses have been included in the IDA credit   paring and monitoring project implementation action
agreement (i) requiring IDA approval for the    plans, were specified during negotiations. A format
directors of AGETUR and SERHAU and their   for quarterly progress reports was finalized at the
eventual successors, prior to credit effective-   same time (para. 2.41). It includes a list of perfor-
ness and prior to renewal of the directors'   mance indicators to be monitored during implemeri-
fixed-term  contracts (para. 2.25); and (ii)  tation. These quarterly reports will be transmitted
requiring creation of an Interministerial Steer-   by the executing agencies at the latest one month
ing and Coordinating Committee composed of   after the end of each quarter.  Sample bidding
the Ministers of Finance and Planning, Re-   documents will be used for the works' contracts
gional Administration, Labor, Social Services,   (para. 2.28).
and Health (para. 2.23);
3.03        The following conditions of Board
(b) the text of official regulations classifying all   Presentation have been met:
urban roads in Cotonou and Porto-Novo,
according to whether Government or the CU    (a) official publication of the text creating the
is responsible for their maintenance (para.    Interministerial Steering and Coordinating
2.15); and                                      Committee (para. 2.23);
25



RpiWc of Boi: Urban R abilitai and Mana.n8ns Poect
(b) transmission to the A qsociation of the minutes    3.05  ThrouRhout project implementation,
of the Round Table tor potential SERHAU    Government, acting through the Interministerial
Shareholders showing the commitments of   Steering Committee, is required to ensure:
such shareholders (para. 2.25);
(a) that auditing of accounts of both implementing
(c) signature of the management contract between     agencies, covering project accounts and special
Government and the Menontin Medico-Social       accounts, is carr:ad out according to the agreed
Association covering operation and mainte-      schedule (para. 2.38);
nance of the M6nontin health center (pa-
ra. 2.09); and                              (b) that implementing agencies submit quarterly
and annual reports as required (paras. 2.32,
(d) signature of an agreement between Porto-Novo     2.41);
CU and SERHAU covering their respective re-
sponsibil 'es for the local fiscal resource   (c) that the CUs' and communities' contribution to
mobilization component (para. 2.17).            the financing of priority urban services are
made available as required and recorded in the
3.04        TheconditionsofCreditEffectiveness       Credit Agreement (para. 2.42).  Failure to
are:                                                 make these funds available as required may
lead to the delay of the annual public works
(a) official receipt by the clerk of the court in the  included in the Infrastructure Rehabilitat.on,
relevant jurisdiction, or by other required      Ei.vironmental Sanitation and Urban Services
official, of the documentation establishing      Components o( the project. This condition
SERHAU  as a joint public-private entity        will be the sub ect of in-depth examination
("Societd d'Economie Mixte', paras. 1.15,       during the mid-term project implementation
2.25);                                          review (para. 2.43); and
(b) signature of the agreements between Govern-   (d) that detailed design and arrangements for
ment and the project implementing agencies,     Godomey-South's land development will be
SERHAU and AGETUR (para. 2.25);                 forwarded to IDA for prior review  (para.
2.10).
(c) IDA approval of staff assignments for the
technical units in the CUs of Cotonou and    3.06        Subject to the above assurances and
Porto-Novo (para. 2.15); and                conditions, the proposed project constitutes a
suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$22.84 M to
(d) final IDA approval of SERHAU and AGETUR    the Republic of Benin.
directors (para. 2.25).
AFIIN
January 21, 1992
26



__-_  _   _        -- CFAF MiUion--            --- USS Million ---         -- CFAF Uillio. -             -  n M.    -
Ruming       LAC&I               TOW      Local   FomigC    Tlx         al    Foeips    To td  LAW |For       ip     Tatu
Agecy                                                                                                                                     Z
A. Labor-based In
1. Road ad drimap wocks            AOBEUR        1251.0    1251.0   2502.0   4.42      4.42      S.84    1435.3   1466.S   2902.1   5.07       S.lt      10.25
2. Office eqipfmn  purcbase         AGElUR       1.2       10.1      12.0     0.00     0.04      0.04     1.4      12.7      14.0      3.00    0.04      0.05
3. Vebickle pacmb                  AGETUR        2.0      1I.0       20.0     0.01     0.06      0.07    2.2       20.1      22.3      0.01    Q07       0.0O
4. Works wpervisio by AGETIUR       AGEIUR       137.5     137.5    275.0    0.49    0.49        0.97     157.1    161.2    319.0    0.56    0.37        1.13
5. Engineering sudies              AGE13R        12.5      112.5    125.0    0.04      0.40      0.44     14.0     127.7    141.7    0.05    0.45        0.50                    , r
6. Technical auidae                AGHTUR        5.0       45.0      50.0     0.02     0.16      0.18    5.6       50.7      56.3      0.02    0.1U      0.20           1>      _
7. Regular technical evalution     AGBllR        1.6       14.4      16.0     0.01     0.05      0.06     1.1      16.6      11.5      0.01    0.06      0.07
Base Colt                                        1410.S    1529.2   3000.0   4.99      5.62      10.60
Physl contineecies                               1 49      127.1    240.0    0.40      0.45      0.85
Price contingcies                                94.4      139.6    234.0    0.33      0.49      0.13                                                                   B      0        X
TOTAL                                            161S.1    1855.9   3474.0   5.72      6.56      12.28    1611.1   155.9   3474.0   5.72      6.56      12.21          O        
B. Conwunitv-bad E cnv_ _mestal
Sanitation Improvemes                                                                                                                                                                   O
1. Road aeddraie worb              AGBfltR       165.0     165.0    330.0    0.58      0.05      1.17    17.3    109.7    378.1      0.66    0.67       1.34          3                PI%
2. Health center costruio          AGETUR        41.0      112.0    160.0    0.17      0.40      0.57    53.5      126.4    179.9    0.19    0.45        0.4           Q                W
3. Houseold wate coLlectio         AGETUR        32.0      32.0     64.0      0.11     0.11      0.23    36.7      37.5      74.2      0.13    0.13      0.26
4. Water conectiom                 AGETUR        8.0       1.0       16.0     0.03     0.03      0.06    9.2       9.4       11.6      0.03    0.03      0.07          0) 
5. Medical equet purchase          SERHAU        7.3       65.7     73.0      0.03     0.23      0.26    8.3       75.9      84.2     0.03    0.27       0.30          3
6. Vehicle purcae                  SERHAU        0.5       4.5       5.0      0.00     0.02      0.02    0.6       5.2       5.8       0.00    0.02      0.02                  3I
7. Works aupevio by AkETUR         ACETI.R       15.0      15.0     30.0      0.05     0.05      0.11    16.9      17.1      34.0     0.06    0.06       0.12
S. Engineering stdie (road, dains.    AGETUR     2.3       20.7     23.0      0.01     0.07      0.01    2.5       22.9      25.5     0.01    0.06       0.09
lealtb ceta)W 
9.Stu"dies and ommaty devlelopaed    SERHAU      3.0       27.0     30.0      0.01     0.10      0.11    3.4       31.7      35.1     0.01    0.11       0.12
Bas cost
Physl contiageacie                               211.1     449.9    731.0    0.99      1.59      2.51
Price contingencis                               22.5      36.0     58.5      0.01     0.13      0.21
14.9     30.9      45.8      0.05    0.11      0.16                                                                           N
311.5     516.8    135.3    1.13      1.13     2.95     314.5    516.1    135.3       1.13    1.83      2.95
_ _. _                                               _    



1  CFAF MUlion --- USS Milion-                                              --- CFAF Mt --               --- USS MUihioa ---
CoayOaeaaS  -- ~Excmting               LGal    Foreiga    Total    Loca    Foreign    Total    loal    Feaip       Toal    Lsealj Forcia    T          |
Atetcy                                                                                               _        ..| t 
C. Ubtka DcPI! r
1. Road and drinage works ia       AGETUR        185.0     185.0    370.0    0.65      0.65      1.31    213.9    219.2    433.2    0.76       0.77      1.53
odoo
2. Offre equqpet purcnbae           SERHAU       2.6       23.4      26.0     0.01     0.08      0.09    2.9       26.1      29.0     0.01    0.09       0.10
3. Vehlide purchae                 SERHiAU       0.5       4.5       5.0      0.00     0.02      0.02    0.6       5.0       5.6      0.00     0.02      0.02
4. Work supervision by AGETUR      AQFTIR        12.0      12.0      24.0     0.04     0.04      0.08     13.9     14.2      28.1     0.05     0.05      0.10
5. Engineering studies             AGETUR        1.9       17.1      19.0     0.01     0.06      0.07    2.1       19.3      21.5      0.01    0.07      0.08
6. Managemeat by SERHAU            SERHAU        25.0      25.0      50.0     0.09     0.09      0.12    23.7      29.3      58.0     0.10     0.10      0.20
7. Studies and consultant services  SERHAU       19.7      177.3    197.0    0.07      0.63      0.70    22.2      203.2    225.4    0.06      0.72      0.80
Buse cost                                        246.7    444.3    691.0    0.87       1.57      2.44
Physica contingencs                              19.7      35.5     55.3      0.07     0.13     0.20
Price coatiagenaces                              17.8      36.6     54.4      0.06     0.12     0.19
TOTAL                                            284.3     516.4    800.7    1.00      1.82      2.83    284.3     516.4    S00.7    1.00      1.82      2.93
D. Sunoon to Uwbm Services
Mtmnement
I. Road a drinage uateinace        AGETUR        515.5    515.5    1031.0   1.82       1.82     3.64     587.4    593.9      1186.3    2.08    2.12      4.19
waste collection
2. Office equipment puFchase       SERHAU        2.0       18.0     20.0      0.01     0.06     0.07     2.2       20.1      22.3     0.01     0.07      0.03
3. Vebide purchase                 SERHAU        1.6       14.4      16.0     0.01     0.05      0.06    1.8       16.1     17.9      0.01    0.06       0.06
4. Works supervisioaby AGETUR      AGETUR        33.5      33.5      67.0     0.12    0.12       0.24    38.2      33.9      77.1      0.13    0.14      0.27
5. Engineering studies             AGETUR        5.2      46.8      52.0      0.02     0.17     0.12     5.9       53.9      59.3     0.02    0.19       0.21
6. Mngement by SERHAU              SERHAU        7.5       7.5       15.0     0.03     0.03      0.05    8.5       8.7       17.3     0.03     0.03      0.06
7. UIban services units operating costs   SERHAU  39.0     39.0     78.0      0.14    0.14      0.28    44.4       45.3      89.7     0.16    0.16       0.32
S. Studies                         SERHAU
9. Technics] assistance            SERHAU        2.0       2 3.0    20.0      0.01     0.06     0.07     2.3       21.0      23.3     0.01     0.07      0.08
16.4     147.6    164.0    0.06      0.52      0.58     18.7      171.3    190.0    0.07      0.61     0.67
Raw cost
Physical contingencies                           622.7    840.3    1463.0   2.20       2.97     5.17
Price contingencies                              49.8      67.2      117.0    0.18    0.24      0.41
TOTAL          36.9      66.6      103.5    0.13    0.24      0.37
TOTAL                             ll                     l         l        l        l         l       llll                                  |X                 I
______________ _   _ _   709.4    974.2    1683.6   2.51  3.44  5.95   709.4    974.2    1683.6   2.51       3.44      5.95
E. Loca Fiscal Resource Mobilization
1. Project office repairs          SERHAU       6.0       6.0       12.0      0.02    0.02      0.04     6.6       6.7      13.3      0.02     0.02     0.05
2. Office equipmien purchase       SERHAU        2.4      21.6      24.0      0.01     0.08     0.08     2.7       24.1      26.8     0.01    0.09       0.09
3. Scooter purchase                SERHAU        1.4       12.6     14.0      0.00     0.04     0.05     1.6       14.1      15.6     0.01    0.05       0.06
4. Manuagement by SERHAU           SERHiAU       20.0      20.0     40.0      0.07     0.07     0.14    23.2       23.8      47.0     0.08     0.08      0.17
S. Consulting scrviees             SERHAUI    8.0         72.0      80.0      0.03    0.25      0.28     9.3     |5.7       95.0      0.03     0.30     0.34
Base cost                                        37.8      132.2    170.0    0.13     0.47      0.60
Physical contingencies                          3.0        10.6     13.6      0.01    0.04      0.05
Price contingencies                             2.5        11.6     14.1      0.01    0.04      0.05                           I    i
TOTAL                                           43.3       154.4    197.7    0.15     0.55      0.70     43.3      2544      1977     0.15  1     .55   0.7-



--- CFAF Million ---        --- USS Millio ---         - CFAF Million ---       |       USS Millo ---
Components               Executing    Local | Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign            Local    Foreip    Tel    Lol   Foreip| Totl
t                           ~~~~~~~~~Agency                _         
F. Urban Manaement Caacity
Buildint
1. Project staff training         SERHAU        6.2      55.8      62.0     0.02    0.02      0.22    6.S       61.3      68.1      0.02    0.22     0.24
2. Teaching materials              SERHAU       4.8      43.2      48.0      0.02    0.15      0.17    5.2       47.4     52.7      0.02    0.17      0.19
3. National training strategy for urban    SERHAU  2.4   21.6      24.0     0.01    0.08      0.08    2.7       24.1      26.8      0.01    0.09      0.09
mangement
4. Management by SERHAU            SERHAU       5.0      5.0       10.0      0.02    0.02      0.04    5.5       5.6      11.1      0.02    0.02      0.04
Base cost                                       18.4     125.6    144.0    0.07    0.44       0.51
Physical contingencies                          1.5      10.0      11.5     0.01     0.04     0.04
Price contingencies                            0.3       2.8       3.1      0.00    0.01      0.01
20.2     138.4    158.6    0.07    0.49       0.56    20.2       138.4    158.6    0.07    0.49      0.56
G. Sector Stratety
I. Management by SERHAU           SERHAU       22.0      22.0      44.0     0.08    0.08      0.16    25.4      25.8      51.3     0.09    0.09      0.18
2. Studies                         SERHAU       26.0     234.0    260.0    0.09    0.83       0.92    30.1      274.8    304.9    0.11      G.97      1.06
Base cost                                      48.0      256.0    304.0    0.17    0.90       1.07
Physical contingencies                          5.3      28.2      33.4     0.02    0.10      0.12
Price contingencies                            2.2       16.5      18.8     0.01    0.06      0.07
55.5     300.7    356.2    0.20      1.06     1.26    55.5      300.7    356.2    0.20      1.06      1.26
Proiect Preparation Facility                   0.00      84.9      84.9     0.00    0.30      0.30    0.00      84.9      84.9     0.00    0.30      0.30
TOTAL BASE COST                                2665.5   3922.4   6587.9   9.42       13.86    23.28
TOTAL PHYSICAL                                 214.7    314.7    529.4    0.76       1.11     1.87
CONTINGENCIES
TOTAL PRICE CONTINGENCIES                       169.1    304.7    473.6    0.60      1.08     1.67
TOTAL PROJECT COST                             3049.3   4541.7   7591.0   10.77   16.05       26.82   3049.3   4541.7   7591.0   10.77   16.05       26.82



Pagc I of 4
Republic of Benin
URBAN REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF
URBAN ROADS REHABILITATION
Introduction                                   costs to exclude transfers, subsidies and direct
and indirect taxes on the basis of cost structure
1.    This economic analysis examines a        assumptions. Economic costs are thus obtainee
program of priority urban road works in which  by applying a factor of 0.86 to the financial
those works to be carried out under the project  costs. The financial cost is taken to be the AGE-
wIll have to be selected annually.             TUR contract amount, that is, 90% of the "aver-
age private enterprise cost."
Methodology
2.    To calculate the rate of return for urban  B. Maintenance Costs
roads rehabilitation (IRR: immediate rate of
return and ERR: economic rate of return), the  6.    Taking into account the pavement com-
methodology followed is that used by BCEOM     position specified for this project (interlocking
in its 1990 study, Access and Crosstown 7havel  pavement blocks on a sand-covered base), the
in Cotonou (Acces et travers0e de la ville de  roads to be rehabilitated will require minimum
Cotonou), financed by the Africa Development   maintenance during the first 20 years. In the
Bank. This methodology uses classic cost-benefit  20th year, rehabilitation costs amounting to 10%
analysis to evaluate the with- and without-project  of the initial construction cost are included in the
costs and benefits for each rehabilitation site.  cost stream. Routine maintenance cost savings
are taken to be the same as in the BCEOM
3.    The only road user benefits valued are   study, i.e., CFAF 166,000 per km per year. In
those involving vehicle operating costs. The   the without-project situation (roads stay in their
value of time savings is excluded in the rates of  present condition), periodic maintenance costs
return calculations, considering the short length  are included as in the BCEOM study, that is,
of affected road sections.                     CFAF 2.52 million per km every five years.
4.    This annex summarizes the results of the  Vehicle Operating Costs
analysis. Further details on the methodology
may be found in the BCEOM study (see Docu-     7.    In its study of travel in Cotonou,
ments Available in the Project File).          BCEOM  calculated vehicle operating costs at
speeds from 15 to 50 kph. The top speed reflects
Construction and Maintenance Costs             operating constraints due to congestion and
traffic control in the urban environment.
A. Construction Costs
8.    BCEOM  has also calculated vehicle
5.    Road construction costs are based on the  operating costs for rural road traffic going up to
financial costs of road works net of tax as pre-  80 kph, in other work done for the Road Man-
sented in the Staff Appraisal Report. To calcu-  agement Office of the Roads and Bridges De-
late economic costs, BCEOM adjusts financial   partment.
30



Pqe2 of 4
9.     Since vehicle operating costs are a func-  section within the network. Induced traffic has
tion of road pavement conditions and of vehicle   been estimated and expressed as a percentage of
speed, vehicle operating costs for paved roads    current traffic. The results are summarized in
(with-project case) and for three other pavement  the table following para. 1.
types descriptive of current conditions on sec-
tions to be improved (without-project case), have  13.    For later years, traffic for all vehicle
been calculated using data from the BCEOM         types is projected to increase at 4% and 3% per
studies mentioned above. These costs are sum-     annum for Cotonou and Porto-Novo respective-
marized below. Pavement types 1 - 3 represent     ly. A check was made to verify that in no case
existing road conditions, from the best to the    does traffic exceed saturation capacity for urban
worst case. While the operating costs for the    roads, taken to be 1500 vehicle units per hour
with-project paved road may seem high, they      for a road 3.5 m wide.
take into account the uneven surface of this
pavement type.                                    Faonrmic Analysis
Vchicle Operating Cosu
14.   The economic analysis was carried out
Pavement type       Without project    With       according to the standard method of comparing
1      2        3   project       costs and benefits in the with- and without-
Light vehicle    180.0   63.0   148.0    125.0    project situations. The period evaluated was 20
BufTnjck     220.0  202.0   183.0    154.0        years after the completion of road works. The
Two-wheeled    15.0   14.3    13.0    11.0        benefit stream includes:
- savings in vehicle operating costs for normal
Road Tramc                                          and induced traffic;
- savings in routine and periodic maintenance;
10.   Traffic counts were made for three            and
consecutive days on the road sections to be       - in the last year, the residual value of the
improved in Cotonou and Porto-Novo, covering        roads, estimated as 70% of initial investment.
four travel periods (7 - 8:30 am, 11 am - 1 pm,
2:30 - 4 pm and 5:30 - 7:30 pm). These times      This is a conservative assumption since residual
cover peak traffic and were selected on the basis  value could easily amount to 85% of investment
of traffic counts carried out by BCEOM in the     cost. Cost streams include:
Cotonou study mentioned above. Three vehicle      - investment costs adjusted to reflect economic
categories were used: two-wheeled vehicles,         costs;
!ighE velicles and heavy vehicles (trucks, buses).  - rehabilitation costs in the 20th year equal to
10% of initial investment cost (economic
11.   Peak traffic levels were determined           cost).
directly from the traffic counts made. Average
daily traffic was extrapolated by vehicle category  15.   The following benefits have not been
by multiplying peak hourly traffic by 12, in      quantified:
accordance with the conclusions of the BCEOM      - road user time savings, which are likely to be
study. Traffic figures were converted to standard   considerable during the rainy season, when
vei tcle units using the following factors: one     roads would frequently be blocked in the
unit tor light vehicle traffic, two for heavy       without-project situation;
vehicles, and one-third for two-wheeled vehicle   - drainage improvements; concrete road drains,
traffic.                                            while providing for rainwater drainage from
roads, will also improve drainage for the sur-
12.   Paving of road surfaces due to the            rounding area, and thus a portion of their
project will induce rerouting of traffic from        costs could in principle have been excluded
nearby unpaved roads. The magnitude of this         from the economic analysis of road rehabilita-
induced traffic will depend on the location of the  tion proper.
31



ANX2
Page 3 of 4
Induced Traffic on Improved Road Sections
CODE             Without Project                 With Project            % In-
City  Road    Light    Heavy     Two-       Light     Heavy       Two-             l
Vehicle   Vehicle   Wheeled    Vehicle    Vehicle    Wheeled
2   1215     1,914      18      6,196      2,200        20       5,975       15
2   3600     3,468      36     10,478      4,160        43      12,570       20
2   1513    7,369       96     21,000      8,100        105     23,100       10
2   2500     1,944      12      5,406      2,235         13      6,216       15
2   1322       620       6      2.090        620          6      2,090        0
2   5400     5,745      24     19,832      6,320        26      21,815       10
2   3400     1,104      24      7,392      1,214        26       8,130       10
2   1352     1,480      24      4,480      1,776        28       5,376       20
2   5700     1,944      84      6,720      2,138        92       7,392       10
2   1317     1,096      56      2,488      1,424        72       3,234       30
2   3644     2,700      24     10,140      3,105        27      11,661       15
2   2252       948       0      2,976      1,042          0      3,273       10
2   1371     1,280       6      3,740      1,472          7      4,301       15
2   1443       954      24      5,214      1,097        27       5,996       15
2   1314       636      12      1,236        699         13      1,359       10
2   1312       816      36      3,096      1,060        46       4,024       30
2   2235     1,704      12      7,842      2,044         14      9,410       20
2   2400    2,796      108     13,020      3,215        124     14,973       15
1   1136      774       18      5,304        851        19       5,834       10
1   2100      546       12      5,934        627        13       6,824       15
1   4200      520        0      2,880        624         0       3,456       20
1   1812     1,392      48      9,456      1,670        57      11,347       20
1   1823      888       12      4,140      1,021        13      4,761        15
1   1122      588       24      4,044        676        27      4,650        15
1   5300      600       12      3,180        720        14      3,816        20
Note: 01) Porto-Novo; (2) Cotonou
16.   All data used for the economic analysis are summarized in the following two tables.
Economic Analysis of Road Improvements for Porto-Novo
-_ -_=
CODE   LENGTH   ROAD                 TRAFFIC                        COST
(meters)   TYPE
Volume     Light      Two-      Financial    Economic
Vehicles    Wheeled
2400       1,200     RT2      2,151       124      14,973  200,178,000   154,938,000
1136      1,050      RT1       851         19      5,834  185,972,000   148,294,000
2100        780      RT1        627        13      6,824  137,685,000   106,569,000
4200*      1,050     RT1        624         0       3,456  154,246,500   119,387,000
1812        950      RT1      1,670        57     11,347  170,794,000   132,195,000
1823        600      RT2      1,U21        13      4,761  113,256,000    87,663,000
1122        940      RT2      3,676        27      4,650  128,344,000    99,338,000
5300       1,950     RT1        720         14      3,816  348,244,500   269,541,000
32



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 4
Economig Analysis of Road Improvements for Cotonou
CODE   LENGTH    ROAD            __ TRAFFIC               |           COST
(meters}   TYPEI
imetersi   TYPE    Volume      Light       Two-      Financial     Economic
Vehicles    Wheeled              _
1215       1,390     RT2       2,200         20      5,975  231,862,500   179,462,000
3800       1,750     RT2       4,160         43     12,570  314,60e,000   243,505,000
1513        550      RT3       8,100        105     23,100   98,888,000    76,540,000
2500       1,380     RT2       2,235         13      6,216  198,651,000   153,756,000
1322        850      RT2        620           a      2,090  123,420,000    95,527,000
5400       1,450     RT3       6,320         26     21,815  208,728,000   161,555,000
3400         725     RT2       1,214         26      8,130  139,744,250   108,162,000
1352*       650      RT2       1,776         28      5,376  116,830,000    90,427,000
5700       2,400     RT2       2,138         92      7,392  319,100,000   246,983,000
1317        700      RT2       1,424         72      3,234  125,835,000    97,397,000
3644         700     RT3       3,105         27     11,661  134,900,500   104,413,000
2252       1,150     RT2       1,042          0      3,273  221,639,500   171,549,000
1371        910      RT2       1,472          7      4,301  171,786,500   132,962,000
1443        400      RT2       1,097         27      5,996   71,906,000    55,655,000
1314        350      RT2        699          13      1,359   62,935,000    48,712,000
1312        275      RT2       1,060         46      4,024   53,005,250    41,026,000
2235       1,150     RT2       2,044         14      9,410  206,747,000   160,022,000
F,conomic Analysis of Road Improvements: Data by Road Name
ROAD      CITY   CODE   ECONOMIC        FINANCIAL        OTHER COSTS       TOTAL FINAN-
NAME                        COST          COST                               CIAL COST
TRI      TRIE
SEGBEYA       2     5,400   161,555,000    208,728,000   62.31%    176.07%      208,728,000
AVANA         2     1,513    76,540,000      98,888,000   61.90%    173.07%     307,616,000
LIMA          2     3,600   243,505,000    314,606,000   53.01%    121.48%      622,222,000
SAKETE        1     2,400   154,938,000    200,178,000   50.32%    107.E1%      822,400,000
SENADE        2     5,700   246,983,000    319,100,000   39.20%      71.33%   1,141,500,000
SADOGNON    1       1,812   132,195,000     170,794,000   37.10%     63.99%   1,312,294,000
VAN VOLLE    2      2,500   153,756,000     198,651,000   34.90%     60.02%   1,510,945,000
CC-BINE       2     3,644   104,413,000     134,900,500   33.69%     57.04%   1,645,845,500
NICOUE        2     1,215   179,462,000   2,318,862,500   29.61%     47.97%   1,877,708,000
OUIDA-CCB    2      2,235   160,022,000    206,747,000   28.81%      46.30%   2,084,455,00O
ANANI         2     1,352    90,427,000     116,830,000   22.83%     34.87%   2,201,285,00.,4
LIBr-6,TI0    2     3,400   108,162,000     139,744,250   18.27%     27.13%   2,341,029,250
A,  vRIQUE   2      1,317    97,397,000     125,835,500   18.02%     17.76% , 2,466,864,750
MELr,iJONO    1     1,136   148,294,000     185,972,000   18.57%     26.46%   2,652,836,750
COCTIERS      2     1,371   132,962,000     171,786,500   17.72%     26.25%   2,824,623,250
CENTR.ACC.   2      1,443    55,655,000      71,906,000   16.59%     24.46%   2,896,529,250
V.BALLOT      1     2,100   106,569,0'0     137,685,500   16.86%     23.76%   3,034,214,750
DODDS         1     4,200   119,387,000     154,246,500   15.60%     21.88%   3,188,451,250
GARE AUTO    1      5,30C   269,541,000    348,244,500   14.85%    20.68%   3,536,705,750
NADJO         1     1,122    99,338,000     128,344,000   14.78%     20.65%   3,665,049,750
RNIE1-SCB     2     1,312    41,026,000      52,005,250   13.76%     20.35%   3,718,055,000
BELLAMY       1     1,823    87,663,000     113,259,000   13.89%     19.21%   3,831,314,000
FAC MED       2     2,252   171,549,000    221,639,500   12.44%      18.06%   4,052,953,500
W.PONTY       2     1,322   95,527,000      123,420,000   10.13%    14.66%   4,176,373,500
CCIB          2     1,314    48,712,000      62,935,000    8.43%     12.01%   4,239,308,500
Note: I Traffic on these sections has been estimated.                                      33



Page 1 of 35
Republic of Benin
URBAN REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
COMPONENT A: Labor-Based Urban Iufrastucture Rehabltation
A. Objectives                                   over administrative and financial responsibilities.
Staff would be augmented by the recruitment of
1.       The main objectives of this component   four (4) site foremen, an additional secretary, a
are: (a) to increase employment, however, tempo-   bookkeeping assistant, and a technical assistant to
rarily, of the urban poor by intensive use of labor   the Technical Director.
in the execution of works; (b) to improve the urban
environment (essentially, rainwater drainage and    D. Implementation
roads) and the economic functioning of Benin's two
largest cities; (c) to promote the development of   4.    The Government, represented by the
SMEs in the construction sector and generate    VIP Council (Conseil des Personnalites), will
temporary employment in the domestic construction    present AGETUR with an annual program of works
industry; and (d) to strengthen the operational   to be carried out which is in accordance with the
capacity of the implementing agencies.          provisions of the national Public Investment
Program. The annual program will classify works
B. Description                                  in priority order.  A tentative program of road
rehabilitation was elaborated during the appraisal
2.        The component consists of: (a) rehabili-   mission and subject to an economic analysis (see
tation of roads (essentially road surfacing) and    Annex  2).    This program  corresponds  to
construction of minor rainwater drainage works; (b)   AGETUR's performance capacity given institutional
clearing of open main rainwater drains; (c) detailed   strengthening to be provided under the project.
technical studies for the above works; (d) technical
assistance to the executing agency for monitoring    5.   AGETUR will engage the services of
and supervision of studies and civil works (about 18   consulting engineers to prepare detailed technical
staff months); and (e) regular technical auditing of   studies for final engineering, to assist with prepa-
civil works by an outside consultant (4 visits of two    ration of bidding documents and arnouncing calls
weeks each).                                    for bids, and to evaluate the bids for works.
C. Implementing Agency                          6.        Since no individual works contract will
exceed the equivalent of about US$250,000, con-
3.        The implementing  agency for this   tracts will be let following local calls for bids.
component is AGETUR (Agence d'Execution des   Contracts will be awarded to the least cost bidder
Travaux Urbains). At the time of the appraisal   which fulfills bidding conditions, providing it has
mission (April 1991), AGETUR's staff was com-   the technical and financial ability to carry out the
posed of a Director General, an Administrative and    works. Contracts will be signed by AGETUR, the
Financial Director, a Technical Director, a secre-   executing agency for this component, and by the
tary and a driver. Under the project, staff would be    winning bidders. A special account will be opened
reinforced and reorganized as follows: the job of   for AGETUR to allow rapid payment (maximum 10
administrative and financial director would be    days). Works supervision will be carried out by
abolished, and the Director General would take    AGETUR staff.
34



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 35
7.        The necessary financing and arrange-    F. Agreements Reached
ments required for AGETUR to acquire additional
office equipment, supplies, operating costs and    12.      A draft of the contract between the
vehicles will be set out in a supplementary contract   Interministerial Committee, representing Govern-
to the agreement between the Interministerial    ment, and AGETUR defining financial and proce-
Commnittee, representing Government, and AGE-   dural arrangements for the first year of AGETUR
TUR.  This contract shall define the respective    operations under the project was forwarded to IDA
obligations and responsibilities of the two parties.   for review  prior to project negotiations.  The
Operating budget (expenses) will be limited to about   signature of this contract is a condition of credit
6% of the total cost of civil works to be carried    effectiveness.
Out.
13.       IDA approval of the person serving as
8.        A technical assistant who is a good    Director General of AGETUR will be a condition
manager and has had successful experience in urban    of credit effectiveness.
road and drainage works with private firms in
Africa will be recruited. His role will be to support   14.  The technical assistant to AGETUR's
the Technical Director in supervising engineering    Director will be recruited at least six months prior
studies to be carried out under outside contracts, in   to projet start-up.
making cost estimates (for budget purposes), and in
contract management.                              15.       Quarterly reports will be submitted to
IDA for review and commentary not later than three
9.        Regular technical audits of civil works    months after the end of each quarter.
and of AGETUR operations and procedures will be
carried out every other quarter (twice a year) during    16.  Technical audit reports will be forward-
the first year and eventually once a year (four visits   ed to IDA for review and commentary no later than
of two weeks each). An audit report will be pre-   three months after the end of the quarter or year
pared after each visit and sent to IDA for review.    under review.
10.       A quarterly report shall be prepared by    G. Base Cost Estimates
AGETUR covering the progress of civil works,
contract execution, financial status of the works in
this component, performance of contracting firms,                                 CFAF nmllions
staff performance, changes in staff, and any other    Works                             2,502
relevant information concerning its activities. The   Office equipment & supplies          12
quarterly reports will be forwarded to the Inter-      Vehicles                           20
ministerial Committee for Project Coordination.       DetaileT engineering e25
Technical assistance (18 months)    50
E. Component rimetable                                Technical audit (8 weeks)            16
Total                            3,000
11.       Civil works are expected to take three
years to complete, with a starting date in early
1992. Detailed engineering should begin six months
prior to the beginning of works.
35



ANNEX3
Page 3 of 35
COMPONENT B: Communit-Bsed Environmental
Sanitaon Improvement
A. Objectives                                  (d)  Training activities for this component are
grouped with other project training under Compo-
17.      This component has three objectives:   nent F below.  For reference, training for this
(a) to improve environmental sanitation in the   component would involve:
neighborhood of Mdnontin through a range of
activities from hygiene and preventive medicine to    * the community outreach team;
the treatment of disease; (b) to promote the assump-
tion of responsibility by (he community for identifi-    * hygiene and sanitation teachers;
cation, financing and implementation of activities to
improve living conditions, including infrastructure    * artisans; and
maintenfnce and upgrading; and (c) to develop a
model for comprehensive neighborhood improve-    * other community-based teachers.
ment that can be applied in other urban areas in the
country.                                       (e) Community participation in specific environ-
mental sanitation improvement activities:
B. Description
* Solid waste collection (30% of collection cost);
18.      The component includes two works
subcomponents and four involving human resourc-  * Minor works in communal areas (drainage
es.                                              ditches, latrine construction at the market);
(a) Primary infrastructure works:                * Construction or improvement of latrines and
wastewater drains in private residential areas;
* Primary drains                   1,160 m
* Drain crossings                    695 m      * maintenance of works carried out; and
* Canal and 2 bridges                700 m
*  Road paving                       465 m      * digging of ditches for water supply (about 16
* Drain clearing                     230 m      km) and up-front payment of water consumption
!  New dirt roads                  4,130 m      fees for about 600 connections, to be installed
* 300 social water connections                  without charge by SBEE.
(b) Construction of a health center which will  (f) Routine sociological and environmental moni-
provide a base for other component activities and   toring.
anchor its continuing functions. The health center
will comprise health treatment services and a   C. Executing Agency
maternity ward for a total of 60 beds, paramedical
services such as a laboratory and pharmacy, and an    19.  AGETUR is the executing agency for
educational program  covering preventive health   the civil works and health center construction, as
measures.  A multipurpose room will be made    well as for detailed engineering and works supervi-
available to neighborhood associations for meetings.   sion. The executing agency for preliminary engi-
neering for these works will be SERHAU, which
':) Setting up a community outreach team whose   will also coordinate all aspects of this component.
role would be to promote residents' participation in   SERHAU will delegate responsibility for the com-
component-related activities.                  munity outreach activities and for community works
36



ANNEX 3
Pap 4 of 35
to neighborhood comnmunity associations, and for   ments. All health center staff will undergo re-
training to UNCHS-Habitat (see description of   fresher training in Benin which will also cover
Component F).                                 community participation. The health center director
will undergo management and administrative train-
D. Component Implementation                    ing, including computer training. The outreach
team will also organize local training sessions for
20.       SERHAU will hire consultants to carry   teachers at the two primary schools, and for neigh-
out preluiinary engineering for the infrastructure   borhood artisans, as well as for the members of the
works and the health center construction. AGETUR    neighborhood committees.
will hire consulting engineers to prepare the call for
bids and for contract award and supervision.   25.       A campaign to increase awareness of
Infrastructure works contracts will be let by local   health-related issues should culminate in community
competitive bidding and the contract for construc-   sessions to identify and prioritize neighborhood
tion of the health center will be let by international   problems along with solutions to resolve them,
competitive bidding.                           under the guidance of the outreach team. Follow-
ing a financial evaluation of alternative technical
21.      Operation and management of the health    means for carrying out proposed community works,
center will be carried out by the Medico-Social   the community's contribution would be discussed in
Association of Menontin (AMSM) under an agree-   these sessions. Amounting to about 30% of the
ment (mandat de gestion) -ith Government.     total cost of minor civil works either in financial
contributions or in kind (labor), the community's
22.      The outreach team  will include the   contribution would be assessed and collected by the
following staff:                               outreach team. Outside financial assistance will be
made available to SERHAU once the community's
* a medico-social worker, who will work mostly   contribution is in hand. Solid and liquid waste
inside the health center;                    collection will be carried out both by community
efforts and by private sector contract.
- a social worker specializing in sanitation educa-
tion;                                        26.       Sociological and environmental monitor-
ing of health center operations will be carried out
* an urban community development agent; and   on a regular basis with the help of the outreach
team. The analysis of health and sanitation statis-
* a communications specialist, possibly part-time.    tics collected by AMSM  will allow short- and
medium-term assessments of the effectiveness of
23.      The outreach team will be based in the   project-supported activities in promoting targeted
neighborhood. The urban community development   improvements.
agent will report to SER.HAU and the three others
will be assigned to the health center. The themes of   E. Component Timetable
the outreach campaigns will be chosen and scripted
through close collaboration among the team mem-   27.    Civil works are expected to take 12
bers, the representatives of the neighborhood    months to complete, with works starting in mid-
committees, and outside resource persons if nec-   1992. The outreach team would take up its work in
essary.                                        early 1992.
24.      The outreach team will undergo one
month of training in community participation    F. Agreements Reached
techniques and scripting of teaching materials at a
training center in West Africa (Burkina Faso or   28.    The statutes establishing the Menontin
Senegal). The team members will return twice for   Medico-Social Association were presented before
refresher training during their two-year assign-   negotiations.
37



AAEX
Page 5 of 35
29.       Signature of the management contract    G. Base Cost Estimates
(mandat de gestion) for the health center between
Government and  the  Menontin  Medico-Social    31.           Estimated component costs are as fol-
Association was a condition of Board presentation.    lows:
30.       Failure to deposit the agreed community
contribution to household waste collection costs in                                 CFAF millions
the AGETUR subaccount for Cotonou urban servic-         Household Waste Collection           64
es (see Component D) will lead to delay of the          Road and drainage works             330
execution of the primary  road works in the             Health center construction           160
*  M6nontin area. IDA credit disbursements for road     Medical and education supplies       73
Scooters ('motocyclettes')            S
and drainage works in Mdnontin will depend on the       AGETUR management fee                30
level of participation of residents benefitting from    Enginering studies                   23
the financing of these works. Assessment of the         Studies and community development    30
adequacy of this participation will take place at the
annual project implementation reviews.                  TOTAL                               731
38



A3 
P    6 of35
COMPONENT C: Urban Development
A. ObJectives                                 * an operational study of a pilot development zone
of about 400 ha.; and
32.      The purpose of this component is to    * identification of other growth areas in Cotonou
establish environmentally sound procedures for  and Porto-Novo which are likely to be developed
orderly extension of urban areas. This will require  within the next ten years.
formulation and implementation of new subdivision
and tenure regularization procedures, including   C. Executing Agency
financial participation by landowners, provision for
upgrading of infrastructure standards as household   34.  SERHAU will be the executing agency
incomes and municipal revenues rise over time, ard   for the two land use planning subcomponents for
preparation of structure and land use plans anJ   Godomey South and for Abomey-Calavi, subcom-
related investment programs covering future growth   ponents (a) and (c). The infrastructure works in
areas of Cotonou.                             Godomey South will be carried out by AGETUR,
including preparation of bidding documents and
B. Description                                supervision of works.
33.      This component includes three sub-   D. Component Implementation
components:
35.      To carry out the studies for which it is
(a) preparation of detailed documentation covering   responsible, SERHAU will engage local consultants
all aspects of a new land use plan including infra-   and short-term outside experts. To prepare bidding
structure rights of way for the neighborhood of   documents for civil works, AGETUR will engage
Godomey South (see box for details of the proposed   engineering consultants. Contracts will be let on
procedures for land development in Godomey   the basis of local competitive bidding by local
South);                                       construction firms.
(b) civil works to provide basic infrastructure in   36.  In preparing the Godomey South land
Godomey South, including about:               use plan, SERHAU will consult with one or more
associations representing the current landowners and
* 3.2 km of new roads to be constructed and   residents of the area. This consultation will be
surfaced;                                   carried out under the authority of the subprefecture
* 7.6 km of existing roads to be reconstructed;  of the Abomey-Calavi district within which
* 3.2 km of new primary drains;               Godomey is located. Once the land use plan has
been prepared, it will be submitted for the approval
* 1.5 km of new secondary drains; and         of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport.
* establishment of an intermediate pick-up site for   The participation of affected landowners in the
household waste collection.                 financing of the proposed works will be in the form
of:
(c) studies for a land use plan for the Abomey-
Calavi plateau and land use plans of extensions to    * a contribution in kind involving yieldino rights to
both Cotonou and Porto-Novo, including:         a portion of their current property;
* a contribution in kind involving working on the
* a detailed area structure plan (Plan d'Urbanisme  secondary drains; and
de Detail) indicating areas to be developed and    * a financial contribution covering the costs of
those to be protected on the Abomey-Calavi pla-    topographic survey and a share of the land use
teau;                                         studies costs, which will be held in a special
* an operational action plan for developing the area;  operational fund managed by SERHAU.
39



AEX 3
Page 7 of 35
37.       The land use studies for the Abomey-    G   Base Cost Estimates
Calavi plateau will be carried out under the joint
authority of the subprefect of Abomey-Calavi    The costs are estimated as follows:
district, the prefect of the Atlantic Province, and the
Minister of Public Works and Urban Development.
41.        By subcomponent:
E. Componet ltimetable                                                               C:X nullions
(a) Godomey South land use plan
* Local consultants                  12
38.        Key points in the timetable are:               L    coslat                          17
a. The Godomey South plan will get underway as           * Purchase of computer equipment      10
soon as the credit has become effective and will      * Topographic survey                  30
be completed in about 9 months.                       (b) Codomey South infrasrctur
* Studies and supervision             19
b. Once the Godomey South plan has been ap-              * Civil works (roads, drains, hall)  370
proved by Government, the execution of civil          * Contracts management by AGETUR      24
works should take about 12 months, including
preparation of bidding documents and call for         (c) Abomey-Calavi olateau land use plan
bids.                                                 * Local consultants                   15
* Outside experts                    49
c. The Abomey-Calavi plateau plan will get under-        * Purchase of one car                  5
way as soon as the credit has become effective        (d) ComDonent manageir.nt by SERHAU
and will be completed in about 18 months.             * In-house studies                    24
* Consultants for audit and
F. Agreements Reached                                      management support                  50
* Management fee                     50
39.       The legal existence of SERHAU  as              * Office equipment and supplies       10
indicated by receipt by the clerk of the court of a      * Component-related supplies          6
copy of statutes, establishing it as a joint public-     42.        By expenditure category:
private entity (SEM), is a condition of credit effec-
tiveness.                                                * Works                              370
* Vehicle purchase                    5
40.        IDA's non-objection to the final land         * Office equipment and supplies       26
development plan for Godomey South is a condition        * SERHAU management fee               50
of disbursement for the works included in this           * AGETUR management fee               24
component.                                               * Engineering studies                 19
c  Other studies & consultants      197
TOTAL                                691
40



PS 8 of 35
Guided Land Developmenl ir. God6mey South
Current SU'adon
The area called wsector B" in Godomey South lies in the commune of the same name within the subprefecture of
Abomey-Calavi, into which the city of Cotonou is expanding as it grows. The land to be developed under the
project is located between national interstate roads Nos. 1 and 2, and is conveniently located at the western entry
to Cotonou. It includes an unbuildable depression of about 10 ha which is privately owned.
The overall shape of the land to be developed is triangular and covers an area of 108 ha. composed as follows:
Two core settlement area (113 plots)          17.1 ha
Four private land titles                      14.85 ha
Remaining buildable area                      76.05 of which:
required for roads                  8.12 ha
required for public uses            2.35 ha
individual plots (610)              65.57 ha
Current residents of the site number more than 4,000, living in the core settlements, where densities are greater
than 125 inh/ha, and in the less denas fringes (25 inb/ha).
Apart from the four private land titles existing in the area, land rights have been transferred according to customary
law (through inheritance or private purchase recognized by the local administration). Formal tenure regularization
will be carried out once plots have been returned to their owners and occupancy permits delivered.
Sanitation infrastructure is virtually nonexistent. There are neither drains nor culverts for rainwater drainage and
few latrines. Waste water is disposed of at garbage dump sites or tossed into nearby brush. The four designated
garbage dumps in the area have never been maintained.
Two primary schools are located in the area, one health center, and a Catholic mission.
Accessibility to the existing settlement is poor. Few roads are accessible to vehicles, and most traffic passes along
winding footpaths.
A survey of the area or working site was carried out in 1990 by the National Institute of Cartography (NIC) in
response to a request by the local subprefect, within the framework of a program of coordinated land development.
This survey does not show existing roads, and plot size and boundaries indicated have not been reviewed with
residents.
Proposed Development Proicess
The following procedures are proposed in order to achieve the objectives of the component. At the outset, the
perimeter of the two core settlements will be delineated. These areas may be upgraded later under a program
which would be defined in collaboration with current residents. Concerning the rest of the site to be developed,
the sequence of stages would be as follows:
* Define and delineate the exact perimIci, of the area to be developed (apart from existing core settlements and
the depression);
* Form an association of the current residents, wizo are the presumed future plot owners, representing the interests
of those who will have land rights within the site (association statutes to be defined: purpose, regulations, etc.);
* Set up cooperative working arrangements bringing togsther the different actors involved in site development:
the Association, local authorities, SERHAU, NIC, etc.;
* Set up an account for the Association into which members will deposit their contributions towards engineering
study and plot demarcation costs;
* Completion of site survey by the NIC: exact definition of core settlemenis, property boundaries, calculation of
plot areas, altimetry and contours; and
41



Page 9 of 35
0 Hold public hearings and conduct neighborhood surveys concerning the proposed development plan, using
reports and maps for proontations to residents.
Owcome for Site as a Whole
Current value of private plots: CFAF 10 million/ha x 65.58 ha = CFAF 655.8 million
Future valuo of plots returned to their owners: CFAF 24 million/ha x 65.58 ha x .70 = CFAF 1,101.7 million
(M         ss W    a doubling in value)
Proceeds from phts sold at market value: CFAF 24 million/ha x 10.28 ha - CFAF 246.72 million
Current value of land ceoded for public use: CFAF 10 million x 12.53 ha CFAF 125.3 million
Landownors' contribution: CFAF 246.72 million + 125.3 million - CFAF 372.02 million
Thus, contributionu from beneficiaries amount to the total coat of works (CFAF 366 million), either in the form
of pl  sold at market value (CFAF 246.72 million), or in the form of land eoded for public use (valued at CFAF
125.30 million).
The stat recovers CFAF 246.72 million in cash which can be used to launch another operation. It also recovers
the paved roads and a primary drain, financed by the proposed project and carried out by AGETUR under
Component A, Infrastructure Rehabilitation, for which the beneficiaries will have contributed a bit less than half
the cost [(CFAF million 147 + 94) - CFAF 125.3 million = CFAF 115.7 million].
42



Pap JO of 35
2  TITRES fONCIERS
3- EQUIPEMENTS
4. SERVITUDE HAUTE TENSION
43



,wjvEX 3
Page 11 of 35
COMPONENT D: Management of Urbm Services
in Cotonou and Porto-Novo
A. Objectives                                  the CTs will evolve according to the recommenda-
tions of the Technical Assistant and the conclusions
43.       The objectives of this component are:  of the institutional study. The organization, opera-
(a) to take the first steps required for the establish-   tions and functions of the CTs will be determined at
ment of technically and financially sound urban   the initiative of the Technical Assistant and super-
services delivery units in Cotonou and Porto-Novo;   vised by him. The CTs will benefit from the AT's
(b) to provide for contracting of routine and period-   support for the entire duration of the project.
ic road and drain maintenance while local tax yields
are being improved; and (c) to assist and train   46.     The functions of the CTs will be as
future staff of CU technical units in programming    follows:
techniques for road and drain maintenance work,
and in management of works and service contracts    * works progtamming, monitoring and technical
with the private sector.                          and financial supervision of road and drainage
maintenance to be carried out by AGETUR;
B. Description                                  * definition of the conditions for hiring private
enterprises for household waste collection and
44.       The component has three parts:  (a)     septic tank pumping; contract award; contract
establishment of technical units (cellules techniques  supervision; monitoring of cost recovery from
or CTs) for programming and management of urban   beneficiaries in zones not accessible to wast;
services as an integral part of the urban administra-  collection vehicles;
tions of Cotonou and Porto-Novo; (b) technical   * siting and supervision of waste dumping areas
assistance to the CTs for work programming and    and septic tank disposal sites;
management of contracts with private sector enter-   * supervision of other urban services under the
prises for road drain maintenance and household   responsibility of the urban administrations;
waste removal; and (c) completion of an institution-   * preparation of the administrative and financial
al study of urban service management techniques.  organization plan for the future Technical
Training activities related to this component are  Services Departments; znd
described in Component F.                       * support to implementaJon of Component B
(community improvements in Menontin).
45.       EsTABLIsHMENTOFTECHNICALUNIrs(crs).
A technical unit will be established within each of   47.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO CTS FOR WORK
the two urban administrations (Cotonou and Porto-   PROGRAMMING AND CONTRACT MANAGEMENT.   A
Novo) at the initiative of the Technical Assistant.  technical assistant who is a municipal engineer with
Each CT will be fully integrated into the urban    experience in infrastructure maintenance will work
administration's structure. At establishment, each    with the CT in Cotonou and Poito-Novo. The
CT will be composed of two experienced local   municipal engineer will also have extensive knowl-
professionals:                                  edge of subcontracting methods for urban service
delivery and have successfully supervised the
* a civil engineer; and                         implementation of administrative contracts between
* an administrative/financial professional.     public agencies and private enterprises.
Their assignment to the CT will require IDA's   48.       The municipal engineer's duties are:
approval (condition of credit effectiveness). Their
salaries will be paid by the urban administrations;   * To organize the establishment of Local Technical
project support will provide for operating costs of  Services and coordinate project activities directed
the CTs. During the project period, the staffing of  to this purpose;
* To run the CTs and prepare for their
44



Pop 12 of 35
development into full-fledged Local Technical   c) Throughout the project period:
Services operations; and
* To coordinate training of CT staff and offer    * Initiate and continue to ensure that the technical
technical support to  the  Menontin  Health       units carry out the work program assigned to
Association.                                      them  and  assist  ' Nm  as appropriate and
required;
49.       The municipal engineer's specific tasks    * Monitor urban service management procedures
area  follows:                                      specified for project implementation, including
interaction between the urban administrations and
a) At the outset of the project (credit cifectiwness):  AGETUR,  timely  deposit  of  the  urban
administration's required contribution for road
* Set up the technical units within the two urban   and drain maintenance, waste collection contracts
administrations;                                  with the private sector, supervision of household
* Carry out an accurate analysis of urban services  and septic waste disposal; and
currently performed by the various authorities    * Prepare for the eventual setting up of a Locl
(urban   administrations,  central  and          Technical Services Department according to the
deconcentrated   ministerial  units,  private     recommendations of the  institutional study
enterprises).                                     (organizational chart, budget estimates, staffing,
* Set up procedures specified under the project for  operating procedures).
management of priority urban services (road
maintenance, drain  cleaning  and dredging,   50.         INsTrrUrlONALSTUDY. This study should
household waste collection, regulation of house-    yield proposals for reorganizing the entire range of
hold waste disposal and septic waste disposal);  urban services in Cotonou and Porto-Novo, in-
* Reorganize  operating procedures for other   cluding  the SVU  and  its staff, along  with
related  urban  services  (mortuary  services,   recommendations concerning the most appropriate
building maintenance, etc.);                   methods of service management for these two cities.
* Program training activities for this component
indicated in Component F; and                  51.       The study will cover:  (a) the legal
* Prepare terms of reference and establish condi-   framework for Local Technical Services Depart-
tions for the institutional study of urban manage-    ments (STLs) of the urban administrations, includ-
ment (see (c) below).                          ing delineation of respective responsibilities of the
various participants (ministerial units, both central
b) Prior to the initial assessment of component   and deconcentrated, urban administration depart-
results:                                          ments, private sector) with respect to priority urban
services, definition of the STLs' specific responsi-
* Carry out an accurate analysis of achievements   bilities (management of priority urban services and
to date, including technical unit operations,   other technical responsibilities which may be
conditions of start-up and implementation of   assigned to local governments), administrative and
contracts let by AGETUR and their results;   financial procedures (in-house and subcontract); and
household waste collection operations and septic   (b) the operational framework for STLs, including
tank cleaning operations; impact of training    assessment of available resources, assessment of
activities; recommendations of the institutional   staffing and material needs, setting out of the
study; and                                     organizational  structure,  recommendations  on
* Make recommendations concerning required   technical methods (use of local inputs and labor-
modification of implementation arrangements for   intensive techniques).
the component for the remainder of the project
period.
45



MNME2
Page 13 of 35
C. Executing Agency                             55.       The table below indicates the amounts
involved for the administrations of the two cities
52.       SERHAU  will be the implementing    over the project period.
agency for technical assistance under this compo-
nent. The municipal engineer will therefore be
based at SERHAU's offices. AGETlUR will be                         (sn CFAF tmIlions)
responsible for contract management for road and             xYai Xiar"2 XMYr  131a1
drainage maintenance and household waste collec-  COTONOU
tion In Its role as contracting agant for the urban  Proje-t ands 72    116  63    251
administrations.                                  Urbvi Admin. i   i.   292    4
110  271   355   736
D. Component Implementation                       PORTONOVO A X Yoar 2  Yr         l
53.      In order to establish a minimum level of  I  .       30   39   22    91
Urb-anAMmin. J1   34   I0    Im
urban service delivery in Cotonou and Porto-Novo              45   92   122   260
and to allow for a full-scale, "real life" apprentice-
ship of the CTs, in advance of improved local
resource mobilization supported by the project,
project funds will cover a decreasing share of   56.      At the mid-point of the project period,
service costs, with the urban administrations picking   the results of this component will be subject to a
up a progressively larger share as follows:     review covering:
Ye  1 Year2 Year 3              * tasks accomplished as compared with tasks
Project funds   80%   50%   20%                 planned;
Administration  20%   50%   80%              * justification for any delays; and
o amounts deposited by the urban administrations
54.       Service contracts will be signed by     and the dates of each deposit.
AGETTUR, on behalf of the urban administrations,
according to the work programs prepared by the   57.       The technical assistant will be recruited
technical units under the direction of the Technical   following a published recruitment notice. SERHAU
Assistant. Invoices will be paid directly by AGE-   will be responsible for publishing the notice and for
TUR.  In order to facilitate identification and    contracting with the selected candidate. SERHAU
monitoring of income and expenditure for these    will draft terms of reference for the institutional
services in each urban administration, AGETUR    study in collaboration with the CT staffs and the
will keep separate subaccounts for Cotonou and    Technical Assistant. The study will be carried out
Porto-Novo within the main project account. These   by a single consulting body chosen from the SER-
subaccounts will be funded, on the one hand, from    HAU shortlist. Preselected consulting firms will be
project funds, and on the other, by the urban   advised to team up with a local consulting firm.
administrations beginning in Year 2 of the project.   The international consulting firm selected will need
The City Treasurer will deposit the funds required   to present references and qualified expertise in the
in the AGETUR account, at the request of the head   following  areas:    municipal  engineering,
of the urban administration, and on the dates   administrative and financial organization, law and
specified by the Technical Assistant, to allow timely   public finance, human resource management, and
payments to the waste collection companies. This   management of public sector contracts to the private
arrangement, which guarantees timely payment,   sector for urban services.
requires sufficient provision to be made in the urban
administrations' budget estimates, and also roquires   E. Component Timetable
that sufficient funds are actually avai:able in the
requisite amounts for regular deposit in the AGE-   58.   No later than one month after the sign-
TUR account.                                    ing of the credit agreement, a list of proposed staff
46



Pqg 14 of 35
to be nominated to the CTs will be forwarded to   62.       Prior to credit effectiveness. IDA must
IDA for approval. Classroom training provided for    give its non-objection to staff nominations to the
these staff under Component F should begin as soon    CTs.
as staff nominations have been approved.
63.       IDA will carry out a mid-project review
59.       Terms of reference for the technical   of this component which will examine in particular
assistant and publishing of the recruitment notice    any gap between planned and actual tasks and
should take place prior to credit effectiveness.   activities, the reasons for any delays, and the
Following credit effectiveness, project funds will   amounts and timing of the contributions actually
flnance technical assistance costs and operating    deposited by the urban administrations.  Any
costs of the CTs.  The CTs and the Technical   shortfall in the required contributions, specified in
Assistant should work out as soon as possible the   the Credit Agreement, may lead to a delay of the
annual maintenance progran required for Cotonou    execution of the annual program of works.
and Poito-Novo, and should make arrangements
with AGETUR for their implementation.             G. Base Cost Estimates
60.       Terms of reference for the institutional
study will be prepared during the first year of                                   CFAF mllions
project implementation. The request for proposals      * Road and drain maintenance
will be sent out and the contract awarded in time       and removal of household waste   1,031
for the study to get underway at the outset of the     * Purchase of office equipment      20
second yaof proec  ipentio.Iestudy's                   * Vehicle purchase                  16
3econd year of project inplementation. The study s   * AGETUR works supervision fee  67
initial conclusions will be presented and discussed    * Engineering studies               52
at the meeting of tUhe Interministerial Coordinating   * SERHAU management fee             15
Conmmittee planned for the second year of project      * CT operating costs                78
implementation.  Its final conclusions will be         * Studies                           20
presented by SERHAU and the study consultants          . Technical Assistance             164
during the meeting of the Committee to take place     TOTAL                              1,463
during the third year of the project.
F. Agreements Reached
H. Additional Information:
61.       Prior to negotiations. A proper classifi-
cation of all roads within the urban administrations    * Detailed Base Cost Estimates;
of Cotonou and Porto-Novo and their assignment to    * Financing Plan for Project-related Priority Urban
a specific central or local authority for maintenance  Services; and
and repair, which will be a condition of launching    * Organization and Financing of Project-Supported
the program of rehabilitation and maintenance of    Household Waste Removal and Septic Waste
urban roads in the two cities, was carried out.     Disposal.
47



ANA 3
Page 15 of 35
I. Detaled Base Cost Estimates
CFAF millions
a) Executing Agency:
* Technical asistant (fees and housing)    36 mo. x 4,550                          163,800
* Operating expeses
Car:        Purchase                     one x 7,000                              7,000
Fuel                         30 mo. x 100                              3,000
Maintenance                  3 yrs. x 700                              2,100
Office:  Equipment purchase              10,000                                   10,000
Supplies & maint.    30 mo. x 500                             lS,000
Telecomm.             30 mo. x 400                            12.000
Subtotal, Implementing agency                                                    212,900
b) Component Management                                                             15,000
c) Technical Unis (CT)
Service cars: purchase                   2 x 450                                   9,000
Fuel                         72 mo. x 50                              3,800
Maintenance                  6 yrs. x 450                              2,700
Office equipment: purchase                                                        10,000
Supplies & maint.                        72 mo. x 500                            36,000
Telecomm.                                72 mo. x 50                              3.600
Subtotal, Technical UJnits                                                       65,100
d) Project Share of Urban Service Financing (see next page)                       1,031,000
e) Institutional Study Estimate                                                     20,000
f) Detailed Engineering & Supervision                                              119.000
g) Training (included in Component F)                                                 p.m.
TOTAL                                                                             1,463,000
48



Plan for Project-related Priority Financing of Urban Services
Year 1                                  Year 2                                 Year 3                1TOWa        Ovetal    oyer.1       B eae-
___                                                             -               j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cost  Projct   CU    ficiaiy
_ _  -      _                                      -.                                         _        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sa    Shamt
ITotal 1Project I C I           ere      Total   rIect cur   Benie               T*IBee
Cost j______                           Cost   _____                  fic.      Cs          *       c         fi
Cot onoe
Road Maiten.        27        22        5         0         65        33       32        0         84         17       67        0         176       72         104         0
Dmain Mainteni.     63        50        13        0        166        83        83        0        231        46       115       0         460       179        281         0
RefuracRenoval      25         0        20        5         50         0        40        10        50         0        40        10       125        0          100        25
TOTAL      ~    ~11    72        38  1     5        281j    116         15        1          65        6        292  1 10    1761  1 251   1 485                     25
Poto-Aovo
Road Mauwten.       7         6         1         0         16         8        8        0         23         5        18        0         46        19         27          0
Drain Mai.ten.      30        24        6         0         621       3 1       30        0        83         17       66        0         174       72         102         0
Refuac Remtoval     10         0         8        2         20         0        16        4         20         0        16        4         50        0          40         10
TOTAL            471    30           15        2        97         39       54        4         126        22       100       4        270  1 91             169        10
-      5               Ili]                 -E       _ _-.T 8 -65 . -                                                                    



AME
Page 17of 35
Organiatlon and Flnandng of Project-Supported Household Waste Removal and Septic Waste
Disposal (Components B and D)
The following description applies to the implementation of Component B and of the waste disposl subcomponent of
Component D of the proposed project.
(.tirf pfJlpks
Wae remov livices are to be performed by the private sector at the direction of the urban administration (CU). Charges
an blled to ues. However. the CU is to contribute to the payment of charges for removal of precollected wase in are
l ieesebleI to ooletion vehils which includes m  of the Menosnin ame where Component B of the proposed project is
loomed. This contribution and that provided for in the IDA credit may be considered as an environmental bonus.' In
exchange, the wate removal company shaIl agree to dispose of wnste at depots chosen and supervised by public authoritie.
Ope?al prretdwes
Urba adinsttIons ame responsible for esablishing and eonforcing service delivery sandards:
a. unde th spevion of their parent ministry, the urban adminisrions will desinte authorized housebold waste diposal
tes and septic wate disposal sit; maintenance of thee sies is crried out by private enterprise under the supervision
of the ubn adminition; and
b. the urban adminisration will engae private firms on a fixed-term, zone-specific basis to carry out waste collection and
disposal; the firms seected will have exclusive collection rights within a zone; fees will be negotiated between the
administration and the frms.
In zones not accessible to wate collection vehicles, neighborhood associations will organize precollection of household wAte
and consolidation at agreed intermediate pickup sites. This work will be done by residents, but the wate removal company
is responible for providing a sufficient number of pickup containers at the sites (about six containers of 10 mn each) and
removing wate at sufficient intervals (about three times a week in the Menontin area, for example). Getting this service going
will require setting up a workable system of waste weighing, monitoring of the composition of waste, and monitoring of
removal of organic and human wate in the Menontin area. Technical assiance to assure the succeu of these operations will
be provided by the CT (technical unit) of the Cotonou urban administration, to be established with project support as described
elswhere in this report (Component D).
Procedurea Specdfic to Menontn
Concerning Menontin and Component B, the CT of Cotonou and AGETUR will prepare the operating orders for the company
hired to collect waste in Menontin, in liaison with the Menontin Health Association (AMSM) and with the support of the
municipal engineer (technical asistance). The AMSN shall delegate to AGETUR, responsibility for contract award, signing
and supervision.
Fiancing Arrangements
Residents are required to pay a fee covering the cost to the companies of carrying out waste removal. In general, these fees
are to be collected by the neighborhood associations and paid to the urban administration (Collections Section), which in turn
pays the invoices presented by the company.
In the pecific case of Menontin and Component B of the proposed project of which this area is the beneficiary, AMSM will
deposit fees paid by Menontin residents diroctly into the AGETUR account earmarked for financing of priority urban services
in Cotonou (see Component D) which will have been established under the project. The balance of waste collection costs in
Menontin will be financed by the IDA funds to be deposited in the same eamarked account.
Allocation of seice cost between residents and the urban administration will be agreed prior to service start-up by the head
of the urban administration:
* on the basis of the CT working through the Municipal Engineer (technical asistant, see Componont D); and
* after consultation with the representatives of the neighborhood aociations.
The firuncial contribution of the urban alministration or of AGETUR to be financod under the project in the form of an
*environmental bonus,' must take into account the cost of collections and the ability to pay of area residents. In the cme of
Menontin, preliminary estimate of residents' capacity to pay were carried out during the appraisal mission and indicated an
ability to pay of about 200 CFAF/month/household. Such a contribution, even if only 60% were actually collected, would
still cover about 30% of the estimated cost of collection services at current market prices.
In preparing the table, *Fiuancing Urban Sevices' (see Component D), it was asumed that residents benefitting from the
serviee would contribute about 20% on average of the wital ervice cost. In the case of Menontin, it is envisaged that residents
will contribute 30% of the cost of this service. This higsier target is realistic given the full-time activity of community develop-
meat staff in the area, whose priority tas will include the mobilization of residents' fiancial retources, in order to finance
works and servi  from which the community will benefit.
SO



AAX3
Page 18 of 35
COMPONENT E: Local FTscal Resource Mobilizaon
A. Objectives                                   (d) logistic and training support, and operational
guidance, for tax billing and collection agents in
64.       This component has four objectives:      Porto-Novo for a period of two years; and
(a) to mobilize the resources which the urban   (e) preparation of a fiscal urban land registry
administration of Porto-Novo derives from four  (r6gistre foncier urbain, RFU) by the Land
property-based taxes (see box) by improving     Bureau of the Ministry of Finance, including
property assessments and broadening the tax     procedures for updating the database, and
base, improving identification of taxpayers, and  training for land agents in the use of the
increasing the tax rates and collections perfor-  registry.
mance;
C. Executing Agency
(b) to rationalize the assignment of tasks and to im-
prove perfbrmance of local agents responsible   66.    SERHAU will be responsible for the
for tax rolls and tax collections within the Tax    execution of this component.
Directorate (Direction des Impots) of the
Ministry of Finance;                         D. Component Implementation
(c) to update and improve management of land    67.       SERHAU will subcontract to local con-
records by t.ie Ministry's Land Bureau (Service   sultants the survey, software design, staff supervi-
des Affairr s Domaniales); and               sion, and staff training in the use of the computer
hardware and software made available under the
(d) to strengthen the capacity of the National   project. Cars procured under the project will be
Institute of Cartography to maintain and make    made available to the staff responsible for the
use of plot-specific cartographic data.      annual property census and for tax collection.
B. Description                                  68.       With the assistance of SERHAU staff,
the Tax Directorate of the Ministry of Fin2..ce will
65.       This component involves five activities:   oversee the annual fiscal cycles of census, billing
and collections by means of departmental and
(a) the introduction and computerization of simpli-   section supervision. The urban administration of
fled base maps covering the Porto-Novo urban    Porto-Novo will fund bonuses for tax staff for a
area, including the identification and systematic   period of two years, along with fuel costs related to
encoding of lot-specific data;               staff transport during the fiscal census and collec-
tion of local taxes. The urban administration will
(b) a door-to-door fiscal and property survey for   also make available to project teams, staff required
the purpose of establishing a computerized    on a short-term basis to carry out survey and tax
database (fichier d'assiette);               collection tasks, in addition to the sworn officials to
be provided by the Tax Directorate during supervi-
(c) preparation of a database on property owners   sion tuurs.
and businesses (fichier des contribuables) and
installation of computer programs for automatic   69.  Throughout the project period, base
updating of tax rolls from this database;    maps and computer hardware and software required
51



Page 19 of 35
for implementing this component will be set up in   At the outset of calendar 1994, project support
offices of about 150 in2 to be made available to    will be provided to assist with the annual
project staff by the urban administration of Porto-  property tax census and the entry of this
Novo. SERHAU will be responsible for equipment      information into the tax base registers;
maintenance and security under this arrangement.
At project completion, tax-related hardware, soft-   (d) Project support will also be provided to tax staff
ware and databases will be transmitted to the Tax   for the production, from the computer database,
Directorate, and land registry-related hardware and  of tax rolls and tax bills, and for collection
databases will be transmitted to the Land Bureau.   follow-up for the 1993 and 1994 cycles. At the
same time, staff will prepare baseline statistical
70.       Once it has been updated through the      series which will permit future tracking of
complete survey, a copy of the detailed map show-   billing and collections performance on an annual
ing plot boundaries (scale: 1:2000) will be trans-  basis;
mitted to the National Institute of Cartography for
data entry purposes. To this end, the Institute will   (e) During the first two quarters of calendar 1993,
make use of hardware and software made available    project staff will update the base map showing
to it through the French-financed (FAC) Urban       plot boundaries using the results of the property
Land Registry Project in Cotonou. The Institute     survey, so that it may be handed over to the
will assume responsibility for further maintenance,  National Cartographic Institute for maintenance
updating and restitution of the plot boundary base  and subsequent updating; and
map for Porto-Novo according to the procedures
established for the Cotonou Urban Land Registry.   (f) Beginning in the first quarter of calendar 1993,
project staff will procure computer hardware
E. Component Timetable                              and software for fiscal applications, prepare
software for the specific requirements of this
71.       Implementation of this component is       component, and train tax staff who will be
planned to fit into the official timetable for fiscal  using these resources in their use. Subsequently,
operations, specifically:                           project staff will create the computerized land
register for Porto-Novo, on the basis of the
(a) In the period between credit effectiveness and  updated map and the worksheets from  the
the end of calendar 1992, topographic base       property survey carried out for tax purposes
maps showing major subdivisions and a quick      (see (c) above).  This register will then be
survey of plot boundaries will be drawn up       transmitted to the Land Bureau for maintenance
(1:2000 scale);                                  and operational use.
(b) During the same period, computer hardware    F. Agreements to be Reached
and software for fiscal applications will be pro-
cured, software will be prepared for the specific   72.  Establishment of SERHAU as indicated
requirements of this component, and tax staff   by submission to the clerk of the court of its en-
who will be using these resources will be    abling statutes is a condition of credit effectiveness.
trained in their use;
73.       An agreement will need to be signed
(c) The property survey will be carried out between    which specifies the respective commitments and
October 1992 and March 1993 so as to permit   responsibilities of SERHAU, the urban administra-
an initial computerized version of the property   tion of Porto-Novo, and the Tax Directorate of the
tax base listing to be available by May 1993.   Ministry of Finance.
52



A     3
Par 20 of 35
G. Base Cost Estimate8
Detailed baw cost estimates are as follows:
CFAF millions
a. Works and equipment:
Office improvements                                        12
Computer hardware                                          18
Two cars                                                   10
16 wooters                                                  4
Office supplies                                             6
Subtotal                                                   So
b. Consultants
Local consultant                                           52
Outside experts                                            10
Topographic and cartographic services                      18
Subtotal                                                   80
c. SERHAU management expenses
(Study coordination and input)                             40
Total Base Cost                                            170
Summary:
Works (office improvements)                                12
Vehicle purchase                                           14
Computer equipment purchase                                18
Office equipment and supplies                               6
SERHAU operating expenses                                  40
Consultants                                                80
Total                                                      170
53



Page 21 of 35
Municipal Financial Analysis
Taxes Affected by Establishment of Urban Land Registry
Tas affected are "rditional taxes ("anciennes contributions") levied from central government rolls on
bdelf of th. urba aa    t        . There are three such taxes:
tax on built property, levied on real estate owned by private individuals or entities; the base is taken to be net
roveou (equal to 60% of the gross rental value); the rate is 32%;
Note: In dt  many cow where actual landowners have not registered their property in formal legal tenr, this
tax is tW  biUed to thm  on the banss of other legal arrangements such as occupancy pernits and civil rulings, or
on a defacto basis (known residency).
* the profeosional tax or patente, payable by individuals or legal entities practicing a profession or commercial
activity; the annual charge includes a flat fee by type of activity as indicated in the tax code ("Code General des
imp6te, tarif dos patentes"), and a variable fee proportional to the rental value of any real estate involved, for
which the rate varies according to the type of activity involved; and
* the liquor tax or license, payable by establishments serving alcoholic drink, over and above the patente they pay,
and involving similar rates.
The total yield from these taxes is earmarked and transferred to the urban administrations.
Blling and recovery procedures are as follows:
* the tax rolls are prepared by the tax rolls unit in the divisional tax inspectorate of central government's Tax
Directorate ("division d'assiette, inspection divisionnaire, services deconcentrEs, Direction Generale des
impots"). In Cotonou, there is such a tax directorate in each of the former districts making up the metropolitan
area; rolls are based on census or survey of taxpayers and are prepared entirely by hand;
* the rolls thus prepared are then approved and authorized by the departmental inspectorate ("inspection
dEpartementale") of the Tax Directorate; in Cotonou, the departmental inspectorate has authority over the six
divisional tax inspectorates of the city plus those of Alada, Calavi and Ouidah;
* bills are sent out by the staff of the tax rolls units ("division d'assiette") in the divisional tax inspectorate;
* since 1989, at the instigation of the IMF, recovery is carried out by the staff of the tax collection units ("division
du recouvrement' in the divisional tax inspectorates, who are sworn Treasury officers; and
* receipts from these taxes are deposited in the divisional inspectorate's account (one account for each 'inspection
divisionnaire"), where it is posted to the account of the urban administration.
54



Per 22 of 35
lenin's urban administrations (circonscriptions urbaines, or CUs) were first created in 1990 and began operations in
September of that year. This analysis of their financial situation is therefore based on partial information and on esti-
mate.
Income
Traditional Taxes
The  constituto the fuiancial baso of CUs. Recovery of thew taxes will be improved by the establishment of an Urban
Land Registry (Registre Foncier Urbain, or RFU).
The taditional txe (sanciennes contributions") are four in number:
* tax on built property, levied on landowners of built property;
* tax on unbuilt property, levied on landowners of unbuilt property;
* the patente, levied on private firms and non-salaried workers; and
* the license, levied on establishments serving alcoholic beverages.
These taxes are managed by central government (Tax Directorate, Ministry of Finance), which then transfers the
rooeipts to the urban administration. Yield on these taxes is relatively low and will be substantially improved by
establishing the land registry (RFU). A pilot land registry project carried out in the town of Parakou by SERHAU
under French financing (FAC) will be extended to Cotonou beginning in 1991, also with French financing, and to
Porto-Novo under financing from the proposed IDA project. Estimated potential tax yields with the RFUs are
prseonted in the table on page 24.
Civic Tax
The civic tax is a fixed head tax levied on all adults. It has been managed under somewhat questionable procedures
by both central and urban administrations. Its elimination is planned in urban areas.
Other fiscal sources, primarily the tax on firearms, yield insignificant amounts.
User Fees
The urban administrations collect various types of user fes. The most important are those for administrative services:
birth/death/marriage certificates, identity cards, building permits, taxi licenses. Other income-producing services
include equipment rental and mortuary/undertaking services.
Fees for Use of Public Space
The main income-producing fees for use of public space are parking fees and market fees. These are collected by the
urban administrations with no help from central administration. These fees should be paid to the urban administrations
by the organizations which manage the markets, but they are not; the same is true of an urban water tax collected by
the SBEE, but not transferred to the city.
Expenditures
Staff salaries take up the greatest part of urban budgets (36% in Cotonou, 56% in Porto-Novo). Since the urban
administrations were created, urban staff salaries, which had been paid by central government, have been made a local
responsibility. Cotonou and Porto-Novo administrations are the only ones which have been able to cover salary costs
without help from central government. Salary costs have absorbed virtually all of available cash flow in these two
cities. For this reason, other budgeted expenditures have not been made.
Other significant observations concerning expenditure provisions are that:
*  investment makes up a very small part of the budget (3% in Cotonou, 5% in Porto Novo);
*  urban service allocations are also very minimal (1% in Cotonou, 9% in Porto Novo);
*  in contrast, the urban administrations are required to contribute to the operating budget for central government
services in urban areas, and these contributions represent an important share of their budget (24% in Cotonou,
16% in Porto Novo). Thse contributions were not made in 1990 for lack of funds.
The table which follows presents:
* budget estimates for the two cities in 1990 (actual income and expenditure figures are not yet available);
* estimates of income increases expected following establishment of land registries (RFUs);
* future expenditures required to implement priority urban services under the proposed IDA project. These
expenditures amount to between 14% and 81% of RFU-related income increases.
55



t1t10Xt1C U         1;1?IS 1tst
ti~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
fTTttTTa Ffffff00AyA li~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
Mt tiLLLM125001  1 



Page 24 of 35
COMPONENT F: Urban Management Capacity Building
A. Objectives                                      classroom analysis of the pros and cons of
different arrangements for contracting out urban
74.       The immediate objective of this compo-   service delivery to the private sector, and for
nent is to provide operational expertise and practical  managing public service contracts.   This
support to urban management staff directly involved  training will culminate in a full-scale case study,
in project implementation.  Anticipating future    carried out with the assistance of the municipal
needs, the component also supports measures to     engineer (technical assistance).   Practical
ensure the sustainability of project-related results  training will cover the following specific topics:
and their further dissemination through training of
local trainers. It will liaise closely with the Munici-   *  management of technical projects: identification
pal Development Program (West Africa Module), a    and assessment of implementation methods,
regional support program sponsored jointly by the  contract drafting including specific technical
Bank Group, UNCHS, and bilateral aid groups.       clauses, monitoring and supervision of works
and urban services contracted to private firms;
B. Description                                     and
75.       This component has three parts:  (a)   *  training of the four community staff based in
training of urban management staff, who are invol-  the Menontin area as part of the project; they
ved in project implementation; (b) design and      would participate in a workshop organized
preparation of teaching materials and information  locally with the support of an expert in
and communications materials for the project; and  information and communication techniques for
(c) formulation of a national training strategy for  community participation. This workshop would
urban management.                                  be based on information, communication and
teaching techniques designed to be effective in
76.       TRANING OF URBAN MANAGEMENT STAFF        communities with low average education and
INVOLVED IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION would include   literacy levels. The project also provides for a
the following activities:                          total of 20 days of regularly  scheduled
m-onitoring of agents' activities over the
(a) training of four staff members of the Tax Direc-  implementation period.
torate (Direction Gendrale des Impots) and of
the city treasurers of Cotonou and Porto-Novo.   77.   DESIGN AND PREPARATION OF TEACHING
This  training  would  emphasize  specific    MATERIALS AND INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS
techniques  for addressing  tax  bills  and    MATERIALS FOR THE PROJECT would include:
surveying taxpayers and taxable property and
businesses, and also management of the data to   (a) design and preparation of a practical manual for
become available in the Urban Land Registries  the establishment of the Urban Land Registries
(geoccoing, updating of data, graphic and       under the project and their replication in other
alphanumerical files, system maintenance, etc.);  towns in Benin. This manual would include
and                                             theory  and   background,  step-by-step
presentation of required tasks and procedures,
(b) training of four Technical Unit staff to be hired  and presentation of the final products in the
under the project and intended to head the      form of a case study;
future Local Trechnical Services Departments in
the cities of Cotonou and Porto-Novo (see   (b) design and preparation of teaching materials on
Component D).  This training will include       different management techniques for contracting
57



AMWJ
Page 25 of 35
of local public services to private enterprises;  cosponsored  by the Bank Group's EDT,
and                                           UNCHS, and bilateral donors.
(c) design and preparation of information and    C. Executing Agency
communications materials covering the eco-
nomic and social impacts of labor-intensive   79.    SERHAU will be responsible for execu-
urban works projects covering the dialogue   ting this component. SERHAU will delegate to
engaged with the residents of areas where new    UNCHS,  responsibility  for  the  conceptual
techniques are being developed:  Menontin   framework and for monitoring and supervision of
(participative  community  environmental   all parts of this component. The CePEPE team
improvements), and Godomey (coordinated land    currently providing support to small and medium-
development).                              sized construction and urban service enterprises in
Benin using labor-intensive techniques, will carry
out the same functions under a UNDP-sponsored
78.      FORMULATION OF A NATIONAL URBAN    project intended to train staff for a permanent Task
MANAGEMENT TRAIENG SMATEOY will require the   Force to support such enterprises.
following four activities:
D. Implementation
(a) preparation of a companion volume to the ILO
study of professional training programs in Benin   80.  In carrying out this component, the
which would  cover the ENA  and  INE    executing agency (SERHAU) will be able to call on
programs, along with an assessment of each   the services of the Technical Support Network
training center's capabilities. This report would   established in the context of the regional Municipal
constitute an audit of current training capacities   Development Program, West Africa Module,
in Benin and can also be used as a working    according to procedures to be worked out between
document for the seminar on a national training    SERHAU and the MDP program unit based in
strategy for urban management;             Lome (Togo).
(b) organization of a seminar on a national training    81.  SERHAU will subcontract most work-
strategy for training for urban management   shops, short courses, studies, and seminars to local
which would focus in particular on ways to   training institutions with short-term  help from
make better use of local training resources and    UNCHS experts. SERHAU will rely on the munic-
to set up an active network of cooperation   ipal engineer (technical assistance) for setting up
among local training centers;              practical training courses for s.aff of the urban
administrations and technical units.  Likewise,
(c) training of 12 trainers in the main local training    SERHAU will rely on the urban community deve-
centers (CEPAG, CePEPE, CENAFOC, CE-   lopment agent to assure that close coordination is
PPE, ENA, INE), and of about 35 administra-   maintained with the Mdnontin Socio-Medical
tive staff, employed either by urban administra-   Association in the design of training programs for
tions, or by the local or regional offices of the   the various staff in Menontin, including the selec-
Finance or Infrastructure Ministries; and  tion of the training organization.
(d) identification and selection of four local urban    E. Timetable
management trainers to participate in the
'training the trainers" workshops planned as   82.   The component as a whole will be fi-
part of the West Africa Module of the   nanced under a UNDP/UNCHS project planned to
Municipal  Development  Program   being   start up in January 1992. Community development
58



Pae 26 of 35
staff will be recruited and technical unit staff   proposed nominations are to be forwarded to IDA
designated during the first quarter of 1992 in order no later than a month after the signing of the credit
to be included in initial training prior to the start-up    agreement.
of the proposed Urban Rehabilitation and Manage-
ment Project. The findings of the ILO companion    G. Base Cost Estimates
volume assessing training facilities in Benin (para.
78 (a) above) should be available prior to credit    =
ffcthvenou. Ihe seminar on a national training           Tin CFAF rn aioa v
strategy for urban management should be held            6Trainingofstaffinvolvedin
iidealy near the midpoint of the implementation        project implementation
period of the Urban Rehabilitation Project, and if     * Preparation of teaching materials
possible immediately following the meeting of the      and of information & communications
Interministerial Steering Committee for the project.   materials about the project          48
The preparation of teaching materials to disseminate
useful experience gained and pilot procedures tested   . National urban management
under the project should be carried out during the     training strategy                    24
last year of the Urban Rehabilitation Project period,    SERHAU management fee
and should also be presented to the Interministerial
Coordinating Committee for the project.                TOTAL                               144
F. Agreements to be Reached
83.       Designation of staff to be assigned to
the Technical Units is subject to IDA review, and
59



ANANEX 3
Page 27 of 35
COMPONENT G: Sector Strategy
A. Objectives                                   nationalpublicinvestmentprogram,decentralization
policy, and the capabilities of the building and
84.       The purpose of this component is to   construction sector, as well as identification of
assist the Government of Benin in the definition of   actions required in the short and medium term to
a medium- and long-term strategy for the urban   launch this strategy;
sector. This will require:
(d) support for finalization of land use planning
a. analysis of the role of the urban sector in the  regulations (code d'urbanisme) as well as the
overall economic development strategy for        rationalization of existing legal texts and practi-
Benin;                                          ces governing the nature, the transfer and the
maintenance of land rights in urban and
b. identification of an integrated medium-term     periurban areas; and
action progran for the urban sector; and
(e) organization of interministerial seminars de-
c. preparation and enactment of a new legal and    signed to launch the project and to develop
regulatory framework for urban infrastructure   future urban sector strategy in a coordinated
investment  and  land  management  and          fashion.
development.
C. Executing Agency
B. Description
86.       The executing agency for this com-
85.       The component is composed of five    ponent will be SERHAU.
parts:
D. Component Implementation
(a) a study of the current and anticipated spatial
distribution of population in the subregion of   87.  In order to carry out the first three parts
West Africa including Benin and its neighbors,   of the project as described above, SERHAU will
and an analysis of the flow of goods and funds   engage the services of a consulting firm or con-
within  this subregion  which  reveals the   sortium  to be selected following international
economic relationships between the towns and    competitive bidding.  In order to assist in the
the countryside, and the current and anticipated   implementation of the remaining two parts, SER-
roles of individual towns in regional economic    HAU will engage the services of local consultants
development;                                and short-term outside experts.
(b) a study of the construction and public works
sector which deals with the whole spectrum of   E. Component Timetable
enterprises in the formal and informal sectors,
and with the volume and composition of public   88.   The international call for bids for the
and   private demand for works and the   first three parts of the component will be made
procedures followed;                        prior to c.edit effectiveness so that the firm or
consortium selected can start work as soon as the
(c) preparation of a public investment strategy for   credit becomes effective. The studies should be
the urban sector which is consistent with the    carried out within a period of about 12 months.
60



AM 3
Par 28 of 35
89.        Prepartion of draft legislation and the    F. Agreenents to be Reached
rationalization of land and property law and regu-
lations will take place during the first 18 months of    90.      SERHAU's legal existence as demon-
project implementation.    Four interministerial    strated by the submission to the clerk of the court
seminars will be planned at regular intervals over    of statutes making it a joint pubi ic-private entity is
the three-year project period.                        a condition of credit effectiveness.
G. BBue Cost Fitimates
BIh cots a  stimatd a follows:
CFAF millions
a. Parts (a), (b), (c)
Local consultants                                      48
Outside experts                                       144
b. Parts (d), (e)
Local consultants                                      24
Outside experts                                        44
c. SERHAU management costs                                 44
(Seminar preparation,
Seminar/meeting expenses,
SERHAU management fee)
Total                                                 304
Summary:
SERHAU operating costs                                 44
Studies                                               260
Total                                                 304
61



ANNA 3X
Page 29 of 35
Ternm of Reference for Study on the Economic Role of Benin's Urban Centers
and an Urban Investment Strategy
Study Objectves
* Analyze the economic importance of cities and towns in Benin and present the long-term prospects for development
of urban-basd economic activities in the context of current macroeconomic projections at the national and West
African subrogional levels (Benin+Nigeria+Niger+Togo).
* Idontify priority investments which would strengthen the economic role of urban centers and would improve Benin's
competitive position in the subregion.
* Prepare a phased yoer investment program reflecting needs identified and national and local financial resources.
This study will provide a basis for identification of actions to be supported under the next urban development project.
Shy Methodology
Three groups of tasks are required for this study. The first concerns the analysis and presentation of the role of urban
centers and of the urbanization process in Benin's economic development in the context of the subregion. The second
group involves a summary of existing conditions, the potential for development, and the needs of Benin's major cities:
Cotonou, Porto-Novo, and a representative selection of about 10 secondary cities. The third group of tasks involves
the preparation of an investment strategy for Benin's urban centers.
These three groups of tasks are intended to be carried out in parallel fashion so that feedback loops may be established.
This will aliow for ample cross-fertilization in the analysis and overall consistency, and will facilitate coordination with
a related study of public sector building and construction industry and with ongoing studies of other sectors of Benin's
economy.
62



Pare 30 of 35
Documentation of the Role of Urbaii Centers and
of the Urbanization Process in Economic Development
The method proposed involves an urban-rural breakdown of Benin's national accounts which clearly exposes the
respoctive contribution of urban areas and rural areas to the national economy and the various linkages between the
urban and rural milioux. For this purpose, it is proposed to apply the demo-economic national accounts format
developed by the World Bank and used in other West African countries (see below), with adjustments to reflect the
specific case of Benin (importauce of unregistered commorce and border trade).
The point of departure for the construction of the social accounting matrix is a detailed analysis of earning and spending
patterns of various categories of urban and rural households. On the basis of an analysis of private expenditure (plus
non-private expenditure ), and taking into account available data on modern sector goods and services, the informa
sector, regitered and unregistered external trade, and balance of payments, an integrated portrait of the 'red economy'
can be pieced together, covering both official and unregistered transactions.
The analysis of external trade will specify Benin's trade with Nigeria, other countries of Sub-Saharan Africa, and the
rest of the world.
The figures emerging from this demo-economic analysis will be presented in the form of an urban-rural social
accounting matrix which will give an approximate notion of the respective contributions of urban centers and rural areas
to the economy, along with the physical and financial flows between these two milieux. Insofar as possible, a
distinction will be made in the national matrix between Benin's northern and southern regions. If this is not potsible,
a separate matrix will be prepared for the coastal area and its trade with the rest of the country and the rest of the
world.
The social accounting matrix resulting from the above analysis, which shall be prepared for a recent base year, will
provide the framework for preparation of a simplified demo-economic model indicating the structural evolution of the
economy of Benin from an urban-rural and north-south point of view. This model, which emphasizes the linkages
between demographic and economic variables, may be accompanied by a classic macroeconomic analysis using the
French TABLO model (Caisse Centrale) or the Bank's RMSMX model.
One or more such models will be used to sketch and compare various demographic scenarios (shifts of population as
between the country's north E   -uth regions, and between the rural areas and the urban centers), and to predict the
implications of such movements on the structure of the rural and urban economies and the domestic market as a whole.
The unified demo-economic framework resulting from the above analysis should be designed to expose the economic
and socio-economic consequences of the urbanization process, in order to provide a basis for justifying an active policy
of land development and infrastructure investment which allows Benin's urban centers to fulfill their function as growth
poles in the larger context of the subregion. In addition, in support of the urban investment strategy, the study should
furnish a clear descri. tion of the mechanisms linking urban growth and overall economic growth, along with plausible
estimates of the orders of magnitude of the main economic flows to and from the urban and rural areas.
63



Page 31 of 35
Identification and Study of a Sample of Urban Centers
Mierarchy of Settklmnts
* Population and growth rate of the urban centers and their hinterland
* Location and position in the networks of transport, communications and trade in the larger region
* Local economic potential and prospects for development
* Slcwtion of a reprmontativ sample of urban centers
For the centers slected (Cotonou, Porto-Novo, about 10 others):
Anatyas of Edstfng Condions
* Infasucture and community facilities
* Institutions involved: their capabilities, resources, budgets, etc.
* Urban management: strengths, weakneses, iwcent trends
* Roles played by central government administration, local authorities, private sector
Economic BIe Analysis by Urban Center
* Economic output and generation of wealth
* Identification of growth engines: processing, value added
* Induced economic activities
* Growth prospects
Identfication of Priorny Urban Investnents
* Open-ended interviews of economic players
i     Location analysis
* Infrastructure critical to economic development (impact of infrastructure levels on production costs)
* Lifetime and amortization of infrastructure investment
Financial Mechanisms and Cost Recovery
* Alternative investment financing mechanisms for investment, maintenance and management of various types of
infrastructure and buildings. Central budget, EAD budget, parapublic institutions, private sector. Transfers,
borrowing, external donors, NGOs, etc.
* Cost recovery mechanisms
* Ability to contribute and to absorb financing
* Identification of bottlenecks
64



AINNEX 3
Page 32 of 35
Formulating an Investment Strategy for Benin's Urban Centers
* On the basis of the preceding analysis, and taking into account earlier urban and regional studies prepared by
SERHAU for national development strategy and regional development options for Benin, extrapolate the preceding
analysis of specific representative urban centers to the urban sector as a whole, and propose a strategy for urban
development and for urban investment which is compatible with known macroeconomic constraints and with
implementation capacity of institutions and enterprises in the urban ector.
* Macroeconomic approach: ton-year Public Investment Program budget by major sector and for specific subsectors
critical to urban development. Two posible macroeconomic scenarios will be prepared.
* Financial supply/demand reconciliatio'j, covering all sources of available financing (external donors, central budget,
local budgets, para-public sector).
* Allocation of overall investment estimates by urban subsector (two scenarios).
* Criteria for allocating subsectoral estimates among different categories of urban centers. Two scenarios will be
explored, one based on a policy of promoting existing growth centers, the other based on a more balanced
distribution which takes into account the needs of all urban centers and attempts to reduce regional disparities.
o Comparative analysis of these two scenarios and proposWs for urban investment strategy for upcountry centers.
Feedback Loops
Required tasks will be carried out in three successive iterations. At the end of each cycle, a report will be prepared
for review by a supervising committee and a seminar during which decisions concerning the next stage of work
will be presented to the consultant carrying out the study.
The first cycle or feedback loop, of one month's duration, should take about 10% of the total staff time for the
study. The second cycle should last six months and take about 60% of the total, and the third and last cycle should
last three months and take up the remaining 30%.
The first group of tasks (demo-economic framework) should take between 15 and 20% of the total staff time for
the study. The second group (study of representative sample) should take between 55 and 60%; and the third group
(investment strategy) the remaining 20 to 30%.
The following matrix indicates one possible allocation of resources falling within these ranges.
Social         Selected Investment            Total
Matrix         Centers Strategy
Loop 1 2               4              4                       10
Loop 2  13             36              11                     60
Loop 3 3               10              17                     30
65



AMNE 3
Page 33 of 35
Draft Terms of Reference Study of Building and Construction Industry in Benin
A. Shedy Objectives
1.    The building and construction industry is a major component of the economy of Benin, both in terms of
contribution to gross national product and to GDCF and also in terms of employment and income. It is also the sector
most capable of responding rapidly to economic recovery and to private and public investment. Contributions to total
construction output are made by public enterprises, local and foreign companies, artisans, and individual builders. It
encompas construction and maintenance of buildings and public and private facilities such as housing, schools,
hospitals, factories, offices and shops; construction and maintenance of urban and rural infrastructure, railroads, ports,
and dams; and the manufacture or processing of construction materials and other required inputs (cement, gravel,
scaffolding, otc.).
2.    In order to understand better the strengths and weaknesses of this sector and its enterprises; to establish a
program with maximum impact on the industry and the country's economy; and to increase productivity and
competitiveness in the construction industry and related services, a comprehensive study of this sector is to be carried
out within the framework of Component 0 of the proposed Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project (Long-term
Urban Strategy).
3.     This study will cover an analysis of demand for construction, an assessment of supply and its growth potential
(including a review of human resource constraints, and production and distribution of construction materiale and
supplies). The study would also identify constraints within the industry which reduce efficiency and would propose
construction industry policies and a program of priority actions.
4.     Specific study results would include:
(a)    a diagnostic inventory of establishments active in the construction sector;
(b)    estimates of production and productivity in the sector and its contribution to the economy of Benin;
(c)    proposed construction sector policies which would result in the expansion of supply and greater efficiency of
production, so that it may better respond to demand and deliver the maximum possible benefit to urban
economic health; and
(d)    preparation of a priority action plan to carry out the proposed policies.
B. Study Outline
S.     The presentation and description of construction output and current industry status will be broken down as
follows:
(a)    by region;
(b)    by subsector: building (housing, schools, hospitals, offices, factories), and public works (roads, airports,
ports, dams and hydraulic works, urban and rural infrastructure); and
(c)    by client: public sector, private sector, households.
6.     Supply and demand will be valued in CFAF equivalents, with indications of how much is taking place on an
unregistered or non-monetarized basis. The same approach will be applied to the estimation of costs for the priority
action plan. Figures should be approximate estimates.
Demand Analysis
7.     Demand for construction and maintenance will be estimated on the basis of an analysis of national public
expenditure by the state and of its decentralized entities, projects included in the PIP (Public Investment Program), and
other private sector projects; existing household and private business surveys, and the study of the 'real economy'
described earlier.
66



Pag 34 of 35
8.     The study of the 'real economy," which will constitute a single comprehensive table of the national economy
which includes all available information on public and private expenditures, will contain a. gooa approximation of levels
of activity in the construction industry, including its non-monetarized and unregistered portions. These macroeconomic
estimates will be compared to specific sector-based information to be collected in the study proposed here.
Suply Analysis
9.     The study will review the range of actors in the construction industry, their numbers, volume of work, and
legal status (public and private enterprises, local and foreign), including force account brigades, artisans, informal
ostor activities, and engineering consultants. The following types of data will be collected from a representative
sample of subjects:
(a)    legal and financial status;
(b)    human and physical resources;
(c)    area of activity, total turnover or volume of work, current business, commercial arrangements; and
(d)    main constraints.
10.    The study will also include a critical analysis of institutions functioning as contractors or contracting agents
(mattre d'ouvrage, maitre d'ouvrage doldgu6) such as AGETUR, and subcontractors (maitre d'oeuvre) such as
consulting engineers, architects, and so forth.
Detailed Subsectoral Analysis
11.    The study will include a detailed review of the following aspects of industry operations for the industry as a
whole:
(a)    human resources, by qualification and level: numbers currently available and projected; salaries and benefits,
general education levels and prof'ssional training;
(b)    construction equipment: degree of mechanization, distribution network for equipment and spare parts;
workshop capacity; availability and qualification levels of mechanics and equipment operators; potential
demand for equipment rental/leasing;
(c)    construction materials:  availability, quality, cost, distribution network efficiency, in particular for the
following materials: cement, gravel and conglomerate, asphalt, reinforcing steel, brick and concrete products,
wood for scaffolding and moulds;
(d)    finances, guarantees and taxes: financial status of enterprises; loan requirements and availability of credit,
penalties, guarantees, foreign exchange; procedures for goods and equipment import; taxes and employee-
related charges; government payment procedures;
(e)    public contract administration: bidding procedures, bidding evaluation, contract award; shares of local and
foreign firms; contract conditions and administrative practices; existence and effectiveness of site supervision;
(f)    construction costs: comparisons with other countries, detailed breakdown into labor, equipment, materials and
supplies, etc.;
(g)    technology:  norms and technical standards for modern and traditional construction work; methods of
construction (manual or micianized); use of materials, technology transfer and relatians with foreign
enterprises and organizations; professional training outside Benin; and
(h)    regulation: laws governing construction industry activity: contract form and  substance; procedures for
handling disputes; laws governing foreign enterprise operations.
6
67



Page 35 of 35
Proposals for construchon industry policies and a program of prioty actions.
12.    On the basis of the foregoing analysis, proposals for construction industry policies will be prepared and a plan
of priority actions drafted, including a timetable for carrying out key activities in the variomis subsectors. This priority
action plan will take into consideration the following points:
(a)    improved management on the demand side, taking into account current and future capacity of local industry;
(b)    improvement of relations among contractors, subcontractors, consulting firms, enterprises, and material and
equipment suppliers;
(c)    increased productivity based on adoption of appropriate technology;
(d)    a proposed program for professional training (construction and management techniques);
(e)    reduced materials' wastage;
(f)    regulatory reform: building permits, registration and licensing of construction companies and engineering and
architecture consultants, contract administration, payment procedures, accew to credit and foreign exchange,
tax law, social legislation; and
(g)    establishing a system of monitoring of industry production including output statistics, current market prices,
cost statistics.
13.    Particular attention will be given to the current and potential production capacity of local construction industry
in preparing the study recommendations. Measures which can have a decisive impact on the growth of the local con-
struction industry will be identified.
C. Supervision Committee
14.    A committee will be constituted to supervise this study under the direction of the Ministry of Economy,
Finance and Plan. This committee will include representatives of concerned government offices and of the private
sector. The committee will have the following responsibilities:
(a)    recommendations concerning the team which will carry out the study; in principle, this team should be the
same as that selected for the study of the economic functions of urban centers and the urban investment
strategy;
(b)    supervise the study's progress and the preparation of proposed construction sector policies and priority action
plan;
(C)    facilitate relations between the study team and the various actors in the industry, in particular the various
governmental institutions;
(d)    present to the concerned authorities, the proposed construction industry policies and the priority action plan;
and
(e)    coordinate and direct the implementation of the priority action plan.
68



Page 1 of 3
Republic of Benin
URBAN REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
Document Identiflcation                                   Nume ro de
A.    Setor Reldod Documonts/Documets sotonds
A. 1.   Urban DevoloDment and Urban Economv/Urbanisation et Economio
D56998
L'urbanisation au B6nin et la croissance urbaine de Cotonou et de
Porto-Novo: Jean-Louis Venard, SERHAU, janvier 1991.
D56999
Analyse diagnostic des structures concern6es par la gestion urbaine
dans les d6partements de l'Atlantique et de l'Oueme; Cabinet ATO,
novembre 1990.
D57000
Rapport sur les petites et moyennes entreprises du secteur gdnie
civil et travaux publics du Benin; IGIP, septembre 1990.
A.2.   Land ManaRement/Gestion fonciere
D57001
Cadre institutionnel et juridiqua des operations de lotissements et
d'amenagement; Andr6 Hernandez, SERHAU, decembre 1990.
D57002
Bilan des op6rations de lotissements; description des sites des
projets, propositions d'amienagement; Jose Tomato, mars 1991.
D57003
Financement des lotissements; Michel Prevost, SERHAU, d6cem-
bre 1990.
D57004
Lotissements problemes foaciers et gestion communautaire; Blan-
dine Legonou, SERHAU, f6vrier 1990.
D57005
Le registre foncier urbain de Cotonou; A. Hernandez, SERHAU,
fevrier 1991.
69



Pop2qf3
Document Identirication                                Numero de
REfErence AISC
A.3.   Municia Finance and Urban Services Delivery/Finances locales et
Situation financibre des collectivitds locales de Cotonou, Porto-  D57006
Novo at Abomey-Calavi et modes de gestion des services tech-
niquos nicipaux, Franooise Bnanet, dScembre 1990.
Organisation des services urbaims; Dominique Romman, SERHAU        D57007
mar 1991.
Geshio participative des services urbains; Etude du locatif populai-  D57008
re (Mdnontin Godomey); Eric Laube, SERHAU, fevrier 1991.
A.4.   Urban Sanitation/Assainissement urbain
Analyse diagnostic sur l'assainissement en milieu urbain (d6chets  D57009
liquides et solides); Innocent-Felicien Accrombessy, SERHAU,
d6cembre 1990.
Adaptation de l'habitat aux conditions locales d'assainissement a  D57010
Cotonou; SERHAU, janvier, 1991.
B.    Prooect-related Documents/Documents li6s au Droiet
Projet urbain du Benin : rapport de synthese gen6rale; SERHAU, avril       D5701 1
1991.
Pr-rapport de syntlise du Projet Urbain du Benin; Frangois Noisette,       DS7012
SERHAU, f6vrier 1991.
Amelioration de l'environnement sanitaire et participation communautaire du  D57013
quartier de Menontin; Annie Manou-Savina (GREA), SERHAU, mars 1991.
Operations de lotissements et d'am6nagemnent de quartiers Godomey-Abo-     D57014
mey-Caavi; Franqois Filliatre, SERHAU, novembre 1990.
Rypport do mission de suivi-evaluation de l'opmration pilote de travaux    D57015
urbins I haute intensite de main d'oeuvre et son agence d'execution,
AGETUR; Luc Cozyn, avril 1991.
Etudes dos wcs et traversee de la ville de Cotonou. Rapport d6finitif:     D57016
deuxietn phase; t6me II: Eitude de faisabilite, BCEOM, 1990.
Pro_rammation des futures op6rations de l'AGETUR; Note de synthese;        D57017                       H
Re6 Loko, SERHAU, mars 1990.
70



Page 3 ef3
Document Identification                                Numdro de
REfErece AISC
Programmation des futures oporations de l'AGETUR; annexes methodolo-       D57018
giques at technique; Rend Loko, SERHAU, mars 1991.
Evaluation onvirontmenotle du Projet Urbain; Marcel Ayitd Baglo et Jean-   D57019
Claude Jacqua; SERHAU, docembro 1990
Environnement et gestion participativo; SERHAU, Tu-Thuy Ta, SERHAU,        D57020
man 1991
C.    Selected woring  pors. tables and manps prWed by Bank staff or consul-
tants needed for ielcmentation/Notes. tableaux et cartes reAres uar les
agents de l Banque. n6cessaire a l'execution du 2rojat
Mission d'appui I la transformation du SERHAU en socit6t I l'economie      D57021
mixte; SAREA; Jean-Louis Venard, juillet 1991.
Comnptes d'exploitation pr6visionnels du Centre de Sante par l'Association  D57022
Medico-Sociale de Menontin; AMSN, juin 1991.
Estimatif quantitatif pour la construction du Centre de Sante de Mdnontin;  D57023
Imotepb, 13 juin 1991.
71



Page  ofI
Republic of Benin
URBAN REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
J    4~n   a0 a 3 a  a            lI   0 M    FL or  a .i .i  s   osoD           "a     "0    MAM                     i
__  *"  1tJt  i l o tf "* tJJ  sO  OJ  r 4^  .,....                      .--.-.Ft.
COOI  a
Lot  *tmt.w.t of r.b1.t.
0.0o0r to cm 40 .S tSd to an UP"t tl**0ft%4                               124 T-4rcl*4             F     Id Yrar*A.*4
ftads 4 Qr*... 1406. Ite;to4 tR. ..-.-41t                                                                           ------             .40_.  r-. ...4
T.d. 4  0QkS t    .                                                  ds---   4             Fe  t-t-
fto.a 4   a.  0   41-1M.d.b.h.-
flnf.w .-.  Stvd.-s.-d Mod. 
t.a..  *e. *e.d- 4 dr*.a.oOd=
19?.r l.w.nitud.oi cIld *dd. -
;00). 1   M" th        or1
to-l.*.^   _o._r .o  lud;Q*
cddqa.  t s  'er^             I                                                                                          .a
C     l ,I.C.IVl1..,
uthi.         Ro_ d ..d 0r.*..
0.ta,.ld _-i.r.w .Il d OddItlo-
.-I Stdye    *90 .11*1.4. wOs                                      t0;d4C
°  91"d  *X                                                  t                            - -
..h ,v...w. ...s.o..dh.... ,                                                                  .    ,           ,     ,     ,,                  ...........
COMgaT 0
n*flt%_#Aq fiq.   fo, * dS.
dr*.f* 90l      400r Cer lIatiOe
0.te,.d v.8o *ddt.4d* I     k
*,I-lWA   StudedOS,,   *"                                        14 ~r"t.es              t4.*54d
z*t..t leosal ,tud.0                                              1       Cot.trect
T90W -441 .*.,styCO*
COMPOPaT £
CeSt .or of Potto aG., ..  . See
FI*cal ****- I
Ciu.A4. .a.t .*t
T*1. or_v s.p90t
r., b. I l'n ."dot Ie t .er.
ICamo  Nl r
-I&, ..  .t. %*.
I ,.w .1  ts (f.oAt .r,)tt
dee IO on.tsh
oft .a.                                                                     t -- -l-
S 0.0 90) _.CN r*A 0 tr at-
cof
ool'90.   too,11  Gt*to   *0I*
ioa  fa..oo... t         -    fr
72



US$ Millions
25
20-
15-
10 -                                                                    i
05 -                                                                   r
1     3     1     3      1     3      1     3     1      3     1     m  m
11992    I   1993    I   1994    1   1995    1   1996    1 19b7          m
Semesters                                     z
AGETUR         SERHAU      *IDA
I 0'    i



Pagc 1 of I
Republic of Benin
URBAN REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IDA SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Missions                  Activity                  Expected Skills         Staff
Requirements          Input
(sw)
Mission I        Supervision mission                Procurement            9
First Year       Project Launching                  Engineering
Seminar with Steering             Contract Management
Committee                         Urban Planning/
Procurement review for civil works   Economics
and studies
Mission 2        Supervision mission to review start-  Engineering         6
First Year       up and implementation of civil     Procurement
works, and procurement services                          _
Mission 3        Supervision mission to review      Contract management   3
Second Year      executing agencies performances    Financial analysis
and audits, and technical assistance
performances                                            __l
Mission 4        Supervision to review overall      Municipal Finance/     8
Second Year      progress of the project with       fiscality
emphasis on resources mobilization   Urban
and participation of CUs in urban  Planning/economics
services financing; to finalize   Engineering
annual program of infrastructure  Community
rehabilitation with the Steering  development
Committee during its annual
seminar to be held at the same time
Mission 5        Supervision mission to review      Engineering            4
Second Year      progress in civil works, studies,  Urban planning/
and procurement for urban services   economics
and civil works                   Procurement
Following years   Same patterns as for Mission 3 to                        Year 3 - 15
Mission 5 (including one to prepare                       Year 4 - 15
PCR). Mid-term review meeting to                          Year 5 - 15
be held.
74



Page I of )
Republic of Benin
URBAN REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL VERSUS PROJECTED TARGETS
e
*      Resource mobilization of the RFU
*      Financial contribution of Government, CUs and Communities
*      Operating costs of executing agencies
*      Works:  -    contract amounts
-    construction schedules includi.ig length of paved roads
-    contract payments
-    quality of works
-    staffdays employed
-    procurement schedule
*      Studies:  -    contract amounts
-    procurement schedule
-    study schedule
-    contract payments
*      Reports: -    audits
-    quarterly progress reports
-    annual progress reports
*      Maintenance of built infrastructure
*      Capacity building of small contractors
75



am
Republic of Benin                                                a
URBAN REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
|     INTERE INISTERIAL       |
V. 1. P. COMITTEE 
|AGETU                                                                    SERhAU|
ACCOU"NTANT         _         AOMINISTRATI%- SECRETARY  | |     GENERAL SECRETARY        - q      TECNNllAL ASSISTANT 
t  | SECRETARY            I |                ~ACCOUNTANT
TECHNICAL DIlECtOR               TECNNICAL ASSISTANT            MAIN RESPOSS. FOR STUDIES                  SECRETARY
,                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~RESPONSIBLE FOR StUDIES  t- _  Jo!N. DEVELoPMENT SPEC. 
Site For~z                                                    REPOSIL
Site For~z
Sitt Fore~ n                                                       T^5K "^MAGER             _     TASK MANAGER  T
Sitr For~z 
TASK M"AAGER                      T TASK  AMNAGER
O|tAFTSEN
76



PHOTOGRAPHS
Page I of 2
1.    The September 1987 and July-August 1991 floods in Cotonou: impact on living and transport
conditions.
77



PHOT?XJRAPHS
Page 2 of 2
2.     AGETUR infrastructure rehabilitation (OPTUHIMO): IDA-financed works in Cotonou and Porto-
Novo, 1990-91.
I~~I
r          w
w  i~  \_ i.                             I         _1               0@' 
rrto-Novo: Street rehabilitation, rue Lacour.
,, -a  -r                    i                             , 
6.~~,                             ,                        '1v
-^s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~t I  ^
Cotonou: Primary open drain cleaning                I                    A
near Danto Kpa Market - Cotonou                                                          . 
Cotonou: Street rehabilitation (rue des Cheminots)                 ___
78                                                         Cotonou: Roadside drain construction



3'
)    Rn NIGER
BURKINA                           r                          T-
FASO                     \oN  /
-12-                                        \                  Krmom,      k,                                12--
0   20   40 1 60   80   100
L            - I_   I
LOMMETE/LS
g f   ~~~~~ &           Ba~~tnikooro                    V>
K  h(no'                                               NIGERIA
0fi   Tanguieto
{   KobIV ->   Toukountouna
Tos NATITING              Kouond6           Sinend    | ORGOU
---5            ~~~0                      KloIaI&
Son.                             ehonk 
Mog          ''ou~~,                            BembrgJ
o     TAKORA                             bt4
-10 ' : t < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nikki)
<           }' N~~dol; P&r&rz  
DD;Ou aXu   i              1                _!>            BENIN
To S.o.dlo    <>        89<7                               t        POPULATION,
ADMINISTRATION
AND ROAD
NETWORK
1           Tchacu~~~~rout
POPULATION:
-s  |-  100,000
25,000
d               ~~~~~~Glazau 6 f 
-9'         ,'-            Savalou                                                                          8'
t-'  Z°<b  X         -(                        GRAVEL ROADS
Os                               -  PAVED ROADS
RAILROADS
'c"                                M <  tta   4°  %*  URBAN ADMINISTRATIONS
> ,,  Djidja Za-. 0°o  K1tou n                   :! DISTRICT CAPITALS
3 AB+\6 EY                    -ePROVINCE CAPITALS
<   Ag ban  Wbnd'                                     NATIONAL CAPITALS
_7       ToNotsfAlah -        =                e                            - PROVINCE BOUNDARIES             7'
T;*r"; is Djnkogbo-Tovtn  riko m- -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ogbot m& ToviIr't6t, ZlA 
_~v-,_ LOK          r #1   ,  Ado  o$akete S cr 
,,,,>   Athe4.@  apar T/rY-/*  DanAbo tnkou
Bs ri a,Vei '       vdjro  .     .  GOS
r'n               COTONOU-            Kpo,OT&t'
EZ             ABOMEY.CALAVII I  C     ome            S>m     i  Vodjw
rr;,                                  uaMCcXoo  Seme-Kpodp   / 
GHANAA    LOME          \rand-  B5-  , -           PORTO        /      BIGHT OF
'0  *  Papa             NOVO                  BENIN
21-                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4- ''



__ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _ __  _   __                                                                           IBRD    2
BENiN
AREAS SUBJECT TO FLOODING IN COTONOU
AREAS SUBJECT TO FLOODiRG.                       TXISTIRn TERUNT  DRAINS
Y9 DAO AYEAR                          Q~ DESIGN/.:LD CATCHEMENT AREAS
60 90 DAYS A YEAR                            ROADS
0- 59 DAYS A YEAR                            CITY BOUNDARIES
15 . W?IDAYSAYrYAR                          PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
~~~~~~~-    -                                e         -*                              tJ'j.C' ,!                                                               -, C
ATLANTIGQE                                                                   7                                                  ___ -L
/IT>s                                                       I    ShAr'° 
\  Range
Airpor                       COIONOU                N
*  ShrQQ                                               (H0                                            1                 2
5iZ::  XT fOf /ENIN                       KILOMETERS
DECEMBER



F rt1 * b ~~SI t* 5.d.                 2'2                                                            A4  b# bi  o@ b
BENIN                                                        XTorA,w
LOCATION OF
PROJECT TOWNS
EOPROJECT / URBANIZATION AREAS
MAIN ROADS
0DISTRICT CAPiTALS                                                               .1
PROVANCE CAPITALS a
*NATIONAL CAPITALS-*
C"l BOUNDARIES                                      -                                                                                                    0..    A~~iR
-PROVINCE BOUNDARIES a
-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                      *7'-Ctut 
NOKCZ25   / ,f
- V t                           3    4   4IT CF 'N'N                                                                                                                      5
I   I    .14~~~~~~~~~~~~HTC SiI
to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2



