Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17976
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
URBAN REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2338-BEN)
June 8, 1998
Transport 2 (AFTT2)
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1 = CFAF 283 (at appraisal)
US$1 = CFAF 511 (at closing)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)    =      :3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)           0.625 miles
1 square kilometer (sq. km)  =      0.39 square miles
1 metric ton (t)  =      2,204 pounds
FISCAL YEAR'
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETUR         Agence d'Execution des Travaux lUrbains (Urban Works Executing
Agency)
AMSM           Association Medico-Sociale de Menontin (Menontin Medical-Social
Association)
CU             circonscription urbaine (urban administration)
ERR            economic rate of return
FAC            Fonds d'Aide a la Cooperation (French Development Aid Agency)
GOB            Government of Benin
ICR            implementation completion report
IDA            International Development Agency
MHC            Menontin Health Center
NGO            nongovernmental organization
PPF            project preparation facility
RFU            registre foncier urbain (urban land registry)
SAR            staff appraisal report
SERHAU-SEM   Societe d'Etudes Regionales d'Habitat et d'Amenagement Urbain -
societt d'e'conomie mixte (Regional Habitat and Urban Development
Studies Bureau - a joint public/private agency)
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
Vice President:     Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director:   Theodore Ahlers, AFC13
Sector Manager:     Letitia Obeng, AFTU2
Task Team Leader:    Hedi Larbi, AFTT2



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...................................................i
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...................................................1
Background ...................................................1
Statement and Evaluation of Objectives ...................................................1
Achievement of Objectives ...................................................4
Major Factors Affecting the Project ...................................................8
Project Sustainability ...................................................9
Bank Performance ..................................................                                                                 11
Borrower Performance ...................................................11
Assessment of Outcome ..................................................                                                            12
Future Operations ...................................................                                                              12
Key Lessons Learned ..................................................                                                             14
STATISTICAL ANNEXES ..................................................                                                             16
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .16
Table 2: Related Bank Loan/Credits .17
Table 3: Project Timetable .18
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Operation .19
Table 6: Studies Included in Project .21
Table 7a: Project Costs ..................................................                                                         22
Table 7b: Project Financing ..................................................                                                     22
Table 8:    Economic Costs and Benefits ..................................................                                         23
Table 9:    Status of Legal Covenants ..................................................                                           24
Table 10:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..................................................                                         25
Table 11:  Bank Resources: Missions ..................................................                                             26
APPENDICES
1   Implementation Completion Report Mission Aide Memoire .................................................. 27
2    Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report ...................................... 35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
URBAN REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2338-BEN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Urban Rehabilitation and
Management Project in the Republic of Benin, for which IDA Credit 2338-BEN in the amount of
SDR 16.7 rmillion (US$22.84 million) was approved by the Board on February 18, 1992. The
Credit was declared effective on November 8, 1993.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1997, the original closing date. The final
disbursement took place on May 19, 1998. A balance of SDR 683,934.61 was canceled on
June 1, 1998. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the-Fonds d'Aide a la Cooperation
(FAC). UNDP had originally committed to participate in the project, but did not uphold its
commitment.
The ICR was prepared by Farida Khan (Operations Analyst), Mohammed Dalil Essakali
(Project Assistant), Alison Cave (Urban Planner) and Wendy Ayres (Consultant) of AFTT2, and
Christian Loupeda of the Benin Resident Mission under the supervision of Hedi Larbi (Task
Team Leader of the project). It was reviewed by Gisele Magnon, Patrick Canel and Jerome
Chevallier (AFTS3). The borrower and the cofinancier provided comments that are included as
appendices to the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in October 1997. It is based on documents in the project files and on information from
interviews with Government officials and project staff. The Borrower contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by providing information reflected in the completion mission aide-
mbmoire, and by preparing its own project execution evaluation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
URBAN REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2338-BEN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    This report evaluates the Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project in Benin, which
was the first focused intervention by the International Development Agency (IDA) in the
country's urban sector. Previously, the Bank had supported infrastructure projects with some
urban components: the 1981 Water and Sanitation Engineering Project (Cr. 1171-BEN), which
financed studies on water-supply, sanitation, drainage and urban planning in Cotonou, the 1986
Second Water Supply Project (Cr. 1721-BEN), which addressed water distribution in Cotonou
and Porto-Novo and implemented a low-income water connection program in the Menontin
neighborhood, and several emergency road and drainage operations for Cotonou (1989, 1990 and
1991).
Project Objectives
ii.   The project's immediate objective was to support ongoing Government programs of
infrastructure rehabilitation and environmental sanitation in the country's two largest cities,
Cotonou and Porto-Novo, following approaches which optimized the impact of public works
projects on employment and incomes of the urban poor, promoted the development of local small
and medium-sized private enterprises, and involved NGOs and residents. The project's longer-
term objectives were to support preparation of a public investment strategy in the urban sector
and lay the groundwork for reforms required to improve the management of urban development
in Benin.
iii.   The project included seven components: Component A: labor-based urban infrastructure
rehabilitation; Component B: community-based environmental sanitation improvement;
Component C: urban development; Component D: management of urban services; Component E:
local fiscal resource mobilization; Component F: urban management capacity building; and
Component G: sector strategy formulation. The project objectives were realistic and achievable.
Implementation Experience and Results
iv.   The project achieved its objectives and merits a highly satisfactory rating. The project
was particularly successful in meeting its physical, private sector development, environmental,
poverty alleviation and policy development objectives. Urban works subcomponents were
i



slightly modified: Component A realized a 20 percent increase in works over those originally
planned, due to work efficiency; some minor works were dropped or reduced from Component B
due to higher-than-anticipated construction costs; and construction of a community development
center was added to Component C.
v.    The project was less successful in meeting its institutional and financial objectives,
although these were substantially achieved. An initial lack of Government support for the
concept of maltrise d'ouvrage deleguee (delegation of contract management to an Agetip-type
institution) and delays in implementing the local resource mobilization component slowed
achievement of these objectives. Delays in the release of counterpart funds also slowed project
implementation. The authority of the municipal technical units established under the project was
slightly undermined by duplication of responsibility with the older service des voiries (road
service technical units). A training component was reduced in scope when UNDP withdrew
from the project. The component was ultimately funded by IDA.
vi.   Project impact is expected to increase as commitment to maintenance grows. Adequate
mechanisms to ensure urban infrastructure is maintained have been adopted. As this was IDA's
first urban sector operation in the country, at the start of the project more emphasis was placed on
infrastructure investment than on maintenance. During the final year of project execution,
however, the emphasis shifted to maintenance.
vii.  Bank performance is rated highly satisfactory. Project identification was consistent with
Bank and Borrower urban sector strategies. Project preparation and appraisal were smooth, and
the Bank provided the needed financial and technical assistance to the Borrower for its project
preparatory activities. Continuity of Bank staff and regularity of supervision missions have led
to a high level of trust and cooperation between the Bank and the Government and executing
agencies; problems in project implementation have been promptly identified and addressed in an
efficient manner.
viii.  The performance of the executing agencies, AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM and was
highly satisfactory. The performance of circonscription urbaine (local government, hereafter
referred to as CU) in Cotonou was equally satisfactory, vwhile CUs performance in Porto-Novo
was not satisfactory. Borrower performance was generally satisfactory. The Government
showed initial resistance to the concept of maitrise d'ouvrage deleguee, and for political reasons,
restructuring of the technical services of both CUs was delayed. The Borrower was also slow to
release counterpart funds, while CUs were slow to allocate local resources for maintenance
activities. However, these problems were overcome during project implementation.
ix.   Economic Evaluation. The SAR calculated an internal rate of return (IRR) only for urban
road works, and estimated this to be in the order of 24 percent. Traffic has more than doubled on
roads paved under the project, while investment costs were about 10 percent less than originally
estimated, showing that these investmnents were highly profitable; therefore an economic
reevaluation is not warranted at this stage. The SAR predicted that the project's impact on local
resource mobilization would lead to a doubling of revemnes for Porto-Novo by 1994. Porto-
Novo's revenues increased by 43 percent between 1995 and 1997, and are expected to rise
.i.



dramatically as the fiscal resource component fully develops in 1998. The SAR also noted, but
did not quantify, the considerable expected impact of the project on the construction industry and
the economy. The project created approximately 1 million work days (about 35 percent more
than using conventional road rehabilitation techniques); 70 percent of these went to semi-skilled
and unskilled laborers; 850 permanent jobs were created over the four years of project
implementation. Most of the works financed by the project were studied and supervised by local
study offices and carried out by Beninese small and medium-size enterprises. Fifty-one
enterprises took part in project works, up from approximately twenty in 1992, corresponding to
about 190 total contracts worth a total of CFAF 10 billion. Other project works (drainage, health
center, community subprojects) generated nonquantified benefits to health and the environment.
A tentative evaluation of the drainage work benefits show that 275,000 inhabitants have been
protected from flooding. In the neighborhood of Menontin where the health center has been
built, infant vaccination rates have doubled and infant mortality has fallen by 20 percent.
x.    Costs and delays. Credit effectiveness was delayed 15 months, requiring two extensions
of the effectiveness date, due to concerns raised by the Beninese National Assembly on the
appropriateness of using autonomous agencies for project implementation. The Government was
also slow to release counterpart funds, slowing project implementation. Despite these delays,
project activities were fully implemented in four years instead of the five originally planned, and
costs for infrastructure were about 10 percent less than originally estimated.
xi.   As noted above, minor works planned for Component B were dropped, as new
information showed that construction costs would be much higher than originally anticipated,
and more appropriate infrastructure was constructed instead. In Component C, certain works that
were to be funded from cost recovery of land-parceling efforts, had to be phased due to the slow
pace of revenue generation but were ultimately implemented.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
xii.  Central and local government authorities and project beneficiaries have committed to the
following measures to ensure sustainable project operation: (a) municipal authorities in Cotonou
and Porto-Novo will assume management of project investments and will program and budget
for routine maintenance (in the 1997 and 1998 budgets for CUs, sufficient resources have been
allocated for maintenance, showing government commitment to maintain infrastructure); (b) the
technical units have been legally established as technical service departments with full planning,
programming and technical management responsibilities, while former technical services units
are being restructured; (c) the nongovernmental organization running the Menontin Health
Center is competent and financially viable, and will continue community outreach activities; (d)
coordinated land development activities will be supported by creation of a local development
committee and by a new urban operation under preparation (see next paragraph); (e) a public
urban investment strategy has been defined which incorporates urban investment programming
into the national priority investment program and coordinates donor interventions in the urban
sector; and (f) private sector development and involvement in provision of urban services and
infrastructure is continuing to build on the bases established by the project.
iii



xiii.  A new operation, the Second Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project, under
preparation, aims at improving the quality of life for urban residents, especially the poor,
improving urban productivity and achieving more balanced urbanization in the country. The
project will consolidate and expand the gains made in the two main cities under the first urban
project, and will involve some secondary cities in the context of decentralization. The new
operation includes the following components: (a) provision of basic infrastructure and services;
(b) finance and management of basic urban services; (c) the urban regulatory framework; and (d)
community mobilization and participation in infrastructure maintenance and service delivery.
xiv.  The lessons learned for future projects in the urbam sector are:
a) Delegated works management to a Agetipe type agency (maitrise d'ouvrage
d6liguie) has proven very effective and seemrs, after some resistance from local and
central governments, to be well accepted by the Borrower.
b) The continuity of membership of the Borrower's follow-up committee and of project
supervision by the Bank were critical to the efficacy of project implementation.
c) Establishment of the urban land registry (regiistrefoncier urbain - RFU) is a
necessary, but not sufficient, step to increase the generation of local resources.
Effective tax collection and enforcement of regulations are also necessary measures.
d) Improved local management requires: (i) more management autonomy and continuity
of the main urban management personnel; (ii) less intervention and demands from
central authorities; and (iii) support to all involved agencies to improve their capacity
and management procedures. Financial and institutional mechanisms for
infrastructure maintenance must be established to ensure sustainability of
investments.
e) Urban public investments, including those of local governments, should be included
in the national priority investment program (PIP), so as to take into account the level
of expenditures at the macroeconomic level, improve the allocation and coordination
of external financing and facilitate effective programming of counterpart funds.
f) Participation of local communities in all phases of project activities (from
identification, implementation, monitoring anid evaluation) must be actively sought
and intensified.
g) Appropriate institutional and regulatory mechianisms must be put in place at first to
facilitate coordinated land development and upgrading of operations and promote
private sector involvement in land development activities.
h) Coordination of donor support is a priority to amplify synergistic effects of such
support, optimize external resources and avoid diversion of government policy.
iv



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
URBAN REHABILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2338-BEN)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
BACKGROUND
1.    Although still a predominantly rural country, Benin is urbanizing rapidly. In 1990, its
cities sheltered about 1.5 million urban residents, of whom about 650,000 resided in greater
Cotonou, the country's port and economic center, and 200,000-lived in Porto-Novo, the capital
and administrative center, 30 kilometers inland. Over the last ten years, Cotonou's population
has increased at about 7 percent per year, about double the rate of the country's population
growth. Cotonou's population is likely to exceed 1.1 million in ten years and 2 million by 2015.
It will then be home to about 55 percent of the urban population and 20 percent of the country's
total population. During the 1980s, economic productivity in trade and transport, which are the
cornerstones of Benin's urban economy, suffered considerably from the disrepair of urban
infrastructure, especially in Cotonou and Porto-Novo. Nearly half of Cotonou's settled areas
were inaccessible during much of the year due to the failure to maintain adequately roads and
drainage networks. There are several reasons why this occurred: (a) the city is located in a
difficult physical environment, on a flat, low-lying, lagoon-studded coastal site, where rain and
tide create frequent flooding, (b) poorly planned and controlled urban development resulted in
settlement of land subject to flooding; (c) management of basic urban services such as sanitation
and urban road maintenance was inadequate; and (d) local resource mobilization was insufficient
to provide even a minimum level of services. To deal with these issues during a period of
structural adjustment, the Government initiated a series of policy reforms and pilot procedures in
Cotonou and Porto-Novo designed to improve the urban development process, ensure
community participation in decision-making, involve small and medium-sized private local
enterprises in public works while optimizing the impact of such works on the income of the
urban poor, and mobilize fiscal resources for the newly created urban administration. The
lessons learned from these experiences were incorporated in the Urban Rehabilitation and
Management Project, which was the first IDA-supported urban project in Benin.
STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
2.    The project's immediate objectives, as expressed in the staff appraisal report (SAR) were
to: (a) support ongoing Govermment programs of infrastructure rehabilitation and environmental
sanitation in the country's two largest cities (Cotonou and Porto-Novo), following approaches



which optimize the impact of public works on the employment and income of urban poor; and
(b) promote the development of local small and medium-sized private enterprises and involve
NGOs and residents. The project's longer-term objectiives were to: (a) support preparation of a
public investment strategy in the urban sector; and (b) lay the groundwork for reforms required
to improve the management of urban development in Benin.
3.    To achieve its objectives, the project included the following seven components:
A.   Labor-based urban infrastructure rehabilitation to increase employment of the
urban poor, improve the urban environrment in Cotonou and Porto-Novo, promote
development of construction small and medium-size enterprises and strengthen
operational capacity of the executing agrencies by: (a) rehabilitating roads (paving)
and storm drains, (b) clearing main open sewer rainwater collector drains, (c)
carrying out detailed engineering for such works, (d) providing technical
assistance to the executing agency (AG:ETUR) and (e) giving periodic technical
assessment of works and AGETUR's performance;
B.   Community-based environmental sanitation improvement to improve
environmental sanitation in the neighborhood of Menontin, promote community
responsibility for identification, financing and implementation of activities, and
develop a model for comprehensive neighborhood improvement, by: (a)
constructing primary infrastructure works to link neighborhood to city networks
(constructing 1,160 meters of primary drains; 695 meters of drain crossings; 700
meters of canals and two bridges; paving 465 meters of road; clearing 230 meters
of drains; constructing 4.13 kilometers of dirt roads; installing 300 social water
connections), (b) constructing a health center, (c) providing outreach to ensure
community participation in promoting personal and public health care, and (d)
monitoring and evaluation of these activities' environmental and social impacts;
C.   Urban development to ensure environmentally sound procedures for the orderly
extension of urban areas, by: (a) prepar:ing detailed engineering and tender
documents for pilot land development of the Godomey-South area, (b)
implementing infrastructure works in Godomey-South, including constructing 3.2
kilometers of new paved roads, realigning of 7.6 kilometers of road, constructing
3.2. kilometers of new primary drains, and establishing a dump site for solid
waste precollection, (c) preparing urban planning documents for Abomey-Calavi
and other growth areas around Cotonou, including a detailed layout plan for
Abomey-Calavi, an operational action plan for layout plan implementation,
detailed plans and programming docurments for development of a pilot area of
about 400 hectares, and identification of other areas in Cotonou and Porto-Novo
for urban development over the next ten years;
D.   Management of urban services in Cotonou and Porto-Novo, by: (a) contracting
out road and drain maintenance and waste collection to the private sector; (b)
establishing technical units in Cotonou and Porto-Novo city administrations to
2



program and manage urban services; (c) providing technical assistance to the
technical units for work programming and management of private sector
contracts, (d) preparing an institutional study on the overall rearrangement of
urban services, which will include recommendations;
E.    Localfiscal resource mobilization, including: (a) introducing and computerizing
simplified base maps covering the Porto-Novo urban area, (b) conducting door-to-
door fiscal and land surveys to include in a computerized database, (c) preparing a
database of property owners and businesses, and installing computer programs to
update tax rolls, (d) providing two years of logistical and training support for tax
billing and collection agents in Porto-Novo, and (e) preparing an urban property
register, providing training in database updating procedures and training land
agents in the use of the register;
F.    Urban management capacity building, by: (a) training urban management staff
directly involved in project implementation (tax bureau, city treasurers, future
technical unit managers, staff supporting small and medium-size enterprises in
construction, and community development staff(Menontin health center and
SERHAU-SEM); (b) formulating and preparing teaching materials, providing
information and communications support for project activities, and (c) preparing a
national training strategy for urban management; and
G.    Sector strategy formulation, by: (a) formulating an urban public investment
strategy; (b) conducting a study of current and anticipated spatial distribution of
regional population and economic activities and trade to ascertain urban-rural
economic linkages and the current and potential roles of cities in regional
economic development; (c) conducting a study of the construction sector in
Benin, (d) providing support for the finalization of land-use planning regulations
and rationalization of legal texts governing land tenure rights in urban and
periurban areas, and (e) conducting seminars for the project interministerial
steering committee to keep the project on track during implementation and to
develop a comprehensive urban strategy.
4.    Evaluation of objectives. Project objectives, while very ambitious, were clear and
consistent with the Government's overall program of economic and financial recovery. In the
urban sector, the Government concentrated on a series of reforms supporting transparency and
accountability. These fell into four priority areas: (a) rehabilitation of infrastructure in Cotonou
and Porto-Novo; (b) support to small and medium-size enterprises in the construction industry;
(c) improvement of urban fiscal resource mobilization and urban services management; (d) and
improved land administration. Of these, the project objectives and components directly
addressed the first two priorities. The longer-term project objectives were broader, but generally
supported the last two Government priorities.
5.    Evaluation of risks. The SAR identified two areas of risk: (a) the potential lack of
capacity of the executing agencies (AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM) to carry out the project; and
3



(iv) the possible unsustainability of the operations of two agencies after project completion. To
mitigate the first risk, the project provided technical asslistance and administrative and accounting
support to both agencies. To mitigate the second risk, both agencies limited the number of
permanent staff so as to adapt easily to reduced operational volume following project
completion. Risks arising during implementation that had not been identified in the SAR were:
(a) weak sustainability of local government management capacity in Porto-Novo and Cotonou
and lack of consistent adherence to infrastructure maintenance policy (programming, planning
and delegation); (b) weak commitment of central and local government to delegate contract
management to independent agencies; (c) higher-than-planned infrastructure costs and longer
time for cost recovery of the land management studies and development of Godomey-South
(pilot for rehabilitation of existing neighborhood); and (d) delays in the release of counterpart
funds.
ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
6.    The Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project was adequately implemented, and
merits a highly satisfactory rating. All short-term and long-term project objectives were met,
although with an initial delay in effectiveness and delays in the implementation of the
institutional capacity-building objective.
7.    Physical Objectives. The project achieved its physical objectives. The first objective, to
support the ongoing Government programs of infrastructure rehabilitation in Cotonou and Porto-
Novo while optimizing the impact of public works on the employment and income of urban
poor, has been met. All road and drainage works are fully completed. Most of these works were
executed through labor intensive methods by local, smaLl and medium-size enterprises, reducing
current urban unemployment and promoting the local construction industry.
8.    For Component A, all detailed engineering studies were carried out by local consultant
firms and completed prior to construction and rehabilitation works. The project realized a 20
percent increase in works over the initial construction program due to economies from effective
implementation by AGETUR and private sector firms (see Table 5). This has noticeably
improved traffic, transport and environmental conditions in Cotonou and Porto-Novo. A
tentative evaluation of the drainage work benefits show that 275,000 inhabitants have been
protected from flooding and benefit from improved environmental and sanitary conditions.
9.    For Component B, the construction program was slightly reduced to account for higher-
than-anticipated construction costs. Of the primary infrastructure, 735 meters of primary drains
were constructed, 735 meters of roads were paved, 230 imeters of drains were cleared and 3,300
meters of dirt roads were constructed. The Menontin Health Center (MHC) was constructed and
equipped. With the exception of health center construction, all other activities were to be carried
out by small and medium enterprises using labor-intensive construction techniques.
10.   For Component C, construction of a community development center in Godomey-South
was added to the works already planned. The Godomey-South land development subcomponent
was completed in four years, rather than the 7-8 year average for such operations, due to the
4



active participation of a local land committee that mobilized the community. Likewise, the
Abomey-Calavi planning exercise was completed in record time. The people of Godomey-South
took an active role in both the land development subcomponent and in execution of public
works. While all site upgrading works (road paving and drainage) were accomplished, they
ultimately had to be phased more slowly than originally anticipated due to funding problems.
The works were to be funded by cost recovery on land parceling. Cost recovery, however,
proceeded slower than expected, so the planned works were phased to match available funds.
11.   Private Sector Development Objectives: The project was highly successful in
achieving its objective to promote the development of local small and medium-sized private
enterprises and involve NGOs and residents. As noted above, the project focused on contracting
out works to small and medium-size enterprises and promoting labor-intensive method,
whenever feasible. This resulted in the creation of approximately 1 million work days, (about 35
percent more than the conventional approach to building infrastructure); 70 percent of these went
to semi-skilled and unskilled laborers; 850 permanent jobs were created over the four years of
project implementation. Most of the works financed by the project were studied and supervised
by local consultant firms and carried out by Beninese small and medium-size enterprises. Fifty-
one enterprises took part in project works, up from approximately twenty in 1992, corresponding
to about 190 total contracts worth a total of CFAF 10 billion. Assessment of these enterprises
has shown that they respond more flexibly to public demand, control costs well and steadily
improve their management capacity. Local engineering capacity also developed well: nearly ten
local firms regularly participated in technical studies and works supervision, and more than
twenty consultants (both firms and individuals) participated in expansion of studies in various
fields (economics, urban development, accounting and financial management, and the like.). The
use of maltrise d'ouvrage deleguee (contract management by independent agencies) for project
management facilitated promotion of small and medium-size enterprises and local expertise. In
addition, residents of Menontin and Godomey-South communities were actively involved in
execution and management of community-level subprojects.
12.  Institutional Development Objectives. The project's longer-term objectives were to:
(a) support preparation of a public investment strategy in the urban sector; and (b) lay the
groundwork for reforms required to improve the management of urban development in Benin.
Satisfactory ratings are justified on the grounds of adequate implementation pace, good
management by both executing agencies (AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM), payment (although
with some delays) of counterpart funds and adherence to the preparation of the urban strategy.
The objective of long-term capacity building has been met, although progress in urban services
was slow due to delays in the decentralization process and initial reluctance by Cotonou
authorities to hire AGETUR as a contracting agency. With the advent of the new Government in
April 1996, the new mayor of the city of Cotonou seems to be more collaborative and committed
to urban service management objectives. Management of urban services has improved, albeit
there still is much room for further enhancement. Technical audits of the two executing agencies
revealed that the agencies had respected contracting procedures and executed high quality works.
13.  Institution-building activities in Components A, B and D were fully achieved. AGETUR
benefited from 18 months of technical assistance from Transroute, which provided necessary
5



management tools, such as procedure manuals and adequate training in procurement and quality
control for AGETUR's staff. Menontin Health Center management was established within a
year and a half by a local NGO specializing in health serviices management. MHC management
performance has been strong, and its financial viability satisfactory, despite its very low service
fees. Despite difficulties inherent in participative approaches and local community mobilization,
the project succeeded in mobilizing and involving the Menontin community in implementation
and management of five local-level subprojects.
14.   The practice of delegated contract management (maltrise d 'ouvrage deleguee) was
instituted through the project by vesting the two autonomous agencies, AGETUR and SERHAU-
SEM, with this function. Despite initial reluctance on the part of the Government, the
effectiveness of this practice finally won the recognition and support of local and central
authorities, and is now well-accepted and commonly used, by central government as well as by
other donors. Cotonou and Porto-Novo technical units, set up with the project assistance, were
operational and satisfactorily staffed, but had overlapping responsibilities with the service des
voiries (road unit) already in existence. A year before the end of the project, the technical units
have been recognized as the only technical structures in charge of infrastructure management and
maintenance. This will be firmed up along with the decentralization process which will endow
local governments with adequate organization and structures and legalize the contracting out
works and urban services management.
15.   Component F included preparation of a national training strategy for urban management.
This component was originally intended for UNDP financing, however IDA stepped in when
UNDP financing did not materialize. Despite a lower level of funding, training was given to
technical unit staff of the of Cotonou and Porto-Novo, community development staff, NGOs, and
construction workers in Menontin. The Municipal Development Program was contracted for
urban staff training and development of a national urban rnanagement training curriculum;
however this component has not satisfied all identified needs. These needs may be addressed in
the new urban project under preparation.
16.   Financial Objectives. Achievement of financial objectives resulting from Component E
activities was substantial. This component replicated in P'orto-Novo the successful French-
financed pilot fiscal mobilization effort carried out in Parakou and Cotonou. Due to improved
taxpayer identification, primarily through registration of small and medium-sized enterprises and
of land, the resource base of Porto-Novo expanded 93 percent and revenues collected rose 43
percent during 1995-97. Revenues are expected to increase dramatically in 1998 as efforts to
identify taxpayers, better value property, improve motivation for people in the Tax Directorate to
issue bills and collect taxes, and improve records management continue.
17.   Sector Strategy and Policies. Project objectives were substantially achieved: (a)
employment of the urban poor was increased by intensive use of semi-skilled and unskilled labor
in the execution of works; (b) the urban environment and the economic functioning of Benin's
two largest cities were improved (c) involvement of small and medium-size enterprises in the
construction sector was enhanced; (d) the operational capacity of the implementing agencies,
AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM was strengthened; (e) envi[ronmental sanitation was improved in
6



the neighborhood of Menontin; (f) the assumption of responsibility by the community for
identification, financing and implementation of activities to improve living conditions was
promoted; (g) a model for comprehensive neighborhood improvement was developed; (h)
environmentally sound procedures for orderly extension of urban areas were identified and
tested; (i) technical units specializing in the management of urban services in Cotonou and Porto-
Novo were established and fully operational; and (j) local fiscal resource mobilization in Porto-
Novo improved markedly. Over the longer-term, the Government is working to define a
coherent long-term strategy for urban management, including environmental and sanitary
aspects. In 1995, the Government adopted a Declaration of Urban Policy. Studies for the
definition of this strategy have been finalized under the project (Component G), a priority
investment program has been developed and draft laws prepared and submitted to the Supreme
Court and the National Assembly, and adopted in February 1997. The Decentralization Law was
adopted in February 1998, and an Urban Sector Policy Law is currently under preparation.
18.   Poverty Alleviation Objectives. Poverty alleviation objectives were substantially
achieved. The project aimed to optimize the impact of public works on the employment and
income of the urban poor. In addition, the project focused on implementing specific local works
in two low-income neighborhoods, Menontin and Godomey-South, to improve residents' living
conditions and access to services. As noted in paragraph 11 above, project works generated
approximately 700,000 work-days for semi-skilled and unskilled laborers. Project Component B
achieved installation of a neighborhood health center and community infrastructure and
implementation of community development in Menontin. A community outreach team from the
MHC educated neighborhood residents on a variety of public health issues (maternal and child
health, hygiene, nutrition, vaccinations, and the like), as well as on general improvements in
urban environment and living conditions (tree planting and green space management, latrine
construction, solid waste collection, and others). SERHAU-SEM has analyzed the impact on the
community. Results indicate that community accessibility has improved markedly, use of MHC
is very high, incidence of most major illnesses have fallen in the community, vaccinations have
risen and malnutrition has fallen. Through Project Component C, residents of Godomey-South
were actively involved in carrying out needed public works and have dramatically improved the
environment in which they live.
19.   Environmental Objectives. Although not a main objective, the project achieved a fair
number of environmental improvements through both urban works and community subprojects.
These include reduction in flooding from drain construction and clearance, improved access to
sanitation and water, solid waste collection, tree planting and road safety.
20.   Economic Evaluation. The SAR estimated that the internal rate of return for urban road
works would be more than 24 percent, due to vehicle operating cost savings from driving on
paved roads. The analysis assumed that paved roads would attract an increase in traffic of 15
percent, as drivers rerouted their vehicles from unpaved to paved roads. In reality, traffic has
risen by more than 100 percent on roads paved under the project, suggesting that benefits are
much higher than first anticipated. Furthermore, investment costs were slightly lower (about 10
percent) than originally estimated. Thus these investments were highly profitable, and the
overall IRR for the project is far higher than 24 percent. Unquantified benefits from other project
7



works are also substantial. A tentative evaluation of the benefits of drainage work shows that
275,000 inhabitants have been protected from flooding. And, according to the NGO operating
the health center, the infant vaccination rate has doubled and infant mortality has fallen by 20
percent in the Menontin neighborhood since the health center opened.
21.   The SAR noted that drainage works would have non-quantified health benefits, and
estimated that about 350,000 residents in Cotonou and Porto-Novo would benefit from
reductions in waterborne diseases. The drains and collectors built under the project improved
enviromnental conditions in the swampiest areas of Cotonou and Porto-Novo and their suburbs.
This has improved health and living conditions for at least 275,000 residents of these two cities,
and another 75,000 in Godomey-South and other suburbs.
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors not generally subject to Government control
22.   The 15 month delay in Credit effectiveness was cdue to concerns raised by the Beninese
National Assembly about the use of autonomous executing agencies (delegated contract
management) instead of state agencies to implement the project and manage public funds. The
Government required two extensions of the limit date for credit effectiveness before the problem
was resolved.
23.   The draft law on maltrise d'ouvrage deleguee is still to be discussed by the National
Assembly. Adoption of this law should help to reinforce and spread the use of this tool, which
has proven highly effective in urban infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance.
Factors generally subject to CU/Government control
24.   The project's impact was initially reduced by lack of commitment to establish an
adequate mechanism to ensure maintenance of urban infrastructure. However during
implementation, commitment increased and project performance improved. The main impacts of
this early lack of commitment were a lack of priority given to maintenance in budgetary
allocations, the lack of endorsement of the concept of maltrise d 'ouvrage deleguee and the de
facto establishment of a dual system in which the old services de voiries remained active,
hindering the newly created technical units from taking ifull responsibility for maintenance works
programming and execution. In the case of Cotonou, although an adequately staffed technical
unit was established early in project implementation, there was a delay in the execution of the
prepared annual program of maintenance works because the head of the CU was reluctant to
delegate to AGETUR management of maintenance contracts. In the case of Porto-Novo, the
situation was more complex: the technical unit was only established after a lengthy delay and
initially was understaffed and lacked financial resources. The consequences have been that
maintenance works were carried out only during the last two years, once the problems were
solved.
8



25.   The Government did not fully endorse the concept of delegation de maltrise d 'ouvrage,
so there was some confusion at project start-up about the respective responsibilities of the
different institutions involved in urban services management. This confusion has been
exacerbated by political interference. However, as has been noted earlier, positive experience
and demonstrated efficiency of this approach has led to its wide acceptance and use by the
Government. Furthermore, there were delays in release of required counterpart funds by the
Government.
Factors generally subject to implementation agency control
26.   Management. The two independent executing agencies, AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM,
demonstrated good management capabilities throughout project execution. AGETUR developed
a strong capacity to manage contracts and proved that streamlined and transparent procedures
could yield positive results in the public and private sectors; it has contributed to strengthening
the capacities of local contractors and consultants. SERHAU-SEM successfully managed all of
the studies carried out under the project (feasibility studies and strategic studies), facilitating
decision-making.
27.  Implementation Delays. Aside from the maintenance and counterpart funding issues
raised earlier, the only major implementation delay during the project came during construction
of the Menontin Health Center. This was caused by weak capacity of the construction firm. In
this instance, AGETUR canceled the contract and awarded it to the next highest rated bidder, as
per the terms of the contract. This sent an important signal to Beninese small and medium-size
enterprises on the necessity of complying with contract terms. All other works contracts (189)
have been completed on schedule and within the allocated budget.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
28.   Project Benefits. The project achieved: (a) improvement in the quality of some basic
infrastructure (drainage systems, roads) and environmental sanitation in the cities of Cotonou
and Porto-Novo with a positive impact on the living conditions of low-income urban residents;
(b) increase in employment of unskilled and semi-skilled workers; (c) improvement in urban
services management in Cotonou and Porto-Novo; (d) development of local small and medium-
size enterprises capacity; and (v) development of a capacity to initiate local and neighborhood-
based activities with the involvement of the beneficiary population (Menontin) and the
improvement of the local resources mobilization in Porto-Novo.
29.   Project Sustainability. A key concern of this project was to establish a maintenance
culture at the central and local levels in Benin. This maintenance culture was fully developed by
the project by building capacity to: (a) generate a program of maintenance works annually; and
(b) set up an adequate maintenance implementation mechanism including mobilization of local
resources for maintenance. Responsibility for maintenance was given to the newly created
technical units in Cotonou and Porto-Novo. A decree recently transformed the technical units to
full technical service directorates to endow them with sufficient institutional power to plan and
ensure required maintenance works. Both CUs (Cotonou and Porto-Novo) committed
9



themselves to giving priority to maintenance through budget allocations. In addition, with their
improved capacity to mobilize fiscal resources, the cities are better equipped to finance their road
maintenance programs sustainably.
30.   A good urban infrastructure maintenance policy will not only ensure the quality of urban
services and the durability of urban infrastructure, but will also continue to strengthen local small
and medium-size enterprises and their capacity to increase employment. As mentioned above,
the creation of the technical units has improved the management capabilities of municipal
departments and this will be developed on a continual basis.
31.   Management of MHC is contracted to an NGO specialized in community health
management, and showed viable financial status after the first year. The MHC will continue the
community-based and awareness-building activities initiated during project implementation.
32.   The five microprojects initiated under the project in Menontin are being fully managed by
their respective beneficiaries. This successful experience will most likely be replicated in the
neighborhood.
33.   The land development pilot tested in Godomey-South is likely to be sustainable as it
involves private operators in what was formerly a state monopoly. The comite de lotissement
(land parceling committee) is creating a local development committee to ensure that existing
infrastructure is maintained and that new infrastructure is constructed on the basis of the demand-
driven approach in the Godomey-South area. However, the replication of such operations
requires profound reform of the regulatory framework, confirming the divestiture of state
institutions from land development and management activities and encouragement of private
sector involvement. These reforms are planned and would be implemented under the proposed
new urban operation.
34.   Sector policy, as noted above, is progressing through development of an urban sector
investment strategy (Component G) and the recently adopted sectoral policy statement. The
strategy will facilitate programming of sector investments and their linkage to the national public
investment plan, and better coordinate the activities of donors involved in Benin's urban sector.
This strategy will be discussed at a donor roundtable to be organized by the Government before
the end of 1998.
35.   The project also strengthened the two executing agencies, AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM,
thereby building future capacity to carry out works througlh maltrise d'ouvrage deleguee. By
strengthening AGETUR, national capacity has been built in managing works contracted out to
private sector. AGETUR's strong performance in works execution and disbursement have
demonstrated the efficiency of such an approach and restored the confidence of the private
sector. SERHAU-SEM developed a capacity to conduct and coordinate studies related to urban
sector development and worked to elaborate an urban investment strategy. The Government
plans to strengthen these two organizations as they support its strategy of delegating to the
private sector the responsibility of works execution and supervision and implementation of
10



studies, enabling the state to focus on planning, programming and supervisory tasks. This, in
turn, will strengthen the construction industry.
BANK PERFORMANCE
36.  In project identification. Bank performance is rated highly satisfactory. The project was
consistent with the Bank's strategy of building urban management capacity in Benin. Project
identification drew attention to: (a) the poor state of urban infrastructure, creating extremely poor
living conditions in certain urban areas, especially in Cotonou and Porto-Novo; and (b) the fact
that Benin's urban areas are engines of economic growth, and there is an urgent need to facilitate
this growth by providing adequate management methods and tools at least to the country's two
principal municipalities.
37.  In project preparation and appraisal, the Bank's performance is rated highly satisfactory
overall. At the request of the Government, the Bank approved two advances under the project
preparation facility (PPF) to fund preparation of the project. The first PPF was approved in
October 1990 and contributed to funding preparatory costs for project component design, such as
consultancy services and the purchase of equipment necessary for project management. A
second PPF advance was approved in January 1992 to enable the Government to complete
ongoing project preparation work. In addition, approximately four Bank missions during the
preparation phase allowed the Government to benefit from Bank technical assistance.
38.   The project was estimated to cost US$26.82 million, for which an IDA credit of
US$22.84 million equivalent was requested. The Government contributed US$2 million, the
project beneficiaries (CUs and residents) gave US$0.23 million and FAC contributed US$1.75
million. The UNDP ultimately did not participate in the project due to a lack of resources.
39.   The Bank's performance in supervision is rated highly satisfactory. The frequency of
supervision missions (four per year on average) was adequate. About 18 supervision missions
were carried out since Credit effectiveness. The supervision missions focused on all aspects of
execution problems encountered during project implementation. The cooperation between the
Bank and the executing agencies was excellent and the collaboration fruitful. Staff continuity at
the Bank and in the executing agencies contributed to good project execution.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
40.   The GOB was the borrower, AGETUR and SERHAU were the executing agencies. The
implementation performance of the executing agencies was highly satisfactory, particularly in
executing the physical components (roads, drainage, sanitation infrastructure), local fiscal
resource mobilization (Porto-Novo), community-based development activities in Menontin, and
the elaboration of a sector strategy managed by SERHAU-SEM. Delay in the recovery of
infrastructure costs in Godomey-South is a risk for the sustainability of the community-based
land tenure scheme.
11



41.   Management of urban services has suffered from long delays in implementation of an
effective management mechanism for maintenance. In addition, the restructuring of the service
des voiries (former technical services for roads) was delayed, causing an overlap in functions
with the Technical Units. Steady improvements have been made during the last two years of
project implementation.
42.   The Government's implementation performance was less satisfactory, due to Ministry of
Finance delay in mobilizing the counterpart matching funds to contribute to finance small and
medium-size enterprises for infrastructure rehabilitation and maintenance.
43.   At the CU level, slow and inadequate allocation of local resources delayed maintenance
activities. Overall performance of the CU of Cotonou has been satisfactory as a result of stable
maintenance budgeting for fiscal 1997 and 1998. However, The CU of Porto-Novo still needs to
improve its performance with respect to its maintenance responsibilities.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
44.   Project outcome is considered highly satisfactory as its objectives were achieved. The
physical objectives were fully achieved. The institutional and strategic objectives were also
substantially achieved (though with delays) and the project helped establish Government
commitment to an efficient urban infrastructure maintenance mechanism. In terms of financial
objective, the Credit was disbursed normally without delay, especially for the infrastructure
works in Cotonou and Porto-Novo.
FUTURE OPERATIONS
45.   The Government (both central and local authorities) and project beneficiaries have
committed to the following measures to ensure project operations:
a)   Infrastructure in Cotonou and Porto-Novo. CIJs of Cotonou and Porto-Novo will
assume management of project road and drainage infrastructure investments and will be
responsible for their routine maintenance. Maintenance financing will be progranmmed
and allocated in their annual budgets (the cities' financial capacity has been deemed
sufficient).
b)   Institutional strengthening. Government has confirmed the legal status of the technical
units in Cotonou and Porto-Novo by transforming them into frill-fledged technical service
departments with responsibility for planning, programming and technical management
for the two cities.
c)   Institution arrangements. An institutional arrangement based on the concept of delegated
contract management proved to be highly efficient in implementation. The two
independent executing agencies (AGETUR for works, and SERHAU for studies),
successfully involved the private sector in buil(ding and maintaining infrastructure, by
12



using streamlined procurement procedures and ensuring rapid payment to small and
medium-size enterprises.
d)   Improvement of sanitary conditions in Menontin. The NGO currently running the
Menontin Health Center has proven competent and financially viable and has signed a
contract with the Government to continue managing the center. The NGO will continue
community mobilization and awareness-building activities.
e)    Coordinated land development. The local committees established under the project who
are managing the land development component are committed to completing the works
underway and to ensuring their maintenance with beneficiary contributions. However,
replication of this successful pilot will require reforming existing regulations, which are
not supportive of local community and private sector participation in land development.
This issue will be addressed in a new project, under preparation (see below).
f)    Urban sector strategy. A public sector urban investment strategy has been defined and a
statement of sector policy adopted in February 1998. This strategy constitutes an
important instrument to support urban sector investmenit programming and its integration
into the PIP and effective coordination of all donors involved in the urban sector
(particularly in the decentralized system where many externally funded initiatives
compete). This strategy will be presented at the donor roundtable that the Government
proposes to hold at the end of 1998.
g)    Private sector development. The effectiveness of the private sector, and the practice of
maltrise d'ouvrage deleguee by autonomous agencies with effective and transparent
management procedures (contracting and regulation of enterprises) have gained the
acceptance of the public sector, despite initial opposition. The sustainability of these
agencies will depend on the level of external financing for the national economy and their
business capacity to participate in management of nationally financed projects (in both
national and local budgets). Small and medium-size enterprises development will depend
on the continuity of public demand and its payment for services. Public demand, both for
ma^Utrise d'ouvrage and for small and medium-size enterprises and local expertise is
increasing steadily due to the establishment of new financing mechanisms for certain
public services (road maintenance funds, local administration maintenance budgets,
social sector projects and emergency interventions).
h)    Public participation. The project ensured the construction and maintenance of primary
infrastructure that was part of the country's national investment plan. It also fully
involved local communities in the identification, design and implementation of
community-level infrastructure projects (small drainage works, latrines and the like).
This ensured efficient execution of the project while assuring that communities' voices
were heard.
46.   A Second Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project, under preparation. The new
project aims at improving the quality of life for urban residents, especially the poor, improving
urban productivity and achieving more balanced urbanization in the country. The project will
13



also strengthen the achievement of the first Urban Project in the two main cities in terms of
urban management and will also extend this approach to a few secondary cities in the context of
the current decentralization process. These objectives will be achieved through the following
project components: (a) provision of basic infrastructures and services; (b) finance and
management of basic urban services; (c) the urban regulatory framework; and (d) community
mobilization and participation in infrastructure maintenance and service delivery.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
47.   The key lessons learned from project implementation are the following:
a)    Delegated works management has proven very effective and seems to be well
accepted by the Borrower. Project implementation has been facilitated by the
autonomous status of the executing agencies, AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM, in
contract management, allowing rapid signing of the contracts and the timely
execution of project activities. This also facilitated use of local small and
medium-size enterprises for urban construction and rehabilitation works, which
provided higher quality, lower cost infrastructure in Cotonou and Porto-Novo
while enabling the administration to concentrate on planning and programming.
In the future, this arrangement should be supported by a sound legal framework
(ratification of the law governing delegated public works management) to regulate
the practice and clarify the roles to be played by each involved party.
b)    The continuity of members of the Borrower's follow-up committee and of project
supervision was critical to the efficacy of project implementation. Project
implementation was based on sustained consultation between the executing
agencies, the Government (composed of several ministries) and the urban
jurisdictions. This was ensured by the initerministerial follow-up committee
(comprising all ministries involved in urbian development issues).
c)    Establishment of the urban land registry is a necessary, but not sufficient, step to
increase the generation of local resources. Three complementary measures should
be taken: (a) fiscal engagement (improveiment in collection through real
responsibility on the part of the tax administration), (b) improved collection of
local resources at the city level, and (c) simplification of the local tax system to
facilitate management.
d)   Improved local management requires: (a) more management autonomy and
continuity of the main urban management personnel; (b) less intervention and
fewer demands from the central authorities; and (c) support to all participating
agencies to improve their capacity and management procedures. Whether these
are addressed in the 1998 municipal elections or otherwise, more attention should
be paid to budgetary procedures and resource management, definition of priorities
for resource allocation and eventually for restructuring of public expenditures, and
coherence between recurrent cost financing capacity and level of investment.
14



e)    Participation of the local people in all phases of project activities (from
identification, implementation, monitoring and evaluation) must be actively
sought and intensified.
f)    Appropriate institutional and regulatory mechanisms must be put in place to
facilitate coordinated land development and management operations. Necessary
first steps include active involvement of the private sector and civil society
(associations, land development operators, and the like) and the total
disengagement of the public sector (local and central government) from land
development.
g)    Coordination of donor support is a priority to amplify synergistic effects of such
support, optimize external resources and avoid diversion of government policy.
15



STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of ALssessments
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial       Partial        Negligible     Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies
Sector policies                                  x
Financia] objectives              X
Institutional development         X
Physical objectives               X
Poverty reduction                 X
Gender issues                                    X
Other social objectives           X
Environmental objectives          X
Public sector management          X
Private sector development        X
B. Project Sustainability                 Likely            Unlikely          Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                       Highly
satisfactory      Satisfactory         Deficient
Identification                         X
Preparation Assistance                 X
Appraisal                              X
Supervision                            X
Highly
D. Borrower Performance              satisfactory          Satisfactory        Deficient
Preparation                                               X
lmplementation                         X
Covenant Compliance                                       X
Highly                                           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome          satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
x
16



Table 2: Related Bank Loan/Credits
Preceding operations:
N/A                          N/A                        N/A             N/A
Following operations
Urban II               To improve urban productivity and    to be approved in    PPF
living conditions of urban population.    1998
More specifically, the proposed project
will support the implementation of
government's decentralization policy
and contribute to the execution of the
ongoing programs of infrastructure
rehabilitation and environmental
sanitation in the main country's cities.
The project will build on the ongoing
urban project approach to optimize the
impact of public works on employment
and income of the urban poor.
17



Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                            May 1990
Preparation                                                                       September 22, 1990
Appraisal                                                                           April 13, 1991
Negotiations                                                                       October 29, 1991
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)                                        Not applicable
Board Presentation                                                                 February 18, 1992
Signing                                                                             May 11, 1992
Effectiveness                                             August 11, 1992         November 8, 1993
Midterm review                                          =                             May 1996
Credit Closing                                          December 31, 1997        December31, 1997
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumu:lative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate           0.30       4.49       11.60       19.67       22.84        0.00      0.00
Actual                  0.00       0.00       1.29         5.36       15.38      21.12      22.93
Actual as percent of estimate     0.0        0.0        11.1        27.2        67.3        92.5      100.4
Date of final Disbursement                                  May 19, 1998
18



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Operation
1. Resource mobilization of RFU                                        Tax base has risen by 93 percent and
collections by 43 percent (95-97)
2. Financial contribution of Government:
Government                                      US$ 2 million                         US$3.5 million
CUs and residents/communities                 US$ 1.98 million  US$ 1.03 million plus inkind contributions
3. Operating costs executing agencies:
SERHAU-SEMa                                         12 percent                            12 percent
AGETURb                                            4-5 percent                              4 percent
4. Works:
Creation of days jobs                    1.375 million days jobs                    I million days jobs
Contract amount                                 US$13 million                          US$16 million
Construction schedule:
Paving and rehabilitation                    13.3 kilometers                       20.4 kilometers
New unpaved roads                             4.8 kilometers                         3.3 kilometers
Drainage (primary)                           9.8 kilometers                          15 kilometers
Health center                                            I                                      I
Community center                                        0                                      5
Microprojects                                                                                  5
Local dump site                                          1                                     0
Contract paymentsC                                   15 daysd                                12 days
Quality of works                                                                         Satisfactory
Staff days employed                               1.38 million                              I million
Procurement schedule                                                                     On schedule
5. Studies
Contract amounts (total)                                  _                             US$4 million
Procurement schedule                                      _                         Ahead of schedule
Study schedule                             .                                     No significant delays
Contract paymentsc                                                                          3-4 days
6. Reports:
Audits                                             Every year            Transmitted every year on time
Quality progress reports                         Every quarter                           Satisfactory
Annual progress reports                                                                  Satisfactory
7. Maintenance of built infrastructure  To be performed regularly                           Satisfactory
19



Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Operation (cont.)
8.   Capacity building of small private
sector contractors/consultants
SERHAU                                Local consultant                     Highly satisfactory:
participation      Strengthened at least 10 engineering
AGETUR                  23 SMEs were        ~~~~~~~firscand .naindividual conslans
AGETUR                                 23 SMEs were          5Sanam3ny wdeirVeawaar oe sla eatssl
used in 1991             one contract under the project
9.   Other specific indicators related to
SERHAU-SEM
Contracts for studies                                      106 contracts
Health conditions of people in     20,000 people would    Infant vaccination rate doubled
Menontin neighborhood)             enjoy imnproved access   Infant mortality fell by 20 percent
to health care
Financial viability of health center                       Highly satisfactory
Environmental conditions in the   350,000 would benefit    350,000 people benefited from reduced
areas of drainage works                                    exposure to waterbome diseases
9.   Other specific indicators related to
AGETUR (contracts management)
Contracts awarded                                          190 contracts
Elapsed time between receipt of
bids and signing of contracts            75 days           60 days
Percentage of contracts completed
on schedule                                                96 percent
Contract payments to SMEsb               15 days           12 days
a/   Operating costs as a percentage of total value of studies and contracts awarded.
b/   Operating costs as a percentage of total value of works contracts awarded.
c/   Number of days between receipt of invoices to payment.
d/   Based on regular administrative procedures.
20



Table 6: Studies Included in Project
1. Study and supervision of   Detailed design and bidding  Completed  Execution of first tranche of works
the first tranche of works   document preparation
2. Study and supervision of   Detailed design and bidding  Completed  Execution of works
paving and sanitary works  document preparation
3. Preparation of legislation   To set up a legal framework  Completed  Adopted by the Government and
for contract management  for contract management              proposed for Parliament's decision
delegation
4. Technical study for     To provide necessary     Completed     Optimal design and execution of the
sanitation schemes     information to design local             works
sanitation systems
5. Study for sectoral public   To define urban sector  Completed  *  Sector Policy Letter adopted
investment             development policy, set up              *  Public urban investeent program
a priority investment                     adopted
program                                *  Better coordination of the
investments financed by different
donors in the sector
6. Technical study for     To define detailed design of  Completed  Execution of the works
pavement works and     the rehabilitated works and
sanitation             prepare bidding process
7. Study for Godomey-      To help design the new   Completed     Successful land use operation was
South land management   approach of land tenure               carried out with the full involvement
and upgrading          based on community                     of the local communities. Specific
participation                          upgrading procedures have been
identified.
8. Studies on Abomey-      To provide technical and  Completed    An implementation plan urban
Calavi land development  institutional elements to             development of Abomey-Calavi has
implement a land use                   been adopted.
system
9. Institutional study     To restructure urban     Completed     Full-fledged urban services
services management                    management departments set up.
system for Cotonou and                 Restructuring existing ones underway.
Porto-Novo.
10. Study for sectoral public                       Completed    Integration of urban investments to the
investment                                                    national investment plan.
21



Table 7a: ProjectCosts
I.A. Civil works                                  14.27                                 14.6
I.B. Health Center                                 0.59                                  1.4
2.A. AGETUR equipment                              0.72                                0.086
2.B. SERHAU-SEM equipment                          0.54                                 0.35
3.A. AGETUR operating costs                        1.50                                 1.21
3.B. SERHAU-SEM operating costs                    0.63                                 0.53
4.A. AGETUR consultants                               1                                 1.47
4.B. SERHAU-SEM consultants                        2.16                                  2.4
5.   PPE refund                                     0.3                                 0.57
SA-A                                            0                                  0.25
SA-B                                            0                                  .007
Unallocated                                   1.73                                   0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                               22.84                                22.86
Table 7b: Project Financing
IDA                           22.84                         22.8
UNDP                           0.45                            0
FAC                             1.3                         0.35
Government                     2.00                          3.5
Beef                           0.23                         1.03
TOTAL                         26.82                        27.68
22



Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits
Estimated ERR            ERR at Completion              NPV (CFAF)
Paved roads rehabilitation/       24 percent            Higher than 24 percent
maintenance
... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ......  .   ..................**.......................
Estimated number of         Actual number of                 Benefits
people to benefit          people to benefit
Health center and          20,000 residents of        More than 20,000 residents  *   Infant vaccination rate
community activities       Menontin neighborhood    of Mdnontin neighborhood         more than doubled
and surrounding areas      *   Infant mortality
fell 20 percent
Environmental conditions       350,000 residents          350,000 residents      Residential areas now largely
in areas where drainage                                                          free of standing water,
and road works were                                                              exposure of residents to
undertaken                                                                       waterbome diseases greatly
reduced
Protection from flooding       275,000 residents          275,000 residents      Risk of flooding greatly
reduced.
Main assumptions
The ERR for paved roads has not been recalculated. The traffic on paved roads more than doubled, in contrast to
the 15 percent increase anticipated in the SAR, while the costs of this activity were slightly lower than originally
anticipated.
23



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
=Vt~          o~U        .                        7                               la_              CDmet
.02(b)       5        C                             The Borrower shall open and maintain two Special
Accounts 'A' and 'B' in CFAF in BCEAO.
.02         5         C                             AGETUR aBnd SERHAU-SEM shall open and
maintain one Special Account each in commercial
banks.
4.01(a)       1,5      C                             AGETUR aznd SERHAU-SEM shall maintain the
records and accounts of the operations in accordance
with sound accounting practices.
4.01(b)       1, 9     C                             AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM shall (i) have the
records and accounts for each fiscal year audited; (ii)
furnish three months after the end of fiscal year, copy
of audit report; and (iii) furnish to IDA other
information upon request.
4.01(c)       5, 1     C                  08/29/88   For withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of SOEs, Borrower shall (i) maintain records
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain
all records evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable
IDA to examnine such records; and (iv) ensure that
such records and accounts are included in the annual
audit under separate opinion on SOEs and intemal
control.
Status                                 Covenant Class
C = Complied with                      I Accounts, audit
CD = Compliance after Delay            2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
PC = Partially Complied with           3 Flow utilization of Projects fund
NC = Not Complied with                 4 Counterpart funding
5 Management aspects of the project or of its executing agencies
6 Environmental covenamts
7 Involuntary resettlement
8 Indigenous people
9 Monitoring, review and reporting
10 Implementation
11 Sectoral or cross-secitoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory / institutional action
13 Other
24



Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Through Appraisal                          54.8    142.2
Appraisal-Board                            57.1    165.6
Board-Effectiveness                        36.3    114.6
Supervision            49.5      152.4     65.9    216.4
Completion             3.6        6.0      6.0       6.0
TOTAL                                     214.1    638.8
a/ Available since FY96.
25



Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
....... ... .~~UUI4*RaIn
Through Appraisal
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Board Approval
through Effectiveness
Supervision I        June 92           2           PS, UFS              I           I       N/A
Supervision II       March 93      ARPP                                 3
Supervision III      Nov. 93           2           HE, CDS              1           1       N/A
Supervision IV       Dec. 93           2           HE, FA               I           I       N/A
Supervision V        March 94      ARPP                                 I           1       N/A
Supervision VI       May 94            3           TM, FA, CDS          1           1       N/A
Supervision VII      July 94           2           TM, FA              S           S        N/A
Supervision VIII     April 95          3           TM, MD, FA           S           S       N/A
Supervision IX       Feb. 96            1          TM                  S           S        N/A
Supervision X        May 96            2           TM, MIF, FA,         S           S       N/A
TUP, up
Supervision XI       Dec. 96           2  5        UP, TrL              S           S       N/A
Supervision XII      April 97          2  5        UTP, PA             S          HS        N/A
Supervision XIII     July 97           2  5        UTP, MF             S          HS        N/A
Completion           March 98          2  2        TM, RM               S           S       N/A
a/ Key to Specialization                                       b/ Key to Status
CDS = Community              PS  = Procurement Specialist      I   = Problem Free
Development Specialist    TM  = Task Manager             2   = Moderate problems
FA   = Financial Analyst     TTL = Task Team Leader           3   = Major Problems
HE  = Highway Engineer       TUP = Transport Urban Planner    HS  = Highly Satisfactory
MD  = Municipal Development UFS = Urban Finance Specialist    S   = Satisfactory
MF  = Municipal Financier    UP = Urban Planner                U   = Unsatisfactory
PA   = Project Assistant                                      N/A = Not applicable
26



APPENDIX 1
Implementation Completion Report Mission Aide Memoire
BENIN - PROJET DE REHABILITATION ET DE GESTION URBAINES
AIDE-MEMOIRE DE LA MISSION D'ACHEVEMENT
Du 30 au 31 Mars 1998
1.   Une mission de l'IDA comprenant Hedi Larbi, Chef de mission, Specialiste en Gestion Urbaine et
Christian Loupeda, Charge d'Operations A la Mission residente s'est deroulee A Cotonou les 30 et 31
Mars 1998 dans le cadre de la derniere mission de supervision du Projet de Rehabilitation et de Gestion
Urbaine. L'objectif de cette mission est de participer A l'evaluation des resultats de la mise en oeuvre du
PRGU dont l'achevement et la cloture ont eu lieu depuis le 31 decembre 1997.
2.   Cette dvaluation organisee par les autorites beninoises, avec la participation des beneficiaires a
couvert les aspects suivants: le bilan des realisations physiques et institutionnelles, le niveau de
realisations des objectifs, les dispositions A prendre par la partie B6ninoise et les b6neficiaires pour la
consolidation et la perennisation des realisations, les lecons A tirer pour l'avenir, et enfin la mise au point
du rapport d'achevement du projet de l'emprunteur.
3.   La mission a ete re>ue par Messieurs les Ministres charges de l'Environnement de L'Habitat et de
L'Urbanisme (MEHU) et de l'Interieur (MISAT). L'evaluation a ete faite sur la base d'un rapport
d'achevement prepare par les autorites b6ninoises. Elle a consiste en une serie de presentations et de
discussions des differents aspects du PRGU avec la participation active: des representants des differents
minist&res charges du suivi du projet, le representant du FAC en tant que co-financier du projet, les chefs
des Circonscriptions urbaines de Cotonou et de Porto Novo et leurs services techniques, les representants
des ben6ficiaires directs (associations de M6nontin et de Godomey Sud, PME, bureaux d'etudes et
consultants, etc.), et les deux agences d'execution du projet, l'Agetur et la Serhau-Sem. Une reunion de
synthese a ete organisee pour presenter et discuter les conclusions de ces travaux avec le Comite de Suivi
du projet (representants des differents ministeres, population associations, circonscription urbaines, etc.).
4.   La mission tient a remercier toutes les personnes qu'elle a pu rencontrer pour leur disponibilite et
leur collaboration. Elle remercie, en particulier les responsables du ME14U et du MISAT et les
Directeurs G6neraux des deux agences d'execution ainsi que l'ensemble de leur personnel pour la qualit6
du travail et de l'organisation de ces ateliers de restitution des travaux du PRGU. Le present aide-
memoire presente les principales conclusions de cette mission d'achevement du PRGU en deux parties:
une premiere partie resume les resultats de l'ensemble du PRGU, et une deuxieme partie presente une
evaluation des realisations par composante.
Rappel des principales caracteristiques du projet
5.   Le cr6dit 2338-BJ qui a finance le Projet de R6habilitation et de Gestion Urbaine d'un montant de
22,80 millions de dollars a et signe entre la Gouvemement et la Banque Mondiale le 11 Mai 1992 et est
entre en vigueur le 8 novembre 1993 soit plus de 15 mois apres la date de signature (retard dui aux delais
27



de ratification par l'Assemblee Nationale). Au 31/12/97, toutes les activites du projet ont ete achevees et
le taux de decaissement a atteint 92 %. Le reliquat correspond A des paiements en cours de reglement et
les Agences d'Execution disposent jusqu'A la fin du mois d'Avril 1998 pour soumettre les dernires
demandes de paiement par la Banque Mondiale. La contrepartie de l'Etat est evaluee A 1.4 milliards de
fcfa (y compris la TVA remboursable A l'Etat) au titre des contributions au financement des
investissements en infrastructures. Au 31 Mars 1998, le reliquat non pay6 par le gouvernement est de 384
millions et des assurances ont ete donnees pour un reglement total de ce reliquat avant la fin du mois
d'avril 1998.
6.   Un seul Co-financier, la Cooperation Fran9aise sous la forme d'une subvention d'ajustement
structurel, a participe au financement du projet pour l'equivailent d'un montant de 1;75 million de dollars
entierement destines A la composante "Mobilisation des Ressources a Porto Novo" qui a permis la mise
en place d'un Registre Foncier Urbain (RFU), la formation clu personnel et l'informatisation de toute la
chaine fiscale locale (TPU) et (TFU) pour la Circonscription Urbaine de Porto Novo.
Partie I: Resume des conclusions sur l'achevement des projets
Rappel des Objectifs et du Contenu du Projet
7.   Objectifs: d'apres le rapport d'evaluation du projet el: son accord de credit (annexe 2), le PRGU
avait pour objectifs immediats d'appuyer les programmes de rehabilitation des infrastructures entrepris
par les autorites Beninoises dans les deux grandes villes du pays (Cotonou et Porto- Novo), selon une
methode qui maximise l'impact sur l'emploi et le revenu des couches A faible revenu, favorise le
developpement des petites et moyennes entreprises locales, et stimule la participation de la population
dans l'amelioration de leur cadre de vie. A long terme, les objectifs vises etaient: 1'elaboration d'une
strategie d'investissement public dans le secteur urbain et la preparation des bases pour des reformes
necessaires a l'amelioration de la gestion des services urbains au Benin.
8.   Composantes du projet. La poursuite de ces objectifs s'est faite dans le cadre des sept
composantes suivantes que compte le projet : (a) la rehabilitation des infrastructures urbaines A Cotonou
et A Porto Novo selon des techniques de haute intensite de main d'oeuvre (pavage de voirie et
construction de collecteurs pour drainage); (b) F'amelioration integree et concertee des conditions
environnementales et sanitaires du quartier de Menontin comprenant la construction d'un centre de sant6,
des travaux de voirie et d'assainissement et la promotion d'activites communautaires; (c) la mise au
point d'un modele d'amenagement concerte A Godomey-sud (operation de restructuration) et la
preparation des operations d'extension urbaine sur le plateau d'Abomey-Calavi; (d) F'amelioration de la
gestion des services urbains A Cotonou et A Porto-Novo par la mise en place et la formation de cellules
techniques et l'initiation de programmes d'entretien d'infrastructure; (e) la mobilisation des ressources
locales A Porto Novo par la mise en place d'un RFU; (f) le developpement des capacites de gestion
urbaine par la mise en oeuvre de formations specifiques au profit des acteurs et l'elaboration d'un
strat6gie nationale de formation A la gestion urbaine; (g) 1'elaboration d'une strat6gie nationale
d'investissements publics dans le secteur urbain.
9.   Gestion du Projet. Le montage institutionnel retenu pour la mise en oeuvre du projet comprend:
(i) un Comite Interministeriel de Suivi (CIS) pour la coordination et la supervision du projet et constitue
de la plupart des ministeres impliques directement ou indirectement dans la gestion du secteur urbain;
(ii) deux agences d'execution auxquelles sont deleguees l'execution et la gestion operationnelles du
projet: la SERHAU-SEM, une societe d'economie mixte, chargee de la gestion des differentes etudes
prevues dans le projet ainsi que l'assistance aux circonscriptions urbaines de Cotonou et Porto-Novo, et
28



I'AGETUR, association de droit prive, chargee de la gestion de l'ex6cution des travaux de genie civil (y
compris les 6tudes techniques correspondantes) programmes dans le cadre du projet.
10.  Appreciation de la r6alisation des objectifs. Les objectifs immediats et ceux A long terme du
projet ont e   largement atteints et les r6alisations obtenues sont jugees tres satisfaisantes par
1'emprunteur et les beneficiaires.
11. Une nette amelioration de l 'etat de l 'infrastructure et de 1 'environnement urbain. Environ 20 km
de voies ont ete paves (dont 6.7 km A Porto Novo) et assainis, 3.3 km de voies ouvertes dans des
quartiers enclaves, et 15.0 km (dont 4.3 km A Porto Novo) de collecteurs de drainage des eaux pluviales
ont ete construits pour assainir des zones qui subissant de fr6quentes inondations. Ces realisations, en
augmentation de plus de 20%, par rapport au programme initial grace a des economies realis6es sur les
travaux, ont permis d'ameliorer sensiblement les conditions de circulation, de transport et
d'environnement dans les deux principales villes Beninoises. On estime A 275000 habitants (occupant
800 ha), soit 28% des residents des deux villes, la population desormais protdgee contre les inondations
et beneficiant de bonnes conditions d'hygiene et d'environnement..
12.  Un impact positif sur la crdation d'emplois et la reduction de la pauvrete. Environ un million de
journees de travail ont W creees (dont un tiers indirectement) grace aux travaux finances par le projet,
dont 70% ont e  le fait de personnes peu ou non qualifiees g6n6ralement sans emploi. Cela correspond A
un peu plus de 850 emplois permanents crdes pendant les 4 ans de mise en oeuvre du projet .
13.  Une promotion certaine des PME du secteur de la construction et de l 'ingenierie locale. La quasi
totalite des travaux finances par le projet a et etudiee et supervisee par des bureaux d'etudes locaux et
r6alises par des PME beninoises. Plus de 50 entreprises (51 au total), contre une vingtaine en 1992, ont
participe A la realisation des travaux programmes dans le cadre du projet correspondant A environ 190
marches totalisant un chiffre d'affaire d'environ 10 milliards de FCFA. Une evaluation de ces
entreprises a montre que celles-ci accedent desormais plus facilement A la commande publique, disposent
d'une meilleure maltrise de leurs couts et d'une capacite de gestion en amelioration continue.
L'ingenierie locale s'est egalement d6veloppee: environ une dizaine de bureaux locaux ont participe aux
etudes techniques et au contr6le des travaux d'une facon reguliere, et plus d'une vingtaine de consultants
(y compris individuels) ont participe A l'elaboration d'etudes dans differents domaines (economie,
urbanisme, gestion comptable et financiere, etc.). La promotion des PME et de l'expertise locale a et
possible grace a la pratique de la maitrise d'ouvrage deleguee pour la gestion du projet par des agences
autonomes (Agetur et Serahu-Sem) qui se sont averees efficaces et performantes.
14.  Un debut prometteur pour une participation efficace de la population. Malgre les difficultes
specifiques aux approches participatives et A la mobilisation de la population, il a ete possible, dans le
cadre du projet, de mobiliser et d'impliquer la population dans la r6alisation et la gestion des projets
programmes au niveau local. En, effet, A Menontin, cinq micro-projets ont ete promus et developpes par
les associations locales, et un centre de sante polyvalent a ete construit et equipe et sa gestion est assuree,
depuis un an et demi par une ONG locale specialisee dans la gestion des services de sante (Association
Medico-Sociale de Menontin). Les performances de gestion de ce centre sont appreciables et sa viabilite
financiere est satisfaisante malgre les tres faibles tarifs de ses prestations. A Godomey, bien que tous les
objectifs de cette operation d'amenagement concerte n'ait pas tous et atteint, la restructuration et la
viabilisation de ce quartier a pu se realiser en moins de 4 ans (contre plus de 7 ans pour les agences
publiques; pour des operations similaires) grace a la mobilisation de la population A travers un Comite
local de lotissement qui a participe activement a la gestion de l'operation jusqu'A son achevement.
29



15.  Les objectifs a moyen et a long terme sont egalement atteints: de nouvelles methodes de gestion
urbaines sont initiees.
*  La pratique de la maRtrise d'ouvrage deleguee a ete initiee dans le cadre du projet (gestion du projet
par deux agences autonomes agissant en tant que maitres d'ouvrages delegues). Cette pratique,
malgr6 les r6ticences et les resistances des institutions publiques au cours du projet, a fini, grace a
son efficacite, par recevoir la reconnaissance et le soutien de I'administration centrale et locale. Cette
pratique, proomue par le projet, a aussi servi de catalyseur pour les autres bailleurs de fonds qui ont
ont recouru a son usage pour l'execution de nombreux projets inities dans le sectur urbain. De plus,
l'utilisation de la MOD, initialement limitee aux projets a financement exterieur est maintenant
etendue aux projets finances entierement par des structures publiques (sur budget national).
*  Des services techniques ont ete cr6es dans les deux circonscriptions urbaines (CU), et malgre
quelques difficultes residuelles, ces structures sont maintenant operationnelles et l'entretien de
l'infrastructure urbaine commence a rentrer dans les moeurs, du moins dans la CU de Cotonou.
*  Les instruments d'appui a la mobilisation des ressources locales ont et6 mis en place et les premiers
resultats a Port Novo, malgre les problemes de recouvrement, sont encourageants: I'assiette a ete
6largie d'environ 93% entre 1995 et 1997 et les montants recouvres ont augmente de 41% au cours
de la m8me periode.
*  Une strategie d'investissements publics dans le secteur urbain - bien que son utilisation pratique reste
a ameliorer - a e  elaboree et une lettre de politique sectorielle a ete adoptee par le gouvernement
pour rendre effective sa nouvelle politique de developpement urbain.
16.  Une gestion efficace duprojet. le montage prevu pour la gestion du projet, fonde sur le principe de
la gestion deleguee et le partenariat entre le secteur prive et le secteur public, s'est rdvele efficace et
performant: malgre les retards dans la ratification de I'accord de credit, le projet a ete entierement
execute a la date de cloture prevue (31/12/97). Le CIS s'est reuni, au rythme d'une fois par an pour la
coordination et la supervision du projet et a fortement contribu6 A aplanir les quelques difficultes
rencontrees. Les deux agences d'execution, grace a l'autonomiie dont elles jouissent, des procedures de
gestion souples et transparentes, et un personnel qualifie et motiiv6, ont pleinement rempli leurs missions
de maitres d'ouvrage delgue. Cela a permis d'accroitre sensiblement la capacite d'absorption en credit
du secteur public et d'attirer davantage de ressources exterieures (plus de 6 bailleurs de fonds ont utilises
ce m8me montage et ses agences d'execution pour la mise en oeuvre de leurs projets).
17.  Les deux agences d'ex6cution sont tres performantes corame le montrent les indicateurs suivants:
Pour l'AGETUR: 190 contrats ont 6te gerds pour le seul PRGIJ et plus d'une centaine par an en tenant
compte d'autres projets finances par d'autres bailleurs, 98% des marches ont ete executes dans les delais
et le budget prevus, le delai moyen de reglement des entreprises sur le compte special est de 12 jours (a
comparer a plus de 120 jours pour le secteur public); un ratio de gestion annuel depenses/couts des
travaux executes inferieur a 3% (2.8%); et enfin un resultat financier positif. Pour la SERHAU-SEM:
environ 106 contrats de consultants ont ete signes et execut6s dans les budgets et les d6lais pr6vus, le
delai moyen de reglement des prestataires de services est de 3 a 4 jours, et la situation financiere est
b6neficiaire.
Mesures pour perenniser les acquis du projet
18.    Lors des differents ateliers d'evaluation des resultats du projet, les autorites beninoises
(administrations centrales et locales) et les beneficiaires du projet ont decide les mesures suivantes pour
perenniser les acquis du projet et en assurer une bonne gestion:
30



(a) Infrastructure de voirie et de drainage: les investissements en infrastructures r6alises ont e
confies pour leur gestion aux deux Circonscriptions Urbaines beneficiaires (Cotonou et Porto Novo) qui
se sont enagees A en assurer l'entretien courant (Cotonou le fait ddja). Des dispositions seront prises pour
que le financement de cet entretien soit programme dans les budgets de fonctionnement annuels des deux
villes. Il a ete verifie que les deux villes disposent d'une capacite financiere suffisante.
(b) Renforcement Institutionnel : les cellules techniques creees au niveau des deux villes ont ete
confirmees juridiquement par les Autorites beninoises qui les ont transformnes en Direction des Services
Techniques A part entiere avec des prerogatives importantes dans la planification, la programmation et la
gestion technique des deux circonscriptions. Les CU se sont engagees a renforcer leur encadrement. Le
principe de la maitrise d'ouvrage publique est maintenant bien ancre dans les pratiques de gestion et sa
confirmation juridique est en cours.
(c) Amelioration des conditions sanitaires A Menontin: la viabilitd financiere et la prise en
charge, sur la base d'une convention signee avec l'Etat, de la gestion du centre de sante de Menontin par
une ONG competente dans ce domaine (voir ci-dessus) constituent un 6lement fondamental de
perennisation de cet investissement. Cette ONG s'est engagee A continuer les activites communautaires
d'animation et de sensibilisation entreprises dans le cadre du projet.
(d) Micro-projets : Les cinq micro-projets r6alis6s sont maintenant l'entiere proprietd de leurs
promoteurs respectifs qui en assurent 1'exploitation et le developpement. Leur viabilite financiere
stimulera d'autres initiatives dans les quartiers avoisinants.
(e) Amenagement concerte: les mecanismes utilises ne peuvent etre perennises que si
l'environnent r6glementaire dans le domaine est totalement reforme et des amenageurs prives (ou
assimiles) se mettent en place. Pour les travaux de viabilisation r6alises, le Comite de lotissement Local
est en train de mettre en place un Comit6 de Developpement Local pour completer les travaux realis6s et
en assurer l'entretien a partir de contributions financieres de la population ben6ficiaire.
(f) Strategie de Developpement du Secteur Urbain: une strat6gie d'investissements publics dans
le secteur urbain a ete elaboree et une Lettre de Politique Sectorielle est adoptee (fevrier 98). Cette
strategie, pourrait constituer un instrument important pour aider A: la programmation des investissements
du secteur et son integration dans le Programme d'Investissements Publics (PIP), la coordination efficace
de l'ensemble des Bailleurs de fonds intervenant dans le secteur urbain, en particulier dans le contexte
de la decentralisation ofi plusieurs initiatives exterieures sont menees en parallele. Cette strategie sera
present6e A la table ronde des bailleurs de fonds que le gouvernement se propose d'organiser avant la fin
1998.
(g) d6veloppement du secteur prive: PME, ingenierie locale et agences d'ex6cution autonomes:
l'efficacite du secteur prive, et la pratique de la maitrise d'ouvrage deleguee a des agences autonomes
ayant des procedures de gestion (passation des marches et reglement des entreprises) efficaces et
transparentes ont reussi a se faire reconnaitre par le secteur public malgre toutes les oppositions initiales.
La perennit6 de ces agences, dependra du niveau des financements exterieurs au profit de l'economie
nationale, et de leur capacite commerciale A intervenir dans la gestion des projets finances par des
ressources nationales (sur budget national et budgets des collectivites locales). Le developpement des
PME dependra de la continuite et de la solvabilite de la commande publique. La demande publique, tant
pour les services de maitrise d'ouvrage (y compris assistance A la ma^itrise d'ouvrage) que pour les PME
et l'expertise locale est en augmentation continue grace a la mise en place de nouveaux mecanismes de
31



financement pour certains services publics (fonds d'entretien routier, budget d'entretien des collectivites
locales, projets secteurs sociaux et interventions d'urgence, etc.).
Risques et difficultes de perennisation
19.    Les principaux risques pouvant limiter la portee et la p6rennit6 de ce projet ont et identifies a
partir des difficultes rencontrees lors de sa mise en oeuvre du projet, et des debats qui ont eu lieu pendant
les ateliers d'evaluation des r6sultats du projet apres sa cl6ture. Ils peuvent 8tre resumes comme suit.
(i) Le retard dans le paiement des fonds de contrepartie. Ce retard est prejudiciable a l'economie
des projets (augmentation des prix par constitution de provisions), au developpement des PME du
secteur de la construction dont la capacite financiere est tres limitee, et enfin a la credibilite de la
politique de d6veloppement du secteur prive que le gouvernemeent a toujours affichee.
(ii) la perennit6 et le d6veloppement de la capacite de gestion technique des CU peuvent etre
aisement mis en cause si: la restructuration des services voirie existants n'est pas rapidement entreprise
(r6duction sensible des effectifs et des prerogatives), le renforcement par des cadres competents est
retarde (credibilite et performance des services), et enfin si des mesures ne sont pas prises pour
sauvegarder ces structures en cas de changements (souvent frequents) du premier responsable (maire ou
chef CU) de la ville.
(iii) bien que la capacite financiere des villes de Porto Novo et de Cotonou soit suffisante,
1'entretien de l'infrastructure et des equipements des deux villes ne sera pleinement assure que si: les
priorites d'allocation des depenses budg6taires sont bien definies et respectees, 1'entretien du patrimoine
est considere parmi les premieres priorites, et enfin les sollicitations et ponctions exterieures sur le
budget des villes sont minimisees voire eliminees. Ce risque est reel pour Porto Novo, il l'est moins
pour Cotonou.
(iv) malgre les efforts fournis pour ameliorer la mobilisation des ressources locales, ces efforts
ont et auront un effet tres limite, tant que l'administration fiscale n'est pas tenue pour responsable (et
donc sanctionnee) des resultats du recouvrement des taxes locales qui relevent de ses competences.
(v) le recouvrement des couits (surtout les couits des travaux) de l'operation d'amenagement
concerte pourrait s'averer difficile dans la mesure oui les dispositions institutionnelles actuelles ne sont
pas tout a fait appropriees et les efforts de suivi et de supervision qui restent a faire sont tres importants
et m8me cofiteux.
Les le;ons A retenir
20.    Les principales lecons a retenir proviennent de deux sources: certaines ont emerge pendant les
d6bats sur les resultats du PRGU, en particulier dans la perspective de la decentralisation; d'autres
correspondent a des difficultes v6cues lors de l'ex6cution de projet. Elles sont les suivantes:
(i) Le principe de la gestion deleguee (ou maitrise d'ouvrage deleguee: MOD) a prouve son
efficacit6 et semble etre, maintenant, mieux accepte dans le contexte beninois. II reste a lui donner un
fondement juridique (ratification de la loi sur la maltrise d'ouvrage public (mop) et autes dispositions
relatives aux modes de gestion des services urbains: concession, affermage, etc.) pour reglementer cette
32



pratique et clarifier le r6le des differentes parties prenantes dans ce mode de gestion. II a et6 not6 une
forte demande de revision des conventions type de MOD pour mieux definir les responsabilites des
parties contractantes.
(ii) La permanence des membres d'un "Comit6 de Suivi" et de supervision est un facteur
important dans l'efficacite de mise en oeuvre d'un projet.
(iii) L'amelioration de l'assiette (grace a la mise en place d'un RFU) pour accroitre les
ressources locales est necessaire mais non suffisante. Trois mesures complementaires devraient etre
envisagees: amelioration du recouvrement A travers une veritable responsabilite de l'administration
fiscale (engagement financier), amelioration du recouvrement des ressources propres de la ville,
simplification de la fiscalite locale, en particulier la taxe professionnelle, pour en faciliter la gestion.
(iv) L'amelioration durable de la gestion des collectivites locales est fonction d'une combinaison
simultanee de plusieurs mesures. Les principales mesures pour ameliorer 1'efficacite de la gestion
municipale sont les suivantes: autonomie de gestion, stabilite du premier responsable de la ville et de son
Secrtaire General , minimum d'interventions et de demandes du pouvoir central, et enfin un appui a
l'ensemble des structures internes pour en am6liorer la capacite et les procedures de programmation
d'execution et de suivi des depenses. L'avbnement des elections municipales (pr6vues pour courant
1998) pourrait apporter une solution aux problemes ci-dessus. Cependant a l'avenir, une attention
particulibre doit etre donnee: aux procedures budgetaires (rationalisation et informatisation en cours sur
financement par la Cooperation Francaise) et A la gestion des ressources, la definition des priorites
d' allocation des ressources (ou des depenses), eventuellement un ajustement de la structure des depenses,
et enfin la coherence entre le niveau des investissements et la capacite de financement de depenses
recurrentes qu'ils g6nerent.
(v) Les investissements des collectivites locales doivent etre inscrites au PIP. L'inscription des
investissements publics du secteur urbain, y compris ceux des collectivites locales, au PIP national
permettra de: mieux conna1tre le niveau des depenses publiques ainsi que la repartition et la coordination
des financements exterieurs, programmer correctement les besoins en fonds de contrepartie. En outre,
seuls les investissements disposant de contreparties sires seront engag6s.
(vi) La participation des populations doit etre encouragee la ou elle est efficace. La participation
de la population (de l'identification A l'exploitation) A la prise en charge de l'am6lioration de son cadre
de vie doit etre a la fois recherchee, encouragee et intensifiee. Cependant, pour des raisons d'efficacite
evidente, la gestion des realisations a caractere local, doit 8tre confiee A des structures communautaires
competentes.
(vii) la concertation dans les operations d'am6nagement peut etre trbs efficace sous certaines
conditions. Parmi les principales conditions pour la reussite des operations d'amenagement concert6:
mise en place prealable des mecanismes institutionnels et reglementaires ad6quats, promotion d'acteurs
prives (associations, societes d'amenagement, etc.), et desengagement des services publics des activites
d'amenagement.
(viii) necessite de coordination et d'harmonisation avec les bailleurs de fonds. Le PRGU, qui a
favorise de nombreux echanges de vues entre les bailleurs de fonds, a permis d'harmoniser les politiques
d'interventions initialement peu coherentes entre elles, notamment en ce qui concerne les r6les respectifs
de l'Etat, des villes et des agences d'ex6cution. II en a resulte une tres forte coherence au niveau des
outils (RFU, PPDI, programmation de l'entretien, procedures budgetaires et comptables, etc.) et des
33



pratiques de gestion des services urbains: techniques de haute intensit6 de main d'oeuvre, maltrise
d'ouvrage deleguee, etc. Ces outils et pratiques sont conmmunement adoptes par les bailleurs de fonds
dans la mise en oeuvre de programmes significatifs d'investissements dans l'infrastructure des
principales villes du Benin. De ce fait, la coordination des appuis des bailleurs de fonds doit &re une
priorite des autorites beninoises pour amplifier les effets de synergie, optimiser l'utilisation des
ressources, et 6viter les ecarts par rapport a la politique du gouvernement.
34



APPENDIX 2
BENIN - URBAN REHBILITATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
English Summary
The following is a brief summary of the borrower 's contribution to the Implementation
Completion Report. The full original text in French follows.
Project Objectives
1.    The short-term objectives of the project were to rehabilitate urban infrastructure and improve the
environment in Cotonou and Porto-Novo, using a labor-intensive strategy and promoting the use of local
small and medium size enterprises and public works. The long-term objectives of the project were to
strengthen urban management capacity in Cotonou and Porto-Novo, prepare an urban development
strategy for Benin, and promote the participation of the local private sector.
Results of the Evaluation of Objectives
2.    Project results are on the whole highly satisfactory: (a) the objectives were reached, and
sometimes exceeded expectations, (b) the Interministerial Committee functions well, and (c) the
Government of Benin and the World Bank have performed with vigor during all stages of the project.
3.    The executing agencies (AGETUR et SERHAU-SEM) performed with diligence and rigor in
managing the studies and works. Their good performance resulted in the project closing on time and a
cost savings of 17 percent over original estimates.
4.    The project strengthened management capacities of the CUs of Cotonou and Porto-Novo,
improved fiscal resource mobilization in Porto-Novo (increasing the tax base by 42 percent and tax
collections by 28 percent between 1996 and 1997), and produced the Sector Strategy of Public
Investments for cities approved by government. It protected inhabitants of the cities from flooding,
improved traffic flow and created 600 permanent jobs during its four years of implementation. To assure
the project followed a participatory approach, the Medical-Social Association of Menontin and the Local
Development Committee of Godomey were established. They have been involved in building the health
center in Menontin and the community development center in Godomey, and in implementing urban
infrastructure and microprojects (latrines, green spaces and tree plantations, and income-generating
activities) that have improved the quality of life in the neighborhoods.
5.    The adoption under the project of the law regularizing public contracts management and its
promulgation makes possible the creation of the legal framework for rapid and efficient execution of
35



development projects. The application of the law enhances the performance of the public administration
in executing credits and reducing delays in project implemenlation.
Sustainability
6.    Sustainability of the executing agencies depends on their ability to win contracts for studies and
urban works with the Government of Benin, local communities and development partners. It also
depends on the capacity of beneficiaries to maintain the works - the CUs for urban infrastructure (the
resources allocated for maintenance being still too little, a maintenance culture must be created), the
I'AMSM for management of the health center, the Local Development Committee for the management
of the community development center and the community organizations for maintenance of
neighborhood microprojects.
Perspectives
7.    The Government of Benin has asked IDA to prepare a Second Urban Project. The objective of
the proposed project is to improve and make more sustainable the management and provision of urban
services, in the context of the new decentralization law.
Major Lessons and Recommendations
8.    The principle lessons learned from the execution of the project are the following:
*  Make the members of the follow-up committee permanent for the duration of the project, if
possible. Members must work not only with others on the committee, but also with the
concerned ministry.
*  Accelerate adoption of the law regularizing public contracts management.
*  Make operational the municipal Directions des Services Techniques. These Directions must
play an important role in maintaining infrastructure and improving new services offered to
the population.
*  Microprojects based on the participatory approac h reflect better to the needs of the local
population. However, it must be noted that representatives do not always provide
information about the project to the local people, and that it is often difficult to collect
contributions from the beneficiaries, especially thle poor. These obstacles must not stop the
pursuit of community projects. The local people must be mobilized around projects serving
their collective interests. The agencies must enhance their programs of information,
education, and awareness raising so that the durability of the works is guaranteed.
*  The limited involvement of the beneficiaries in mlaintaining the works and infrastructure, and
the lack of resources available to local communities means that of a durable municipal
maintenance fund must be put in place to assure the sustainability of investments.
Next steps
9.    The next steps are:
36



*  Enhance the contract management capacity of future decentralized communities.
*  Enact urban property rights reforms and elaborate the law of urban orientation.
*  Organize and intensify training programs for public and private sector organizations
involved in managing urban investments.
*  Organize a roundtable of development partners and who are supporting the adoption of the
sector strategy by the government in matters of urban public investments.
37



BENIN - PROJET DE REHABILITATION ET DE GESTION URBAINES
Borrower's Contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
RESUME
Titre:                      Projet de Rehabilitation et de Gestion Urbaines
Emprunteur:                  Republique du Benin
Organisme de Tutelle:       Ministere de l'Environnement:, de il'Habitat et de l'Urbanisme
Montant du Credit IDA:       16.700.000 DTS ( 6 12.421.627.000 F CFA )
Conditions:                  Conditions habituelles de l'IDA, duree 40 ans avec 10 ans de differe
Cofinancement:               *  FAC: 175 Millions F CFA
* Budget National: 1.288,65 Millions F CFA
- Contribution des C.U. de Cotonou et de
- Porto-Novo: 664 Millions F CFA
Date de signature:           11 Mai 1992
Date de mise en vigueur:     11 Novembre 1993
Date de cl6ture:             31 Decembre 1997
Objectifs du Projet
1.    Les objectifs du projet sont: - A court terme: la rehabilitation des infrastructures urbaines et
I'amelioration de l'environnement de Cotonou et de Porto-Novo, selon des modalites optimisant les effets
de ces travaux sur l'emploi et le developpement des entreprises locales du Batiment et des Travaux
Publics; - a long terme, le renforcement des capacites de gestion urbaine A Cotonou et a Porto-Novo
selon des modalites replicables et durables et la pr6paration d'une strategie de developpement urbain
pour le Benin; - la promotion de la participation du secteur priv6 local et des populations concemees a
l'amelioration du cadre de vie urbain.
Description du Projet
2.    Le projet s'articule autour de sept (7) composantes:
Composante a: La rehabilitation des infrastructures urbaines A Cotonou et a Porto-Novo
Composante b: L'amelioration integr6e et concertee des conditions socio-sanitaires dans le quartier de
Mrnontin;
Composante c: I'arnelioration de la gestion fonciere dans les extensions de Cotonou et de Porto-Novo;
38



Composante d: Le renforcement de la gestion des services urbains des Circonscriptions Urbaines de
Cotonou et de Porto-Novo;
Composante e: La mobilisation des ressources de la fiscalite locales;
Composantef: Le d6veloppement des capacites des acteurs publics et prives de la ge
stion urbaine;
Composante g: la realisation de la strategie sectorielle a long terme qui comporte:
- 1'etude de la distribution presente et future de la population de la sous-region et l'analyse des
echanges mettant en evidence les relations dconomiques entre villes et campagnes et le role present et
futur des differentes villes dans le developpement dconomique et regional;
- 1'etude de la branche batiment et des travaux publics couvrant d'une part, 1'ensemble des
entreprises tant formelles qu'infornelles, et d'autre part, le volume et l'organisation de la commande tant
publique que privde;
- la preparation d'une stratdgie d'investissements publics urbains.
Resultats de 1'6valuation des objectifs
3.    Les rdsultats du projet sont globalement satisfaisants: (i) les objectifs assignes au projet ont e
atteints et m8me souvent depasses, excepte certains volets relatifs a l'entretien des infrastructures, A la
collecte et elimination des dechets solides et A l'amenagement concerte de Godomey (le recouvrement
des coats est de 80 % et la vente des parcelles degagees n'a pas 6te effective A la cl6ture du projet) ; ii) le
bon fonctionnement du Comite Interministeriel de Suivi, de Coordination et d'Orientation du projet; iii)
le Gouvernement du Benin et la Banque Mondiale ont ete performants dans toutes les etapes de la vie du
projet apres sa mise en vigueur. (Confere les aide-memoire).
4.    Les agences d'exdcution (AGETUR et SERHAU-SEM) ont fait preuve de diligence, de rigueur et
de bonne performance dans la conduite des etudes et travaux, dans la gestion des credits mis a leur
disposition et ont respecte rigoureusement la date de cloture du projet fixe au 31/12/97. Ces qualites ont
fait que d'autres partenaires au developpement et meme le Gouvernement du Benin (sur budget national)
ont confie a ces agences la maiftrise d'ouvrage deleguee pour les etudes et travaux urbains. Le recours aux
agences a permis de reduire de 17 % le cout de fonctionnement initialement prevu dans le projet. Cette
economie a ete reaffectee dans l'investissement.
5.    Les performances des agences d'execution ont permis d'atteindre les principaux resultats
suivants:
5.1 - Sur le plan des travaux et etudes gdnerales:
* ml de voies pavees et drainees,
* ml de collecteurs de drainage des eaux pluviales,
* Viabilisation du lotissement de Godomey (2.953 ml de voies pavees et drainees, 1.051 ml de voies
en terre),
* Construction et equipement du Centre de Sante de Mbnontin (60 lits),
* Construction du Centre de Developpement Communautaire de Godomey,
*  Plan d'am6nagement concert6 de Godomey,
* Plan d'amenagement de Reference d'Abomey-Calavi (8.000 ha)
* Plan de Circulation de Cotonou,
39



* Stratgie sectorielle d'investissement public en milieu urbain.
5.2 - Sur le plan du renforcement institutionnel et des outils de gestion:
*  Renforcement des capacites de gestion des C.U. de Cotonou et de Porto-Novo : creation des cellules
techniques transform6es en Directions des Services Techniques au sein des C.U.,
*  Mise en place du RFU de Porto-Novo et amelioration des ressources fiscales locales (accroissement
des emissions de 42 % de 96 a 97 et celui du recouvrement de 28 % pendant la meme p6riode),
*  Cr6ation et renforcement du tissu des P.M.E. dans le secteur BTP et developpement de l'expertise
nationale dans le secteur urbain,
*  Decret n 95-341 du 30/10/97 portant approbation de la Declaration de Politique Urbaine en
Republique du Benin,
*  Decret n 95-422 du 26/12/95 transmettant a l'Assemblee Nationale, le projet de loi sur la Maitrise
d'Ouvrage Publique (MOP) en Republique du B6nin,
*  Approbation par le Gouvemement de la Strategie Secitorielle d'Investissement Public en Milieu
Urbain,
*  Approbation par le Gouvernement de la Declaration de P'olitique en mati&re dtinvestissement public
en milieu urbain,
*  Renforcement et equipement des services centraux de l'urlbanisme.
6.    Impact sur l'environnement et la pauvrete urbaine  L'impact positif des r6sultats du projet sur
l'environnement et la reduction de la pauvret6 urbaine se mesure a travers les indicateurs suivants:
*  Environ 1.500 ha de zones urbaines assainies et plus de 100.000 habitants mis hors d'eau,
*  Accessibilite permanente des quartiers centraux et certains quartiers p6ri-centraux populeux (Ste
Cecile, Menontin, Midombo, Segbeya, Souroul&e),
*  Amelioration de la Circulation urbaine,
*  Adressage et panneautage de Porto-Novo,
*  Acces au Centre de Sante de Menontin par des couches defavoris6es,
* Creation de l'equivalent de 600 emplois urbains permanents en moyenne par an et ce pendant 4 ans.
7.    Evaluation financiere: Le credit IDA a ete execute conformement a l'accord de cr6dit avec un
taux de decaissement avoisinant 95 % (soit 11,885 Milliards sur une prevision de 12,422 Milliards). Le
financement apporte par le FAC a ete execute avec un taux de decaissement de 95 % (soit 166,25
Millions sur 175 Millions prevus). L'Etat Beninois a decaisse une partie de sa contrepartie, soit 85 %
(1,752 Milliard sur une prevision d'appel de fonds de 2,052 Milliards). La C.U. de Cotonou a entierement
decaisse sa contribution alors que Porto-Novo ne l'a fait que partiellement. En resume, pendant la duree
du projet, les agences d'execution ont fait preuve d'une lTrs grande discipline budgetaire que les
differents audits ont approuve en certifiant sinceres et reguliers les comptes du projet.
8.    Impact sur le developpement des capacites des P.M.E. et du BTP, les bureaux d'etudes et
Consultants nationaux: Le projet a contribue de facon d6terninante a la creation et au developpement
des P.M.E., des bureaux d'etudes techniques, des bureaux d'etudes d'urbanisme et des consultants
nationaux. L'expertise nationale a ete construite et consolid6e. Plus de 50 P.M.E. ont contracte avec
I'AGETUR pour 189 marches. Une dizaine de bureaux d'etudes techniques et d'ingenieurs conseils ont
et6 sollicites. La SERHAU-SEM a fait appel aux bureaux d'etudes d'urbanisme et aux consultants
nationaux pour plus de 50 marches. Le retard dans la lib&ation de la contrepartie de l'Etat a quelque peu
p6nalise les entreprises.
40



9.     Assistance technique et financier: L'AGETUR et les Cellules Techniques ont beneficie
d'assistances techniques pendant une durde de 24 mois. L'assistance technique et les formations
dispensees ont contribue a ameliorer la capacite des diff6rents acteurs. Malgre le retrait du financement
du PNUD, quelques actions de formation ont ete organisees en direction des responsables des cellules
techniques, des animateurs, des enseignants, des acteurs publics et prives du secteur transport et
circulation en milieu urbain. Trois ateliers de formation spdcifiques ont e  organises:
* Atelier d'une semaine sur la gestion de la circulation anime par un Consultant de TRANSITEC (30
participants),
*  Atelier d'une semaine sur la gestion du RFU anime par les cadres et Consultants de la SERHAU-
SEM (30 participants),
*  Atelier sur la gestion urbaine anim6 par les cadres et Consultants de la SERHAU-SEM  (50
participants).
10.   Approche participative et suivi sociologique et environnemental : Des animateurs socio-
sanitaires et socio-urbains ont et recrutds pour assurer la mise en oeuvre de certaines composantes
necessitant l'approche participative. Des programmes d'animation, de sensibilisation ont ete developpes a
Menontin et a Godomey. Au regard de l'approche participative, I'Association Medico-Sociale de
Menontin et le Comite Local de Developpement de Godomey ont e  mis en place. Les activites
d'animation ont permis:
- a Menontin, la lib6ration des emprises publiques prdvues dans le lotissement, la realisation du Centre
de Sante, des infrastructures urbaines et de micro-projets contribuant A l'amnlioration du cadre de vie
de proximite : latrines, espaces vert et plantations, enl&vement des ordures et activites generatrices de
revenus,
  a Godomey, la realisation du lotissement concerte viabilise, la recuperation a 80 % des frais d'etude
et de recasement, le principe de la vente de 75 parcelles environ degagees pour la contribution des
beneficiaires au cofit de viabilisation et de construction du Centre de Developement Communautaire.
Le suivi sociologique et environnemental a ete determinant dans l'encadrement des animateurs et la
conduite des micro-projets.
11. Reforme institutionnelle : L'adoption du Projet de Loi sur la Mailtrise d'Ouvrage Publique
(M.O.P.) et sa promulgation permettra de creer au Benin, un cadre 1lgal a la delegation de maitrise
d'ouvrage et d'assurer une rapidit6 et une efficacite dans l'execution des projets de d6veloppement.
L'application de cette loi permettra d'accroitre les performances des administrations publiques dans la
consommation des credits et la reduction des delais de conduite des projets.
Nrennite
12.   La perennite des acquis du projet dependra de:
- la capacite des agences a poursuivre la realisation des etudes et travaux urbains en contractant avec
l'Etat B6ninois, les futures communes et les diffdrents partenaires au developpement. Ces agences ont
deja demontre leur capacite d'intervention et beneficient de la confiance de l'Etat et des partenaires au
developpement;
- la capacit6 des beneficiaires a entretenir les ouvrages realises: les C.U. pour les infrastructures urbaines
(les ressources allouees a l'entretien etant encore faibles, il faudra leur inculquer la culture d'entretien ou
41



de maintenance), I'AMSM pour la gestion du Centre de Sant6 de Menontin, le Comite Local de
D6veloppement pour la gestion du Centre de Developpement Communautaire et les organisations
communautaires de base pour les micro-projets de quartiers;
*  la performance des Directions des Services Techniques (DST) dans la programmation annuelle de
l'entretien des infrastructures et des equipements, le suivi et le contr6le de leur realisation. Les DST
souffrent d'insuffisance de ressources humaines de qual.ite. Leur survie au sein des futures communes
dependra de la competence qu'elles auront demontree dans l'execution de leur mission et les r6sultats
obtenus dans la maintenance des infrastructures et equipements urbains.
*  Ia contractualisation des marches avec les PME dii secteur BTP, les bureaux d'etudes et les
Consultants afin de maintenir et d'elever le niveau du savoir-faire et 1'expertise locale acquis.
*  la signature annuelle du protocole d'accord entre les services des impots et la C.U. de Porto-Novo
pour une gestion du RFU permettant d'am6liorer constamment les ressources de la fiscalite locale.
*  la recuperation des couts dans I'op6ration d'amenagemient concerte de Godomey et la creation d'un
fonds pour assurer le prefinancement des operations sinnilaires.
Perspectives
13.   le credit no 2338-BEN a et cloture le 31 Decembre 1997. Avant sa cloture, le Gouvernement du
Benin a sollicit6 une requ8te aupres de l'IDA pour la preparation du 2e Projet Urbain dont la SERHAU-
SEM assure la ma^itrise d'ouvrage deleguee. L'objectif essentiel de ce 26 projet est d'ameliorer de facon
durable la gestion et la fourniture des services urbains, dans le contexte de la decentralisation naissante, a
travers:
* I'amelioration de l'etat des infrastructures et des equipements de base pour stimuler la croissance
6conomique au niveau local et regional et elever le niveau de vie des populations;
*  I'amelioration des capacit6s de mobilisation des ressources locales a travers une gestion plus efficace
des equipements marchands et un meilleur rendement dle la fiscalite locales;
*  le renforcement des capacites de gestion des nouvelles collectivites locales autonomes avec la mise
en place de:
i) contrats de villes entre l'Etat et les communes pour le financement des investissements prioritaires et
1'entretien des infrastructures et equipements de base, ii) de systemes d'informations communales
permettant un suivi-evaluation des performances des communes et iii) de programmes d'appui aux
communes en matiere de gestion municipale et urbaine.
14.   L'esprit de la d6l6gation de maitrise d'ouvrage cornmence a etre applique par l'Etat Beninois et
les Circonscriptions Urbaines. L'adoption de la loi sur la Maitrise d'Ouvrage Publique et sa promulgation
permettra d'inscrire durablement ce mode d'exercice dans le dispositif institutionnel du Benin.
15.   L'erection des municipalites dans le cadre de la decentralisation permettra d'accroftre la
responsabilite et l'autorite des maires en matiere de gestion urbaine.
Lecons Majeures et Recommandations: Les principales lecons a tirer de l'ex6cution du projet et
recommandations sont les suivantes:
42



16.    Au plan institutionnel
*  Rendre plus permanent si possible les membres du comite de suivi pendant toute la duree du projet.
Chacun des membres du comite doit 8tre correspondant du projet, non seulement aupres de la
structure qu'il repr6sente, mais aussi aupres du ministere concerne.
* Acceldrer la procedure d'adoption et de promulgation de la loi sur la Maitrise d'Ouvrage Publique;
*  Acceldrer le processus de mise en place des nouvelles collectivites locales;
* Rendre operationnel, les Directions des Services Techniques municipaux.. Ces Directions devraient
jouer un r6le important dans la mise en oeuvre de la strategie d'entretien des infrastructures et
d'amelioration du niveau de service offert A la population;
* Integrer les processus de gestion de la perennite du RFU dans la pratique administrative des services
des imp6ts et des services financiers des villes;
* Consacrer en priorite, les ressources provenant de la fiscalite locale et celles gen6rees par la mise en
place du RFU A l'entretien des infrastructures et equipements urbains en particulier et A la gestion
urbaine en general afin d'encourager le civisme fiscal d'une part et accroitre la capacite de
mobilisation des ressources extdrieures pour l'investissement neuf d'autre part;
* Mettre en oeuvre les orientations strategiques contenues dans la Ddclaration de Politique Urbaine et
dans la D6claration de Politique du Gouvernement en matiere d'investissement public en milieu
urbain afin de coordonner l'intervention de tous les partenaires dans le secteur urbain au Benin;
* Creer un cadre reglementaire plus approprie aux associations de developpement et aux organisations
communautaires de base dans la mise en oeuvre de projets participatifs.
17.    Sur le plan technique et administratif
* Dans le cadre de la Maitrise d'Ouvrage De6lguee et avant de proc6der au demarrage des chantiers,
les agences devraient s'assurer au prealable que le financement et surtout les contreparties provenant
de l'Etat, des Collectivites Locales et des beneficiaires sont d6finitivement acquis pour eviter des
retards de paiements. Le maitre d'ouvrage doit prendre les dispositions utiles pour que les fonds
soient disponibles dans les comptes des agences;
* Des rencontres periodiques d'echanges d'informations entre les agences et les differents partenaires
seraient profitables pour toutes les parties. Ces rencontres pourraient &re l'occasion pour certains
acteurs d'avoir des reponses aux nombreuses questions qu'ils se posent;
*  Les agences devraient mener des reflexions pour permettre aux entreprises, aux bureaux d'etudes et
aux consultants d'ameliorer constamment le niveau des prestations offertes;
* Le suivi par I'AGETUR de la main-d'oeuvre employee aussi bien sur les chantiers de travaux que sur
le programme de d6sensablement des voies devrait 8tre renforce.
18.    Sur I'approche participative ou concertee
Les micro-projets concus sur la base de l'approche participative repondent au mieux aux besoins de la
population a la base. On note cependant que les representants des populations qui sont les interlocuteurs
du projet ne restituent pas toujours A la base, les informations du projet. Par ailleurs, la contribution
sollicitee aupres des ben6ficiaires, surtout au niveau des couches defavorisees est difficilement
mobilisable en milieu urbain. Malgre les programmes d'animation et de sensibilisation, les micro-projets
ont accuse des delais de trop depuis l'identification jusqu'A la realisation.
Cette situation ne devrait pas constituer un frein A la poursuite des projets communautaires. Les
populations a la base devraient se mobiliser autour d'un projet porteur d'int6r8t collectif et autour duquel
vont se developper les micro-realisations A l'instar de Menontin. Les agences devraient accroltre le
43



programme d'Information, d'Education et de Sensibilisation (I.E.S.) afin que la durabilit6 des ouvrages
r6alis6s soit garantie.
19.    Sur la perennite
* Au regard, d'une part du faible niveau d'implication des beneficiaires dans l'entretien des ouvrages et
infrastructures, et d'autre part, de l'insuffisance des res sources affectees au niveau des collectivites
locales, la perennite des investissements realises necessiterait la mise en place d'un fonds municipal
d'entretien durable;
*  Au regard de l'interet que suscitent les projets communautaires d'une part, et compte tenu des
difficult6s rencontrees dans le montage et l'execution de ces projets d'autre part, il serait souhaitable
d'editer des guides a l'attention des animateurs et des manuels de conseils pratiques pour les
organisations communautaires de base. Ces guides et manuels permettraient d'assurer une bonne
conduite des projets et de garantir la perennite des actions en faveur des couches defavorisees;
*  Au regard des delais longs enregistres, de l'absence de viabilisation et d'equipements minimum, la
p6rennite des operations d'amenagement foncier conceft6 necessiterait la mise en place d'un fonds
d'equipement urbain et la creation pour chaque operation, une association fonciere, maltre d'ouvrage
et responsable entre autre du recouvrement des couits
*  Au regard du faible niveau de concertation entre les C.U. et les services fiscaux, la perennite des
RFU n6cessiterait la signature des conventions annuelles fixant clairement les roles et les objectifs de
chaque partie assorti des obligations de resultats pour les services fiscaux.
20.    Sur l'avenir
*  Accroitre la capacite de maitrise d'ouvrage des futures communes decentralisees;
*  Aider a l'application de la loi sur la Maitrise d'Ouvrage Publique des sa promulgation et renforcer la
capacit6 d'intervention des agences;
* Mettre en oeuvre la strategie sectorielle d'investissement public en milieu urbain;
*  Poursuivre la mise en place de la reforme du droiit foncier urbain et l'elaboration de la loi
d'orientation urbaine;
*  Organiser et intensifier des programmes de formation en direction des acteurs publics que prives
intervenant dans l'investissement et la gestion urbaine (P.M.E., ONG, Organisations communautaires
de base, services techniques municipaux, services centraux de l'urbanisme, etc.);
*  Organiser une table-ronde des partenaires au developpement et qui s'appuie sur la strategie
sectorielle adoptee par le gouvernement en matiere d'investissement public en milieu urbain.
44



