Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2338 BEN
(Urban Rehabilitation and Management Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 11, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2338 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 11, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Borrower intends to obtain from the Government of France, through 
the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) a non-reimbursable contribution in an amount 
equivalent to one million three hundred thousand dollars ($1,300,000), to assist in 
financing the Project;
WHEREAS the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations Development 
Program (UNDP) a non-reimbursable contribution, in an amount of four hundred and fifty 
thousand dollars ($450,000), to assist in financing the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"AGETUR" means Agence d'Execution des Travaux Urbains, a non-profit 
association established by the Borrower's Letter No. 1087/MISPAT/DC/DAI/SI dated 
October 18, 1990 and whose members include the Borrower;
(b)
"SERHAU-SEM" means Societe d'Etudes regionales d'Habitat et d'Amenagement 
Urbain, a societe d'economie mixte, to be established pursuant to Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement;
(c)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered into by 
the Borrower and AGETUR, and by the Borrower and SERHAU-SEM in accordance with Section 
3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)
"CIS-PRGU" means the Comite Interministeriel de Suivi du Projet de 
Rehabilitation et de Gestion Urbaines, established by decree of the Borrower;
(e)
"AMSM" means Association Medico-Sociale de Menontin,  an association 
established by the Borrower's Letter No. 1289/MISAT/DC/DAI/SI dated September 19, 
1991;
(f)
"Menontin Agreement" means the agreement entered into by the Borrower and 
the AMSM for the operation and maintenance of the health center to be constructed 
under Part B.2 of the Project;
(g)
"Cotonou CU" means the Circonscription Urbaine of the City of Cotonou, 
the municipal authority of such city and "Porto-Novo CU" means the Circonscription 
Urbaine of the City of Porto-Novo, the municipal authority of such city, both 
established by the Borrower's Decree No. 90-309 dated October 27, 1990;
(h)
"PNCU Agreement" means the agreement entered into between SERHAU-SEM and 
the Porto-Novo CU setting out their respective responsibilities for the execution of 
Part E of the Project;
(i)
"Cellules Techniques" means the units set by the Borrower, in the CUs of 
Cotonou and Porto Novo, for the planning and the follow-up of the urban services 
contracts;
(j)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
September 20, 1990 and October 15, 1990 between the Borrower and the Association; and
(k)
"Special Account 'A' and "Special Account 'B' mean the accounts referred 
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixteen million seven hundred Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 16,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project and through each 
Subsidiary Agreement, cause AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM to each SERHAU-SEM open and maintain 
in CFA Francs a special account (Special Account A and Special Account B, 
respectively) in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and 
Page  3
conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, each 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Sched-ule 4 and 
Schedule 5, respectively, to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 2002 and ending January 1, 2032. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 1, 2012 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall: (i) cause AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
the relevant Subsidiary Agreement and, in the case of SERHAU-SEM, in accordance with 
the PNCU Agreement, all the respective obligations of AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM therein 
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance; (ii) cause 
the Cotonou CU and the Porto-Novo CU to provide the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association to be the 
contribution of the said CUs towards the execution of Part D.4 of the Project, and to 
this end, cause the Cotonou CU and the Porto-Novo CU to deposit into project accounts 
on terms acceptable to the Association the amounts agreed upon between the Borrower 
and the Association, as set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, as the contribution 
of said CUs towards the financing of the said part of the Project; and (iii) for the 
purposes of Part B of the Project, cause the AMSM to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Menontin Agreement all the obligations of AMSM therein set forth 
shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable AMSM to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall enter 
into an agreement or agreements with each of AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM (the Subsidiary 
Agreement) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association which shall 
include, inter alia:
(i)
delegation of authority for all procurement actions and for award 
and signature of contracts, as well as for signature and 
presentation of disbursement requests to the Association;
(ii)
provision for the transfer of the proceeds of the Credit on a 
non-reimbursable basis: (A) for purposes of financing the 
activities to be carried out under the Project; and (B) in the 
case of AGETUR, for the operating costs and equipment of AGETUR, 
including the obligation of AGETUR to return all of its equipment 
to the Borrower upon completion of the Project or the day before 
its dissolution in accordance with the statutes of AGETUR, 
whatever happens first;
(iii)
the obligation of AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM to take all measures 
necessary to ensure that the Project is carried out with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate 
administrative, technical and financial practices;
(iv)
the obligation of AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM to keep key positions 
filled with employees with adequate experience and qualifications;
(v)
the obligation of AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM to promptly inform the 
Borrower and the Association of any condition which interferes, or 
threatens to interfere, with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance 
by AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM of its obligations under the respective 
Subsidiary Agreement; and
(vi)
the obligation of AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM to provide quarterly and 
annual reports of such scope and in such detail as the Borrower or 
the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each Subsidiary Agreement, 
and shall cause SERHAU-SEM to exercise its rights under the PNCU Agreement, in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or  waive either Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof and shall ensure that SERHAU-SEM shall not assign, 
Page  5
amend, abrogate or waive the PNCU Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of overall Project 
coordination, maintain the CIS-PRGUX with composition and functions acceptable to the 
Association for the duration of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than December 
31, 1993 undertake a comprehensive mid-term review of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM to maintain 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices 
the operations and financial condition of AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause each of AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM to:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Accounts A and B, for 
each fiscal year audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than three months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Accounts A 
and B was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause each of AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for insurance against such risks and in such 
Page  6
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property and, from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and 
administrative practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that either 
AGETUR or SERHAU-SEM will be able to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement;
(b)
the Statutes of either AGETUR or SERHAU-SEM shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of AGETUR or SERHAU-SEM to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of either AGETUR or SERHAU-SEM, or 
for the suspension of its operations;
(d)
the Borrower or either AGETUR or SERHAU-SEM shall have failed to perform 
any of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement; and
(e)
either Subsidiary Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the Project or 
the performance of AGETUR or SERHAU-SEM of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) or (e) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
SERHAU-SEM has been constituted in accordance with the prevailing 
legislation of the Republic of Benin;
(b)
the Borrower has complied with Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
 
(c)
AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM have appointed Directors acceptable to the 
Association under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and
(d)
the Borrower has made available to the Cotonou CU and the Porto-Novo CU 
staff with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association in numbers 
satisfactory to the Association to work in the Cellulles Techniques to be established 
under Part D.1 of the Project.
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
Page  7
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister in charge of finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Le Ministcre des Finances
B.P. 302
Cotonou, Benin
Telex:
MINIFIN
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By /s/ Candide Ahouansou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Michael J. Gillette
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
Page  8
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Works
     (a) Civil works          10,490,000        85%
     (b) Health Center           430,000        100%
         Construction
(2)  Equipment
     (a) AGETUR                   90,000        100%
     (b) SERHAU-SEM              400,000        100%
(3)  Operating Costs
     (a) AGETUR                1,100,000        100%
     (b) SERHAU-SEM              460,000        100%
(4)  Consultants services
     (a) AGETUR                  740,000        100%
     (b) SERHAU-SEM            1,590,000        100%
(5)  Refunding of                220,000        Amount due
     Project                                    pursuant to
     Preparation                                Section 2.02 ( )
     Advance                                    of this Agreement
(6)  Unallocated               1,180,000
         TOTAL                16,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs" includes: (i) for 
AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM, incremental expenditures in respect of items such as salaries, 
office supplies, vehicles and building maintenance as shall be detailed in specific 
agreements to be signed between the Borrower and each of AGETUR and SERHAU-SEM after 
prior approval by the Association; and (ii) for the Cellules Techniques, office 
supplies.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b) as from the second year of the implementation of the Project, payments 
made for expenditures under Category 1 (a), until the Association has received 
satisfactory evidence attesting that, pursuant to Schedule 6 of this Agreement, the 
Cotonou and Porto Novo CUs have: (i) paid their contributions under Part D of the 
Project for the current year; and (ii) made budgetary provisions for their 
contribution for the following year.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project's immediate objectives are to support ongoing Borrower programs in 
infrastructure rehabilitation in the country's two largest cities (Cotonou and 
Porto-Novo), following approaches which optimize the impact of public works on 
employment and income of the urban poor, promote the development of local and 
medium-sized private enterprises, and involve residents in the decision-making 
process. The Project's longer term objectives are to support the preparation of a 
public investment strategy in the urban sector and to lay the groundwork for reforms 
which are necessary to improve the management of urban development in Benin.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Urban Infrastructure Rehabilitation
 
Rehabilitation, including repaving, of roads and clearing of open rain water 
Page  9
collector drains in Cotonou, Porto Novo and Godomey.
Part B:
Community-based Environmental Sanitation Improvements in Menontin
 
1.
Carrying out infrastructure improvements such as street and storm drainage 
rehabilitation.
2.
Construction of a health center.
 
3.
Sanitation improvements such as solid waste disposal and open drains cleaning 
with the participation of the beneficiaries. 
4.
Community development activities.
 
Part C:
Management of Urban Growth
 
1.
Carrying out all necessary land surveys, property investigations, public 
hearings and detailed engineering studies for an orderly land development in 
Godomey-South.
2.
Carrying out infrastructure works in Godomey-South such as construction and/or 
realignment of roads, construction and rehabilitation of open drains, construction of 
a dump site for collection of household waste.
3.
Preparation of urban planning documents and structure plans covering growth 
areas of Cotonou and Porto-Novo.
Part D:
Urban Services Management
 
1.
Establishment of Cellulles Techniques to program and follow-up the execution of 
contracts on urban services in Cotonou and Porto Novo, respectively.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to the Cellules Techniques to assist in work 
programming and follow-up of private sector contracts for urban road and drain 
maintenance and waste collection.
3.
Carrying out an institutional study to recommend arrangements for an overall 
reorganization of urban services in the cities of Cotonou and Porto-Novo.
4.
Integrated improvements in sanitation services such as drain cleaning and urban 
roads maintenance, solid waste collection in Cotonou and Port-Novo.
Part E:
Local Fiscal Resource Mobilization
 
Increase the Porto-Novo CU's fiscal resource mobilization through the 
introduction of a set of actions at central and local levels, including:
1.
Identification of tax payers, database creation, improvement and updating.
 
2.
Fiscal mapping.
 
Part F:
Urban Management Capacity Building
 
1.
Training of urban management staff involved in project implementation, including 
staff of Cellules Techniques, CUs of Cotonou and Port Novo, and the fiscal 
administration as well as the social workers involved in the area of Menontin.
2.
Preparation of teaching materials.
 
3.
Activities related to the preparation and implementation of a national training 
strategy for urban management.
Part G:
Urban Sector Strategy
 
1.
Studies and consultancy services necessary for the formulation of an urban 
strategy and for the preparation of urban and municipal sector reforms.
2.
Policy seminars to facilitate their implementation.
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1997.
Page  10
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
Bidders for works shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped into bid packages 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more.
4.
Goods shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a third-party 
inspection firm.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of Benin may be granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto. 
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for goods and works estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Contracts for procurement of items under Category (3) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 
1 of this Agreement, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000 per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $150,000, may be 
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of prequalification:
 
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in Part A.2 hereof, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Accounts A and B, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract, required to be furnished to the Association pursuant 
to said paragraph 2 (d), shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of 
the first payment out of Special Accounts A and B in respect of such contract.
(b)
Procedures set forth in the preceding paragraph (a) shall also apply: (i) 
for the first year of implementation of the Project, to contracts for procurement of 
works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $250,000; (ii) for the second 
year, to contracts for procurement of works estimated to cost more than the equivalent 
of $100,000, but less than the equivalent of $250,000; and (iii) for the third and 
Page  11
subsequent years, to contracts for procurement of works estimated to cost more than 
the equivalent of $150,000, but less than the equivalent of $250,000.
(c)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraphs 
(a) and (b), the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Accounts A and B, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract, together with the other information required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the 
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
Schedules 4 and 5 to this Agreement.
(d)
The provisions of the preceding paragraph (c) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals on the basis 
of statements of expenditure.
3.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account "A"
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2 (a), 3 (a) and 4 (a) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
290,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in Special Account 
"A" pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of Special Account "A" shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that Special 
Account "A" has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish Special Account "A" shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, AGETUR, on behalf of the 
Borrower, shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or 
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into Special Account "A" such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of Special Account "A", AGETUR, on behalf of the 
Borrower, shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into Special Account "A" at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, AGETUR, on behalf of 
the Borrower, shall furnish to the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit into Special Account "A" such amount as the Borrower 
Page  12
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of Special 
Account "A" for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special Account "A", AGETUR, on 
behalf of the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into Special Account "A":
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in Special Account "A" as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of Special Account "A": (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into Special Account "A" (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into Special Account "A" shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in Special Account "A" will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in Special Account "A".
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account "B"
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 2 (b), 3 (b) and 4 (b) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
Page  13
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
87,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into Special Account 
"B" pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of Special Account "B" shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that Special 
Account "B" has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish Special Account "B" shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, SERHAU-SEM on behalf of the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or 
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into Special Account "B" such amount or 
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of Special Account "B", SERHAU-SEM on behalf of 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for 
deposits into Special Account "B" at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, SERHAU-SEM on behalf 
of the Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit into Special Account "B" such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of Special 
Account "B" for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special Account "B", SERHAU-SEM on 
behalf of the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into Special Account "B":
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in Special Account "B" as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of Special Account "B": (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into Special Account "B" (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into Special Account "B" shall be made until the 
Page  14
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in Special Account "B" will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in Special Account "B".
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Contribution of CUs under
Part D.4 of the Project
(in Million CFA)
Not later than:
9/30/1992
9/30/1993
9/30/1994
 
Cotonou CU
38
155
292
 
Porto-Novo CU 
15
 54
100
 
