,w 'RC1ELUTING COPY
10MURN    TO ARCHIVES DIMION     RETURN    TO        RESTRICTED
REPORTS DESK            Report No. P-560
WITHIN                      34~
_____  ONE WEEK        FILE CPY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPC)RT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE MALAGASY REPUBLIC
FOR AN EDUCATION PROJECT
August 2, 1967



INTETNATIONAL BANTK FOR REC01NSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECO14MENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE MALAGASY REPUBLIC
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an arnount in various currencies equivalent to $4.8 million to
the Malagasy Republic, to assist in financing an education project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In July 1964, the Yalagasy Government requested Bank/IDA assist-
ance in the financing of a project comprising the construction and equip-
ment of schools. An appraisal mission visited the country in May/June 1965.
The project appeared suitable for Bank or IDA financing and in January 1966
the Government was so informed. At the same time Bank (or IDA) were
considering financing of' $10 million for a road project. Since Malagasy
was regarded as a soft blend country (see paragraph 12 below), it was
decided to work out an IDA credit for the road project and a Bank loan for
education.
3.        Negotiations f'or the proposed Bank loan for education were
delayed some time becauEse the Government had to acquire prior to negotia-
tions about two-thirds of the land required for the project.   This took
some time, as the ownership was divided among hundreds of small-holders.
By February 1967, however, the Government had taken possession of practi-
cally all the land, and negotiations for the proposed Bank loan were com-
pleted in Uhashington on March 24, 1967. The Government was represented
by a delegation headed by the Planning Commissioner. The $10 million IDA
credit (Credit No. 90 iLPG) for the road project was made to the Malagasy
Republic in August 1966.  No disbursements have yet been made.  No Bank
loan has yet been made in Madagascar.
PAR.T II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
4.        Borrower:        The Malagasy Republic.
Amount:          Equivalent, in various currencies, of $4.8 million.
Purpose:         To assist in financing the "Complexe scolaire de
Tananarive," a project for the construction and
equipment of three secondary technical schools
and two teacher-training institutes in Tananarive.
Amortization:    Term of 30 years, including 10 years grace period,
with semi-annual payments beginning April 1, 1977
and ending April 1, 1997.



-2 -
Interest Rate:           6 percent.
Commitment Clharge:      3/8 of 1 percent per annum.
PAURT III - THE PROJECT
5.        An Appraisal Report (TO-510d) is attached.  The project would
consist in the relocat:Lon and expansion of three secondary technical
institutes (public works and construction; business administration;
domestic science, hote:L keeping and business training) and two teacher-
training institutes (an "Institut Pedagogique" and a physical-education
teacher training center). Total cost of the project is estimated at
I-D 1,778 million, the equivalent of $7.2 million, with a foreign ex-
change component equivalent to $4.3 million. The three secondary tech-
nical institutes account for about 82 percent, the "Institut Pedagogique"
for 14 percent, and the physical-education teacher training center for
only 4 percent of the total cost. The proposed Bank loan of $4.8 million
represents two-thirds of the estimated cost of the project.
6.        The five institutes which would benefit from the project are
already in existence. Present accommodation at each of the institutes,
however, is highly inadequate for the number of students enrolled.
7bcpansion on the present sites is not possible. The relocation and con-
centration of the five schools on one site will enable the total enroll-
ment to increase from 1,350 students to over 3,000 and will make possible
the sharing of various cammunal facilities.  In acquiring the land, the
Government is taking into account the need for further expansion of the
schools. The Bank has received assurances from the French Government that
it will provide, upon request from the Malagasy Government, expatriates to
fill teaching positions which cannot be filled by qualified I4alagasies, for
the institutes included, in this project.
7.        The Government attaches a high priority to the project.   It
is part of a general educational plan to increase enrollment, improve
the quality of teachers, remedy the acute shortage of technically trained
personnel and enable Madagascar to reduce its dependency on expatriates,
who still occupy most of the teaching positions in secondary schools
and many positions as middle-level technicians. There is ample evidence
that the need for middle level technicians is particularly urgent in the
field of building construction and in the commercial sector; the three
secondary technical institutes would help meet this demand.
8.        Total cost of the project is equivalent to about 11 percent
of total planned investment in education from 1964 to 1973, the period
of the two Five Year Plans in which the construction of the project
falls.  As the French Government wrill meet about two-thirds of the cost
of expatriate teachers, recurrent costs of the project wsould not ex-
ceed 3 percent of total budgeted recurrent expenditures on education
and 0.6 percent of total budgeted recurrent expenditures at 1967 levels.



9.        Construction of the project would be carried out over a period
of four years (1968-1971). Awarding of construction contracts and the
procurement of general and instructional equipment wJouJld be on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
PART IV - LEGAL L-ISTRU15ENTS AND AUTHORITY
10.       A draft Loan Agreement between the IMalagasy Republic and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sec-
tion 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately
to the executive Directors.
11.       The draft Agreement follows generally the pattern of agreements
for similar projects. Since the major portion of the loan wJould be used
for financing construction contracts, disbursement of the proceeds would
be on a percentage basis, with the Bandk having the right to benefit from
any ultimate savings. The site of the project requires draining and
filling, wzorks wqhich are already underway; it is therefore provided that
expenditures for these works, after June 1, 1967, be eligible for reim-
bursement. (Section 2.03 )
PART V - TIHE ECOMNON
12.       An economic memorandum on "Recent Economic Developments in
the 1Nalagasy Republic" (AF-62a) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on June 28, 1967. The memorandum updates the report "The Economy of the
M4alagasy Republic," No. AF-42a, dated June 1, 1966. (Sec. R66-96, dated
July 11, 1966).  The memorandum reviews economic developments in the
last few years and the prospects for future economic growth in the light
of these developments. In recent years the performance of the economy
and economic policies pursued by the Government have been reasonably
satisfactory, although national output has failed to rise faster than
population which has been groring at an estimated 3 percent per year.
An increase in the present low rate of investment is needed to bring
about a faster growth in output, and this wdill require a larger inflow
of foreign capital. It is desirable that the bulk of foreign assistance
be on soft terms to take account of the still limited savings capacity
of the NEalagasy economy and to prevent an escalation of the debt service
burden.  Since, however, the service of external debt at the present
time represents less than three percent of export earnings, a moderate
amount of borrowing can prudently be incurred on conventional terms.
PART VI - CO0PLIA11CE TIIH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
13.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 4 -
PART VII - ;,CO19,21DATION
14.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION No.
Approval of Loan to the Nalagasy Republic in an amount
equivalent to U.S. $4,800,000.
RESOLVED:
THAT the, Bank shall grant a loan to the Malagasy
Republic in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to four million eight hundred thousand United States
dollars (U.S.. $4,80o,000), to mature on and prior to
April 1, 1997, to bear interest at the rate of six per-
cent (6,') per annum, and to be upon such other terms and
conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Educa-
tion Project) between the iMalagasy Republic and the Bankc
which has been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
by S.R. Cope
TTashington, D.C.
August 2, 1967
Attachments



