RESTRICTED
Report No.   TO- 55 1id    'N
r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affilioted organizations.
IThiy do not accept responsibility for its accurcscy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted cis representing their views.
r-.- 'DrurT'MTA T t~AnTT à ~   TvTe            TTpnip        T)WUITI CNDkfe\Tr
TTNTP    ATINT TÔ     DE;VEI ÔPMP\T      À >COCI À TCON
A l= A ITC A r (vr'
COMPLEXE SCOLAiRE iDE T ANAINARIVE
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
July 2Z1,   1967
Projects Departrnent



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 U. S. $           =  247 Malagasy Francs (FMG)
1 Malagasy Franc
(FMG)             =   U. S. $0. 00405
1 Mil:Lion FMG      =  U. S. $4, 050
ARE.A
1 hecltare          =  Z.. 47 acres
1 kilorneter        =  0., 62 miles
1 squiare kilometer  =  0. 386 square miles
1 square meter      =  10. 8 square feet



S ±SSSAT~f.L  'J.  rY'MA - .Ztk..J  Sî J  T   t U)lA.  .J   lUi ~TrL1  t! rS.   MT. LS
T;>2LB 0F COm';TETS
Para2rachs
BASIC DATA
GLOSISRY
1. IlTRCUJGTIN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1.0
2.     rn ' .UJ   rnTI -I  .'c  1   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .
Or,anizatior and Administration                         2.01
Secondary Education                                     2. C6
Te -2h ,i -a-  q--q-        c A  : 7ra tn i n- - n       +. i n n9
Pcst-Secondiary and University Education                2.13
Financing of Education                                    __:
NFFPn FOR TWF.:PROJRGT. . . . . . . . . . .
Cc,-,lexe Scolaire de Tananarive
Lycee Techniaue du Genie Civil             )
L-cee Technique rommercial;                )
Colleze d'Enseignement Techricue Feminin   )
Commercial, Menager et 111otelier,       )            3.01
Institut National Superieur de Recherche et
de Formation Pedagogiques                             3.Oh
Centre National d'Educateurs Populaires et
Sportifs (CNEPS)                                      3.06
Accommodation                                           3.08
h. THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . .
General                                                 h.01
A.. Technical features:
Lycee Technique du Genle Civil                       4..3
Lycee Technique Commercial                           h.o8
Le Coliege d Enseignement Technique Feeminin
Commercial, Menager et Hotelier                    4.11
L'Institut National Superie(ur de Recherche et
de Formation Pedagogiques                          h.13
Le Centre National d'Educatle-urs Pop-ulaires et
Sportifs (CMIEPS)                                  4.18
jThe CUoUAinUcL-1 Fc'ties                             .23
Equipment                                            L.24
T eache l 1 r . 2 
Jt~~~~~~O.iiJJ~~~~~~~~~~~~4.~~ ~ ..**  * 
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal rission in >-.,l96S,
tc the 1LLlagasy Repubiic, cor-posed of Mr.J.J.5-ùcll:rt and i'4rs.0lori ~lerh-.
:-f the Bank, lr.   m holler (Unesc_.) and Messrs. J.C.Thorntcn ard E.Vergara,
consult^nts.



Àucraisal of Comrlexe Scol1ire de Tananarive, Malagasy Republic
Taide  fu i n ent
- 2 -                         Parvr ar,hs
B. Costs                                                   2?
C. Construction:
Architectural Services                                h.l31
Land                                                   4. 32
Accommdoclation                                       h. 35
Execution of the Project                              h.37
5. CONCUSIONS AID RECOIT-DATIONS                                5.01
ANNE ŒS:
,ITEXZ  1 - Outline of Schocl System.
2- Administrative Structure of   nistry Yf Cultirzal Affairs
3 - Education Structure and Enrolment (1963 - 1c6h).
4- Distribution by Grade of Enrolment in Primary Schools - 1963 - 196à.
5- Distribution by Grade of Enrolment in GeneraL Secondary Schools,
1963 - 10964.
6 - Enrolment in Fublic Technical and Vocational Schools in 1903 - 1964.
7 - Public Expenditures on Education in iUl;g-<2sy R.epublc, 19O - 19S5 - from
Domestic Resources.
8 - Lycee Technique du Genie Civil - Outlines of Study.
9 - Le Lycee Technique Commercial - Expansion of Enrolment.
10 - Le Lycee Technique Commercial - Outline of Programns cf Study.
l l - Le College d'Enseignement Technique Feminin Commercial, Menager
et HodeIlier.  0rgaril.aki t.Lo0 anid  E'pi.Usicn of' LEiro.mi-Lerit .
12 - L'Institut National Suzerieur de Recherche et de Formation Pedagogiques -
13 - L'Institut lNational Superieur de Recherche et de Formation Pedagogiqueo -
14 - Diversified Educational Center (Corplexe Scolaire de Tananarive) -
Sunma-7 rf o c-st
15 - Malagasy Republic - Complexe Scolaire de Tananarive - Schedule of
Construct-ion -and Dsusmns



iviALAQ2L_Y RPIRJBLIC
BASIC D.ATA - 1966
Av~,era-e densltv11pe                    sq,e>io,
C.roe-:th                        3% p .a.
% cf    Non-        % of
Gross Domestic Product   Total     Monetary   Total Hlonetary     Total
1966 current value        688         550      8G%    138          2 C%
($d millionl)
Per cazi+ta ($ rounded)   1C6
Pro;jected ave:rage economic growth, 1966-71:  4.O% p.a.



MALAGASY REPUELIC
GLOSSARY
Baccalaureat                        Leavinrg certificate for hi-ch
exanminations are taken ao the
end of the long secondary course
in grades 12 and 13.
3.E.C.          Brevet d'Enseigrement Commnercial    Qualification ob'tained by exam-
ination after grade 12 in a
technical institution.
Brevet d'Etudes du Premier Cycle    Qualification obtained bv exyrl-
ination after the short seconcar-
course (grades 7-10).
B.S.E.C.        Brezvet Superieur d'Etudes           Qualification obtained by exai-
Comme:-ciales                       ination after grade 1_ in a
technical institution.
B.T.S.          Brevet de Technicien Superieur       Post-secondary qualification
obtaried in a tecilc '
institution.
Centre de Formation                 Training center.
C.N.E.P.S.      Centre National d'Educateurs         National center for physîcal
Pnr.ffliirt~'p~ ént. onyt 2 ~rn t pq-"ri'v ï-$
Popu2irs etSpotif .... eucato eac--ers--       and   Jtou,th
leaders.
C.A.I.P.        Certificat d'Aptitude a              Certificate of fitness for
l'Inspection Primaire                inspecting rrim.ary schooLs.
C.A.P.          Cert:ificat d'Aptitude Pedagogique   Certificate of fitness for
teaching.
Certificat d'Aptitude                Certificate of fitness for
Professionelle                      vocational work.
C.A.P.E.S.(T)   Certificat d'Aptitude au             Certificate of fitness for
Professorat de l'Enseignement        teaching in secondary (technical
Secondaire (Technique)               schools.
C.E.P.E.        Certificat d'Etudes Primaires        Qualification obtained by e.-
Elementaires                        ination after the pri-ary
course (grades l-5).
Certificat Propedeutique            Qualification obtained oy exa;n-
ination after une year's study
at a university.



Glo s rarv
C.. G.           College d'Enseignement Gereral       Post-primary school providing a
four-year course (grades 7-10).
College iNormal                       Post-primary school providing a
5-year course of general edu-
cation and teacher training
(grades 7-11).
College d'3nseignement Technique      Girls secondary technical
Feirinin Cclmmercial, Menager et      school for comrnerce, hote.] keae
Hotelier.                             ing and househoid economy.
Complexe Scolaire                     School campus.
3cole Nornale.                        Higher secondary schocl .ro-;id-
i-g a four-year course of
general education and teac;he-
training (grades 11-1h).
Ecole Primaire du Premier Cycle       School providing the firsl; 4-
year course (grades 1=').
Ecole Pr->;ma,i-;re du DexiJeMle 1Cycle   School provin     3  2 ar
foilowing the four-year course
.. C.G. F        onds    ide et de Coorerition e     Tr Fr ench goerr n  ent agenYcy
for aid to foreign countries.
I.N.S.R.F.P.     Institut National Su-erie!ur de      HJgher national institute cf
Recher .-"~ et de Formation           ed,icationai research and teacher
Pedago6-ques.                         training.
Licencie.                             Holder of a university Ist
degree.
Lycee                                 Secondary school providinc the
long course leading to the
Baccalaureat (grades 7-13).
Lycee Technique                       Lycee specialising in technical
studies (grades 7-13).
Lycee Technique Commercial            Commercial secondary schooi.
Lycee Technique du Genie Civil        Technical high school for
building and surveying.



Glossary
Naitre de lx Enseignement            Teacher in a general seconda:v
Secondaire General                   course r.olding a fuli !3acca-
laureat or an instituteur
bachelier wqith at leasi one
year's excerience who has c^m-
pleted satisfactorily a co-urse
of 2 years at the INISRFP.
M''âtres d'Ecoles Primaires          First cycle pr-mary school
grades 1-9 and up to onre yearns
professinaltrainir;g in 
Centre de Formation des i!itre.-
-I vCles Pri r- -e    Tu'.m
Cycle .



AFPFPISM. 0F QD ,P)LEr, 'R SC L.Ar-?3 D E e r2 ÂHXIV`T=.'J. ` -.l MAL 7flS 'R  TP ? - 
i.        The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has
been asked by the ialagasy Republic to assist in financing the Complexe
sco'aire de Tananarive, a project for the relocation and expansion of three
secondary technical institutes and two teacher training institutes.   The
Proc1 ct consists of the construction and equipment o' academic buildiJr.s,
student hostels, staff housing, and communal facilities ;hich will be shared
by the five institutes on a 12 hectare site ir Tananarive.   The total rroject
cost is estirated at 1,778 million 1,alagasy francs (F-fG, equivaient `tc
US$7.2 million. 'The fcreign e-change comconent is estimated at j3$L.3 3il      c
The proposed ioan equivaLent to $4.ô mii:LIon, tua-tlirds of the total prjec
cost, would be made to the Goverrmient cf the Republic OI Malagasy.  T..e
annua' recurrent costs OI the project,  npuroximatelly $0.u2 mlliLon, t-lll te
met by the M.'J.agasy government. Construction o-i the project is eypec-ed to 'e
compl eted by the middle of 1972.
ii.    T,>.e ~process,îng of- th1,e 1loan aplii>o   for1 u 1,i0 tSs pro-Vj ect .has b En
delayed because of difficulties in acquiring the proposed site.   Malagasy
authori ties have nicw acquir ed suffici.ent land for the imm-edate needs cf the
proiect anc w.ill reserve twa additiornal hectares adjacent to the nroject site
10e for e the co,l on ofe cos.ciony +o rrov ide- spce for      ~    r fuur   exr  in
Tn Thi r-,r'n- t i-. Tonl ll hrl- nI in mnOt. t.'IOZ ircriO. rsq-- fn' Vn 7Inqi,nj
andi improvement of teacher training and technical education institutions.
The Tnst-tut Mati-APl Superiepur de Rizchprhe et de Formation Pedrgoîiques
uould accelerate the movement to Aialagasize the existing education systerln and
would provide teachers trained in the new svstem to primary teacher trairling
centers and secondary schools. The second teacher training institution, the
Centre National d'Educateurs Populaires et Sportifs, would be enabled to
increase its enrolment and so alleviate the shortage of physical education
teachers and make possible a renllocation of expatriate teachers into sulbject
areas which require a lengthy period of training ard in *uhich a critical
shortage of Malagasy teachers exists., The three technical institut_ons within
this project would help ta reduce the acute need for middle level technical
personnel.
iv.       Since the ratio of applicants for admission to the schools in -:his
project -to the number of available seats varies between 5 and 9 to 1, an,1
further expansion of primary and secondary enrolments is expected, sufficient
numrbers of qualif-ied candidates for admission w-ill be available.
v.        Preliminary drawings, which have been prepared by a Yialagasy
arclhitectural firm, provide accomîrodations which are adequate for the fivie
institutions and conform to austere stand'ards. The estirnates ai costs have
been up-dated anci are realistic.
vi.       Lists of instructional equipment have been prepared for each
iLnsti.L .Ut,.LULJ. l±ime are adequate and of reasonab' cost..



vii.       Teachers OI techrical subjects are and will continue to be, for
th,e d  ato   o   ,-. -__oj_c  a+ 1east.,Frnheprits,.vcdwFos
tislÀ   ULL   U  L,LI  -.-i.dVJ  .-' OU0 1-i SÂs I 
d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC).    It is expected that sufficient numbers cf
ultim,ately to comrpletely staff these institutes.    Teachers of advanced
Fedagog land E-CienCe c   at the peda-ccJ-1 inst+.iltute are> being
provided until at, least 1969 by the IJNDP, which also is providing fellow<ihip,o
t,o pre, are 3lalaga.sies, ton -renlc trzhee  atletarrs
:nd  ith c_,nditicŽns fcor sigrnin- the ioan agrcerecnt P-re-,ciy r, -he prcJ'c:
i3 i suitzbiebasis for a proposed lban equiv_alent to      h._ p  iliCIn.



I. INIRODUCT:[ON
1.01      The Government of the 2a±aigasy Republie has recuested International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development assistance fo, the relocation and
exnansaon of three secondary technicl institutes and t<1o teacher traninifg
institutes on a 1 2 hectare campus in Tananarive.  The expanded facilities Tiil!
enable the total enrolment of the fi-ve schools to increase from the present
1,350 students ta 3,120 students and help ta alleviate the acute shortage cf
tec:hn4ically trained nersonnel anrd qua7ified teachers that exists in the
Mala,asy Republie.  The total cost of the project is estimated to oe 1,778
million 1,alagasy francs (F;S:G), the equivalent of U3$7.2 niilicn.  Construct icn
of the project should be completed ty the middle of 1972.
1.02      A 3ankc appraisal mission visited the NLalagasy Republic in La2-y-June,
196$.  Dlscussions w-ere with er,ployerst groups, bilateral assistance-agencies
aotire in the NaLagasy Republic, the architecturall irm that prepared the
site plans, the administrative and teaching staffs of each of the institutes
includedL in the project, and representatives of the Planning Eoard and the
liinistries of Public IJorks, Finance, and Cultural Aiffairs.  This report is
based upon these discussions and documents presented by the Governmenti oi tne
Mhalazasy Republic te the appraisal mission and discussions wJhich thle mission
canducted in Paris witn unesco anc FAC.
SûciL.-'i n7rd EZcrono u-c ÛaB~_c-round
-1.03    Irh_ 3T.I-gâ  P»'blc    fomel           arA T512n  A--<-----cAr, i
.L.vLte                uuL'.   ~±  L±C!.L.  L4±C  L -.LJrLU  V.L. 
located in the Indian Ocean about hCO kilometers from the southeast coast cf
560 kilcometers across at its tiidest point.  The total land area of 590,000
ec,,l-rc. lAi orn-.nv hn 1-n * .i- rh, î,n,.i ns nf e-fn:r~h; r.nl sturi rl; m_. r, 'rnrt+ T.; nnc -
the nature of the terrain tends to clivide the country into several isolated
regions.  The land is primarily pastuteland, wlth about 20% forested and
another 15% considered cultivable; hiowever, only 5% of the total area ils
r.r±7 îintlr lad r.if1 tiHv~-atin.
1.0à      The total population has been estimated at 6.5 million at the
becinning oa 1966, l'iith a natural rate of growth estimated at 3.0% per year.
0  the -arious nationalities conprising the approximately 103,000 non-
?1alagas:ies living in the country, the French (38,000), Comoriens (34,000),
Indians (16,000) and ChIlnese (8,000) are the largest grouns.  About one--half
of the population is under 20 years of age.  The population is unequally
distributed over the country; large areas in the west and south are only
sparsel;7 settled. ihile others, especially on the central plateau and east
coast, are very densely and even over-populated.  About 80C lives in rural
areas.  Some 19 tribal groups of different ethnic origins are united by a
common lelagasy language.
1.05      Agriculture is the primary source of economnic activity.  Faddy is
the main subsistence crop; co'if'ee, sugar, deluxe rice, vanilla and sisal are
the most important sources of export earnings.  Fevw mineral resources exist
Which can be profitably exploited in the near future, with the exception of
chromite derosits.  Some industrial activity is increasing.  The expansion
Ci' production in reali terms appears to have exceeded tnat io' tne pov,rta ic.



in recent years.  The government is very much aitare of the need for
in t, n,s J. g,* r.- 1      rre, v r a  r'tU.e: o+ f ecC,cric  groith a,  Ii-cnd   ,-ppr-v  a f,v-.wr  2n,d
which establishes realistic area.s of investrment priority.  A substantial
l-n-rse- in the rat -f i rnv-,e-ntr c,r 1a-t lv TIs .-J1i be r-qi-red tn
achieve the plan goals.   Because of uncertainties facing most of the countrys
agriculturai eytorts iD the -.crld ma.rkets, a large shareof th   inres    i n
i mports necessary to carry out the investment program iqill have to be fi.nanced
f½n rom broadL
1.06      Th'e I'4alaasv Renublic beceme a Frenich Protectorate in 1885, and in
19h6 an overseas territ'ory in the frame^Gicrk of the French Uinion.  In 1958 i+
becarne a self-eoverning repuolic within the French communitys.  It becarme
i:nde-pen(dent in June, 1960, but has maintained c'ose ties with France and has
concludea several cooperation agreerrents .-.ith the French government.  The
French continue to provide substantial a-mounts of financi,al aid, a large
proport:ion of t'hich is in the forrm, of uages and salaries paid to expatriate
technicians, particularly teachers.



II.  T.E BDUCATIOIN SY3ETsl'
OrgNanization and Administration
2.01      The Malagasy educational system (ANMrEX 1) is patterned after the
French system in organizational structure and course contenu.    The  inistury
of Cultural iffairs determines curricula and syllabi for al! schools and
provides teacher training and supervi.sion.  Examinetions are set and contro"'ed
oy the ,IEnistry; for technicil and vocational subjects the exaimination
cozmii-bees compn.se xrnstyand~z  .  n  sochc:o reHresrlatlvei as 'jtel± as mre.bersi
Practisin  the trade or craft under examination.   The 1inistry provides
subvte,nàtions for  riaesch~%-ools ozeae     byrlgiu    r.tttin       n
exercises control over building safety and sanitation, and qualifications of
4.  ~   74  nn...-r,  '04  ,fl,.,n  .,1  ~  -,c.rn .c-   1-4  4-, -Pr  n,,  I -?C.a,,n ,+4n   ., 1  + 1-c
Qeachers.  Itsh3rzes                                    ---cq  esosWlty4rpiar  scto --- i  h
local an d provincial authorities out cor.pletely finances public secondary
2.02      The administrative structur«e cf the ~.fnistry of Cuitural Aff2irs
(..IEX 2) has theb Director General of Academic Services as the chief adntin-
istratlve officer of the Ministrv on the ontrations levpl.   He also supe-vises
directly the secondary school system and the Institut National Superieur de
Recherche et de Eormation Pedagogiques (NJational Institute for Research and
Teacher Training}.  Responsible to him f`or the Divisions of Teacher Training,
Techmical Education, rrimary Education, Youth and Sp-orts, and N4edical Schools
are 5 Directors or Insrectors. 1Ech division has its oWqn inspectorate.    The
?Hnistry is adequately staffed and efficiently operated.
Primary Education
2.03      Most of the existing primary schools provide 6 years of instruction,
although some off er only 4 years because of a scarcity of teachers.   Some
shortcomings of these schools that were voiced by ialagasies are that the
content of instruction is divorced from the daily lives of the children,
teaching is formai, and French is the mediun of instruction.   A new type of
school, which ha.s just begun to appear but will in due course be standard,
provides a basic course of four years, which is terminal for many children,
and a second cycle cf two years in preparation for secondary education.    The
MËlagasy language is the medium of instruction in the ne.u schools and the
subject matter is oriented towards daily experiences of children.   French is
taught as a second language from the beginning.   These schools are intended
to become centers for village life.
2.04      In 196h, 2,17h4 Duublc and 1,15û private pritury scooils were in
operation with an enrolment equal to 595,600 pupils, 42% of the relevant
age group and uppr-o  d,  y 70J/D  4.1f the tal shl   Jno.ieLJ. ±iD the . 'aLgasy
Republic, as illustrated in the educational pyramid in iUI]IEX 3.  To increase
thle oututa tro.. pjriW.J. - c -o1-1  t)L2e over t .ent  Llans   +th to- increas  the
input arid by improving teaching standards to reduce the drop-out rate, t:hich
is* hish, as shos.nby heeS.h nrolment figneslQfor 1963/6hi n AN.NEX I. of the
enrolment in grade 1, only 15% enter grade 6 and 6- go on ta secondary schools.
Thepercrentage enrolmment of the age group in grae   l to 4 l vill be 
from 461% in 1963-196l to 78% in 1972, and in grades 5 and 6 frcm 33% in
1'36-l964D tÀ -2i in 1972.  The cost of the rn1an- including rtcurrlng tx-r,endi-
tures, will exceed FIZ 30 billion ($1122 million) over the next 10 years and



îill be financed £rom contributions by the central government, erov-ncial
gcovernments, and district governments, and contributions in kind (labor)
by the copulation in the school districts.
2.05      Current student/teacher ratios are 80:1 in public and 50:1 in
private primary schools.  Estimates of the numbers of teachers required for
the planned increases in prirarv enrolment are based on a student/teacher
ratio Of 100:1 -ith each teacher responsible for two shifts of 50 students
each. From an educational vie-ipoint, such a high ratio is undesirable but
must be tolerated for the present becaus2 of the scarcity of teachers.  To
provide the 5,300 ne-pr± imary teachers required by 1972, the Y-nistry Cf
CuLTural. afairs -Dians to enroill approxi.ateiy 1,000 primary teacher Drainees
per year by 1968, about double the Dresent enrolmert.  Since further expansions
of         sccr  huuol enrolments after the p   a      a    chie-zd are
liikely to be m.uch more modest, the expanded teacher training program 3-il'
_ v _u   jet   A .L.  &  U  d. A t aU  L I A.LA i i L   t   L<Ut J U/ -ri  U-ti  .L eU  G  U .
2 06       Secondary edAlcation is given in general fi rst c-ycle secodarr
schools, grades 7 to 10, called oelleges d'Enseignement Generai or Cours
Coemr1empntii r es and laing to a terminal etxa.mination - the " eet rr`i .gne er;
du Premicr Cycle (BEPC). Full secondary education is given in the Lycèes,
grades 7 to 13. lead ng to the  a ccalaureat.  Bntrv is by col-mnetitive
ex;.mlnnation.  Curricula are based on Prench moc'el3 but the I;nistry has
snoncscred the -reparation of local historv and iecgrachy te:ets.  Student/'teachc-
ratios average 26, with the teaching staff provided m-ainly by French technicaL
assistance.
2.07      Total enrolment in secondary education for 1963/64 was 46,300
pupils, 13 3% of the eligible age group.  As show:n in ANTEX 5, enrolment in
al! grades except grade 13 was larger in the private general secondary
schools than in the public general secondary schools. The drop-out rate
is high in both public and private general secondary schools but is apprreciably
higher in the private schools, especi aally at the higher grades.  ihis is
probably due to the students' inability to pay the modest fees charged by
somie private schools as well as thie progressively more limitued capacity Of
the private schocIs in the higher grades. Of those -.-iho enroll in grade 7
of public general secondary schools, approximately 5r,. reach grade 10 and,
l8' grade 13; corresponding percentages for private general secondary schools
are 38v` and c . The total enrolments in grades 1'2 and 13 are i.0C and 0.4%,
respectively, of grade 1 enrolment.
2.08      By 1973, three additional Lycées and 30 additional Colleges
d'E-nseignement General -jith a combined tot  enroiment cf 7,500 pup is LJilli
increase the enrolment in public secondary schools by about 50% of the 1564
erjr o'j.lrerJt . P.oss .ble earsiono e -urivate -c-cUL1L--J  s   ls no a-  s 
wve'l defined as for the public schoo:Ls but is not e:pected to be significant.



2.09      Teacher training for secordary schools is the task of the Institut
I.a na-1       eurS -  Ac Rccherche- et cle F-aion PeA-ju-     c`escribed lae
ln the report. TDo other schools (ecoles normales) give a 'uil course of
general secondary education (gra4es 7-13) fonllse bi  y a year of           __ 
training but the ï.'uture rale of the teacher training sections of these schools
isuncertain qqith thepassibiity that t         m  b  put of e.itec
as the Institu-t Naltional Superieur de Recherche et de Formation Pedagogiques
is strenczt1ipnpr  a,îH te.randecL
TcPnr  i  and ;Tcration21 _uc'ati on
2.10      Technical and vocational education is rrovided in 13 ap-renticeshiic
centers or colleges techniques, grades 7 to 10, with a ùerrlnal examination
called the Certificat d'ADtitude Professioneile (CAP).    Fortv; different
courses are offered in such subjects as carpentry, joiner', general m.echanics,
electricity, and auto mechanics.    T'.1o girls' schcols at the sai,e level
procvide training in domestic science, dressmaking, and ccrmercial subjects.
A merchant shipping school trains staff for coastal navigation.     At primary
level, 98; school workshops provide the rudiments of' craft training.   The
drap-eut rates are high in these schools, although slightly lower than in the
general secondary sc.ools.
2.11      Three schools providing technical and vocational training up to
the level of the baccalaureat, i.e., grades 7 to 13 or 1h, are: the Lycée
TechnicuE! Industriel de Tananarive, leading to the Brevet d'Enseignement
industriel in general mechanics, sheet metal T.ork, electricity, auto mechanics
and radio; the Lycée Technique du Genie Civil leading to a great variety ai'
technicianrs' certificates; and the Lycée Technique Commercial leading to the
Brevet Superieur dIEtudes Commerciales or to the Baccalaureat, Serie Technique
Economique.   The :vinistry of Agriculture is resoonsible for agricultura'
ltrainngg, winicn iS given in tnree Lcoles Praziques d'Agriculzure and a College
Rural, all at secondary level. The drop-out rate in these schools ranges
be   ur'- i i 10%U and li,; per year.  (Enrolment figures are given in A rI'J.X 6).
2.12 ~  1 -tis  f  h  ecers ofcec.ia       subojects are F rech  Aaties
their percentage increasing with the level of instruction.     Considerable
,,-_ -  -  Fnc     exati -       ç W'                        'ren  ct>v9 J; b..
proportion ofa Malagasies is increasirg and may be expected to increase at a
gr eater rate after the Institut \ational Supe"r H P onherche et de
Formation Pedagogiques has been expanded.
Post-Secondary and University Education
2.13      Post-secondary and university education is the responsibility cf
the National Foundation for Higher Education which is in administrative
control of the University of ?,adagasc:ar, the National Schoal for Administra-
tion, ancl a number of post-secondary institutions training medical technicians,
midwives, nurses, and agricultural extension workers.     An exception is the
Institut National Superieur de Recherche et de Formration Pedagogiques which
is under the adidnistrative control cif the Ministry of Cultural Affairs.
The University of Madagascar is organized like its French model. with faculties
of law and economics; science and technology; literature and arts; medicine
and pharmracy; business management; public works, agriculture; and a nre type



of institution devoted to the study of social development.     Lt present,
the u-niversity is staffed and malntained al.ost entirely by the French
government.   Total enrolment in higher education in 1964 mas 1,853.
2.14      No provision for technical teacher training at a h-Lgher level
exists.v~ c-,.. .he       r',,itr  cf Cnt  .^'ar ined  ts  the.~ +'.~~Ar contribution44 
O.L technical teachers can be increased as the requirements for expatriate
fteaclur:cal thea ger.eral   eHuato  sectraerdcdzteeDly                 to
Zraduntes from the Institut National Superieur de Recherche et de Formation
FinancHnz of Education
2.15      In 1966, budget allocations and foreign aid commiti2ents for
current and capital exnenditures foi, education '.qere estimated at FI:G 9.6
billion (US$38.9 million or about $6 cer capita).    This is aoproxir.ately
5.7% of the estimated gross domestic prcduct in 1966, an increase of 2.2%
since 1960.  In '967, total outlays on education are expected to reach
F'.D 10 billion, of which budget allocations total FIG 6,139 million.    The
central government will finance approximately 48% of this sum, the six
provinces 49%, and the local author:ities, the balance. Nearly all of this
noney will be spent for recurrent expenses, chiefly for salaries of teachers
and administrative personnel.   The central government is primarily responsible
for teacher training, secondary and technical education, mhich accounts for
about 80% of its education budget, while the provinces and municipalities
finance almost exclusi-vely pririary education.  More detailed data on the
magnitude and di.stribution of local:Ly financed public expenditures on education
during the period 1960/70 are shotvn in ANNEX 7.
2.16      Total foreign aid to be received by the Yelagasy Republic in 1967
is estimated at about 'fifL lu billion, of v,hich F'D 4. 0 bil lion will be used
for financing education or about 40% of the total estimated public expenditure
1cr education.   Tnis nas in .îct been tne case in most recent years with
foreign aid financing nearly all of the capital outlays on education and also
a significant proportion of recurrent expenses.    Salaries paid tO teachers
provided by the French technical assistance program in secondary and technii1
schIols J.epresettu u±e largest Io>     recu.rLen1  1  J. es e n  VU.1.  uLja .1J ,
these teachers number 1,032 and their services can be valued at FIG 3.0 billion,
on  fou.th of,1 ,.1h i9 coributed+,.4 h,,+ ~A h., + b k the   nrrMg   Ti-  m n In a n,
the French Mdnistry of Education also covers the cost of French personnel.
and-. m,,c4 ,.,+  ~   Ç  +fa., the TUn icer +,it of Ma-dagacar   t T  ,.i'hi
estimated in the order of FM 1,0h0 million in 1967. Scholarships to enable
i     suet      to,ir~or~~  attend ufrn ivrsiti  in Franre for higher educ2i,1ir.,ion and-
technical training of kinds not available in the Malagasy Republic arount to
FPIV 20Ci ni-Ilion a vear.  Other sources of current aid to education, either
in the form of perscnnel, supplies or scholarships for study abroad are the
United Nlations Develoument Program, the Federal Republic of Germany, Israel,
and Switzerland.



- 7 -
2.17      Construction oîi school buildings and provision of equipment are
LiLnLIcted primarll,y bUy grafroil FaC and the ad.;     g- o    th,re C .---  On
;arket, the Fonds Europeen de Developrement (FED).    Investments of these
t.c organizations oni secondai y and I chn.ic` eductlo    rac4itis a     Erau
FIVD 150 million in the 1964-66 ceriod and comnitrients made bet-ween 1959
and 019 A  eq ual FI-1-7 1 .8AI, bilin O In additlon, FAC has alsc agreed to- fin-nc-
nU. u~  .A  A  -L  t rs l.\.i   t.  tJU  L.'  Xâ  Uu. -L t.xJU   *  r   il-a> a..,.  5Ld'L UJ.J~fJ .'
a substantial part of the capital outlays for the developrient of the
uer Tfi76 tr o' i,-       +  1         -   t U  t h   '-m4,A 1 CA  qrl 07fn at ,
a total cost of oaier Fl.EG 2 bille-on.
2.1.ô     In additiion ta education financed by public e.xzenditures. the
rrivate sectIr al o plays an irncrtant role; parti nularlv at the secondary
school level, i,here enrolment in private schools exceeds that o' public
s~chools b  over 1-L;OCO nurils.  Information on actual exoenditures or.
ed,u,catior by the private sector is not a,iailable but, 'oased on enrolments
and estimated excenditure per puzil, the total could easily amount to as
mulchl as 50% or mo:re of oublic sector outlalys, increasing the total spencing
on education to about 8% of GDP.
2.19      The development -lan of the 5ilagasy Rerublic cadls for total capnital
expenditure ir. the field of education of FIZ 16.6 billion in the tan years
from 1964 to 1973 or about 4% of total planned capital ex=enditures.     Of
the total planned capital outlays in the field of education, 53% mTill be
5or primary schoo:l facilities, 25" for teacher training, technical and
secona'giry education, (of awhich this project represents about halr-) and 22-
for the university.   Financing oa the capital expenditures in ecucation
planned in the fiirst five years is expected to cone primarily froam 'foreign
grants and borrowing of abou.t F?r 3 tillion, one-third being for the
unt'versity.
2.'0      The recurrent casts oaf the education sector in the plan to be
financed from budgetary resources have been estimated by the Malagasy
authorities to be F-i 5 billion b-y 1568, a 35% increase over tile average
ai' the 1960-64 period,and to reach FiD 7 billion by 1973.    HoTeiever, baseci
on present estimates Oi average cost per pupii and using tne pian&s forecast
of enrolrrent in public schools, recurrent costs ofa the education sector -w;il
>.r   1-11   1_:      -  :_ _ro  _ D r- 1_:n 'n : _ _  .  ln  .7 3* _D 
i .   i..À  U  U U  LJL.L±Uy  rL7U   r  .& V -L.  L L..LULJ LL y .L71  tJo Uj  .9*_1j. UC-' ._L1
and assuming a rise in total recurrerit public sector spending of between
C an-d c% orer the ne,t severt hears,      e             oe the total recur~ent
budget expenditures allocated to education taould increase from 15.5% in
1965toJ.  abou C °U.J.4 C/ln~ .197 



- 8 -
III.  NMEED FOR TNE PROJECT
Complexe Scolaire de Tanan-rive
Lycèe Technique du Genie Civil
L!cèe Technique Commercial
Co"lepe d'Enseignement Techniaue Feminin Commercial, itcnager et Yotelier
3.31      These three schools will produce an increase in the nwmbers of
jerscrs skilleid in various ;hases of construction and commerce.   Àlthou;h
no syStematic forecasts of manpower requirements in these fields yet exst,
there Îs ample evidence Of the need for an expansion of the technical
education system of the ïMalagasy Republic.  Cnly very li.mited numbers of
skilled workers are to be found; in a total pcrulation of aprcx-imate2y 6
million persons, only 38,000 wâere classi^ier as salaried s.ki  ed workers
in a surv!ey conducted by Unesco ir 1953.
3.02      Derands by employers' groups for increasingly greater numbers cf
technically trained personnel provide a measure OÎ the neea Tor the
expansion of the technical education system.   Employers' groups interviewed
oy the appraisai mission urged measures to increase the output OI miadC1e-
level personnel to supervise building construction and to occupy a variety
of pos,ts in the commercial sector- *Ad-vert'ise-rents in ne;spaLers and on
the radeo for personnel sVilled in drafting, electricity, .nechanics, diesel
rDtors, f-t-tinI, or -ei`    waee .;nans   d Cur    theL  aU ,4i 
vin~ ~ ~ ~~~~~VZIt          .      't,.L-, 11~-,-
3.03      Pressure for admission to technical schools cf all types is
rr,D g  IDr 1963, I00 eno,- aec, corpeted fnr 70 ceat icn +t,h T,,e,
Techn-ique du Genie Civil; in 196h, the candidates numbered 600.  During the
same years, candidates for 120 nl      in the T     Pjyce   Techniqe nIDdSt:ie1 de
Tananarive increased from 500 to 600.   In l964, 250 competed for 35 places
in the College d'Fegne1ment Technique Fendnin GoTmmerial; - Mnager et
Hotelier.  The students from these institutions are e,îployed immediately
upon comrletion of their courses. rePard1ess of T-dhether thev succeed i-n
obtainian  a certificate.
Institut National Superieur de Recherche et de Formation Pedacogiques
3.0h      The expansion and improvement of teacher training is an essentlal
feature of theb plan to increase enrolment in and reform primary and siacondar,.
education.  The Institut National Superieur de Recherche et de Format:ion
Pedagogiques w,.ill be the focal point of ail activities to iMlagasize the
exdsting educational system; to resvise the curricula, syllabi, teaching
methods, and textbooks, and at thie same time train Malagasj teachers 14ho
wqill staff the expanded school system and replace expatriate teachers.   Since
many of the Institut's graduates will teach in teacher training centers
throughout the island and will introduce the new system to teacher trainees.
the Institut will exert a very st-rong influence upon the development cf
primary and secondary education in the Malagasy Republic.



3.05      In addition to providirng teachers for the teacher training centers,
the Institut wll]. train teachers for the lycées (grades 7-13) and the
colleges d'enseignement general (grades 7-10). Based upon anticipated
increases in pupDl enrolment, the numrbers cf additional teachers required
for these schools during the next ten years, including 10% for attrition,
have been estimal;ed to be: lycées - 300; colleges d'enseignement general -
600; ard centres de formation des maitres d'ecoles primaires du premier
cycle - 030.
Centr.e lational d'Ecwucateurs Pooulaires et Scortifs (C1,EPS)
3.c6      Due to the scarcity of physical education teachers, this subject
1las Lad to be dro(pped from the curricula of many seccndary schcols.  The
nuumber Of such teachers reouired oy 1973 has been estinated to ùe o5.   F;C
officiails in Paris have stated that the total number of expatriate teachers
in ibdagascar provided by FAC wlill remain fixed but that they wioula be
willing to suPply the phjsical education teachers for secondary schocls and
a'.so a corps cf trainea physical education specialists for the youth service,
if requested.  However, their nuimbers w4ould be charged against the fi.xed
total ofF C tazhers.
3 7     Si1nce thi1s quotza exi4sts or, 'le 'ota` .lm  of' te-achers of all
kinds provided by France, they should teach only those subjects for wnich
quali f4ie^A ;UaVni ne an e  o  o  n-nct rz, a41.. be .ade- avai;lae - A  e'.a.lesr,
mathema;ics, sciences and technological courses.  Graduates of 'he compara-
et Sportifs could replace the exdstina 50 French physical education teachers
and thim; make possible an increasp of 50 Frenc-h tners in techninal e6ucatThn
Acccmrnodation
3.08      The existing accommodation at each of the five institutes in this
project is totally inadequate for the numbers of students presen tly enrolled.
Thne Lycée Tec.hnioue Commercial has cnly 16 classrooms for 750 pupils ancL is
obliged to use rooms in the Chamber of Commerce several kilometers from the
school. The Institut National Superieur de Recherche et de Formation
Pedagog:iques is provisionally and unsatisfactorily housed in the buildings
of a first-cycle secondary school.  The Lycée Technique du Genie Civil has
380 pupils in buildings designed for only 100 pupils.   The Centre National
d'Educateurs Populaires et Sportifs has no buildings, but uses the faci]ities
of another school.  Enrolment at each institution has reached an upper limit
in excess of that prescribed by the size of the buildings.   Expansion on tl.e
present sites is not possible.



- 10) -
IV.   vTIE PFROJBCT
Ge-eneral
Lu.U.I    Thie project cUUIj,stlsW- Uof  uil U -.ULU anLJU equiLp.nenUiLt of 3
secondary tecbnical institutes and 2 teacher training centers on a neu
ca-.m us -in the Lac 'noy  rea of Tananarive -shich uslll mak-e poss-ible an
~   LU  U~~U  IU                   - ~  .  ~J LJ.   Ive L~L   .L~ ~dLL m. r,  Ui  L .
increase in the cDmbined enrolment from the cresent 1,350 to 3,120 studerts.
Concentrticn onoes-t     ileral      heD-eintttcn           osar     .a
assem.bly., physicaI educaticn, dining, and boarding facilities.  The cost of
the ccm. iunal facilities and each institu'tion,  oete   I'*'i" -hte  no'
cf ecrh Lnstitution, are shcajn oels.
Project Item Costs. Excluding Land and Professional Fees
F .E.
% of                                      Eauivalert  Comnonent   Enrolment
rc.ject  Item                             __      _   _    _M _  Present Ultimate
2C. L    Communal. Facilities                0.97      0.62        -        -
30.h    -Lycée Technique du Genie Civil      1. 45     1.CO       380     e5c0
22.0   .-Lycêe Technique Commercial          1.05      0.d8       725   1,530
11. 0    Lycée Techniaue Feminin---_         0.53      0.31       115      LSO
13.1     !nsti'tut redagogicues  -           0.62      0.ù4       104      2`0
3.'  CiE7S                      ~~~~~~~~~         ~    ~~0.15  0.i0  27  7 7C
100.0     TOTULS                              L.77      3.15     1,351    3,120
4 02     Incluting the cost of land, professional fees, ard 15% for
contingencies, t:he total cost of the project and the foreign exchange comoonent
have been estimated to be 1,778 million rSialagasy francs, ($7.2 million
equivalent) and $4.3 million, respectively.   Approximately 18% of the total
cost of the project is for land, 31%5 for construction of academic buildings,
2,- for construction of communal service buildings, 11% for student hostels,
,% for staff housing, 6% for professional fees, and 19- for furnisiings and
ecuipment.  By type of training, approximately 18% of the project cost is fcr
teacher  ralningand 82-5 for seodr   ehncleuzio.          Teana
recurrent costs of the oroject (estimated at arproeximately $0.81 million) w '
be met by the Malagasy government.
Lvcbe Technioue du Genie Civil
L.03      This item cormrises the construction and eauipment of 25 classroomrs,
8 drafting roomrs, 5 laboratories, and 5 workshops, together with administrativ
offices, which will enable enrolment to be increased from the present 3130 to
800 students in 1972, of whom 300 will be boarders to provide for students
from the lrovinces.  The school is to train middle level personnel for orivPste
building enterprises and departments of the gcvernment.



- il -
4. 04     CurricuLa and syllabi are the sarne as in France but with some
adantation to local needs.   Lxamrniations are the same as in France and a
great effort is made to maintain the same standards.    Instruction is offered
in surveying, building construction, public aiorks, and sanitary engineering.
As showqn in AM1IEX 8, the programs of study prepare students for emplcyment
at different leveLs.   Entry is by competitive exarnation.    Those intendin£
to be agents techiiques (surveyjor's assistants, etc.) enroll at grade 9 for
a 2-.year-; sDecialized course in either surveying or building and public
*qorks.  "ncse preparing for employ     asnt aS tee.miclans enrol, at grade 9 in
a 2-years' comnon course before specializing in second cycle courses of 3
ta 5 years. Consequenztly, grades frora which students graduate range fro.
grade 10 to grade 15. For upgrading, emplcyees of the iinistry of Public
l.Tcrks are adr,tted directly into a stecial course in sanitary engineering a
a level corresponding to grades 12 arnd 13.
L.05      Due to Lack of soace, admissions at the grade 9 level are ncw-
limited to 70 -uplls a year.   Recruitment by coc7ïpetitive examination alsc.
-akes place for the second c-vcle courses from cancidcates having coum,pletedc
grade 10 in general education (colleges or lycèes). When .ully established
iL Lth itjew jL,i ses,  L±the DLIUV.l WkL. CIJLU LsCULrU.Li, lit Ltheb Ug,L1inin UoL grad
7. The school at present produces 6c' technicians from the shorter course!s
njuiu,_l~ buil  ng, pu'i  a   terinat ng at gade 
technicians per year from the longer courses in building and nublic ucrks
*errinat:rt4.at grade411. 'rte  keraizto       and e+ansi*n   it.JL  ;! .     -n1
to prcduce CG froim the shorter courses but wi.l increase ths cutût from the
longer courses toi 85 pmer r  *       1 r ) ri  ri,rllelli nr  sn  n  r>.rrrnrr^i r.71
surveying, 20 in building construction, 25 in public u*orks, and 10 in sanitary
englneer-ng, in cour9es termnating att qgras I3 through I15.
h. 06     Tition is fre hbut the school lists a charge ner student of Fi~fG
3,000 (US$12.50) per year for paper znd materials.    However, because of the
poverty of their varents, this fee and the cost of the mid-dav meal are
covered lDy scholarships for most students.  A^i' of the present 127 bcarders
have scr,olarships which provide for comp'ete maintenance.
4.07      Presently, 380 studénts distributed amiong 16 classes are accoannodatedc
in only :LO classrooms (including the drafting rooms and science laboratory),
a smail sorkshop for carDentry and metalwork, and a slightly larger works:hop
for building construction uork. The nurmbers of new classrooms, drafting roons,
laboratories, and cworkshops have been proposed on the basis of 75a usage
during a 35-hour week and are reasonable.
L.cée Techhniaue C'onnercial
L.0O      Tlhis project item consists of the construction and equipment cOt 42
classrooms and 6 laboratories together with administrative offices which
wili enaDie the enrolment to be increased from 725 at pTesent to L,h35 b;y
15971 and to 1,530 ultimately (ANNEX 9) of whom about 300 will be boarders.
ILe aie oa trLe  Lycee lechn1ique Commercial  iu t  trainr lower ad nidLife level
of`fice workers in both the public and private sectors. At the same tiume, the
ad c a-Ue-IL-L caly strogs  p 's have the UUk>.      o t       a f 'l _-  &. ULÂ UUU L UÂi   U I-  . U.. ?  cod-JUi -
course culrninating in the Baccalaureat and the Brevet de Technicien Superieur
an"d prcceeci"ng to various forimis of Ibir-her euain



- 12 -
L.G9      Boys and girls are admitteid in approximately equai numbers by
competitive exaninationr on completion of the full primary course, i.e.,
into grade 7, and follow a general course to grade 10 when they sit for t:ne
Brevet d'Etudes du Premier Cycle.  Boys and girls are also admitted into
grades 10 and li on transfer from other secondary schools.   It is intended
that the course continue until grade 15, with increasing emphasis on technical
otudies.  There is intense competitton to obtain entry.   The outline of the
prcgrams of stucdy is showJn in AM.NEX 10.
4.10      The T,ananarlve Chamber of Commerce and the Directorate of Educa:lion
established this school joint--,, in :L95, but it i-- now £Luly under the
control oi the Yinistry oi Culturai Aflairs.   The unamoer oi Commerce nas
lndicated that it intends to financa a portion of the iritial equiper t for
the new shcrool and thereafber, on a recurring basis, ;-1ill prcvide ad' t: Llo
esquirment.  As a result of the close relationsilii -,.jith the Chamber of Com.erce.
good liaison, e.xists -Wsith e rl-5lo-ye: aild 1   pupils leavi.ng the Lycée i r",_,-iateJ|t
find e'-ipioyment.. No difficulty at :1i is foreseen in recruiting the inoreased
numbers of pupils tao  e enrolled or in placing the 250 certificate holders
,who will leave each year.  No fees are charged; scholarships for boarding are
avail able incase of need.  The en argeid boardir.g accomodation w-ll enable
the prcrortlon of non-Tananarive children to rise from one-eighth to one-
T  rvq1 C c  '+ . YavAI  e a eni crIoniae 'Pei inin PComn.err1  `Me.naprM et Ho - rl 
1 1'     T'h-i  nrojt it . Pm nis+s-. o-nf +he conrstructin arnd eninrment o.
13 general classrcoms, 8 s-ecial classrooms, and 4 laboratories together
w-ith aciinistrafAve offices- to enable the College Feminin to improve and
expand its curricula. Enrolment is expected to increase from 115 at present
to h90 by 1971.
4.12      The objectives of the college, which is under the direct administra-
tive control of the iinistry of Cultural Affairs, will be to train yourig
women -or careers in dressmaking, domestic science, middle-level office work,
and ho-tel keeping, and to train teachers for such courses.  Instruction in
dressmaking and household economy has been offered since 1952 and constitutes
the present curricula.  The phased addition of other prograns cf study, shcon
in MNYEBX 11, will orient the school more towards business and commercial
studies, which by 1971 will represent about one-half of the curricula.
Admission to all programs will be based upon comietitive examinations and
normalLy will be into the first year but holders of the Baccalaureat may enter
the second year of the teacher training course.  No difficulty is expected in
recruiting the planned numbers o? students each year or in placing those
leaving in suitable employnent.  No fees are charged; scholarships to cover
boarding eapenses are avaijablie in case aof need. A boarding bouse Lor 150
girls will enable the college to recruit from the entire island.
L'Institut National Superieur de Recherche et de Formation Pedagogiques -
l.13 Asslst"arce has been recres-te- in the- f-inancing oof the constructlon
and equipment of new buildings for this institution so that the school may
ea¶r,',.r -Cf4 is -  ---,--nre, a -d     4+e it  e9nrolment fr.nn lfh to 2'0
studentis by 1969.



L14       The Institut Pedagogique w%ias formally established in 1962 as an
autonorious bo 'y -under the Înistry cf Cu t-ural  ,ffairs and is  i ,ided .rto
research and training departments.   The training department is divided innto
4 usllOS         as i~L s, L]w ln   .L-  > LL1 aUL vaLJs ueaners  or c±egs
enseignement general (grades 7-10), lycèes and lycée techniques (grades 7-13).
In addi;in:, it trtains teachers uto ;tafPf 'he teacher traliner cent-
centres de formation des maitres d'ecole priîraires du premier cycle.   In
JuilIr  O.5  tralni4 ngP a -f rM 'It school i        ez was ac.ci to-ï theo  n'cricl a-
AM.NEX 12 lîsts the entrance requirements, general description of each program
nfS'      q ri ;  zn i -r. the 'ert icae s ar1ar-eA nt the  m-n'l t i±.4 nof t  nrivram;
equivalent to the ccmletion of g-ades 1L and 15, and 1 year of -ost-
univers-iti strudv.  T)he r,1anned -ncreases in the er.rolment of each training
division through 1969 are shoi;n in AiEX 1
4.15      Situdents are recruited to all div-sicns of the trainir.7 denariment
oy com.etition among exnerienced teachers, most cf ;ho.m possess the Bacca-
laur eat.  ApproJ:r.ately half the students are ucmen.  Stecialization is
divided eaually between arts and sc:Lences, with teaching practice in appro-
priate schools in and near Tananarive a prominent part of each program.    Al!
students continue td drau salaries for their normail teaching appointments.
No fees are charged for tuition. A boarding house for 100 students is -to
be provided to accommodate teachers from ail parts of the island. No
difflculty in recruiting the planned ntmbers of students or in placing -those
,jho complete the courses is foreseen.
4.h6      Ali three divisions of the research department have started work;
audio-visual materials are being proviided for schools; the e.cpansion of the
library is hampered sy lack of accommodation, but an Institut Pedagogique
journal is beingr issued.  Educational broadcasts began in October, 1964.
Arrangements are being made to introduce educational television programs.
L. I      The i4alagasy government and 1;he United Nations Development Program
.have aigned an greement for the devalopment OÎ this institute with unesco
as executing agency fo-r a six-year per-iod, effective November 1, 1963.  The
United Nations Development Program has agreed to contribute US1L,30_,ÛÛ;J for
the provision of experts, fello-vships for counterpart training overseas, and
Iee .  e insJitute Jnot as the 13 Unesco ex?erts   TcÇscLn in th
Plan of Ocerations and the part-time services of tw-3o university teachers, five
1.7alagasy teachers, and 13 French techn    a      n     a        Four fello-
ships nave been awarded to Malagasy teachers for overseas training to replace
Unesro experts LD m.2thematics, p hsios, history/geography and Frenchi    In
additicn, the institute has received $J41,000 wiorth of equipment from the
United Nations . .v-ln.__ment_ Programs _80,0O e_i_ -nt grant.   For its nart
of the agreement, the Malagasy government promised to provide an equivalent
of US$1,'18,000 touards the cost of the site and the provision of the
buildings, equipment, and local personnel for research, teaching and adniin-
istration.



- il. -
Le Cent,re EvNational d'Educateurs Ponulaires et Scortiîfs
4.:L 8    This project item comprises the construction and equipment of
ne,A _   b; qngs anAd rel""ate -Atlc fa; ties to enbe- ;.i^          e^ca
center to improve its curriculum and expand its enrolment from 27 at pre.sent
to 70  y 1 071.  TheL Centre'sn pin     oei S          be +o In teache.s
of physicl education for secondary schools and technical institutions.     The
cnDr;n q±1 nnrr?r.nrn  t  n or1 ani,i -,c, + ît, il h1 -a   -r,r.- rin0 +ji-   c.1 b'n1 ?T7C
for refresher courses for teachers arid youth leaders.
4.19      About 100 vacancies for Malagasy physical ed`cation teachers in
secondar! scinoo1 s      hevst; h 1973 trhp total deard for sfl ali st rhvJsicail
ed7.ucaticn teachers tSill be a-pproximatel,, 350.  FAC u2ill be       priling ta provide
the required numbers of teachers tjithin the auota for French technical
assistance personnel but it iiculd, oIf course, be to the advantage of the
countr7i to renlace French technical assistance teachers of ohvsical education
twiith rfalagasy teachers and to obtain in their place French teachers of
subjects reauiring more lengthy and rigorous preraration, and for w3hich
Malagasy teachers are not and will not be availabie for some tire.
4.20      The normal qualification for admission to the competitive entry
examination will be the Brevet d'Etude du Premier Cycle.   For the first year
of the two-year course, the students hold full scholarships for tuition
and maintenance from the government.   Those who pass the end-cf-eyear
examination are appointed probationer teachers for the second year and draT;
a salary.  Boarding facilities s-iil enable the centre to recruit fror-. the
;,hole is:land.  No difficulty is foreseen in recruiting the nuinber of students
for admission each year.
h.21      Three full-time members of the staff at the Ecole Normale, two of
*whom are French, now provide instruction for the piysical eaucation studt-nts.
The centre in its new buildings will require a total staff of eight by 1970,
t-nhich will De supplied by FAC.
h.22      Limitect physical education instruction is at present being given
within the Ecole Normale d'Instituteirs, but the compLex of buildings
..u       _ _1, s er __l .. _.__._        _v v  _,cls 4   A _;e+r t4l--;t
Ui.l LUJ  Uile  .XU.LEI ÎS   eul C         : |  UVV r. '.-  UOIYeU  O. L..  JU --
required by a physical education col:Lege.  A new building cormrising three
tacJ-;nJ Sroom.s ori a new site is r V:Lred.  The atiJlJ. _ .c, facil  of th-
new campus Aill be utilized by the cesntre for instruction in physical
educati;on.  The centrets           to the Institut Peagûglue w Yill fMf:L'*-*
use of the latterzs research department and pedagogical equiprnent generally.
The Communal Facilities
4.23      The five institutes described above will share certain common
facilities. These include a large assemblv hall, athletic facilities.
kitchen, dining hall, laundry, boarding hostels, teachers' apartments,
medical center, and the central administrative buildings.   Provision is made
for boarding for 450 boys and 300 girls of the technical schools, 100 students
of the Institut Pedagogique and 50 students of the C1EPS, housing for 15
staff utnse duties necessitate residence on the site, and dining for 1,2DC
out of the proposed total enrolment of over 3,000.



Ecuiumen t
4.24  Listsof' requiîred J  tutin      equi:pment h-ave been co;pie    y
£    _L4.    s U..   L Is o . UUL  ~U .JLj U.U  tl.LL>LCU  J4L_C4  L, 11d.~  ~e Li up4.LeU  Uy
the teaching and adrinistrative staffs of each of the five institutes.     These
lis  have beeni r evl ewed and aproeu  ^ b.Ly th v  stry IofLLI. J. 14 '.- UC 1LL -.J A.f a ir
and are adea.uate for the numbers of students and the level cf instruction
~tn    fris ivi'        e
Tea*che 5
l- 25      f -.he 95 techr Tsh at± p'resen      nrise~ the1i taci.n'ni  sta'i~ffs Gf
the five institutes ,.)ithin the project, 13 are exnatriates prcvided by
Ure^o   69 ar   e~atriates~ providec  hy l;he FrcFb tecnir-el assistanc,e rr cgrr!,
and only 13 are M4alagasies.  Neglecting attrition, approximately 90 additicnar
teachers -will be recuired 'bv 1972 for the anticira+ed enrolinents.  ïMany OIf
the additional teachers wiil be required for non-technical subiects, and
these, as wiell as rerlacements for expatriate teachers of r.on-technical
courses, can be trained at the Institut National Superieur de Recherche et de
Formation Pedagogiques.   Teachers of lower level technical subjects could be
graduatebs of the institutes in this project, possibly with additional
training in pedagyogj at the Institut National Superieur de Recherche et de
Pormation Pedagogiques.   The Lycée Technique Commercial is planning to train
it;s cwn teachers for the 1Gwer level commercial classes.   But near1y all of
the teachers of the higher level technical subjects w-ll continue to be
e.x.atriates -rovided by technical assistance nrograms until su'f-cient rn1=.bers
of qualified Mal1agasies are available.   The Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperatior
in Paris has stated that French technical assistance personnel will continue
to be provided to fill the technical teaching posts but that the NalagaEy
government will have to request these personnel within the quota of techniccL
assistance personnel established by France.    The number of expatriate te.achers
presently provided by FAC in the five institutes in this project is only 6.5%
of the ntuber of expatriate teachers provided by FAC in 'adagascar.     If tne
total number of expatriate teachers in ?Madagascar provided by FAC remains
fLxed, this percentage wiii have to increase to keep pace with. the increased
enrolments.  Assurances have beein obtained from the Malagasy government that
,                _  _ 2 s _ æ ~~e  i L _ __'.L   _ _ _ U  _ IL _
th  ns--'t-u'es ;-îhin this projeo cù i bw- e granteudth hihsprrtyn
b!eBJ: IJ1. tu e W l bluI I DLLo  yL UU. J                           UjWi,iU  -i £  «  1Uf$X  Ji  i '
its requests to FAC for exoatriate teachers.
4.26      Although the massive French technical assistance program in
1.4--Udagascar shrows no s-gns o -ann,apormfrtann               aaaetahr
of technical subjects, supported where necessary by a scheme of scholarships
for trar.ning overseas,   ill be initiated in order ta reduce the decendernce
of the schools in this project upon technical assistance programs for an
adequnate supply nof qu,alifiedt teacher's-  Liberal ntimbers of snholarships for
study in France are provided each year by FAC. Assurances have been obtairned
from the Malagasv government that at least 70 of these scholarships wil]
be requested during the next five years for the purpose of preparing c    aLagasi:s
to replace expatriate teachers of technical subjects in the institutes '..n
this project.   The duration of these scholarships wAill vary, depending upon
the qualifications of each trainee and the nosition for which he is being
prepared. They will be adequate in terms of duration and level of trainin-
to enable the average trainee to replace an expatriate teacher.



- 16 -
B. _OSTS
4.27      Tne estim.ated capital costs of the varauus conponents of the
project are shown belo'wX. The acquisition and preparation of the land wi:Ll
accourit fo.r 18Ub0 oL ihe totiL projeet cosvi cons-tru o U    eU t î  tqUULp J ; I
and professional fees 6%.   The estimated capital costs, by institution,
are sr.own in Ai!fizX | .
by
Pcti-  $.I~  F.  c  f
Eauivalent   kM. Pro ect
Land
facqrwsit,ion                               0 31      -     -
Freparation and Development                 0.81     0 L7   -
TOTAL LAN.'D COST                           1.12     O.h7  17.9
Construction
Academic Buildings                          1.93     1.17  30.9
General Bui'dings à Outdoor Sports          0.74     0.45 11.9
Students' Hostels                           0.72     0.43  11.4
Staff Housing                               0.22     0.13   3.5
TOTAL CONSMUCTI014 COST                     3.61     2.18  57.7
EB3ul ment
ins-tructional Equipment                    0.67     0.68  10.8
Furniture                                   0.h9     0.29   7.8
TOTAL EQUIPEIT COST                         1.16     0.97  18.6
PROESSSIONIML FEES AiD SUPERTISION              0.37     0.1à    5.8
TOTAJL . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6.26      3.76 100.0
CONTINGXDCIES 15%                               0.9h     0.57    -
TOTAL FWOJECT COST   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7.20      h.33
1/ Includes United Nations Development Program grant of US$0.08 million
for Insti    Pedagogiue.
),.2 iP       unit. cs +o~ r-f the v r:ous types of %ir,,,+-,s .onstructinln 4 r the pro,,
as submitted by the architectural consultants, fall within the range exoerl-
enced by the 421 agasy Bureau of Public h .Jorkan anr e rp reaonab1e Inaditin
based upon recent price increases, a contingency fee of 15% of the estilated
projnet. Cn09t has been inrc-pudd to eove'r the escalation of rcsts and unfarsenr
elements.



- 17 -
4. 29     Due to the limited amcunt of construction equiprent ard materiais
produced internally, high transportation costs, and use of expatriates, the
foreign exchange component oi the project cost is nigh, ranging from 40h; for
professional fees to approximately lO00 for equipment. The foreign exc}ange
comi,porent for eaun ca'egory  f t'he projeot is shown on page 16.
_; .0    Te proJect, has beenCL              ïZ.sUUged ahg  ro y Lin LltheNtira
Develo r-,nt Plan (i96L-1968). The total cost of -che project conprises i11
u.~  uu  ~   JJe.LIL£e U  .£Â  s  m. U e -n ~1- .L  u   U.£.  12  LU   'Jt  -L7u04- f _) !yJ  -UU2J.  C flJ  LI Cu
a._ol-ing for the 3ank ioan in the amuunt prouosed and for the Ur.ited M1ations
fesJlarral ,-,r,r,an+ D.nogr e,,. ~ gr+   +l,gant for r the  4-+îst  P Anh  l-n,riî* i r,r
reouired from the government wIill be FMG 573 million or an average of FT:G95.S
5ILilliofl a year in the six vears lnn *chihthe prc,ecc t s t^ be ^arrled out,. ?he
central government's budget in 1966 and 1967 allocated F.i- 94 million and 98
millifn, res-tAiectivelJ tn the capital cest of this  roriect. Reci.rrent costs
o: the nroject are estimated at an average of FIM 200 million a year. This
is eauivalent to 10% of the budget cf the Ministry of Cultural Affairs in
1967, 3C,5 of total budgeted recurrent expenditures on education at ail levels
of government in that year and 0.6% of total budgeted recurrent expenditures.
C. CONSTRUCTION
Architectural Services
4.31      A comrclete set of detailecl documents and drawAings were submitted
as a prelirrinary design for this prc,ject by a Nalagasy firm of architects.
Their arrangement of institutional buildings and communal facilities anci
their use of space in general, is acceptable. Fundamental features of the
design are modulation and standardization that will reflect favorably in the
architectural quality of the buildings and effect an econony in construc:tion
costs. WeTith additional staff recruited from the qualified architects al,ailabl e
in Nadagascar this firm should produce a satisfactory final design.
Land
4.32)     The proDosed site conprises 11.8 hectares (297-1 acres) in the Lac
Anosy area of Tananarive.  The site consists mostly of rice paddies which
will rhave ta be filled to an average depth oi a-pprosc,matel-y two m.eters, at
the expense of approximately twice the acquisition cost and a year1s delay
Lin tLhï e start ofL constLructionuLuL]. HU.wev eL, Lthe c,IIInLJqiotinU  costs
compare favorably with costs of lancd in the more heavily populated areas in
cen-hral and eas-terl. y sections of -Tanane-v  n. :ton,ov.r  he new, sit+ e l
part of the master plan for the controlled westerly expansion of the city,
which has been prcceeding in recent years as a resilt. of the rnilder cli-ate
afforded by the lowlands to the west; and the scarcity of land in the hilly
terrain in the center of the city This location will provide eas aceMss
from the existing and future developed areas of the city. Space will be
adeouate for thp nlanned enrolment and will nerrmit future exransion.



- 18 -
4.33      Because ownership of the proposed site was distributed am.ong cv*r
100 persons, acquisition by the goverr,ment has been time consumin- and has
caused the lengthy postponement of the loan negotiations. The governrmelt
noi^] has acquired land sufficient for the *roject- and :-.ill reserve tWG
additional hectares adjacent to the project site before the completion of
construction inr order to provide space. for future expansion.
4.3,)4    Furthermore, since this site is only a part cf a larger area
ccnr:nisine 67 hectares *hich the Nalalgasy government is planning to reclaim
by fill ing, the progress of the filhing operations in the Complexe Scolaire
Project could have been affected by the schedule of fillirg operations for
the entire area.  ho-viever, to preclude any dalay in filling the site of
the Ccmnlexe Scolaire, txhich uould have del-yed the start of construction  -f
the prcject sehCi'sO, the lIlacasy gcvernment and the Bank have a-reed UpO:l
a schedule of filling operations.
âc coxrmodation
h.35      Sizes of the proposed classrooms, which have been based on French
stapndCi rds, A average slightly r.ore than 1.6L qu4 are -iitér  e  s
inclu(ing storage spaces, and are reasonable for secondary schools.   Class-
,'rn.,~   n  nn, A- nc- - ,,A  f-Ç'   IA .f  +,A,.-+en,  -  r  enn  r  'r,
25 to 33 hours per week.  Zll laboratories have 77 square meters and have
been ,lesg,ned fox ------- of e-t-r  6 or h           ,.-- c :   l     n a
average of 2.1 or 1.6 square meters per student.  The Malagasy auvhorities
haveQ acepe   the~ Bnk~~'s reo  cmndins that+ 2.   squren,  meer c,ov  er student
should be the minimum space utilized in the design of the lacoratories and
that. the c--ap2city of thp laborato:ies be correl2ted with the nlumbcr o:r
students in classrooms sections. Workshops in the Genie Civil institute
have been despignid with an averagp of 7?.  sninarp mptprs per student and are
reasonable.
4.36      The number of students and the space to be provided per student in
the hostels are reascnable.  Apartment blocks will contain the fifteen
dwelling units for the chief administrative officers of the five institutes
and the communal facilities.  Cost estimates based upon an average of 126
square meters per unit are acceptable.
Execution of the Project
4.37      A special project unit would be established to supervise the
execution of the project and would consist of three sections: architecture!
engineering; procurement; and accounting.  A Project Director, an ex er:eucec
and competent architect acceptable to the Bank, has been acpointed to
supervise the activities of this unit. The efficient field supervision
normally supplied by the Bureau of Public W1orks for government-financed
construction tiould be employed on the construction of this project.  The
Project Office would co-ordinate the field activities of the Bureau cf
Public Works and the normal supervision furnished by the consulting arcili-
tectural firm.



- 1'9 -
h.3c      Tne construction industry in Tananarive is éie11 c,rganizea and
experienced and has the capacity to handle efficiently the volume of
construc:tion in thibs project.  A satisfeacory tender systemils utiized.
The required quality of wiorkmanship can be obtained with a careful selectioei
Û.L L aU1 Ue anri d s'tric r U rv.lsi.  Thet pS e.lLJd, a  sched 'e US  rU-tOn
and the anticipated expenditures are sr.c-vn in .   1JX 15.
4.39      Locally-produced construction mat;erials would be utilized wherever
f-asib  b- bt th e ar.oun t Jwhi ch , cl, b e ut ili Jz e d +i  o  el, to belag
-all of the equirment ard a major portion of the construction materials would
have-to be irM.orted.  Equipment and ccnstruction rnterials from abrcad normaml;'
are procured for governm.ent agencies by private local irmort firms.   For
thi pro i t) al i nstr stA nnJ equipment.oufild be crrcure( e-v' the nrocur smse
section of the special ac-mùnistratiîre unit described above on the basis of
intArnational cnmnptitivpi hCeHing   Construction materials and ecuipment;
uiould be procured by the firm rihich,. on the basis of international conpetitîve
bidding, has been auarded the construction contract.
.L0O      Withdrawals from the Loan Account would cover 69% of the amounts
expended in executing the project (excluding the cost of land acquisition).
Such withdrawals would not exceed US$4.8 million equivalent or (unless the
Bank agrees otherwise) two-thirds of the actual project cost, webichever may
be the smaller.  Amounts rer.aining undisbursed as a result of lowered costs
mould be available for cancellation.   If expenditures, including land
acquisition, should exceed the present estimated project cost cf $7.2 million.
such excess wouid be met by the M7alagasy government, and the percentage of
expenditures eligible for reimbursement would be appropriately scaled doi-mn
so as to disburse the loan over the construction period of the project.



-    -
V. CONCiLUSIONFS àND REcOI:WDÀTIONS
5.01      A major limitation to the expansion of commerce and industry in
the i*alagasy Republic is the shortage oa' trained manpower at the techriician
level. The project recorimended for financial assistance i-n this report
-will nake possible significant increases in the numboers of such midd1e-le-zeé
personnel in engineering, buildinn, trades, surveying, office work, hotel
loeeping, and dormestic science by expanding the facilities of three technical
insti-lutes (paras. 3.01 - 3.03, 4.03, 4.08, 4.12).
D.02      The sixnuitaneous Mal agasization and expansion OI tihe eaucat0on
system, and particularly the reform of rural pri-mary schcols and the
replaceinent of French personnel in Dost-prmary institutions by    Salagasics,
have resulted in an increased need for the re-orientation of the e     1ins
conv-ut2iuuionl teachler training methods and an expansion of teacher tra-ni-,g
facilities.  The government's decision to centralize education research
nd teacher _ _AL±LILJ_ L: W'uurdo.U                  .U UU1iîei  . n  _   __ . _ : A_ .e.
Institut as a UND? project has already made an impressive start.    Together
lAith zUhe Centre LI atJlîcn.1- dduc'.ca  PoLJ  ' l es elit ..ort &J.I .3 L J Vlt . wil   -r -vid
trained Malagasy staff for the longer and shorter secondary courses, -she
cente:rs fort taining prim.ary scho"wl+,,', tecers,and th.e prma-ysc'
inspectorate (paras.3.04, 3.05, 4.1h, 4.17, hI.i1).
5.03      The curricula of the institutions are well conceived and the
proposed sc>eclul es 07' acconmnodatian anHr~ pnu-li nrnnt. fwjell prPn - tn tm.pie
suoply of oualified candidates fo:' acfrission exists (paras. 4.04, 4.09,
.12, Liii h1;. 2ht).
5.04      The construction of the five institutes on one camnus in Tananarive
has considerable educational and economic advantages. The preliminar;y plans
and the esti-mates of ccst are reiListic.  The project has been assigned nigh
priority in the National Development Plan (1963-1968) and appropriate
provision has been made in the investment programs (paras. 4.30, L.31, 4.35,
4.36).
5-0 OD     . With the assurances given by the Government of the Malagasy
Republic, and with the conditions for signing the loan agreement already
met, the project provides a suitable basis for a proposed Bank loan of
$4.8 million to the Government of the Malagasy Republic for a term of 30
years, including a 10 years1 grace period.
July 21,1967



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
OUTL-INE OF 'iCHOOL SYSTEM
HIGHER I EACI1ER TRAINING INS I I I'U IE
E]1          PJ-FI] 
rEACHEF/ TRAINING INSII1UT|
I7  I    7    F71    F7l 1.   1F7 1
ENrRANCE EY COMPETIfiVE EXAMINATION                                          LYCEES
D2-1 3     LCEE
a   CERTIFICATE, DIPLOMA OR DEGREE AWARDED                                   _H l
TEACHER 'IRAINING COLLEGE
LCWER
GENEtAL SECONDARY
SECOND
FIFIST CYCLE              CYCLE                                                                   UNI`/ERSITY DF MADAGAS(AR
EHL-t~~~~~~I}-L  -411-E                                                       }H~~~~~~~~~~~2 {5[fDLj
AGRICUI.TURAL SCHOOL S
JTEC      NEIC   AL. SCHOC'LS
LOWER TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
L-tIPI i
SCHOOL WORKSHOPS
-     PillMARY --                          -     Sl-CONDARY -                                   HIGliER-_     _   _
SCHOOL YEAIR    I      2      3      4        5      6         7      8      9      10       11     i2    i3        14      15     16     17     18                >
z
AGE             6      7'     8      9        10     11       12     13      14     15       16     17     i8       19      20     21     22     23                r
IBRD- 3443



MLAIAGASY IREPUBLIC;
ADMINISTRATIVE STRUCTURE OF MINISTRY OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS
CABINE T
MINISTER___
F_ST_E_     Rh                   i';N;STIER OF CULTInRmL ArF AIR
NATIONAL FOUNDAr ION
FOR        _- 
HIGHER EDUCATICDN                       I
DIRECTOR GIENERAL
r-        __Z__                                   _      ___ ___           _ -_11_-            -
iNSPE:CTOR OF  r  DIRECTOR OF     DIRI-CTOR OF   COMMISSIONER OF   INSPECTCORS OF
TEACHER         TECHNICAL         PRIMARY         YOUTH AND         MEDICAL
TRAINING        EDIJCATION       EDUCATION         SPORTS           SCHOOLS
_          1_ _              _   -_ _ _ZIE__
CENTRAL SUPERVISORY OFFICE
_--_          _ __                 II      .-11_ -r=                                      _               _
SECONDAEY   r     TE-ACHER  I              ]                    PHYSICAL EOUCATION I CHO 0       NATIONAL INSTITUIE
EUCATO          TANNGTECHNICAL                  PROVINCIAL      INTUCRS            D EiCIN  N   FOR RESEARCH AND
SECA HO         SC HOOLS     [   SCHOOLS          SERVICES         SCHOOL         PHARMACY  J    TEACHE TRAININ
_  1Z          1_      ff       1_      _       _     1_                -11                  - I
r             I|    APiPRENTICE   I   PRIMARY         PROVINCIAL                        NATIONAL
I  CENTER FOR        Sc SCHOOL;  I    ECHOOLS          SERVICiS                         L I BRA IES  I
TRAINING     L            J  L             -  I        _                                __11   J
I TEA(CHERS  OF III
FIRS T PRIMARY  I                            j 1                                  1      
CYCLE                            SCHOOL   I                                        NATIONAL
L             |                            __WORKSttOPS_J                           ___USE(4RS   j
[ FIRST CYCLE  1                                     APLIED ART
PRIMARY SCFiOOLS                                    SOHOKIPS
z
(2R) 18RO- 25 X
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N



MALAGASY REPUBLIC
YEAR OF                      EDUCATION STRUCTrURE AND ENROLMENT (1963-64)
SCIIOOL   1        1    
t 7
17                                                          HHIOGER EDUCATION
16                                                               (1,90000)
114~~~~~~~~~~ 
113              l                                               STEAICHE R TRAINqING  
HIGHER SECONDARY TlECHNICAL .                  -   E       (2,200)
12                       (40()                                        (2,20)
O |  GENER jAL SECONDARY
SECON DARY TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONIAL 
7
6                                             £   =   _   X  il            f-ail       ucr.J                    ,
5      Il                                                    L z         -        1;-u;iM.S
2                   _                        _
100,000   80,000   60,000c   40,000   20,000      o      20,000   40,000   60,000    80,000  100,000 120,000 D
z
z
GIRLS                                              BO1YS                             z
NOTE. Numbtrs in porennlhe0s indicote tolol enuolment c,f boys and gir s.                              O  3flO  2  4i
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                           -   --       - . - - - - - s . - ~ - - - - - - - - - _ (,



MALUGASY REPUPLIC
]Distribution by Grade of' Enrolment in Primnary SchoW.s
1963 - 1'9bih
5% of TDtal
PUI3LIC  _R IVJLTE                            TOTAL                Grade 1
is r1      qt.al       Girll    Tota,l       (irls     Total.         Enrolmrent
Grade 1       74, 073  163,522      27,811    3, 02h      101,38)4  221-,5ib6         100.0
First     Grade 2       h4,242   95',245      16,237   34,01.0      60,47'9  13 3,255            60.2
Cycle    GradEb 3      30,793   7C,661       12,772   27,392        13,565 95,053
Grade t4      21,020  4!,9,563      1C),91'2  22,615       31,932   7),178             32.é
LTOTA        170,128   382,991      67,732  1j2 ,0l1      237, 860  525. 03'
Second    Grade 5        9, 29    22,5714      6,7D    1L4, 328      16, WD7   37,402            16.9
Ccle    ,Grade 6        7,543    15,032      $6,769   ]4,170        14,312    33,2022           15.0
TOTAL         17,072    1X.,606     13,6ù7   28,998        30,719    70,6014
GÉAND TOTAL           :187,2()0  h2ij, 597   8.1,379  1.71,039     268,579   59'",636



i41AIAGAtSY REPUDLIC
_. 196__39G    -
Distribu-toion by Grade in General SecondarZ_c;chûois
PUBLIC
'U BLIC                                      PR IVATE                     &       % of
SHMORT CYCLE    LONG CYCLE       TOTAL       SHORT CYCLE      LOII(_ CYCLE    TOTAL-L     PRIVATE  Grade 1
Grade   Girls  Totial  Ci-tis '.Iota!1  GirL  Total   Gir'ls Tota-  l Girl<; (Js   Totat1  S  tTI        E`nrol]nm
- 7     668 1, 992   1.,006  2,090  1,6714 fi,082  2S065   5,34I5  L,59L  3,813  3,656  9,158   ]3,21t     6.0
First      8       556  1,670      792 1,857   1,348   3,'527  1,277  3,1476  1,2114 3,02h  2,1491  6,500  10,027      4.5
Cycle     9       392  1,165     661  1,449   1,053   2,61)4    739  2,123     9'77  2,206  1,716  14,3314  6,9l 8    3.2
10     _293     961     565 1,179    _5-     2,1140    1499  1,46.3   7 837  2,m22  1,286  3,49O  5, 6f!30  2.5
rotal lst Cycle   1,909  5,7J8   3,0o24 6,575   4,933 12,363   4,580 12, 417  Ji4,569 11,C65  9,1149 23, 482  35,8145
Second     il       -       -       466 1,078      466 1,078      -      -       52'5 1, h08   525 :1,408     2,486     1.1
Cycle    12       -      -        1426  1,076   426   1,076     -      -       416  1,260    lei6 1,260     2,1'36   1.0
13       -      -       268    721     268     7'21    -      '        53    21t9    5 3   2i)49    90      0.14
Potal 2nd Cycle     -      -     1,16',0 2,875  1,160  2,875      -      -       9914  2,917   9914  2,91'7  i,792
GRAND TOTAL       1,909  5,78'8   )4,1814 9,Jj50  6,093 15,238  4,580 12,1417  5,563 13,982 10,1143 26,319  11,]6,37
',.



rIALGC-kSY REPtJBLIC
E_roLment in Public Technical and Vocational Schools in 19063/8196L
First     Second
1.  Full Secondary Course                        Cycle     Cycle      Total
Lycee  echnicue Industriel de ranana Je       5cO        1>7        6>47
Lycee Techntcue Ccrnmercial                    383        9228      69
L;cee Technique du 3e,.ie 5i;1                179         226       b05
1,C62        599     1,661
2.  Hirsi; C-,-cle Secondary or ÂuDrenticesnip Cerners
Boys
Am.bositra                       8
n ' s U   -il,..L aO Li         2.
Diego-Suarez                   117
ar af -
F-i.anrarantsoa                135
l±antasoa                      1>47
M4aroantsetra',
Tamatave                       230
Tananarive                     3'5
Tulear                         125
Vatomnandry                    ,7 5
Girls
Tananarive                     118
Ta.matave                       39
riational ïMaritimxe School
at Najunga                    lo
Total EnrolIMent in First Cycle Schools                           1,755
3.. Sohool Workshops
Total 98 establishments                                           3,015
4.. Agrcultural Training
bcoles Pratiques d'Agricuitu.e         232
College Rural                          135                          3(67
GRATD TOTAL . . .. , . . . . . . .                     .6,798



AJU`EX 7
MT A r U:CV 1C DT [M9Tr rr
Pr-?r TT r', :r!'r.T nr~r  nBr ilTrrAmTPATT TV
i,I\DAGA.SCAR 1960/67 FINANI'ED 31Y DWESTIC RE-SOURCES
(millions of FI[,)
1/      1/
1960   1961   1962    1963   1964   1965   1966    1967
(hr rent
Central. Gcv't,.budt -L. .,2?7  1. 529 1 .7il. 1, 98  2,110  2 36L  2,5c8  2,816
Prov-rncial 'budgets  :L,Là82 1,767  1,9o4  2,122  2,336  2,793  2,802   3,006
~R).' ici1 al bxdzets    .      ..    ...    ...... 31 _  3LI   97  9?     105
TOTAL                 2,760  3,327  3,679  L,-156  4,531  5,25L.  5,495  5,927
C, ni tai.
CentraL Gov't;.budget  157    197      28     10     17      3    134     112
Drovincia1 budgets       h8     54     59     55     35      9       4      -
Municipal budgets    .          62     90     70     56     L '    7R      100
-0LLI                   262    313    177    135    108     57     211     21 2
y LeveL_ of Education
Pr mary              1,571  1,839   2,013  2,215  2,453  2,886  3,042    3,281
Seccndary              r53 "    49    6 29   y9     7 53   U31    82     ,037
Technical              406     369    380    394    431    477    508      528
Teacher trair-ling      284    461    579    731    725    7b1     842     860
HiLher                   1      18     30     19     41    108    117      146
services and
;scellarecus            207    1              l ^           A 0h  R  w)jR  9 2R7
TfI                 3,0 C22  3,64o 3, j     291  1,,639  5j311  5 7C6   6,139
!- Budget est-imates.
Note: Expenditures on education financed bv foreien
aid totalled FP$ 17.3 bi:llion from 1960-1966.
Source: livnistry of Finance.



MALAGASY REPUBLIC(: LYCEE TECHNIQUE GENIE CIVIL-
OUTLINES OF PROGRAMS OF STUDY
GRADES 7            8           9          10          11         12         13          14          15
PUBLIC VIORKS
r      F-       {}        -{j      -1                   TECHNICR[ENR  S  1
TECHNICIANS
rTERM INAL   ERFEVET 
EXAMINA1ION _ ¶ 1NICIEN  -               >        FOR
_  'R I VAT E
FIRRM'S,
COMMON COURSE                        BUII_DING    CONSTRUCTION
___ t _-k~ 7 {}  {       C      tSU'ERIET  MINISTRSIE0
9  l   l    l                                         AG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(RICULYU.RE,
TOPOGRAPHICAL SURVEYING                                  PUBLIC
COMPETITIVE ENTRY                                    _                                        WORKS,
EXAMINATION FROM GENERAL
SECONDARY SCHOOLS                /ETC.
LAND SURVEYING
PERIOLI OF  GEMETRIE
PRACTICAL    EPR
-ài- ~~~WOîK    -   EPR
SANITAR'Y ENGINEERING
________  _______H            M[)J01141U  1 P BLIC
8            ~~~~~WORKS
ENTRY    COMMON COURSE
BYm~i           _                                                W UPGRADING COURSE
E XAMINA1 ION                                                       l       -
BUILDING ANO                 FOR P'UBLIC WORKS STAFF
PUBLIC WOFRKS \
LAGENTS  |    SIrE FOFEMEN,
-|        |  ;;ifl  ';~~ECIINIOJE  l L SRE(R S 1S1,SAN1S, EIL.                                      > 
SURVEYING 
_______________   I V  I I B  RD 5 -7 5 1P  



MAL AG ;U,Y FREPUBL I C
LE LYCEE YECHNIQUE COi4MMERCIAL
EXPANSION _F ENROLMENT.
Econonlic     Economic
Practical       and            and         HiLgher
MoDderi   Commercial   Pr'ofessional  Theoretical   Technician    Teacher
Classes  Sie tion     Section      Section        Sectiôn       Section     Training           Totals
1964/6-         C.         12           1            7              3            2          -        25
E.       462          32          161              55           18          -             728  On Jan. 1, 1.965
1965/66         C.         12           2            8              3            2          -       227
E,       44°          65          205              80           25          -             81',
1966/67          c.        12           3            8              3            2          -       28
E.       4O           90          225              &5           25          -             86
1967/68          C.        12           3            8              3            2          _       23
E.        44°         90          235              85           25          -             87$)
1968/69          C.        12           3            8              3            2                   . 8
E .      440          90          245             90            2$          5             895$
1969/70          C.        20           3           1.0             6            3           -       j42
E.       725         105          275             175           50          8           1,]338 First year of
use of new
1970/71          C.        20           3           10              6            >4         -       >3         buildings
E.       800         110          275            180           60          10           1,
1971/72          O.        20           3           10              6            4          -        li3
IE.      800         110          275             180           60         10           1,1I3$' ,
N te:  C. - Niunber of classes
E , - Number of piipils



ANNEX 10
MALAGASY REPUBLIC
LE LYCEE TECHNIQUE COMMERCIAL
IOIIT INIF  OF   F'ROGRAMS      OF  STUlDY
PRIMARY SCHOOLS
GRADE
7    --                  -6{M8
r
13 -  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  [
EXTERNAL CANDIDATES
'9   -                  I[4M_
EXTERNAL CANDIDATES
10    --          SC1B3PMC                                       ,        _s
_0 SOI                    -EPC
il   -       {   SC2                     2E                       2T =    
412     -           50     -_ _ _  _         EI                                 -
EMPLOYMENT
13    _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _  _  ___         TE                       T.
._                |    ^    i 8l~~~~BEC         rBACCALAUREAT       _
EXTEN    | MEDUCATION |
15    -                                  TS2
Legend:
Ç ert!ificztes:                       f                 !EMPLOYMENT!
BEC  Brevet d'Eiiseignemenf Cornmerciol
BEPC Srevet d'Eludes du Premier Cycle
I   aSEC: =revef Superieur dEtudes Commerciales
BTS Brevet de rechnicion Superieur
CAF, Certificot d'Aptitude Professionelle
Study Progroms:
E Economic and Professionol Section
Ni Modern Section
SC Procticol C.ommercial Section
T Economic ond Theoreticol Section
TS Higher Technicion Section
(R)IBRO-2813 



A .D-F`M lt 11
`A LAGASY REPUJBLIC
Colleie d'Enseignement I'echnicue `erninin Cormmercial,
1'qenager et fiotelier
Organization and expansion of enroLment
Secticn                     Grade 1,65    19Q66  1967   196o   i969    1970   1971
Cummrercial                   10     -      -      -      -      5a     ,C      90
Tjype7iwri ting/Shorthand)    il                                        25      25
Cleical If).          )              -      -      -      -      -        5     2
z.ockkeeoing          )              -     -       -      -             25      29
Typewritinc/Shorthan          12     _     _r-d-2-                              20
J.1l.i.l  '--'ork     )              =  =          =      =      -      -       2n
3cokkeeping           )              -      -      -      -      -       -      20
r-otel-keepi.ng               10     -      -      -      -      20      20     20
il     -     -       -      -      -      13      18
12     -      -      -      -      -       -      15
r'omestic Science/
Dre_smakinq                   7     35    35      35     35     Zo     5û      50
8     30    30     30      30     30     h,3
9     30    30      30     30     30     30      35
10     20     20     20     20     20      20     25
'eacher training              12     -     -      -       -      25     25      25
13     -     _       _      _      _       20     20
14     -                                  -       20
TOT.AL                              115   115     115    115    265    391    L9.5



LIII'STI TUrT NATIOMAL SUPERILEUJR DE RECHIEUCHES E T DE FOR[1A TI 014 PEDAGOGIQUES
Organization of thre fraining Department
DIVISION iL                     DIVISION 2          !DIVISION 3                          DIV [SlO  h
Teachers for colleges d'en-                  .                 Teachers for centres de
seignement general & general                                   formation des maitres
education teachers for tech-                                  d'ecoles primaires du
nical education institutions. Primary sclhool inspectors.      premier cycle.              Teachers for lycees
Certificat d'Apti.tude:
. Certifilcat dl tA~tit!de  au Prnfe--.sor.Lt de  !En
Baccalaureat                                                Pedagogique.             seignement Seconclaire
AdmnissioDn      Certificate Propedeutique       Baccalaureat and Teaching      Baccalaureat adiitted       ou Technique, Post-
Reuirernents3    admirtted directly into Yr.II          Experience             direct1y into Year Il        Universi-ty Degree
Grade                               _     ____                  ____             _ .  _             -
13                                                                         Ycar I:   Gen. Education
14           Year I:  General Education      Year I:  Pedagogy             Year II: Gen. Education
_-                           Teaching Practice
Administration
15           Year II: Pedagog,y and                                        Year III: Pedagogy and
*Tea:hing Practice                                             Teaching PractiLce
Post-                                                                                                       Year 1: Pedagogy and
University                    _                                                                               a_îhing Practice
Certificate      Certificate d'Aptitude          Cexrtificat d'Aptitude EL      CertificaL d 'Aptitude      Certificat d'Apt:itude
Awarded          PedaLgogique pour les           l'Inspection Primaire.         pour l' Enseignemennt       au Professorat de
Colleges d'Enseignement                                        dans les Centres de         l'Enseignement Second-
Ge-ieral                                                      L[orniation de Maitres       aire ou Technique
de Ecoles Primaires du      (Practical).
Prei(iier Cycle.
,--                               -   --                          ---- _ _-_-                              _- __ _ _ 
El;Lploymûnt     Teaching                        1.Advising priiiiary school    Teacher Traiiiirig          Teachiing
teachers.
2.Inspecting p:rimary
schools.
-  ___________  ____ ____ _____>



ANNiEX 13
iTALAC-ASY REPUBLIC
Institut inational Superieulr de recnerches et
de Formation Pedagogiques
Bxnansion of Enrolment
DivisioI'JJY uelt~eL~ LUI              L )U                    L4.I 1-65 
d1e-nsei-nLement gerneral and
fow genral ecl-lation   II    >        32T3             ;,7    ]13       t
teachers for tec,i,ical
edca,~tior. irc+itut+irno
(ii) for ir:speotors of
pr-mary schools               -       ^        8      10       13      17       20
Lii)  for teac.'ers for             I      15      16       18      19      19       20
cen.tres cle formation des
ma:Ltres d'ecoles pri.maires  II      il      20      2h       24      30       30
du premier cycle.
III       7       10      19      23       23      ,C
_-Xî)  for teachers for lycees      -      il      12       17      25      25       30
TTA L                                  104     130      160     2C00    210     29,30,



i1P.I..IASY` I'lPTIlOIIlC
DIVETF'SIVI RD E  I?l)UJ `ATI C)1'ikLC1;TEIiR
(Complexe Scolairec de Tananarive)
Sii5qk y QJ  rDE
(in Malagas ré
Cen. Bldg.
& Outdoor    School      Staff'    Students'     Equipmetnt,               U0S.
Sports    Buildirg    HlousingC   Hostels      Furtiiture     TOTALS      1k IÇill.
Communal Facilities           18,o 000                                          56,0 0 00,()Ù0             0.97
Lycee Technique du Genie
Civil                                   193,00C)    11,800    52,)Io(         99,500         35 6, -'    lJe5
Lycee Techniquie Comrrmercial             14],OOC)    ill800    5.),0()         55,0o0         260,200     1.05
Colle(xe Technique Femirnin
Conunercia:l, Menager et, Ilotelier       71,000     11,800    26,2()(         21,500         130,:00    0(.53
Institut National Superieur
de Formation et de
P cherches Pedagogiques                   6",00C)     l1, j800  32, 90(       Ldj,500         14* >200    0.f62
Centre National d'l,ducateurs
Populaires et Sportifs                       0S7,0OC)  7,860   13,:100          9,0(o0        j3!1°       0. 15
TOTAI,S                       18h,000     ht77,00C0   55,o60   1771,00()       286,0()00      17'79,00J0   h .77
U.S. $j;                      (0.74)      (1.,93)     (.22)     (0.72)         (1.16)        (h.77)
Land:
A Cq- sî 5ion .t i o   n           7l,(000    Ci.31
Preparat,ion & DeveLopment        2O0)0(0     C1.81
Pro'e ssional fees ..,1)0OO                          0 .37
Yroj  ct  Cost, ....................., 1             6Éi() ) o.26
lOntit[ge'iîifeS, 15t.t1                     Q)1,)0  0.Vh       H
C,l.;`X\J;) 'I'O'i..............      3l,  17,  '0oo  7 .c)t
c'T  ~, A dr  'I.A  T                  1 '7~? C-7 \
1 ±UL t ) A J1 Il U. . . .' . . . . . . . 



MVALAGASY REPUBLIC: COMPLEXE SCOLAIRE- DE TANA-NAR
SC''oHE'DULE 0F: C,ONSTRUCÏOTION                AIND     EXCPENDITURES
19665       1967        1968        1989        1970         1971        1972     1973
JFWA JJS NÈJI  J  0 N  FMA JJASd)NIDJFMA JJAS 6TjS IDJ JMMAioJ J~J4iASON D J.1 M~JiA (ND 
ACQULIISIT ION                                                    II
D)ESIGN~                                            I    H      
PRELIMINA4RYLI                                        k   9_ 
F INA L                                Iv
COlNSTRUICTION                           IIH                      h1      T
PILESIIIL                                                            _  Lj     H     II       I             l    III
LYCEE TECHNIQUE GE-NIE CIVIL  I                                                    L    ÙHIH               i 
LYCEE TECHNIQUE COMMEIRCIAL                                     V      lT-T         f---rH
COLLEGE TECHNIQUE FEMININI
INSTITUT PEDAGOGIQUE
C .N. E. P. S. 
COMMUNAL FACILITIES                        I                                                             I
STUDENTS HOSTELSyI
SITE: DEVELOPMENT                               03                                    TlL'1Z7  T
CUMOULAT'IVE EXPEINDITURES 0F TOTAL PROJECT 
(IN MILLIONS OF U.S. DIOLLARS)



E ~ ~  ~    ~   ~    Q/7l   'E V'D
H  `  J' 12§  Sy'_,  LU  ° 
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      ~~~~~~~~~ 4] Ž2S.!  -  o  oDA
E ,_  o                    11 s J 



