CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1468 TH
Loan Agreement
(Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated September 23, 1977


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1468 TH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 23, 1977, between KINGDOM OF
THAILAND (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Northern Chao Phya Plain Project Area" means an area of
about 600,000 hectares commanded by the Ch&o Phya irrigation
system;
(b) "Mae Klong Irrigation Project Area" means an area of
about 400,000 hectares commanded or proposed to be commanded by
the Mae Klong irrigation system;
(c) "Project Areas" mean the Northern Chao Phya Plain
and Mae Klong Irrigation Project Areas;
(d) "Previous Project" means the Project, and ."Previous
Project Area" means the Project Area, described in the Development
Credit Agreement (Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project)
between the Borrower and the Association, dated May 9, 1973;
(e) "Project Coordination Committee" means the committee
referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(f) "RID" means the Royal Irrigation Department within
the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives;
(g) "DAE" means the Department of Agricultural Extension
within the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives;
and


﻿-2-
(h) "BAAC" means the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural
Cooperatives established pursuant to the Borrower's Bark for
Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives Act, B.E. 2509 (1966).
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-five
million dollars ($55,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and
the Annex thereto.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or such
later date as the Bank shall otherwise establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and two-tenths per cent (8.20_%) per annum on the princi-
pal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformi!ty with appropriate
agricultural, engineering, economic and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank: (i) for Parts A, B and D. 1
of the Project, on or before October 31, 1977, and (ii) for Parts
C and D. 2 of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the


﻿-4-
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall establish and maintain
a Project Coordination Committee with membership, powers, func-
tions and procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause RID to appoint and
maintain, after consultation with the Bank: (a) a Project Director
and a Project Manager responsible for all construction activity
under Parts A and B of the Project; and
(b) a Project Director and a Project Manager responsible for
all construction activity in the Mae Klong Irrigation Project
Area.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause RID to complete, on
or before October 1, 1979, the construction of the main drainage
neziork, namely the improvement of natural drainage channels in
and adjacent to the irrigated area, as described in Schedule 2 to
the Loan Agreement (Mae Klong Irrigation Project) between the
Borrower and the Bank, dated November 25, 1964.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken,
all necessary measures including those required under the Bor-
rower's Agricultural Land Consolidation Act of 1974, to ensure
the timely implementation of the works to be carried out under
Parts A. 2 and C. 2 of the Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause DAE to expand its
seed production and distribution program, to achieve high-quality
seed production sufficient to allow farmers in the Northern Chao


﻿-5-
Phya Plain Project Area to replace their paddy seed once in every
four years.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, special security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be*created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that- if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar
functions, for the Borrower.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) cause RID to maintain one
account covering expenditures related to Parts A, B, D.1 and D.3
of the Project, and another separate account covering expenditures
related to Parts C and D. 2 of the Project; (ii) have such ac-
counts and financial statements related thereto for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consis-
tently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(iii) furnish to the Bank for its review as soon as available, but
in any case not later than four months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of such financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by such
auditors, of such scope and in such detail, as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning such accounts and financial statements and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause RID to operate and
maintain all irrigation, service roads and drainage systems
required for the functioning of the facilities constructed under
the Project and the Previous Project, in accordance with sound
engineering standards including, except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the adoption of a three-year cycle for routine
maintenance.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) take all measures necessary to promptly implement a
program for the recovery from beneficiaries of Part A of the
Project, amounts equivalent, on the average, to 50% of the actual
cost of Part A. 2 of the Project, such amounts to be recovered
over a period of not more than 15 years from the completion date
of relevant works, with interest at not less than 12% per annum,
and with appropriati\ grace periods; and
(b) make arrangements acceptable to the Bank, on or before
December 31, 1977, for the collection by BAAC or other institu-
tions acceptable to the Bank, of the amounts referred to in
sub-Section (a) hereinabove.


﻿-7-
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) introduce on or before December 31, 1978, annual charges
of not less than the equivalent of the average cost of operating
and maintaining the irrigation and drainage systems, including
on-farm development works, in the Project Areas; and
(b) promptly following the introduction of such charges,
collect or cause to be collected sAaid charges related to the
Northern Chao Phya Plain Project Area frou, beneficiaries of Parts
A and B of the Project, and the Previous Project.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause BAAC and the coopera-
tives providing for agricultural credit in the Project Areas to
increase the number of their trained staff, and provide sufficient
funds to meet the reasonable short-term and long-term credit needs
of the farmers in the Project Areas.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely that the Project Coordination Committee referred to in
Section 3.06 of this Agreement, shall have been established.
Section 5.02. The date December 22, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bangkok 2
Thailand
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINANCE                            TH-2823
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By /s/ Arun Panupong
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
A.   Parts A, B, D.1
and D.3 of the
Project
(1) Civil works and           8,600,000          50%
mapping by con-
tract
(2) Civil works and          17,400,000          40%
mapping by force
account
(3) Equipment and            13,300,000
vehicles
(a) directly im-                            100% of foreign
ported                                 expenditures
(b) procured                                65%
locally
(c) manufac-                                100% (ex-factory)
tured lo-
cally
(4) Consultants' Ser-         2,200,0O          100%
vices and Overseas
Training


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
B.   Parts C and D.2 of
the Project
(1) Civil works and           4,800,000           50%
mapping by con-
tract
(2) Civil works and           1,700,000           40%
mapping by force
account
(3) Equipment and             2,700,000
Vehicles
(a) directly                                100% of foreign
imported                               expenditures
(b) procured                                65%
locally
(c) manufac-                                100% (ex-factory)
tured lo-
cally
(4) Consultants' ser-           600,000           100%
vices and Over-
seas Training
C.   Unallocated              3,700,000
TOTAL     55,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.


﻿- 11 -
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) in respect of Category B on account of expenditures
incurred for the financing of Parts C and D. 2 of the Project,
unless and until the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 (ii)
of this Agreement, and the Project Director and Project Manager
referred to in Section 3.07 (b) of this Agreement, shall have been
appointed.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting


﻿- 12 -
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amourt
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's continuing program
for improving irrigation facilities and supporting services to
farmers in the Project Areas.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A:   Northern Chao Phya Plain Project Area.
Improvement of water control and farm access to serve
an area of about 63,000 hectares through works of:
1.   Rehabilitation.
2.   On-farm development (including a fisheries component).
B.   Northern Chao Phya Plain Project Area.
1.   Improvement of water control and efficiency of farm
operations in an area of about 138,000 hectares through
rehabilitation works.
2.   Topographic mapping of about 300,000 hectares.
C.   Mae Klong Irrigation Project Area.
1.   Topographic and cadastral mapping of about 50,000
hectares.
2.   Construction of about three on-farm development pilot
projects.
3.   Construction of about 360 kilometers of service roads
and associated works.
D.   Studies.
1.   A feasibility study for a third stage project in the
Northern Chao Phya Plain Project Area.
2.   A feasibility study for a second stage project in
the Mae Klong Irrigation Project Area.


﻿- 14 -
3.   Studies of agricultural supporting services.
The Project is expected to be completed in accordance with
a timetable acceptable to the Bank.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 1982
through   February 15, 1997               1,775,000
On August 15, 1997                             1,750,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Sectioi 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 16 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2.45%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4.50%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                    6.55%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                    7.40%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                          8.20%


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B and D hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works for the construction of bridges
and other small structures and for the supply of materials under
Parts A and B of the Project, estimated to cost not more than the
equivalent of $25,000 each, and, mapping under Parts A, B and C of
the Project, may be awarded on the basis of the Borrower's
competitive bidding procedures, following local advertising.
2.   Contracts for civil works under Part A. 2 of the Project,
may be awarded on the basis of the Borrower's competitive bidding
procedures, following local advertising.
3.   Equipment and vehicles with unit prices not exceeding the
equivalent of $10,000 each, may be purchased in accordance with
the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures, provided that the
aggregate of items so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of
$300,000.
4.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Borrower's
competitive bidding procedures" shall include the provisions set
forth in the Annex to this Schedule.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods;
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (Thailand port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii)


﻿- 18 -
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Thailand may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Thailand if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Thailand equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Thailand.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any salez or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this compar-
ison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further


﻿- 19 -
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group
C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said
customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a
result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest
evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
The Borrower may carry out under force account: (i) the
works under Parts A. 1, B, C. 1 and C. 2 of the Project, and (ii)
up to 65% of the works under Part A. 2 of the Project.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
1.   With respect to all contracts procured in accordance with
procedures referred to in Part A hereinabove:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recom-
mendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 20 -
(c) The terms and conditions 'of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to contracts procured in accordance with
procedures referred to in Part B. 2 hereinabove, the Borrower
shall:
(i) submit a specimen form of contract for the Bank's
review and approval;
(ii) use the agreed form of contract for all contracts
for civil works under Part A. 2 of the Project,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree; and
(iii) furnish two conformed copies of each contract to
the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, together with a detailed
report, by the consultants referred to in Section
3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants
and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Borrower's competitive bidding procedures,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraphs
other than those referred to in Part B.1 of this Schedule,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably


﻿- 21 -
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿- 22 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 4
Provisions included in Borrower's
Competitive Bidding Procedures
A.   Notification and Advertising
1.   Advertising in a reasonable number of Thai and English
language local newspapers.
2.   Bidding period:     30 - 45 days.
B.   Prequalification
May be used, at the option of the Borrower.
C.   Bidding Documents*
1.   Specimen form of contract, referred to in Part E.2 (i)
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to be in the English language.
2.   Conformed copies of signed contracts to be in English or
Thai language. In the latter case, a certified translation of the
form of contract and general and special conditions of contract
should be provided.
3.   Bidding documents should contain a clear statement whether
prices are subject to adjustment on the occurrence of specified
events, and the criteria for adjustment should be included in the
invitation to tender.
D.   Bid Evaluation
Bid evaluation and decision on awards shall be carried out
in accordance with Chapter III of the Guidelines, unless otherwise
specified in this Annex.
E.   General
The Borrower shall* take all reasonable steps to expedite
the preparation of bid documents, the evaluation of bids and the
award of contracts.
*    Applicable to contracts referred to in Part B.2 of Schedule
4 to this Agreement.


