RESTRICTED
Report No. P E -2 5a
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IN
UGANDA
June 1, 1971
Education Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 U. i  = 20 U. Shs.    U.S. $ 2.80
U.S. $ 1,000          = 7143 UJ. Shs.
1,000,000 U. Shs.     - $ 14o,000
MEASURES
1 sq. yd.                0 0.84 m2
2
1 sq. ft.        =       0.09 m
1 sq. mile       =       2.590 km2
1 ac.                    4.047 m
0
F



UGANDA
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..............................         . i-ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ......  ..     .     ..*.1.              .       1
The Request ,       .   ................................   1
Socio-Economic Background .......................             2
The Education System ..................................   2
II    MANTPOWER AND EDUCATION NEEDS ............ ..............   3
Labor Force and Labor Market  ..........................      3
Manpower in industry ..-. . .. 3
Manpower in Agriculture. . .                                  4
Manpower and Health ...................* ............ .       5
Need for Secondary School Leavers ..         .     .          6
Need for Teachers ......... . .    6
Need for Improved Planning and Rationalization
of Resources Allocation .             .                    7
III. EDUCATION FINANCE .....                                         8
IV.   THE PROJECT ..         ..................................   9
General          ........................................  9
Teacher TrainLi.Xg      ..............................   10
Upper Secondary Schools    .             .11
Technical Secondary Schools               .        .11
Vocational Training Center . .              .12
Agricultural Colleges         ....................  13
District Farm Institutes and Rural Training Centers ...  13
Medical Tutor Training College       ..14
School for Nurses and Midwives   .           .15
Technical Assistance ................................    15
Cost of the Project ................                         16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Uganda during June, 1970. The mission consisted of Messrs. D. Brewin
(Agricultural Educator), B. Braithwaite (General Educator), J. Scearce
(Architect), K. Seiler (Technical Educator), A. Tsantis (Economist) and
E. Croft Long (Medical Educator, Consultant), assisted for part of the
time by Mr. R. McMahon (Technical Educator, P.M.E.A., Nairobi).



-2-
Pae No.
V.   IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT .......      ................  17
Administration -- Project Unit ........................  17
Professional Services ...............................    18
Land           ................................   18
Procurement    ...............................  18
Disbursements       ................................   18
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS ............        ...................  19
APPENDIx I           Education and Training
APPENDIX II          Technical Assistance
ANNEXES
1.   General and Technical Education -- Structure, Enrollment and
Teachers (1969)
2.   Primary School Enrollments and Teacher Needs
3.   Secondary School Enrollments and Teacher Needs
4.   Selected Manpower Requirements 1970-76
5.   Expenditures on Education and Training 1966-76
6.   Ministry of Education - Capital Expenditures 1966/67 - 1970/71
7.   Project Cost by Type of Expenditure
8.   Project Institutions:  Enrollment, Output, Accommodations
9.   Capital Unit Costs in New Project Institutions
10.   Contingency Allowances
11.   Project Implementation Schedule
12.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
13.   Comparative Education Indicators
CHARTS
1.   Structure of the Educational System
2.   Educational Pyramid
MAP



UGANDA
BASIC DATA
Total Population (1969)                                   9.5 million
Population Growth Rate (1959-69)                          3.2% p.a.
GDP per capita (1969)                                     US$105
Primary School Enrollment (public and government
aided schools) as a percentage of 6-12 age group        46%
Secondary School Enrollment (public and government
aided schools) as a percentage of 13-18 age group    4.2%
Central Government Expenditures on Education
(1970/71):
As a percentage of recurrent expenditures            28.3
As a percentage of capital expenditures              16.0
As a percentage of total expenditures                24.3
As a percentage of GDP                                5.2






UGANDA
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
1.        The education system in Uganda follows the British pattern and pro-
vides for a seven-year vrimary course, a four-year lower-secondary course, a
two-year upper-secondary course, and higher education.  It sets high academic
standards but does not provide adequately for training specific types of man-
power, especially in the technical, agricultural and para-medical fields. In
addition to the public and aided sector, which provides for 46% of the prim-
ary age group and 4.2% of the secondary age group, there is a large number of
private schools so that most children in Uganda receive some elementary edu-
cation. The government responds to the great social pressures for education
by providing 28% of its total recurrent expenditure for this purpose.
ii.       The proposed project, while including a range of educational insti-
tutions, concentrates primarily on vocational education and teacher training.
It is designed to assist the Government of Uganda in its efforts to: (a)
have adequate numbers of well-trained personnel in the fields of industry,
agriculture, and health according to projected manpower needs; (b) expand
the coverage of rural training institutions throughout the country; (c) over-
come as quickly as possible a serious shortage of teachers and instructors,
and (d) improve long-term educational planning.
iii.      Specifically the proposed project would consist of:
(a) Ccnstruction and equipment for:
--an expanded specialist teacher training program;
--extension of four upper secondary schools and five technical
secondary schools;
--one new vocational training center and the extensions of two
agricultural colleges;
--one new district farm institute, two new combined district
farm institutes and rural training centers and vehicles for
fifteen existing farm institutes;
---one new medical tutor training college and one new school
for nurses and midwives.
(b) tachnical assistance for teacher training, vocational training,
nara-medical training and educational planning,
iv.       Adequate numbers of qualified candidates for admission to the
project institutions would be available and, where teaching staff is in
short supply, the project would provide training for additional numbers.



- ii -
v.        The project institutions would be appropriately located through-
out the country's four regions, with the main emphasis in technical education
being placed in Jinja which has the largest concentration of manpower in man-
ufacturing industry.  The project items in medical education would be sited
adjacent to the two best-equipped hospitals in Uganda.
vi.       A project management committee would be established to be respon-
sible for project implementation and coordination between the ministries in-
volved. A project unit would be established to supervise both the first IDA
project and the proposed new project.
vii.      The proposed project is suitable as a basis for an IDA credit of
US$7.3 million (about 70% of the estimated project cost including all for-
eign exchange costs) to the Republic of Uganda, repayable over a 50-year
period, including a grace period of 10 years.



I. INTRODUCTION
The Request
1.01      The first IDA Credit to Uganda (Number 101-UG), signed in April
1967, provided US$10 million to help finance the expansion and diversifica-
tion of secondary education through the construction of 24 new secondary
schools and additional facilities at 15 existing schools. Owing to manage-
ment difficulties, the project is behind schedule by some six to twelve          i
months, but it is anticipated that it will be possible to complete it by
December 31, 1971.
1.02      In February/March 1969 a UNESCO mission visited Uganda to identify
education projects which would promote economic development and be suitable
for Bank/IDA financing. The UNESCO report was discussed with the Uganda
authorities by an IDA/UNESCO reconnaissance mission in December 1969. In
February 1970 the government requested financial assistance for a project
it had prepared with the help of UNESCO. In June 1970 a mission comprising
Messrs. D. Brewin (agricultural educator), B. Braithwaite (general educator),
J. Scearce (architect), K. Seiler (technical educator), A. Tsantis (econo-
mist), and E. Croft Long (medical educator, consultant) visited Uganda to
appraise the project. In view of the substantial element of technical
training in the request, Mr. R. McMahon (technical educator, P.M.E.A.,
Nairobi) joined the mission for part of the time.
1.03      After the appraisal, the proposed project was modified:  (i) to
conform better with estimated manpower needs and educational priorities,
and (ii) to take account of contributions being made by other donor agen-
cies. The project, as modified, now consists of:
(a) construction and equipment for:
--a special teacher training program;
--extension of four upper secondary schools;
--extension of five technical secondary schools;
--one new vocational training center;
--extension of two agricultural colleges;
--one new district farm institute, two new combined district farm
institutes and rural training centers, and vehicles for
15 existing institutes;
--one new medical tutor training college;
--one new school for nurses and midwives.
(b)  approximately eighty man-years of specialists' services and
eighteen man-years of fellowships for the project institutions
and for assistance to the Ministry of Education's planning unit.



-2-
1.04      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$10.4 million, and
the foreign exchange component at US$5.5 million.
Socio-Economic Background
1.05      Uganda is a landlocked country most of which has a pleasant climate
and fertile soils. The annual rainfall averages 40 to 50 inches over most
of country. Agriculture, the main source of employment, income and foreign
exchange earnings, accounts for about half of the gross domestic product
(53% in 1969) and supports over 90% of the population. The manufacturing
sector represents some 6% of total GDP. The 1969 census showed a popula-
tion of 9.5 million, implying a high natural growth rate of 3.2% since the
1959 census. The population density is about 129 per square mile (of land
area) which is the highest in East Africa. Only some 8% of Uganda's popula-
tion resides in urban areas.  The GDP per capita was estimated to be about
$105 in 1969.
The Education System
1.06      The education system follows the British pattern but is more
extended in length (Appendix I). It provides for a seven-year primary
course, a four-year lower secondary course, a two-year upper secondary
course, and higher education. It has relatively high academic standards.
Although substantial increases in student enrollment have taken place dur-
ing recent years at all levels, the government's determination to Ugandanize
the economy as soon as possible has aggravated an already acute shortage of
trained manpower. The stress now laid on equality of opportunity for all
citizens means continuing political and public pressures for growth in
school enrollments. Enrollments by level and type of education in 1969
are shown in Annex 1.
1.07      Primary Education is not compulsory.  It is provided in some 2700
government and aided schools operated by local government or voluntary
agencies and in approximately the same number of private schools, some of
which appear to be operated for profit.  Enrollments in the government and
aided schools have increased 40% in the last six years (Annex 2) and are
now about 700,000. The Ministry of Education has no precise information
but believes that there may be from 300,000 to 600,000 pupils studying priv-
ately. The government and aided schools serve 46% of the age group 6 - 12
and it is likely therefore that almost all children in Uganda receive some
primary education.
1.08      Secondary Education is provided in 75 government and aided schools
and in excess of 300 private secondary schools. Enrollments in the govern-
ment and aided schools have increased by about 300% over the last seven years,
reaching 40,000 in 1970 (Annex 3) representing 4.2% of the 13 - 18 age group.
The number of pupils in private secondary schools in not known but is believed
to be from 40,000 to 60,000; many, if not most, drop out before completing
their education or fail in the final examinations. In the government and
aided sector some 72% of the teaching staff is expatriate and there is a
particularly serious shortage of teachers, both expatriate and local, for



- 3 -
prevocational courses. Some 28% of pupils completing the lower level con-
tinue to the 25 secondary schools which provide upper level courses and in
which the 1969 enrollment totalled 2513.
1.09      Higher Education is provided at the Makerere University, Kampala,
which until June 1970 formed one of the three constituent colleges of the
University of East Africa. Some 1500 Uganda students were enrolled in
1969 and 630 others were studying in the University Colleges of Tanzania
and Kenya. A recent government-sponsored report recommended considerable
changes in the structure and objectives of the University.
II. MANPOWER AND EDUCATION NEEDS
Labor Force and Labor Market
2.01      About 295,000 persons, representing 3% of the total population,
are employed in wage and salaried posts; of these some 19% work in agri-
culture, 39% in industry and the remainder in government and other services.
Total wage employment has risen since 1964 at an average annual rate of
about 6%. The most recent manpower survey, carried out in 1967, revealed
that 64% of the posts at the technical, managerial and professional level
were occupied by Uganda citizens; of these, only 9% had university education.
Increased output from institutions of higher education has brought about
considerable improvement since then.
2.02      Total earnings have been rising at a higher rate than the growth
in employment, due to the increasing wage rate for workers and to partic-
ularly rapid increases in higher paid posts. The Ministry of Education
is unable to recruit teaching staff with technical or related training
because its salary offers are lower than those of other ministries and much
lower than those of the private sector. A new salary policy announced, but
not yet implemented, will rationalize the salary structure and help towards
remedying this situation.
Manpower in Industry
2.03      Approximately 115,000 of those employed in wage and salaried posts
in 1969 worked in industry. From 1966 to 1969, industrial employment grew
at an annual average rate of some 9.2%, compared with the growth rate of
total wage employment of 6.3% per annum. Assuming the industrial production
growth rate continues at about the same rate as in the recent past, it is
estimated that there will be an additional effective demand from 1970 to
1976 for some 500 senior management and professional personnel, 2000 in
junior management and technical posts, and about 8,600 skilled workers (Annex
4). The demand for higher level managerial and professional manpower is
being met by recruitment of university graduates and by promotion of staff
trained on the job. The demand for sub-professional technical personnel can
be met by a more efficient utilization of the existing institutions, the
Uganda Technical College and the Uganda College of Commerce.



- 4 -
2.04      The greatest unsatisfied demand is for skilled workers.  During
the 1971-76 period, it is estimated that the rural trade and technical
secondary schools will have an output of only about 3000 trainees and many
of these will require further training before they become proficient. In
addition, only a very small proportion of the present labor force has had
any type of technical or vocational education. Most have been recruited on
the basis of their academic record and very few firms are providing formal
on-the-job training or apprenticeship schemes. Technical education facil-
ities require improvement, both quantitatively and qualitatively, and schemes
for upgrading existing skills are required in order to increase productivity.
The first vocational training center, now under construction, will have a
capacity of only 100 places and will not be sufficient to cover the substan-
tial demand for this type of training.
Manpower in Agriculture                                                                  0
2.05      The 1963-65 agricultural census indicated that there were some
1.2 million landholders in Uganda whose households totalled over 6 million.
Any substantial improvement in the returns to be obtained from agriculture
must include better husbandry and crop diversification by these landholders
and this in turn requires guidance and assistance from the extension staff
of the Ministry of Agriculture. This service operates either by direct
contact with farmers or by means of short residential courses at farm insti-
tutes. The effectiveness of the work is, however, limited by severe staff
shortages. Early in 1970 at both the degree (three-year post upper second-
ary) and the diploma (three-year post lower secondary) levels, 20% of the
posts were vacant and at the certificate (two-year post lower secondary)
level, 45% of the Ministry's posts were vacant. The reasons for these
shortages are the inadequacies of manpower planning during the 1960's, space
limitations in training institutions, a poorly structured salaries system
and abrupt changes in training policy during recent years.
2.06      Three separate estimates of agricultural manpower requirements                Al
are broadly in accord in assessing overall needs at the higher and middle               w
levels. They indicate that by 1976, there will be a demand for some 225
graduates, 540 diploma holders, and 990 certificate holders. The demand for
degree holders will be easily met by the Faculty of Agriculture at Makerere
as the proportion of Kenyan and Tanzanian students, which totalled 60% of the
enrollment in 1969/70, is gradually being reduced with the establishment of
agricultural faculties in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam. At the diploma and
certificate level, enrollments in agricultural courses at the two agricul-
tural colleges totalled 340 in 1969/70. All new entrants were studying at
the certificate level. With existing facilities devoted entirely to certi-
ficate level training, an annual output of some 165 certificate holders will
be realized. However, this will create an acute shortage of diploma holders
estimated to amount to some 540 by 1976 (Annex 4), unless diploma training
is reintroduced.  The requirements for both certificate and diploma trainees
(165 and 90 respectively per annum) can only be fulfilled by a total enroll-
ment of some 600 students of whom 480 would be enrolled in certificate
courses and 120 in diploma courses. There would be a further 90 enrolled
in 3-year agricultural engineering diploma courses at the new agricultural
mechanization college.



- 5 -
2.07      The other main avenue for disseminating new agricultural technolo-
gy is through courses at district farm institutes. During the 1960's farm
institutes under the control of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
increased from 4 to 15 in number, covering all but three of the administra-
tive districts of the country. Each center offers short agricultural courses
of one or two weeks' duration. Uganda has also integrated agricultural with
other types of training needed in rural areas. Nine of the centers have co-
operative wings under the control of the Ministry of Marketing and Coopera-
tives providing courses primarily for cooperative society staff and four
centers also have wings under the control of the Ministry of Culture and
Community Development providing courses in rural development. The latter
are, therefore, known also as rural training centers and will play an in-
creasingly important part in the development of the country in future. Dur-
ing 1969 some 15,000 participants attended agricultural courses, representing
less than 2% of the farmers in the country. The provision of additional
facilities is needed.
Manpower and Health
2.08      Uganda has serious problems in providing adequate resources for
the health care of its population. It has virtually all the diseases of
temperate climates and most of the major tropical diseases except cholera.
Almost three million cases were treated in government hospitals in 1966/67.
Contagious and parasitic diseases including malaria continue to plague the
community. More effective health services can not only reduce sickness
and hence the rate of absenteeism, but can also improve the productivity of
labor and increase longevity. The measurement of the influence of such
benefits upon economic growth is however difficult. In the second five-year
development plan (1966/67 - 1970/71), the government allocated substantial
resources to expand existing physical facilities. The number of hospitals
increased from 52 to 63 and a further 12 are under construction; health
centers increased from 26 to 41 with 7 planned or under construction, and
dispensaries, subdispensaries and aid posts increased from 373 to 415 with
69 additional ones planned or under construction. There are at present
some 15,000 beds in the health facilities representing 1.6 per thousand
population, which is too low.
2.09      The expansion of training facilities has not kept pace with these
developments, and operation of the new facilities has been made possible
only by dispersion of staff already inadequate in both numbers and training.
At the end of 1969, there were in Uganda 650 doctors (7 per 100,000 in-
habitants compared to 9 per 100,000 in Kenya and 150 per 100,000 in the
U.S.A.), two thirds of whom practiced in Kampala, about 500 registered (pro-
fessional) nurses including approximately 350 also qualified as registered
midwives, 400 medical assistants, about 1000 enrolled (assistant) nurses,
and about 950 enrolled midwives. Most of the population is dependent for
health care on the work of para-medical auxiliaries, the majority of whom
are medical assistants, enrolled nurses and enrolled midwives.



- 6 -
2.10      Enrollment of medical students at Makerere has doubled during the
last five years, but in the 1969/70 academic year, 54% of the 440 available
places were occupied by Kenyan and Tanzanian students. As these places will
become available for Ugandans in future, it is estimated that the number of
Ugandan doctors graduating could increase from an estimated total of 28 in
1970 to about 70 per annum by 1977, which would raise the ratio to 8 doctors
per 100,000 inhabitants, still a low figure.
2.11      Inadequate facilities for the training of para-medical auxiliaries
represent the main problem. Medical and health facilities will require by
1976 some 3200 enrolled nurses and 2600 enrolled midwives. Under the sec-
ond five-year plan, an expanded training program will provide by 1976 about
630 nurses and 720 midwives. Even allowing for an estimated total output of
360 enrolled nurses and 540 enrolled midwives from training schools operated
by religious bodies, the supply of enrolled nurses and midwives will fall
short of the estimated 1976 requirements by some 1400 and 900, respectively
(Annex 4).
2.12      Even more serious is the lack of qualified tutors for the 24
existing government para-medical institutions, and the six others operated
by religious bodies, plus seven new ones now being planned or under con-
struction. The second five-year plan envisages a considerable expansion
of training institutions and about 170 tutors are estimated to be required
by 1976 (Annex 4). Uganda's one midwifery tutor training center is expected
to have an output of only about 15 tutors during the next few years.
Need for Secondary School Leav'ers
2.13      No expansion is required in lower secondary education.  However, it
is anticipated that during the period 1971-76, about 9800 students will com-
plete upper secondary education successfully compared with manpower require-
ments of 11,000 for direct employment and entry to higher education institu-
tions.  It will be necessary to generate an additional output of about 250
pupils per year.
Need for Teachers
2.14      Planned enrollments for government and aided general secondary
schools through 1975 indicate an average increase of 5.5% annually requiring
about 400 teachers per year for the government and aided sector; an undeter-
mined but substantial additional number of teachers will also be required by
the private sector. Teachers for secondary schools are obtained largely
from the National Teachers College and Makerere University. The output from
these institutions will be increased by 1973 to about 370 per annum thus
leaving a small shortfall in the government and aided sector which will
diminish as facilities are further expanded. No information is available
on future teacher demand for private schools and there is need for a study
of the situation; with technical assistance, the Education Ministry's plan-
ning unit can examine this issue.



2.15      An acute shortage of specialist teachers for industrial arts,
commerce and agriculture in secondary schools exists due to lack of training
facilities and rigidity of entrance qualifications to existing institutions.
Industrial arts teachers are trained at the National Teachers College but
during the period 1971-73 the total possible output will be only 18. Agri-
cultural teachers are trained at the post-graduate level in one-year courses
at Makerere, but the 1969/70 enrollment totalled only two. There is no
regular program for the training of commercial subjects teachers. An imme-
diate need exists for teaching staff for these subjects in 39 schools being
constructed under the first IDA project and many existing facilities in other
schools are also awaiting staff. Some 120 industrial arts teachers, 40
teachers of commercial subjects and 30 teachers of agricultural subjects
are required by 1975. There is at present no training program for teachers
of technical subjects in rural trade schools and technical secondary schools.
It is estimated that the filling of present vacancies, added to future
demands (enlarged by the construction of new vocational training centers),
require the equivalent of some 130 additional technical teachers during the
next four years.
Need for Improved Planning and Rationalization of Resource Allocation
2.16      The education system is undergoing rapid growth.  There are indica-
tions that output from the primary and lower secondary general schools has al-
ready saturated the labor market and planned control of admissions is, there-
fore, necessary. The extent and contribution of the private sector needs to
be examined. Particular attention also needs to be paid to the previously
neglected technical and agricultural requirements in view of the expansion
of industry and the planned diversification of agriculture. To bring about
improvements, the country needs technical assistance to assist the Ministry
of Education's planning unit in studying the problems and formulating policies
in such fields as enrollment targets, teacher supply and financial planning
so as to identify priority needs and accommodate them within the confines of
*            the country's limited resources.
III. EDUCATION FINANCE
3.01      Uganda's financial commitment and annual contribution to education
are quite high. The government has given priority to educational development
and has been allocating budgetary resources to it each year at a rate grow-
ing slightly faster than its overall expenditures (Annex 5). In the provi-
sional estimates for the 1970/71 fiscal year, Shs. 403 million or 24% of
total government expenditures have been allocated to education, represent-
ing some 5.2% of GDP compared with 3.8% in 1966/67. No information is avail-
able for expenditures in the private sector although they must be substan-
tial in view of the 300 plus private secondary schools known to exist.



-8-
3.02      Education, recurrent expenditure, which amounted to 28% of total
central government recurrent expenditure in 1970/71, is channelled mostly
through the Ministry of Education. The Ministry's recurrent budget for
1970/71 included the following allocations:
Primary                                   40%
General secondary                         20%
Technical, vocational, commercial
secondary and post-secondary            5%
Teacher training                           6%
Higher education                          22%r
The average allocation for higher education during recent years has been
about 16% and the larger figure for 1970/71 is due to special appropria-
tions for the new Makerere University.  In recent years allocations have
shown an imbalance favoring primary and general secondary education at the
ex-ense of types of education related to specific manpower needs.
3.03      In capital expenditures, the allocations for education have more
than doubled since 1966/67, reaching 16% of the total in 1970/71. Much of
the Ministry of Education's expenditure has been in connection with the
first IDA project; investment at the secondary level will absorb about 66%
of the Ministry's capital expenditure under the five-year plan (Annex 6).
Volunteer labor at the local level has reduced capital costs in primary edu-
cation and at other levels, double bunking in dormitories, double shifts in
dining halls and other methods of reducing costs have been introduced.
3.04      Of the ten other ministries with their own training programs,
the Ministries of Agriculture and Health have made increasing commitments
during recent years and in 1970/71 allocated 13% and 5% respectively of
their recurrent budgets to training schemes. Almost all the ministries have
received external bilateral and/or multilateral aid during the plan period.
Recent developments include a new cooperative college financed by the United
Kingdom, a vocational training center (Japan), an agricultural mechanization
college (U.S.S.R.), a dairy training institute and a fisheries training
institute (U.K.), expansion of the Forestry School (Norway), and the
Veterinary Training Institute (Denmark and F.A.0.) and new farmers and
cooperative training centers (U.S.A.).
3.05      Recurrent expenditures per student vary from US$25 in primary
education to US$2200 at the university level. Current increases in
student/teacher ratios in schools and anticipated declines in the ratio
of boarders to day students and the proportion of expatriate staff in the
teaching profession will reduce unit costs in future years. A newly adopted
procedure for budgeting and reporting expenditures in the Ministry of Edu-
cation will greatly facilitate cost control.
3.06      It is estimated that on the basis of future planned enrollments
central government recurrent expenditures on education by 1975/76 will to-
tal about 29% of total recurrent expenditures. This proportion is higher



than that of the present fiscal year which is about 28% (Annex 5) but the
average rate of growth of th,ese expenditures wil'l be reduced from that of
the second five-year plan period, from about 10% to about 7% per year. Cap-
ital expenditures on education are expected to decline in the next five years
as most of the post-secondarv facilitieo needed were included in the second
five-year plan and are now in the f-inal stages of construction. The govern-
ment attaches high priority to thk training of indigenous manpower for meet-
ing the requirements of the econoRm1y and will make available adequate funds to
cover anticipated expansion in enrollments and the operation of the project
recommended in this report.
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The objectives of the proposed project are to assist in meeting
well-defined manpower needs particuiarly in the fields of technical, agri-
cultural, and medical education, to provide urgently needed teachers and
to aid in improving the planning of the educational system.  The project
would help to finance (a) the construction and equipment of new and exten-
sions to existing institutions as listed below; (b) a special teacher
training program including accommodation and equipment; and (c) technical
assistance for medical training and education planning.



10 -
Accommodation
Enrollment        (additional)
Number of                                Staff
Institu-   Addi-             Student   Housing
Type of Institution /1           tions    tional  Total    Boarding   Units
Teacher Training
--Extensions                     3         373      633      100         6
Upper Secondary Schools
--Extensions                     4         480    4,036       -         24
Technical Secondary Schools
--Extensions                     5         680    2,140       -         17
Vocational Training Center
--New                            1         680      680       -         14
Agricultural Colleges
--Extensions                     2         260      600      260        11
District Farm Institutes
and Rural Training Centers /2
--New,                           3         320      320     320         41
Medical Tutor Training College
--New                            1          30       30       30         2
Nurses and Midwives School
--New                            1         135      135     120          5
Total                           2,958    8,574      830        120
/1   Additional information is in Annex 8; levels of the institutes
proposed.are shown in Chart 1.
/2   The fifteen existing rural training centers will each be provided
with vehicles.
Teacher Training
4.02      In order to meet the urgent need for staff for existing and pro-
posed institutions, the project would train over a five-year period at the
National Teachers College 40 teachers for commercial subjects in secondary
schools, 30 for agricultural subjects and 120 for industrial arts subjects.
In addition, 132 teachers of technical subjects for vocational institutions
would be trained at the Uganda Technical College. The project would provide
academic facilities and hostels for 100 additional students and six staff
houses at the National Teachers College and on the same site,the Demonstra-
tion School would be enlarged by the addition of facilities for the teaching



- 11 -
of industrial arts, commerce and agriculture. Transport would be provided
for agricultural teacher trainees to carry out practice teaching at second-
ary schools nearby which have well-developed agricultural courses. At the
Uganda Technical College, which is on an adjoining site, only equipment and
library books would be provided.
4.03      In view of the shortage of local teacher training staff, the pro-
ject would include 33 man-years of technical assistance (Appendix II) in the
form of teacher training staff for the four main subject areas. As there has
been difficulty in obtaining teacher trainees in vocational subjects at sec-
ondary schools (para 2.15), the government gave an assurance, during nego-
tiations, that entry requirements for such trainees at the National Teachers
College will be adjusted so as to enable a sufficient number to be enrolled.
After the initial five years during which immediate staff needs would be met,
the accommodations provided under the project would be utilized to meet the
demand for teachers arising from the planned increase in secondary school
enrollments and to replace expatriate teachers. The additional facilities
at the Demonstration School would allow the curriculum to be broadened on
a permanent basis. As part of the policy to replace expatriate teacher
trainers, the project would provide seven or more appropriate fellowships
for Ugandans.
Upper Secondary Schools
4.04      The gap between the estimated demand for and supply of school
leavers from the upper secondary level (para 2.13) would be met by the
provision of eight additional streams each of 30 students in the fifth and
sixth years at four existing secondary schools. This would result in an
increase of 480 in total enrollment at the upper secondary level by 1976.
The extensions would be at Iganga, in the Eastern region, Kitgum, in the
Northern region, the Aga Khan School, Masaka, in the Buganda region, and
at Ibanda in the Western region, thus covering each region of the country.
These 16 classes would be restricted to students specializing in science
and would be at schools where they could attend as day pupils. Whilst
initially expatriate teachers may have to continue to be employed, the
number of trainees graduating in science from Makerere is increasing and
will eventually be adequate for the needs.
Technical Secondary Schools
4.05      In order to expand technical education facilities in the Kampala
area and to promote technical education in other regions of the country,
the project would provide additional facilities at five technical secondary
schools; i.e. at Kisubi, near Entebbe; at Kichwamba, near Fort Portal, at
Masaka, Mbale and Lira. The project would provide workshops, classrooms,
equipment and other facilities to enable improvements to be made in the
quality of instruction and for an enrollment increase from 1460 to 2140.
The additional students would use boarding accommodation made available by
introducing double bunking in existing dormitories.



- 12 -
4.06      It was confirmed during the credit negotiations with the Govern-
ment that the curriculum of these schools would be modified in accordance
with the following outline. The first two years would be uniform for all
students and would provide normal secondary school subjects, but with a
technical bias. At the start of the third year, students would be able to
enter either: (a) a stream following a curriculum emphasizing science and
technology, leading to the East African Certificate of Education and subse-
quent admission to Higher School Certificate courses or to technical courses
at the Uganda Technical College, or (ii) a point represented by the City and
Guilds First Craft Examination and/or the Uganda Trade Test Grade II. In
order to ensure that this new program is the most appropriate for Uganda con-
ditions, the Government will review and evaluate at regular intervals the ef-
fectiveness of the new curricula with particular reference to (i) the appro-
priateness of the original entry qualifications of the students; (ii) thei-r
success in acquiring employment and their performance therein; and/or (iii)
their performance in subsequent vocational or technical courses. Should this
evaluation indicate the need for further modifications of the curricula, the
Government will make such modifications. No difficulty is anticipated in re-
cruiting adequate numbers of students from primary schools, and the provision
of adequate teaching staff would be ensured under the proposed teacher train-
ing program to be included within the project (para. 4.02).
Vocational Training Center
4.07      This project item would establish under the Ministry of Labor,
a vocational training center with a capacity of 680 places on a site
already selected in Jinja, which has the largest concentration in Uganda
of manufacturing industry. The center would train apprentices in a four-
year program, upgrade skilled workers in two other programs, and in addi-
tion, provide evening classes and part-time training for supervisors.
When fully operational, the maximum output would be about 160 fully-qual-
ified skilled workers per annum who would have completed the four-year
apprenticeship (equivalent to Uganda Trade Test Grade I), about 800 semi-
skilled workers who would have completed Uganda Trade Test Grade II after
an upgrading course, and another 800 at the fully skilled level after a
further period of upgrading who would have reached Uganda Trade Test Grade
I or higher level. The enrollment figures in the different categories of
training would be varied from time to time according to the needs of the
economy and the availability of trainees.
4.08      The center would offer courses in automobile repairing, machinery
fitting, machine assembling, welding, carpentry, brick laying, electrical
installation, and electrical fitting. Participants would spend the first
year of the four-year apprenticeship in the center and in each of the
following three years would undertake 12 weeks of training in the center
and 37 weeks on the job.
4.09      The center would require a total staff of about 41 teachers, but
in view of the shortage of local staff, approximately 27 man-years of tech-
nical assistance would be provided during the first six years (Appendix II).



- 13 -
There would be 8 experts for two and a half or three years each responsible
for setting up and subsequently teaching in the departments into which the
center would be divided and a chief of the group for five and a half years
who would be responsible for establishing and subsequently supervising the
center. The project would also provide fellowships for nine Ugandans to
study for a year overseas. Eight, qualified in the main industrial trades,
would upgrade their qualifications to be competent as department heads after
the specialists leave, and the ninth would study the organization of voca-
tional training and apprenticeship schentes in order to become ultimately the
principal of the center.
4.10      In order to enforce a well-balanced program during the on-the-
job part of vocational training, the Government undertook, during negotia-
tions, to introduce appropriate regulations within one year of the signing
of the credit agreement.
Agricultural Colleges (Post-Secondary)
4.11      In order to ensure that adequate numbers of trained staff will
be available for agricultural development (para 2.06) the project would
provide additional lecture rooms or library facilities, student hostels
and staff housing at Uganda's two agricultural colleges. At the Bukalasa
College, the enrollment would be increased from 180 to 300, and at the
Arapai College from 160 to 300. This would ensure that when the project
is completed, Uganda would have an annual output of some 60 diploma and
160 certificate holders, who would be sufficient, together with 30 diploma
holders from the agricultural mechanization college, to satisfy manpower
needs. Both Bukalasa and Arapai would provide training at certificate
and diploma level so as to cover the requirements of Uganda's two main
ecological zones. The practically-oriented certificate course would
continue on the present curriculum, but a new two-year diploma course for
selected certificate holders would provide more advanced training for
supervisory and managerial personnel on a curriculum similar to that of
the former three-year diploma course. Adequate numbers of students with
appropriate qualifications are available and no difficulty is foreseen
in providing teaching staff in view of the increasing output of graduates
from Makerere University.
District Farm Institutes and Rural Training Centers
4.12      Experience indicates that utilization of extension personnel alone
for the dissemination of new agricultural technology is not sufficient in
view of difficulties encountered in maintaining contact with more than a lim-
ited number of farmers and the impossibility of taking to the farmer working
examples of modern farm technology and improved livestock. In view of the
inherent advantage of residential farmer training, the project would provide
institutes for the three remaining districts which do not yet have them, West
Mengo, Madi and Sebei, covering estimated adult populations of 330,000,
109,000 and 21,000, respectively.



- 14 -
4.13      The West Mengo institute to be constructed at Mpigi, and the
Madi institute, to be constructed at Pakelle would be multipurpose, in-
cluding 64 places for farmer training, 32 for cooperative studies and 32
for community development; they would thus be known as district farm in-
stitutes and rural training centers.
4.14      The Sebei institute, which would be constructed at Bukwa covering
a much smaller population, would provide 64 places primarily for the train-
ing of farmers although the facilities would be used occasionally for other
courses.
4.15      The two larger institutes could each provide accommodation for up
to 42 additional courses of one-week duration in agricultural subjects, ten
cooperative courses of four-weeks duration and 14 community development
courses of three-weeks duration each year.  If the three new institutes were
used to full capacity, some 9500 additional trainees could attend courses
compared with a total 1969 attendance at 15 existing institutes of 18,200.
The centers would be flexible in the curricula they could provide according
to local needs and climatic conditions at the time so that the attendance
figures would vary from year to year. The provision of qualified teachers
would not be difficult as the two larger institutes would need a teaching
staff of only seven and the smaller institute would need only four.
4.16      Approximately 76 of the 504 agricultural courses arranged for
11,800 participants in 1968 had to be cancelled due partially to failures
in water supply but mainly-to inadequate transport. The water supply
position has been surveyed and an improvement plan is already under way
but the state of existing vehicles has further deteriorated. The project
would provide transport consisting of a bus and pick-up truck at each of the
15 existing institutes so as to remove the remaining bottleneck preventing
full utilization of their present capacity.
Medical Tutor Training College
4.17      The project would establish a small medical tutor training col-
lege under the Ministry of Health to provide training for professionally-
qualified medical personnel of various categories who are selected to
teach in existing and planned para-medical training schools. The college
would consist of a hostel and associated facilities, lecture/demonstration
rooms and two staff houses. It would have an enrollment of 30 trainees
usually distributed among three para-medical fields. It would be built
adjacent to the Mulago Hospital so that staff and students could utilize
the facilities of the hospital and the three para-medical schools and the
university school of medicine which are nearby. Instruction in the one-
year course would be divided among educational methodology and its applica-
tion to medicine, improvement of technical knowledge and practice teaching.
The permanent teaching staff required would total only two but much of
the instruction would be provided on the Job with the assistance of other
part-time staff.  The project would include 10-1/2 man-years of technical
assistance to cover most of the teAching needs for the first four years
and also a one year fellowship to enable a Ugandan counterpart to be trained



- 15 -
to take over the training later. The Government gave an assurance during
negotiations that all tutor training of government teaching staff for para-
medical personnel would take place at the new college and that about 30
medically-trained personnel would be released from their duties each year
to undertake tutor training.
School for Nurses and Midwives
4.18      In order to help overcome the serious shortage of enrolled
nurses and midwives, the project would establish a training school under
the Ministry of Health adjacent to the Mbale Hospital. The school would
provide residential accommodation for 60 enrolled nurses and 60 enrolled
midwives and also for 15 day students. The Mbale Hospital has 344 beds
and includes 14 different medical units. There is also, on the same site,
a medical assistant training school and a school of hygiene, thus provid-
ing most of the facilities required for on-the-job training. The govern-
ment gave an assurance during negotiations that within one year of the
credit agreement signing, it would allocate funds, on the basis of satis-
factory plans, for upgrading the hospital facilities for training pur-
poses by the provision of a 40-bed extension to the maternity ward with
related facilities, and a 30-bed extension to the pediatric ward. The
course for enrolled nurses would take two years and nine months and for
enrolled midwives two years and six months. Entrants would have completed
two or preferably three years of secondary education and would be required
to pass an entrance examination in English and arithmetic. The project
would provide about two man years of technical assistance in the form of
a nurse tutor who would act as principal of the school and take part in the
teaching for the first two years. The project would also provide a fellow-
ship for a Ugandan counterpart who would ultimately become the principal
of the school.
Technical Assistance (Appendix II)
4.19      To assist Uganda in education planning the project would make pro-
vision for 8 man-years of technical assistance, in addition to the technical
assistance mentioned in previous paragraphs; consequently, the project would
include a total amount of approximately 80 man-years of specialist services
and 18 man-years of overseas fellowships. The implementation program has
been agreed during negotiations.
4.20      The Government has confirmed during negotiations that candidates
suitable to serve as counterparts to the above specialists would be made
available and that, within one year of the signing of the credit agreement,
timetables for the assignment of counterparts and for any required training
prior to such assignments would be presented to the Association.
4.21      The Government will continue its efforts to obtain technical as-
sistance from other agencies for part of the required specialist services
and fellowships. To the extent that such technical assistance is obtained
from other sources, the IDA credit would be reduced by an amount of
US$26,000 for each man year of technical assistance and US$3,500 for each
man-year of fellowships.



- 16 -
Cost of the Project
4.22      The estimated cost and foreign exchange component of the various
parts of the project are summarized below:
U Sh. (Millions)        US$ (Millions)    % of
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Total
Civil Works, Furniture and Equipment
1. Teacher Training             1.42   1.00   2.42   0.20   0.14   0.34        3
2. Upper Secondary              3.92   2.36   6.28   0.55   0.33   0.88       8
3. Technical Secondary          2.77   3.29   6.06   0.39   0.46   0.85       8
4. Vocational Training         4.63   4.79   9.42   0.65   0.67   1.32    13
5. Agricultural Education       2.13   1.36   3.49   0.30   0.19   0.49       5
6. Rural Training               3.64   3.71   7.35   0.51   0.52   1.03    10
7. Medical Education           1.36   0.71   2.07   0.19   0.10   0.29        3
Services
1. Professional Services        1.75   0.21   1.96   0.24   0.03   0.27       3
2. Technical Assistance         5.22  15.43  20.65   0.73   2.16   2.89    28
Contingencies                   8.22   6.12  14.36   1.15   0.86   2.01    19
TOTAL PROJECT COST             35.06  39.00  74.06   4.91   5.46  10.37   100
4.23      The distribution of cost by category of expenditure is given in An-
nex 7. Academic and communal facilities would account for 16%.of the total
project cost, boarding 4%, staff housing 9%, equipment and furniture 17%,
technical assistance 28% and professional services, site development and con-
tingencies, the balance. The schedules of accommodation (Annex 8) are econo-
mical.
4.24      Unit cost estimates are based upon costs incurred in the first IDA
education project, modified to account for cost increases since then. The
unit costs of the district farm institutes and rural training centers compare
well with similar Bank/IDA-assisted institutes in East Africa and the voca-
tional training center cost compares well with that of a similar Bank-fi-
nanced institution in the Ivory Coast. The unit costs of the medical tutor
training college and the school for nurses and midwives are reasonable. As
the Bank Group has not so far financed institutions similar to them, a com-
parison of costs per student place is not given.
4.25      From 1966 to 1969, the volume of business of the construction in-
dustry expanded at an average rate of 11% per year (at constant 1966 prices)
but this rapid growth has not been matched by increases in the availability
of skilled personnel, and consequently shortages of carpenters, electricians
and plumbers will continue. As a result, construction costs, which in re-
cent years increased by about 7% per annum (8% for local costs and 3% for
imported goods) are expected to continue to increase at about the same level.



- 17 -
A 15% contingency allowance (Annex 10) would be provided to cover unforeseen
physical increases which may emerge during the design and construction stages.
This allowance is reasonable in view of the high proportion of extension work.
4.26      Allowance for price escalation of 5% per year for furniture
and 3% per year for equipment have been included and 10% for unforeseen
needs for both furniture and equipment.
4.27      Total contingencies would represent 19% of the project cost (and
24% of the total without contingencies). They would provide 6% for physical
increases and unforeseen events and 13% for price increases.
4.28      The foreign exchange component of US$5.5 million equivalent, re-
presenting 53% of the total project cost, has been calculated as follows:
(i) site development and building construction, 25%; (ii) professional
services, 10%; (iii) furniture, 60%; (iv) technical assistance and fellow-
ships, 75%; and (v) equipment, 90%.
4.29      An IDA credit of US$7.3 million equivalent would cover about
70% of the estimated project cost of US$10.4 million. US$5.5 million (75%
of the credit) would finance all foreign exchange expenditures and US$1.8
million (25% of the credit) would finance 37% of the local currency costs.
4.30      The operation of the project instutions and programs would in-
crease the central government's recurrent expenditures on education and
training by about Shs 6 million, representing 1.3% of the estimated 1975/76
total government recurrent expenditures on education. The latter would
reach about 29% of total recurrent expenditures including the additional
costs arising from the project. While this is a high ratio, it is expected
that the rate of increase will decline (see para. 3.06).
V.  IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT
5.01      Administration - Project Unit.  A project management committee has
been established to formulate and review procedures for carrying out the
project and coordination with the ministries involved in its implementation.
The committee consists of the permanent secretaries (or their representatives)
of the ministries responsible for finance (Chairman), education, agriculture,
labor, health and planning. A condition of effectiveness of the proposed
credit would be the establishment of a project unit to supervise the remain-
ing work on the first IDA project and the proposed new project. It would in-
clude, on a full-time basis, a project director, who will report directly to
the chairman of the project management committee, a project architect, an ac-
countant and a procurement specialist. The project director and the ar-
chitect, agreeable to the Association, would be appointed as a condition of
effectiveness. The government gave an assurance during negotiations that it
would provide the project unit with adequate facilities and supporting staff.
The government would meet the salaries of the personnel and the operational
expenditures of the unit.



- 18 -
5.02      Professional Services.  For the planning and supervision of con-
struction of project institutions, the services of the Ministry of Education,
the Ministry of Works, Communications and Housing and local consulting firms
would be utilized. The government gave an assurance during negotiations
that it would draw up a plan outlining the proposed duties and responsibil-
ities of the project unit in regard to professional services to be provided
by: (1) the Ministry of Education, (2) the Ministry of Works, Communications
and Housing, and (3) consulting firms. Consulting firms, acceptable to the
Association, would be employed on terms and conditions agreeable to the As-
sociation.
5.03      Land.  Of the 20 project institutions, 14 are existing institutions
to be expanded on their own sites. All sites required for new institutions
have been selected, and the government gave an assurance during negotiations
that they would be legally acquired before construction begins.
J.04      Procurement.  All contracts for the supply of furniture and equip-
ment and for construction would be awarded under procedures consistent with
the Association's guidelines on international competitive bidding. Pro-
cedures for prequalification of civil works contractors would be acceptable
to the Association. Detailed furniture and equipment lists would be prepared
during the design stages of project implementation and would be reviewed by
the Association prior to procurement. Items would be grouped to the extent
practicable to form sizeable bid packages and to permit bulk procurement.
It is unlikely that firms not already operating in East Africa will submit
bids, except for equipment, due to the varied locations and diversity of
types of project institutions. Major furniture manufacturing firms do not
exist in Uganda, but it is possible that a consortium of firms or new firms
may be established. Purchase of certain building materials may be separ-
ated from the civil works to allow bulk procurement. Domestic manufacturers
of goods would be accorded a margin of preference equal to the existing rate
of customs duty applicable to competing imports or 15% of the c.i.f. prices,
whichever is the lower.                                                                 0
5.05      Disbursements.  The Association would disburse (i) the c.i.f.
cost of directly imported goods, (ii) 75% of the cost of technical assis-
tance and (iii) an agreed percentage of the cost of civil works, professional
services, and locally procured goods. These percentages would be adjusted
as necessary to disburse US$7.3 million equivalent, or about 70% of the ac-
tual project cost, whichever is lower, over the estimated project period of
about six years (Annex 11). The estimated schedule of disbursements is
shown in Annex 12. Construction is expected to be completed in about 3-3/4
years after the signing of the credit agreement. Undisbursed funds would be
available for cancellation.



_ 19 -
VI.  REC0MMENDATIONS
6.01      During Credit negotiations, agreement has been reached with the
government regarding:
(a) a program for the recruitment and utilization of approximately
80 man-years of specialist services and 18 man-years of over-
seas fellowships (paras. 4.03, 4.09, 4.17, 4.18 and 4.21); the
assignment of counterparts to technical assistance specialists
(para. 4.20);
(b) a project management committee responsible for project imple-
mentation procedures and for coordination with the ministries
0                       involved and the establishment of a project unit to supervise
both the first IDA project and the proposed project (para.
5.01); and
(c) adjustment of entry qualifications to the National Teachers
College (para. 4.03); modifications to the curricula in tech-
nical secondary schools (para. 4.06); a new policy under which
all future training of government teaching staff for para-
medical personnel would take place at the new medical tutor
training college (para. 4.17); the release of about 30 medically-
trained personnel to undertake tutor training (para. 4.17); the
allocation of funds for the upgrading of hospital facilities at
I4bale (para. 4.18); new regulations for technical training
(para. 4.10); and the preparation of suitable curricula for
the vocational training center (para. 4.07).
6.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be the establishment of a Proj-
ect Unit and the appointment of a project director and architect, both ac-
ceptable to the Association (para. 5.01).
6.03      The proposed project is suitable as a basis for an IDA Credit of
US$7.3 million equivalent to the Republic of Uganda, repayable over a 50-
year period, including a 10 year grace period.






APPENDIX I
EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Administration
1.        The Minister of Education administers prinary, secondary and post-
secondary education with university education enjoying a good deal of auto-
nomy. Local authorities, aided by inspectors and regional officers of the
Ministry of Education, supervise, and may provide primary schools, though
all teachers are paid by the Ministry. Agricultural colleges and specific-
ally vocational institutions operate under nine other ministries. Overall
planning is undertaken by the Ministry of Planning, with the assistance, as
regards education, of the planning and statistical unit in the Ministry of
*          Education.
Present Structure
2.        The structure of the education system follows the British pattern
but is more extended in length. In general education, it provides for (a)
a seven-year primary level course; (b) a four-year lower secondary level
course; (c) a two-year upper secondary level course; and (d) post-secondary
level courses. Upward movement at the end of primary education is controll-
ed by an examination conducted by the Ministry of Education and subsequent
examinations after lower and upper secondary education are coming under the
control of the East African Examinations Council from the former controlling
body, the Cambridge Examinations Syndicate. Diversification into certain
technical courses operates at both lower and upper secondary education
levels with teacher training courses operating at three levels (Annex 1).
General secondary level courses lead to the East African Certificate of
Education at the end of the lower level and the Higher School Certificate
examination at the end of the upper level. The language of instruction up
to the third grade of primary school is in the vernacular. After that it
is in English, the national language.  Until recently, the principal aim
of the schools was to provide adequate numbers of candidates well prepared
academically to enter University and other post-secondary education insti-
tutions. Now, eight years after independence and following rapid increases
in enrollment at all levels, leaders are placing much more emphasis on qual-
itative aspects of education especially "anti-elitism", localization of cur-
riculum content and vocational, technical and agricultural education.
Primary Education
3.        The basic data for government and aided schools in 1969 were as
follows:
Pupil    % of staff    % of age       Boys-girls
Grades Enrollment Teachers teacher ratio qualified  group in school   ratio
1 - 7   709,708   19,630         36:1        85%           45.5%         44:27



Appendix 1
Page 2
4.        Primary education is not compulsory and fees are charged.  These
range from $10 - $65 a year for day schools, rising for the small number of
boarding schools, to $140. Teachers' salaries are paid by the government
and the fees collected, which are of undetermined amount, supplement other
sources of finance (local revenue and government transfers) to meet addi-
tional recurrent expenditures. Teachers' houses and school buildings are
often provided by community effort and parents' groups. The standard of
building varies greatly from the few good to the many bad. Teaching standards
suffer from lack of equipment, the limitations of the teaching staff and a
curriculum which, in spite of revision in 1965, remains largely academic.
Subjects included are language (vernacular and English), mathematics, health
education, music, some crafts, social studies, physical education and re-
ligious knowledge. Private schools are estimated to number slightly more
than the 2671 government and aided schools and to have an enrollment of
between 300,000 and 600,000.  Most are unregistered and while some are
benevolently organized by charitable bodies, others are run as businesses.
The Ministry's administrative and inspectorial staff is inadequate to in-
spect or even to record the numbers and rolls of these schools though it
is the Ministry's intention to exercise more control as and when it can.
General Secondary Education
5.        The basic data for government and aided schools in 1969 were as
follows:
Pupil      % of staff % of age group Boys-girls
Grades Enrollment Teachers Teacher ratio  qualified    in school           ratio
8-12    33,570    1,456       23:1               95%           4.5%       30:10
12-13      2,513       140     18:1              100%           0.7%       43:13
6.         Some 14% of pupils in the last year of primary school enter one or
other of the 75 government and aided secondary schools via a Primary Leaving
Examination.  Successful candidates in this examination are awarded a first
or second grade pass. Holders of first grade passes, the numbers of which
are adjusted according to secondary places available, are eligible to enter
secondary schools. All 75 schools offer lower secondary courses and 25
offer upper secondary courses. In the four years prior to 1969, dropout
at the lower level was 3% and at the higher level 1.4%. Fees ranging from
$50 - $72 a year are charged and are retained by the governing bodies of
the schools except in the case of the urban double session day schools
where they are paid to the Government and the schools receive in return
grants per student in attendance. The once widespread system of bursaries
and scholarships, paid by local authorities to secondary school students,
is in some regions still in existence.
7.        The curricula and syllabuses are determined largely by the require-
ments of the two terminal examinations. Revised syllabuses in the three
sciences and mathematics have recently been accepted as alternatives to
the more traditional ones and are now increasingly on a subject basis, with
a certificate awarded for any subject in which a satisfactory mark has been



Appendix 1
Page 3
obtained. Broadening of curricula will take a further step forward when
the first IDA project is completed and additional facilities for arts and
crafts (in 23 schools), woodwork (22 schools), metalwork (24 schools),
commerce (20 schools), agriculture (8 schools) and home economics (22. schools)
have been provided.
8.        Because most of the secondary schools were-founded by religious
bodies, they are sited in isolated locations. As a result, all of them
and some of the urban schools provide for boarders. The enrollment in
boarding schools averages around 400 - 500, and many schools are well
equipped and staffed. Urban day schools, however, are often situated
on small sites, many are on double shift, and have enrollments of up to
1800 pupils. Many of the pupils are not residents of the town where
the school is located but migrate there to obtain a secondary school
place and often have to live away from their families in unsatisfactory
conditions. This situation derives from the fact that parents of success-
ful secondary school candidates may opt for places in up to six schools,
and they are allotted places accordingly, irrespective of whether a nearby
school is available to which they could travel daily. As boarding educa-
tion is usually of better quality and has more prestige, this results in
pupils attending schools remote from their homes with increased cost to
both parents and governments. The mixing of pupils from different parts
of the country in boarding schools is said to help the trend in this di-
rection.
9.        Teaching standards are high and in levels above the second year
are mainly in the hands of well-qualified expatriates, who number 72% of
the total staff.
10,       Upper secondary education concentrates on preparing candidates
for the Higher School Certificate and is 85% successful. Approximately two
thirds of those with certificates continue into post-secondary education.
1I.       As in primary education, private secondary schools are numerous,
with many being run for private profit. The low enrollment ratio in govern-
ment and aided schools of 4.2% of the age groups doubtless contributes to
this. Some 58 private schools are registered with the Ministry and 249
others have been visited or have applied for registration. Official esti-
mates of the total number of pupils in private secondary schools are 40,000
- 60,000. In spite of such pupils exceeding in numbers those in publicly-
financed schools, the standards obtained in private schools may be assessed
by the fact that they enter only one quarter of the number of candidates for
the lower leaving examinations and only one sixth for the higher school
certificate. In the latter examination, only 9% of their candidates passed
in more than one subject compared with 63% in publically financed schools.
Under the 1970 Education Act, new requirements for the registration and
management of private schools have been established, but the Ministry is
reluctant to take over responsibility where this would add to its very heavy
recurrent financial burden. The existence of such a large private sector in



Appendix I
Page 4
education helps to relieve the overwhelming public pressure for more educa-
tion, a demand that the Government would be unable to meet from public funds.
Teacher Training
12.       For primary schools this comprises four years at lower secondary
level for grade II teachers in 21 colleges or two years at upper secondary
level for grade III teachers in 5 colleges. The National Teachers College
trains grade V teachers for the lower classes in secondary schools. The
course consists of either two or three years post-secondary training depend-
ing on entry qualifications. Other places in secondary schools are filled
either by expatriates or by those who possess degrees or diplomas from
Makerere University or abroad. The supply position for teachers of primary
schools who total 20,000 is adequate numerically with over 3800 teachers
in training and an output of about 1000 a year.  The Government wishes to
replace the numerous small colleges by four large ones of about 1000 stu-
dents each and hopes for U.S.A.I.D. assistance in providing at least two
of these.
13.       The secondary teacher training system, with the extensions of the
National Teachers College now being undertaken and the planned expansion
at Makerere, will provide a steadily increasing output of general subjects'
teachers for secondary schools including science and mathematics staff. In
almost all specialist subjects, however, the output is inadequate and
urgent action is needed to step up the supply. Teachers are required for
industrial arts, agriculture and commerce in secondary schools and at the
post-secondary level there is a serious shortage in the technical and en-
gineering fields, in commerce and in all branches of health education.
Higher Education
14.       Within Uganda higher education is provided at the Makerere Univer-
sity, Kampala.  Until July 1970, this was known as Makerere University College
and it was one of three constituent colleges in the superseded University of
East Africa which served Uganda, Kenya, and Tanzania. Some 1484 of the
2217 students in the Makerere College in 1969/70 were Ugandan, the rest
being mainly from Kenya and Tanzania. There were 628 Ugandans attending
what were the other two colleges of the erstwhile university. There are,
in addition, more than 2100 Ugandans studying abroad of whom about 900 are
taking courses at higher education level. Although the Makerere University
has been established as an independent entity, it lacks facilities for
teaching law, architecture, commerce, engineering, and veterinary science,
but the first students for the proposed new faculty of technology were en-
rolled in July 1970 and a veterinary faculty is planned for 1971. The report
of a government-sponsored Visitation Committee dated June 1970, recommended
the setting up of a completely different institution with increased state par-
ticipation, Ugandanization of curricula, less specialization at the under-
graduate level so as to produce graduates adaptable to the needs of a rapid-
ly developing society and greater emphasis on technical and professional
training.



Appendix 1
Page 5
Agricultural Education
15.       Agricultural subjects are now being taught in 11 secondary schools
and more schools are adding agricultural options to their curricula a3
facilities and suitably trained teachers become available,
16.       Full-time agricultural education is provided at present at only
two levels--two-year post-lower secondary certificate courses at the Bukalasa
and Arapai Agricultural Colleges (1970 total enrollment 340) and three year
post-higher secondary level degree courses at Makerere (1969/70 enrollment
of Ugandans 82). From 1963 to 1968 students were trained at a third level--
three year post-lower secondary diploma courses instead of at the certifi-
cate level. Prior to 1963 only certificate level training was provided. In
1968 to the dismay of staff and students at the two agricultural colleges, an
abrupt change was made so that all entrants now study at the certificate
level. In future, all post-secondary non-university agricultural students
will first attend certificate training and a limited number of selected can-
didates will, after a period of at least two years in the field, re-enter the
colleges for a further two years of diploma training.
17.       Training in animal husbandry and veterinary science is provided
through two-year post-lower secondary courses and one-year post-veterinary
certificate diploma courses at the Veterinary Training Institute in Entebbe
to which a dairy training school is being added. Forestry training is
provided at the same two levels at the Nyabyeya Forest School and degree
training will shortly be provided at Makerere. In 1971, a 360-capacity
agricultural mechanization college will open at Busitema to provide train-
ing in agricultural mechanization at various levels including three-year
post-lower secondary level courses. A new 175-capacity cooperative college
is under construction at Kigumba and the 100 students taking three year
post-lower secondary courses for whom places are at present made available
at Bukalasa will move there when it is completed.
18.       There are 15 district farm institutes (D,F.I.'s), seven of which
have cooperative wings running courses for the Ministry of Marketing and
Cooperatives. Four others, known also as rural training centers, have
community development wings running various courses sponsored by the
Ministry of Culture and Community Development. The primary purpose of a
D.F.I. is to induce change and an attitude of mind receptive to new ideas
among practicing farmers and to encourage the adoption of better farming
methods. Short courses, normally of one-week duration, are offered, Em-
phasis is placed on farming skills and ample time is allowed for practical
field demonstrations. In-service refresher courses are also offered for
field and advisory staff of the Ministry of Agriculture and courses are
provided for members of the growing 30,000 strong young farmer's club
movement. D.F.I.'s have demonstration farms which provide both instruc-
tional material and financial support. Fifteen thousand participants
attended agricultural courses in 1969. The cooperative movement in
Uganda has 550,000 members in 2500 societies and the cooperative wings
of D.F.I.'s provide one-week courses in the principles of cooperation for



Appendix 1
Page 6
members, month-long courses for society staff and nine month in-service
courses for inspectorial staff. Fourteen hundred persons attended courses
in cooperative wings in 1969. The purpose of the rural training centers
is to provide residential training in citizenship, leadership, nutrition,
child care, home improvement, handicrafts and in-service training for gov-
ernment staff of all other ministries. Eighteen hundred persons attended
such courses in centers attached to D.F.I.'s in 1969.
Technical and Vocational Training
19.       Technical and vocational training is provided at present at two
types of institution generally known as rural trade schools and technical
secondary schools. Trade schools, which originally numbered 70, were founded
some years ago by local authorities to provide training in craftsmanship
for primary school leavers who could not obtain places either in ordinary.
secondary schools or in technical secondary schools. In 1968, the Ministry
,f Education assu-m1ed responsibility for the 12 trade schools which then
remained. Courses last three years, the most common trades offered being
woodwork, masonry, and metalwork. Other subjects taught include English,
mathematics, technology, and technical drawing, with practical workshop
instruction occupying one half to two thirds of the time. The majority
of these schools suffer from lack of qualified staff, uneconomically small
class sizes, insufficient equipment, and inability to award any recognized
certificate of competence on completion of courses. Total enrollment in
1969 was 1191.
20.       There are five technical secondary schools, all controlled by the
Ministry of Education, with a total enrollment of 1465 students which pro-
vide courses of four-years duration. Candidates achieving a satisfactory
pass in the primary leaving examination are admitted. Training is offered
in motor vehicle maintenance and repair, woodwork, masonry, plumbing,
electrical installation, machine shop engineering, gin fitting, painting/
decorating, and agricultural machinery.  Other subjects included in the                A
curricula are English, science, mathematics, technology, and technical                 w
drawing, and practical workshop instruction amounts to between one third
and one half of the total time. Pupils completing courses can sit for
both the first craft certificate examination of the City and Guilds of
London Institutes and also the Uganda Trade Test Grade II. There is need
for greater clarity in defining the objectives of these schools which are
likely to provide the only skilled cfaft training in rural and smaller ur-
ban areas in the future as the trade schools decline further in importance.
21.       A reorganization of the technical education system of Uganda is
at present under discussion, and it appears likely that emphasis will be
placed in the main industrial areas on training in apprenticeship schemes
associated with new vocational training centers, the first of which is
presently under construction with Japanese assistance in Kampala.



Appendix 1
Page 7
22.       Post-secondary secretarial and two-year diploma courses in business
studies are provided at the Uganda College of Commerce (1968 enrollment 343)
which is being expanded to accommodate 500 students by 1971. Of equal, if
not greater importance, in view of the vast expansion of the para-statal
sector following government's 60% participation in most of Uganda's large
industries, is the ILO/UNDP sponsored Management Training and Advisory
Center which provides short courses for businessmen and managers.
23.       Post-secondary technical education is provided at the Uganda
Technical College which recruits students from both ordinary lower and
higher secondary schools and from the technical secondary schools. The
main courses of study to ordinary technician diploma standard are in
mechanical, electrical, and civil engineering and building. Courses for
higher technicians have been introduced recently in the three main engineer-
ing fields and courses for training in advanced craft subjects are also avail-
able. The majority of the courses are run in conjunction with employers on
a "sandwich" or day-release basis. Thus, of the 567 student enrollment,
many spend half the year away from the college in industry, so that the
maximum number of students attending the college at any given time is about
400.
Health Education
24.       Training is provided in Uganda for some 20 categories of medical
personnel in 31 government and voluntary agency institutions. The largest
programs are those for enrolled (assistant) nurses at seven centers (1970
enrollment 485), and enrolled (assistant) midwives at 12 centers (1970
enrollment 456). Three-year post-lower secondary level courses for medical
assistants are provided at one center and another one is under construction
which will bring total enrollment to 120 by 1972. Registered (professional)
nurses (1970 enrollment 210) and registered midwives (enrollment 40) are
trained at the Mulago Hospital, Kampala. A one-year training course for
qualified and experienced entrants who wish to become midwife tutors is
provided in temporary facilities at Mengo, Kampala. Other institutions
provide training for registered mental nurses, enrolled mental nurses,
health inspectors, health assistants, assistant health visitors, dispen-
sers and radiographers. Laboratory technicians are trained in temporary
facilities and in-service courses are provided for laboratory attendants,
anesthetic assistants, medical records officers, child health demonstrators,
and leprosy assistants. Doctors are trained for five years at the Faculty
of Medicine, Makerere University and utilize the Mulago Hospital for clinical
instruction. Out of the 408 students enrolled during the 1968-69 year, 40%
were Ugandan, 29% Kenyan, and 30% Tanzanian.
25.       The subcommittee on training for the third five-year development
plan has suggested that instead of expanding the number of small training
schools each producing between 15 and 20 trained personnel per year, it
might be better to group the schools not into one or two very large institu-
tions, but into regional centers throughout the country so as to economize
in the number of tutors, reduce the recurrent costs and improve the quality



Appendix 1
Page 8
of training. The Ministry of Health is opposed to this arrangement, however,
because of the many different ethnic groups and languages spoken in Uganda
and the desirability of students attending institutions close to their homes
where they have no linguistic difficulties and the food is that to which
they are accustomed.
26.       The supervision of training of nurses and midwives is carried
out by an inspector appointed by the Uganda Nurses, Midwives and Nursing
Assistants Council and the training of medical assistants and other para-
medical personnel is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. Be-
tween one half and two thirds of the training time for these personnel is
on-the-job training in hospitals. One of the greatest problems is the
overcrowded conditions in many training hospitals with bed occupancies
of up to 190% and very short hospital stays, especially of normal maternity
patients.  Much greater use could be made of health centers and dispensaries
with maternity beds if more and better trained tutors were available. The
clinical section of para-medical staff training takes place in hospital
wards under ward sisters and nurses who have received no instruction in
teaching methodology.
27.       The entry qualifications for enrolled nurses and midwives is
completion of two or preferably three years of secondary education. The
curricula for the two years and nine months training course for enrolled
nurses consists of a part I given in the first year on the theory and prac-
tice of nursing, first aid, health, and anatomy and physiology and a part
II given during the following one year and nine months which includes
theory and practice of nursing, specialized types of nursing, elementary
pharmacology and bacteriology. The curriculum for enrolled midwives in-
cludes in part I the same subjects as for the nurses course plus midwifery
and in part II adds mothercraft and health education, abnormal midwifery,
drugs used in midwifery, and injuries and diseases of the newborn infant.
Students who successfully complete part II are awarded a certificate and
their name is entered on the register and roll of the Uganda Nurses, Mid-
wives, and Nursing Assistants Council.  Attrition rates are very high,
amounting in government training programs to 27% for nurses and 31% for
midwives. The reasons are related to the often unsatisfactory entry
procedures, breaches of discipline, failure in examinations, and unmarried
pregnancies. There is also a 3% attrition rate per annum after qualifica-
tion due to marriage.



APPENDIX II
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.        Following the trend prevailing in many developing countries, the
education system of Uganda expanded rapidly in terms of enrollments in the
1960's, but the cost has now reached formidable proportions and serious
attention has to be paid to more efficient use of existing and proposed
facilities and the careful planning of f-ature developments. To these ends,
the proposed project would include the cost of approximately 80 man-years
of specialist services and 18 man-years of fellowship training overseas.
2.        Total cost is estimated at US$2.8 million for specialists, and
US$0.09 million for fellows, and the implementation period about five years.
3.        The proposed technical assistance program would consist of the
following specialists and fellows (numbers in parenthesis show man-years).
A.   Specialist Services (80)
(i) Education Planning Group (8). An education planner,
chief of the group (2); an educational statistician/
demographer (2); a technical/commercial educator (2);
an agricultural educator (2).
(ii) Teacher Training (33). Teacher training staff
consisting of one commercial subjects teacher (2);
one agricultural teacher (2); four industrial arts
teachers (17); and three technical teacher training
specialists (12).
(iii) Vocational Training Center (27). A specialist in
vocational training, chief of the group (5); special-
ists in automobile repairing (3); machinery fitting
(2.5); machine assembling (3); welding (2.5); car-
pentry (2.5); bricklaying (3); electrical installation
(3); and electrical fitting (2.5).
(iv) Health Education (12-1/2). A nurse tutor training
specialist, chief of the group, (4); a nurse tutor
training specialist (2), a midwife tutor training
specialist (2); a health visitor tutor training
specialist (1.25); a health inspector tutor train-
ing specialist (1.25); a nurse training specialist
(2).
B.   Fellowships for Overseas Studies (18)
(i) Teacher Training (7), Teacher trainees in agriculture
(1); commerce (1); industrial arts (2); and technical
trades (3);



Appendix II
Page 2
(ii) Vocational Training Center (9). One principal designate
to be responsible ultimately for organizing and con-
ducting the training in the proposed vocational training
center (1); instructors in automobile repairing (1);
machinery fitting (1); machine assembling (1); welding
(1); carpentry (1); bricklaying (1); electrical install-
ation (1) and electrical fitting (1);
(iii) Health Education (2). Principals of the proposed
medical tutor training college and the school for
nurses and midwives.
4.        The education planning group would work in the Ministry of Educa-
tion in close cooperation with its existing planning unit.  It would assist
the Ministry in its planning work and define the scope of planning required.
It wonld place particular emphasis on ensuring maximum use of existing and
proposed new facilities (including those in the private sector) in order to
save costs and formulating proposals on the future form of technical and
agricultural education and the process of data collection.
5.        The specialists in teacher training would be employed at the
National Teachers College training student teachers for secondary schools
and at the Uganda Technical College training instructors for technical
training institutions.
6.        The specialists for the vocational training center would be
responsible for the establishment of the center including planning of
curricula, preparing lists of required equipment, organizing courses and
instructing students.
7.        The health education specialists would have both supervisory and
teaching duties at the proposed medical tutor training college and school
for nurses and midwives.
8.        Seven Ugandans would take one year overseas training courses in
specialist teacher training subjects.  On their return, they would take
part in the training of secondary school teachers and technical instructors.
9.        Eight Ugandans qualified in the industrial trades would receive
one-year fellowships to upgrade their qualifications and enable them to
take over as heads of departments in the vocational training center after
acting as counterparts to the foreign specialists. A ninth Ugandan would
study overseas the organization of vocational training and apprenticeship
schemes and would then return to Uganda as vice-principal of the vocational
training center and ultimately take over as principal.
10.       One Ugandan would be provided with an overseas fellowship to
study the administration of tutor training colleges and nurse-midwife
training schools and would return to act ultimately as principal of the



Appendix II
Page 3
proposed medical tutor training college.  Another Ugandan would be provided
with a one year fellowship overseas to study nurse and midwife teaching
and would return to act as counterpart and subsequently as pxincipai of the
proposed school for nurses and midwives at Mbale.
11.       The British government has indicated that it might be interested
in assisting Uganda to obtain specialists for the teacher training program.
Discussions have been held between IDA, the Uganda government, ILO and
UNDP concerning possible assistance for vocational training and it is
likely that ILO will assist the Uganda government in drawing up a request
to UNDP for the technical assistance required for the proposed project.
WHO may assist in the medica,l education field. If the government cbtains
technical assistance from these or other donors for any part of the
technical assistance required for the project, the amount of the credit
*             would be reduced accordingly.
12.       Details of the implementation program would be discussed and
agreed upon during negotiations. The proposed time schedule is tndicated
below:
0






SCHEDULE
Man
Implementation*                   Year          First        Second          Third         Fourth           Fifth           Sixth     Years
Quarter   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4
Education P' anning Group
Education Planner
(Chief of the Group)                                   I  X  X  X   X  X  X  X                                                       2
Statistici.n/Demographer                                   X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X                                                       2
Technical/rComamerial Educator                                 X  X  X X   X  X  X   X                                                   2
Aaricultural Edulcator                                        X  X  X   I  X X    X X                                                    2
Teacher Training
Comnercial Suibjects Specialist                       X   X  X  X X   X   X  X                                                           2
Agricultural Specialist                               X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X                                                           2
Industrial Arts Specialists
One                                                  X X X X X X  X  X  X X X X X X X X XX X X  
Two                                                  X X X X X X  XXX  X XX    X X X  X X X X    5
Three                                                               x x xX  X X X X  X X XX  X   X X   4
Four                                                                               X X X X X  X XX   X X X X                       3
Technical Teacher Training Spec;.ilists
One                                          XE           X X    X  X X X   X X X  X  XX                                           4
Two                                          X X             X    X XX   XX X X  XI x  xxix  x                                     4
Three                                        X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X                                    4
Vocational Training
Vocational Training Specialist
(Chief of the Grooip)                       I  X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X  I   X  X
A;tonobile Repairing Specialist                                                  X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X                   3
Tiqchinery Fitting Specialist                                                            X  X  X  X   X  I  X X   X    X                 2-
Machine Assembling Specialist                                                    X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X                   3
welding Specialist                                                                        XIII X            X X X       .  X             2f
Carpentry Specialist                                                                     X  X  X  X   X  I  X X   X    X                 2m
Bricklaying Specialist                                                           X    X     IX           X    XII    X X                 3
Electrical Installation Specialist                                               X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X                   3
Electrical Fitting Specialist                                                            X  IX   X X       X   X X   X   X               2f,
Health Education
Murse Tutor Training Specialist
(Chief of he Group)                                  X  X  X      X X   X X        X X    X X   X   X    X X                       L4
Nurse Tutor Training Specialist                                   X  X   X  X  X  X   X  X                                               2
Midwife Tutor Training Specialist                                         X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X                                        2
Health Visitor Tutor Training Specialist                                                            X   X  X  X  XI's
Health Inspector Tutor Training Specialist                                                          X   X  X  X  X                       1
Nulrse Training Specialist                                                X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X                                        2
fellowships for Overseas Studies
Teacher Training:
Agriculture                                          X  X  X  X                                                                    1
Comrmerce                                            X  X  X  X                                                                    1
Industrial Arts
One                                                                                           X X  X X                         1
Two                                                                                           X  X  X  X                       1
Instrutctors for Technical Trades
Cne                                                                                           X X X X                          1
Two                                                                            X  X  X  X                                      1
Three                                                                          X X X X                                         1
Vocational Training:
One Principal-designate                                                            X  X   X  X                                     1
Eight Instructors
Automobile Repairing; Machinery Fitting                                        X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X                         2
Machine Assembling; Wufelding                                                  X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X                         2
Carpentry; Bricklaying                                                         X  X  X  X   X  X  X   X                        2
Electrical Installation; Electrical Fitting                                    X  X  X  X   X  X  X  X                         2
Health Education:
Two Principals-designatr   of Medical Training Institutions              X  X  X  X  X  X  X   X                                   2
*The Implementation to start from the date of the Development Credit Agreement.



I                                                                    



UGANTA - General and Technical Education - Government anC Aided Institutions
Structure, Enrollment and Teachers - 1969
Age Group I             Teachnlg g% of Staff   Pupil/Teacher  Poculatilon    Enro:Lc;er- as
Level              Grades   Coverage i Enrollm.ent.  Staff    Qualified           Ratio      cf Pge Group    of ace g-rou
General Education                                                         I
PRimary Level              1 - 7      6 - 12      703,708      19,630        85%           36:1       1,557,000           45.5%
Lower Secondary Level      8 - 11   13 - 16        33,570       1,456        93%           23:1         749,000            4.5%
Upper Secondary Level    12 - 13  17 - 18           2,513         140       100%           18:1         3S1,000            0.7%
Higher Education Level   14 - 18   19 - 23          3,012         377       100%            6:1      | 769,000             0.4%
Technical Education
Trade Schools              8 -10   13 - 15            988          50        50%           20:1         570,000            0.2%
Secondary Tech. Sch.       8 - 11 13 - 16           1,223         113        72%           11:1         749,000            0.2%
T_chnical & Ccrmercial                                                                                              I
Colleges                12 - 14   17 - 19           889          76        90%           12:1         5c4,ooo            0.2%
Agricultural Education
Agricultural Colleges      12 - 13 | 17 - 18           370          30      100%           12:1         341,000            0.1%
Health Education
Trailn ing-f Schools for:    |                                            j
a) inrollid Nurses &        10 - 12   15 - 17           508          23*       50            22:1         624,000            0.1%
Miidwives
b) Reoistered Nurses &      12 - 14  I17 - 19           390           7*       60%           56:1         50h,000            0.1%
,T,dical Assts.
5 -    20- 240                        2                                   53I
c) RFegistered Midwives     15 - 17   20    22                        2                      20:1         536,000            0.01%
Teachier Training
Primary (Grade 2)          8 - 11| 13 - 16          3,374I        228        96%           15:1         749,000            0.5      1
P:rimary (Gradc 3)        12 - 13   17 - 18           570     |         44  100            13:1       |23Li,00       |o2 
Secondairy (Grade 5)      12-14   17 - 19             384          42       1 0             9:1         5040               0.1;
* Full time teachers only.



UGANDA - Primary School Enrollments (Government and tidled Schools) snni Teacher Needs
Class      Grade        1968     1969         1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975
P1          1         113,091 132,927      143,000 155,000 167,000 180,000 194,000   210,000
P2          2         103,787 116,077      120,000 129,000 140,000  150,000 162,000   175,000
P3          3         100,803 110,612      110,000 116,000 125,000 136,000 146,000   157,000
P4          4          90,252   97,943      98,650 105,000 110,000 119,000 130,000   139,000
P5          5          79,992  88,709       91,140  92,000  98,000 102,000 111,000   121,000
P6          6          75,656  83,855       86,400  87,500  88,300  94,100   98,000   107,000
P7          7          68,581   79,585      77,400  83,000  84,000  85,000  90,000    94,000
Total                  632,162  709,708     726,590  767,000 812,300 866,000 931,000 1,003,000
Teachers                19,241  19,630       19,300* 19,900  20,700  22,200  23,900    25,600
Pupil:staff               33:1    36:1         38:1    38:1    39:1    39:1    39:1        39:1
Ratio
* Class size increased to average of 39 in 1972



UGANDA - Second.'ry School Enrollments (Government and Aided Schools) and Teacher Needs
Class     Grade       1965    1966    1967    1968    1969    1970          1971    1972    1973    1974    1975
13,        8        6,106   6,504   8,468   8,997   9,922  10,087        10,700  11,100  11,600  12,300  13,200
S2         9        4,488   6,507   6,537   8,457   9,192   9,675          9,800  10,500  10,900  11,400  12,100
s3        10        3,099   4,413   5,936   6,457   8,319   8,988          9,600   9,600  10,300  10,700  11,200
S4        11        2,499   3,029   4,239   5,629   6,137   8,217          8,600   9,200   9,400   9,800  10,200
Totl  etCyce     6,92   0,0325,180  29,540  33,570  36,967            38,700  40,400  42,200  44,,200  46,700
Total 1st Cycle      612 003
S5        12          608      966     941   1,198   1,370   1,770         2,200   2,400   2,600   2,750   2,930
S6        13          523      579     904     899   1,143   1,231         1,700   2,100   2,300   2,500   2,700
Total 2nd Cycle      1,131   1,545   1,845   2,097   2,513   3,081          3,900   4,400   4,900   5,250   5,630
Gtand Total         17,323  21,548  27,025  31,637  36,083  40,048         42,600  44,8oo  47,100  49,450  52,330
Teachers 1st Cycle                                     1,456   1,480        1,452   1,515  1,583   1,658   1,752
Teachers 2nd Cycle                                       140     170          195     220      245     257      282
Total Teachers                                         1,596   1,650        1,647   1,735  1,828   1,915   2,034



UGANDA - Selected Manpower Requirements - 1970 - 76
Supply from               Manpower
Existing                   Require-
Available  Attrition  Institutions  Available  ments         Shortage
1970      1970-76   1970-76           1976        1976      -1976
Agricultural Sector
Diploma Holders                       470          90         90              470       1,010        540
Certificate Holders                   520          95        925            1,350       1,510        160
Industrial Sector
Skilled Workers                    11,500*      2,100      3,000           12,400      20,100      7,700
Health Sector
Enrolled 'Nurses                    1,020         200        990            1,810       3,230      1,420
Enrolled Midwives                     960         550      1,250            1,660       2,580        920
Para-Medical Tutors                     6           1         15                20        170        150
* Estimates are for 1971.
Source: Ministries of Planning and Economic Development, Agriculture and Forestry, and Health.



UGANDA
EXPENDITURES 004 EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(To RhiOlingo millions)
A st u al         Epnd i tursBud get                                                                                           lEtinate
ProjectiaSa
i 96 6/1 967                            19 67 / 19 68                      19 6 8/19 69                                 19 6q/ 1   7 0                         1 70/ 197 1                    1975/76
.....r.entl Cata          oa        oorCapaptotal                   l      ournt        CapEtal        Total        -          Capit al    Total      Aecor-ent      Caital  I Total
Central Goveno-t Total Esp.ndito-a                                  861.3      222.1      1,083.6         870.3        254.2     1,126.5    1,008.6         413.6       1,422.2      1,122.3       465.5       1,567.8    1,121.0       537.6         1,658.6       1,572.0
Central Gocenoet Enpnditores on Edocation                           21.7        15.2        230.9         230.9         19.5       250.6       269.0         50.7         299.7        0689 -      70.9          339.64     339, 7.      85.7          603.4          457.5
lTlnlotry 01 Idooatl                                           86.8        12.6        101.6         157.5        15.7        173.2       220.2        60.3          260.5        235.1       51.7         286.8       279.7        71 .7         351.4         401.0
Mi.nlstr2' of Agricolt.re                                       6.5          .6          5.1           6.7         2.1          6.8         5.6          9.2          16.8         6.8         10.6          17.6        7.0         6.0o          11.0          12.0
Ministry of Health                                              1.6         -            1.6           1.8           .2         2.0         2.6           .2           2.6          3.3         2.0           5.3        6.7         3.5            8.2            6.5
Other Ministries                                              119.3         7.0        121,3          66.6          1.5        66.1        18.1          1.0          1 9.1        20.6        6.6           27.2       22,9         6.5           29.4          33.0
Teachwr Po-iona                                                 1.7         -            1,7           2.3           -          2.3         2.7                        2.7          2.7          -            2.7        3.6          -             3.6           5.0
Lona.l Go-enmaot Ebpendit-re  on Education                            1.8         1.7         3.5           2.0          1.9          3.9        2.0          2.1           6.1          2.4         2.2           6.6         3.0         2.3            5.3           na
(_acluding _atiaat.  of governmet trnsfers)
Gras Domestic Product (at factor cost end on oalenda
year hasl)                                                                           6,101                                  6,235                                  6,517                                 7,330                                  7,697         9,823
Central Governmsent C-rrot Resen.e                                  965.6                                 972.5                              1,285.1                                 1,136.1                               1,170.3                                  1,666
Cenatral Qoverenet Lspenditura on Education as a % of:
Total Goveroma Elpandittare                                    25.0         6.8        21.3          26,5          7.0         22.3        26.7        12.3           21.1        23.9        15.9           21.7       28,3        16.0           26.3          29.1
GDP                                                                                     3.8                                     6.0                                   4.6                                    6.6                                    5.2
Central Gor-saant Cu-rot EpapeditAur-  an  dacatian
ana    of Curront R.-onu.                                   22.3                                  23.7                                 23.3                                    23.6                                  27.7                                      T. 8
*Not Ildigany teac.hor alrnadjoa.eto.. .
SOURCV,  viatoom,ttsre  and r,tsstmf estotlols.



ANNEX 6
UGANDA - Ministry of Education - Capital Expenditures 1966/67 - 1970/71
(Shs. million)
A c t u a 1               Estimates           T o t a 1
Level of Education             1966/67 1967/68  1968/69   1969/70  1970/71    Amount    Distri-
bution    Ai
Primary                         .8       1.7       .5       .3         1.2       u.5     2.3
Secondary                      8.2       8.5     36.9     35.2       36.9      125.7    65.5
Trade and Technical*             .2      1.0      1.2      2.7         5.6      10.7     5.6
Teacher Training               1.2       1.0       .6      3.2         6.1      12.1     6.3
Higher                         1.8       3.0      1.0      7.3        20.0      33.1    17.2
MIiscellaneous                  .4        .5       .1      3.0         1.9       5.9     3.1
Total                   12.6      15.7     h0.3     51.7        71.7    192.0  100.0
*includes the rural trade and technical secondary schools, the Uganda College of Commerce and
the Uganda Technical College
Source: Ministry of Education; the Republic of Uganda, Estimates of Development
*      Expenditure 1969/70 and Draft Estimates of Development Expenditure, 1970/71.



UGANDA - PROJECT COST BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURE.
UGANDA SHILLIIGS (MILLIONS)                            U.S. DDLLARS (MILLIONS)                   S OF
Loe al          For eign          Total              Loeal           Foreign             Total            TOTAL
1. <UNSTRUCTION
Academic & Communal F-iciliti ties         8.39               3.07           11.46              1.18              O.43              1.61              iuA
Boarding Facilities                        2.05               0.64            ?.o9               ..09                                0.30 4b
Staff Housing                              4.79               2.2?            7.01               0.67             0.31               U.98              9%
Site Developmnent                         2.93                " .36           3.?               0.lh]            0.05               0.46             41%
Professional Sorwices                      1.75               0.21            1.96               0.24             0.03               0.27             3i
%ub-total                                 1Q.91               6.50           ?6.kl               2.W              0.91               3.70             36%
-,  FURNvTUR,                                   0.57              0.93             1.50              o.o8               0.1               0.21
3. EQUIPMENT                                    l. lh            10.00           1l.11L              0.16               I .0              1.56             15%
)j. TE  NCAL ASSISTANCE & FELLOWSHIPS           5.2?              15.43           20.65               0.73              2.16              2.89             28%
5. CONTINGENCIES                                 8.22              6.1k4          14.3               1.15               0.86             2.01             19%
TOTYL                                       35.06             39.00           74.0c              4,91               5.46            10.37            100%



UGANDA - PROJECT INSTITUTIONS: ENROLLMENT, OUTPUT, ACCOMMODATIONS
Gross Area per    Utilization
Student Place(Ft2)    Factor
Number                Educational Duration    Total   Additional  Student  Academic                  (Percentage
of        New or       Level   of course Additional   Annual    Teacher    and                      of maximum
Tyype of Institution      Institutions Extension   (Grade)   (Years)  Enrollment   Output           Ratio   Communal  Total        utilization)
Teachers College
Teacher Training
(Commerce)               1       Extension        14         1          20           20         20
Teacher Training
(Industrial Arts)        1       Extension   12 - l4         3         146           40         24
Teacher Training
(Agriculture)            1       Extension        15         1          15           15         15
Technical College
Teacher Training             1        Extension       15          1          35          33          11
Demonstration School            1       Extension    8 - 11         4         -             -          27
Vocational Training Center      1       New          Variable    1 - 4        680         1800         17       107      134            96%
Upper Secondary Schools         4       Extension   12 - 13         2         480          230         20
Technical SecondarySchools    5         Extension    8 - 11       2 or 4      680          240         17
Agricultural Colleges           2       Extension   12 - 14       2 - 3       260          150         14
District Farm Institutes &                                        Short
Rural Training Centers          3       New          Variable   Courses       320         8000         18        53      232            62%
Medical Tutor Training
College                         1       New             15+         1          30           28         15       136      299            48%
School for Nurses & Midwives   1        New          10 - 12      2 - 3       135           35         20         45     121             *
Students spend part of the time working in the hospital and part time in class/laboratory. V



UGANDA - CAPITAL UNIT COSTS IN NEW PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
rf~rofesslonal services and cdntingencies not inlu~ded)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(U S $ )   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _u p_
SITE                                                                       OTHER BANK GROUP
CATEGORY                    UNIT      DEVELOPMENT      BUILDINGS      FURNITURE      EQUIPMENT         TOTAL         PROJECT TOTALS
1. ACADEMIC & COMMUNAL FACILITIES       Per
Student
Vocational Training Center         Place         116.            772-           76.           709            1,673.             1/
Rural Training Institutes                        108-             598.          42.            583-          1,331.       Kenya II    $  915.
Medical Tutor Training College                   156.           1,037.          121.           574.          1,888.         __
School for Nurses and Midwives                    50.             336.           29.           113.            528.         __
2. BOARDING FACILITIES                  Per
Student
Vocational Training Center         Place          _-                                    -                       -
Tanzania III $ 474.
Rural Training Institutes                          80.           444.           14.             _             538.        Kenya II     $  394.
Medical Tutor Training College                   100.            668.           14.            23.            8o5.          __
School for Nurses and Midwives                     67.            444.          14.            12.             537.         __
3.  STAFF HOUSING          -            Per
Housing
Vocational Training Center        Unit        1,618.         10,785.          565-             _          12,968.        Ivory Coast I$13,000
Rural Training Institutes                        867.          4,813.          345.            -           6,o25.       Tanzania III $5,705.
Medical Tutor Training College                1,606.         10,710.          56o.             -          12,876.          __
School for Nurses and Midwives                 1,058.          7,056.          1448.           -            8,562.          _ 
1/ This total unit cost is less than the median unit cost of $2,416 for similar Bank financed institutions.



CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCES
(US$ '000)
Technical
Professional      Assistance        TOTAL
Civil Works       Furniture        Equipment         Services       and Fellowships
Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local   Foreign  Local  Foreign
Allowances for
Physical Increases   15%     15%      10%      10%      10%     10%       _        _        _        _         _
Allowances for
Price Increases      21%      8%      19%       7%       9%       7%      9%       6%      19%      19%
Total                36%     23%      29%      17%      19%     17%       9%       6%      19%      19%
Total Cost Before
Contingencies       2,570     860      80      130      160    1,boo    243        27      722    2,168      8,360
Physical Increasel  386     129       8       13       16       i4o     -        -        -        -          692
Price Increases     54O      69      15        9       l4       98      22        2      137       412      1,318
4------   --  - --  ---- ------- -------   ----- ----- -------- -------_ _____ - ---- --- ----- - --_______ _ ______ ___ ----- - --  -------
Contingencies
Total               926      198     23       22       30       238     22        2      137       412      2,010
TOTAL               3,496   1,058    103       152      190    1,638    265        29      859    2,580    10,370       C
;  ;  .   I   ?s      _1                -_      .                              1       ..  o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



UGANDA - PROJECT IIRPL2ETATI0Ki SCHEID LE 1
Years                     12345                                                                                                                                   6
IMPLEMNTAT ION
Quarters       1      2      3      4.     5     6      7      8      92   10    11    12    13          141.    it 1      171    18    19    20    21    22    23          2
CIVIL WqORKS                        US$ Millions        ~+    vxx                                  1       m
Teacher Training Institutions           0.241.        ~i~    +$ $v XX    X                           X     X
Upper Secondary Institutions            0.71          : ##         *     *-S ***   + 4    $$v   xxx   xxx   xxx   xxx   XXX --
Technical Secondary Instiutions         o.4.6                           a*s- 5-5    *5* +           U      X    XX XX    X 
Vocational Training Institution         0.78                      #5-    **    *5    **    U       vIOl     x xx         X    XX XX    X            X
Medical Institutions                    0.24         :      55     5    +4$  $$v   xxx   xxx   xxx   xx
Total          $ 3.4.3
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE           960  Tian Months                    I? 1   18    33    39    42~   42    51    51    63    317    66    60    60    60    57    57    1.5   1.5    39    39    12    12
FELLOWSHIPS                    216  Man Months       -      -      -      -      6      6      6      6    -       3      3      3    24.   24    24    21.    24.   21    21    21    -            -      -     -
EXPENDITURE SCHEDULE
C'ivil WYorks                           3.4.3                      - -                .01.  0.07  0.27  o.4.1  0.4.6  0.51  0.52  0.1.5  0.36  0.16  0.14.  0.01.    -          -     -      -      -      -     -
Furniture                               0.21         -             -      -      -   0.01  0.01  0.01  0,02  0.09  0.03  0.02  0.01  0.01           -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -     -
Equipment                               1.56                -      -      - 0.21.  0.09  0.08  0.01  . 086  0.08  0.07  0.05  0.05             -    -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -     -
Professional Services                   0.27         -   0,01  0.02  0.03  0.03  0.04.  0.03  0.0%   0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0,01              -      -      ..     -     -      -      -      -     -
Technical Assistance                    2.89         -      -   0.0o4   m~5  0.10  0.11  0.12  0.13  0.15  0.15  0.18  0.17  0.20  0.19  0.19  0.18  0.18  0.17  0.14.  0.14.  0.12  0.12  0.03  0.03
Contingencies                           2.01                                                                                           -   0.20  2.~  .03   0.3   0.3   0.19  0 1   3.10  0.10  0.10  0.02
PROJECT EXPENDITURES:        TOTAL: $10.37           - 0.01  0.06  0.08  0.37  0.2q  d.31  0.59  i1,45 I 079  0.80  0.77  o,207                    .66  0.52  0.52  0o147  0.33  0.21.  3.22  0.22  0.13  0. 05
LOCAL:  $ 3.07 (30%     -      -   0,02  0.02  0.11  0.0?  J. 09  0.18  0.1.3 10.21. 0.21.  0.23  0.21  0.23  0.20  0.15  0.15  0.11.  0.10  0.0   0.0o6  0.06  0.01. 0.0'1
FOREIGN:  $ 7.30 (70%i  .- 0.01  0.01.  0.0o6  0.26  o.25  0.22   0.1.i  1.02  o.55  0.56  0.51.  0.51  0.54. 0o.1.6  03 0.7                 .3023[17 3.16  0.16  0.09  0.014
Legend                                                    -                                                                   lImplamentatFion starts at credit, efreement  iT~nino~.
Selection and appointment of consultants                                                                                                                                                                              >
#Survey of sites
*Design and construction document phase                                                                                                                                                                                I
+ Review of design and construction documnents
$  Tendering of bids
v  Review of bids and award of contracts
X  Construction phase
=Guarantee phase



ANNEX 12
UGANDA - ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSENENTS
(US$ MILLIONS)
Accumulated              Undisbursed
Quarter *         Disbursements             Disbursements             Balance
1                                                                     7.30
2                    _                         -                      7.30
3                  0.01                      0.01                     7.29
4                  0.04                      0.05                     7.25
5                  o.o6                      0.11                     7.19
6                  0.26                      0.37                     6.93
7                  0.20                      0.57                     6.73
8                  0.22                      0.79                     6.51
9                  0.41                      1.20                     6.10
10                  1.02                      2.22                     5.08
11                  0.55                      2.77                     4.53
12                  o.56                      3.33                     3.97
13                  o.5b                      3.87                     3.43
14                  0.51                      4.38                     2.92
15                  0-54                      4.92                     2.38          4
16                  o.46                      5.38                     1.92
17                  0.37                      5.75                     1.55
18                  0.37                      6.12                     1.18
19                  0.33                      6.45                     o.85
20                  0.23                      6.68                     0.62
21                  0.17                      6.85                     0.45
22                  0.16                      7.01                     0.29
23                  o.16                      7.17                     0.13
24                  0.09                      7.26                     0.04
25                  0.04                      7.30
* Starting from signing of credit agreement



*                                                                                                      ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~144
Cducui-t Projpcts DepP-tmeOt
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS
POPULATONO  C6P/CAPOIEA   LITERACY    PUBLIC   ,.- OF GNP  4& OF TOTAL   PREMARY               PRIMARY      SECONDARY       %.SECONDARY    SECONDARY       . ROIGIIER          RHIGHRR
AT FACTOR        OATES      COO.    TOOTYORD    PORNOC EX-  IRROLOIMONT  OTOROS   EEOORS                      NROLLMERNT   STOER           RNLNRO S            OAOAR
COST( Conu                  ERPERO-  TO CR00.   PENDITORO           RATIO         PEE           RATIO             SN            PER       AGRICtJLTRRE &          PER
,ant 1904                   STORES    (Public    SCOOTED TO                     TEACHRE                     VOCATIONAL   TEACHER          ENGOINEERSSG         100,010
0S$)      (i of         PER          &A        EDUCATION                                                                                                  POPELATION
Adults)    CAPITA      Prov_ta)
TSAR      ( llo)(Cuerort US$)
(1)            (2)            (31         (A)          (5)          (of           (7)          (0)          (9)              (10)     1)                   (12)               (13)
Au-tria                 69              7.4         1,24080         99           73           4.3U 0       9.9           99            24           46               13           12               17                77 N
Can-                     69            21.1         0,031           91          065 C           .R         190 C          95           26           91               20           17               11               212 C
G-e...ny, Fed. Rep.    68              60.0         1,750           99           65           3.0U 0       S.1           99            30           99              34            20               20               215 A
Japan                   69            102.3         1,21R           99           50L1         5.          2R.5           99            26          90                 0            1              24                270
Netherans               68             12.7         1,0             99          154          70.0 0       203.'3         95           31            64              402           20              24                20 A
Se    ea.             7R             2.8 5        1,8660E         ...          ORC          4.4U 0      IA.            99           32           71                019                           7                18495
Scedeu                  69              6.0         2,0029          99          25R05         7.1 0        14.6          q99U          16           63 5)            26           11              11                152 C
Rnitsd CinEden           69            55.5         1 ,61R0E        97           94           6.0         13.6           96            OR           56                2           16              22                176A
EXPL.ANATORY NOTE                           R. S. A.                 60           20 1.2        3,541            06          2298C         6.5         15.1           9)           26           RI               . ..         20                7                 461 1
Compratie enootOn   ata  re  sefu  On   EUROPE
the evalantlen  C vaross edacttie nYc ten           L. GMonu                 60             R.R           703           R2            R C         3.2C         19.9 05        90 0)        33           50 5              6D50        36                9 A                764A
ti-   f  pd~~~~~~~                   2. OreLad               69              2.9           933           968          56           6.9         11.4           95           33           70               25            17              02                 133 A
-ataaldeelpmn   hataf           er as3onria                 SpaIn                68            32.6           650           94            16          3.0         15.7 Q          67           35           51               20           30              20                  31 C
Reae,n  tho batO i f the present data,
ora-vti-aa   aenparfeen   shaud he s,ppro-hd    AFRICA
south great rauttna    Sata presented Ia  he     4. C-.ee..               68             3.6           120            ...          4           27.3        04.             73          47             224                          22                0                   0 A
Eaith a -tae have. hens pallertd iarn L             0       5. Chad                  68              3.5            56            7            3           3.5         14.3           28           72             2               7           30 
th   as inas f... govr,, tLn ore;te                       A  CR(N)                70             20.9           204 0          0           142.                     23,            60X 0        0             13               9            0-2 3
rematader are arafi esotnaten er data fran    ~ ~   RtIIsspOo  69         24.6             57 0          4            1          4.7 9        10.0 4713                   5414                           7           25716-                               44C
.pt-                                              98~~6.Isur6   0.5            26            30            1C          3.3         137 C           540 C                     0                22          16
d_trts         nd I-E L             _nts   on nhu  th..EoaY                                           .             4 5               E       14C          5.C17~                      92                                         41                            2C1 
d.fi-  d                                                              60              4~~~7         209              A         10104.2                  20.4           44           466                            9           283..A
are stE 11 Omperleor Irsevocol  macpant   ud    1.en                      6I.?                           13           306 .3                                18.4           65           32            6                4223
are -tihvgtha dapev   Nhon proeasley               ta      12. Rorruy                70.L           10.  0          9             09                       42i          745                         01                                         2               3                   2
Bt.  til  i.p.tf.t                                .....~~1 . Ser  Lene 6              7.E3                        270          49           2.          19.23                                     13                           25               16                 42C
aae of these daa, tIre Erllrnrg qnallflratl'vr  iS. RanH ll          77.  0                         49R           54..                                 76.9 A         56           30             2              1123.                                                
i'p... ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ 16  Saas664t6h5                                                             . 1A0                   3.0 R      1220  R         16 54                      2 A0             S A         17               249 
1) "Rdroosor~  andefnd In the tae               17. Tas-ail               69            12.6E            70          49             3           5.0        lR.9            3D           38            2E               2           21               ..3 A
terlaes al  adurtnsd  rtnn,dov                         16.UD6oudo               70              6.3           IIfIR 0       73A           6           5.2N5       24.3 4         46 CR        3d             4   C           3E          21E C             .
ar,d_so-Oresl                                              19. tEonhOoZ=i            66             4.1            20'6          41 A         OR           7.0         15.0           Rb4X         56           El                1           22                                    IB.   
2) "PrImary" eacatErn refersto edara.tlor    C.AMSERICA & CARCEBEAN                                                537                                  13              1C            6173261c
at the flr-t Irvel, sad "snoday  od_t-o                    20. Domtniua. pRap.       66              4.0           227           DO8                        .          15.  C205                                 732                                            61
relrra tr al  edarstlar a  the aroondoy leel       21  El lalndet            69             3.4           2h8            47 C         IDNC         3.4U 5      5.4 CO         63 C         35           55 C              0           ..5 C7 A
_tR-dle-  rE type (e.g. gmnorsl, terhnioo1,                27.lseao                  6                .            293           36            6           2.35        17.4C          43           38            6               13                               6 1 
1                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~23. Jonsi-      69             20            413D          8 6           20           5.0        19.1           866           5 2          03                6           19               6                   11 A
aRrtralturaE)l                              7~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~4. Nics-ag-  668.                      33            50 A          HBR         3.2 R       10.6 B         731          4             10B             IB3          16               17                  13 A
3) rV.ti-s1or1    edacaLi-r (Cr1. 10) iIncldes  75. Orimdad ATohago 68                         1.0           753           RO           26A          3.6         18.0  Q        95 A         26           40 A              4            ..33B N                             CD
hout.orormincorrtn;      SOUTH AMRIORCA
carol, vacatirsol and                       ~~~~~~~~~~~26. Brueil     69            90.8            216 1)        6)5A         lD           3.3         14.0           64           31           16               16           ...17                               725A
41 "Li-ly IL.W' C.1.3)   ... Ily        2.7. ChilOei              66             04            427            Rb4A         22           3.0        70.             70           OR           25               29           32               26                 41 A
4)"ItorP --ttyc    C1  3)  .r-yoly                 2.Cluha                                 20.0)          236            73           12           3.0         13.6 1         70           40           21               72           13              30                   20B
-emEtsi.  they artony  ppocastmotlv-  sad it Is   29  d-uo                           68              5.7           200           hR            6  V        3.0         21.0 C         71           36            16              29           03               29                  21 C
doubtful  8hray           omAOoto   o                       0   uuo6                                  .             2             3 A         15.                      14490                       33            18               5           26..
"lOttesto" (sos hror irllrc,rd cresisterLly  31.  T   -ro 1el         69             11.0           642           049 V                     46          19474023222098
(Colseo  4 sad 6)  tfroal  IafLal and                      32.COOs(Tato-)            hR            113.5           242           90           13           3.0         16.6Q          9f  1        42C          44               18c          23               25                 102 C
.1 -pdit.   d .. t.  L.  d-ti. by     33. le~d-srIt             70            16.0 R           95 0         43 A          I           ...         13.0 4         63           44 C          I               21 0         ..15C
rrcurcuoteoperdttures  duerred Ir tdocuttrn by  34.Itca               70             27.5 C         7709          35           1            3.9    9    0.7            3TS87                                       2           36                                   23 
yuhllc and qooci-eshluc Ooenrtes;   35. Erroo                 60            30.0           139           f9 R          6 C         4.1         14.2 4         990 CO       604.40 CO431CC                             46               33                 1393N
61 rErrollrrt rorirs"(Colrmec 7 ard 9)        36. Muloysia(Wfrst(        66            10.4           260           05B 5        16           5.          14.  Si07                   30            17 0             3           26               iD                  70 C
tr -Pto -au  y-a  o-d .-O  rt. p--arr.go of    37PoEki.t                        69           126.3             01D5         17            2           1.0         ih.7           402A         44            7 A              3           26               10                  39B
tligil~ ~ildt   .-IBdOr the apprrpru-r             38  Tbolasd               69             54.2           140           70            0           3.7N        75.             3 C         30           12 C10                         25              16                  21 
vebool,  prhlic aed prvte, bylv1         hy  c              uky                 69            2.             200           49 A          9           3.7         i7l500                       4            205             10            7l                                  40
tvOo -utOCcir-  o-ing to vacitiani d  the,            SUMMRYO POR LESS DEVELOPED COUNTRIES
Icaoc   f          Ic01  (in.  f-a-iycfu-  poy-       Rabrcf Cv_rco_3                                                                33           31          39             39           339                           39            35324
alutlrv and teolloeror).   fE-11v-t fcguca             Org                      4-  98)    (1   50) (.8.)   (6.9    20.4) 10 - 99)   (20 - 72)   (2- 70)                                                              (I - 32)    (6 - 48)          (0 - 337           (0    0 52)
utd.totalyTi,,ho. Onrfdstdru                            aur        Ttt(3  adAoc)0                                                     45                      00.            0            46            24              02           70               22                 39
aird  by frrtnrtrs  10 a  iledlor Value (504 and Ahovof              50            0           3.0         16.4           20           50            13              10           22               ID                 158  6  0  38  1  10  2  15  1
bora-1 sat Iov  jri llndO                                                   [b 1i-lIrd (lOT, and Alone                           30            5           3.;         14.3           44           33             7               0            1                 9                  5
IObns   ..Pav  uNv--bl                                               ecr   A    1965 atboue              =  .D.P.                                Iret: ColIr-  (1)  -ed (2~)   Wor~ld, Tahles.(IBRDS)
Malrlt-Ve  ,ul an   ill0ll                                            0 .1966                  P     - I lcldivo  a...a  aid                          ,aur   ( 3)-(1)    IDELIS Mission
0  Moovirrdt l_o  tha  ball at  netrpaye                                C -1967                 4Q c-Veev    oreetci                                    Col-o  (17)             : Oner  Ojtatlntucal  Yeathrek, 1969n
0D=19406=  o)ICJl
E 19609                      cic    r   L    aadtp
F 1970                C     m,ildaaardsaot
=1 a1Isu,  Caer; OcIaTul                                                                  5/20/70






CHART 1
UGANDA
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM
PRIMARY                                                SECONDARY               -        - ..-     POST- SECONDARY         -w
VOCATIONAL TRAINING CENTERS
TRADE SCHOOLS               ~UP GRADING  COURSES
FOUR YEAR   APRPENTICESHIP
_TECHNICAL SCHOOLS
TECHNICAL
EDUCATION
L_ __sNICIN 5TRAM _TEHNICAL COLLEGE
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~R  - EHICA                                          COLLEGE OF COMMERCE
MEL)ICAL ASSISTANT TRAINING
, l                                                                  { 3 < 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f~V4 TUTOR TRAINING
1REGISTERED                                                                                                                                      REGISTERED  MIDWIFE TRAINING
HE LTH
EDUCATION
TUTOR TRAINING
ENROLLED| NURSE                             TTRTANN
AND MIDWIFE  TRAINING
=. _   _. _. _... . . . .  .  .  ..   .  .  .  .  .   ...._._. ._. ._. ._._ _._ _._ _._.._._. ._._ ._.._._.  I-* ---------------------------------
5            ~~~DISTRICT FARM INSTITUTES                                                       AGRICULTURAL COLLEGES
AGRICULTURAL
EDUCATION  
._.8._.__._.._.._.__._.._.._._._._................................................................    __.__._   _._.._. |.C..    .CAT..................................................DILOM
FACULTY OF MEDICINE
GENERAL   SECONDARY           EDUCATION
EDUCA ~   ~    ~     RMRYEUCTO
EDUCA-                                                                                                                  SJTION  S  } UNIVERS ITY FAC ULTI ES OF:
EDUCATION,AGRICULTURE
l l                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D IPLOMA I N E D UCAT IO NL
TEACHER                                                                                                          _  ._ _ 
TRAINING
Ft  PR- OVIDED OR EXPANDED BY PROJECT
LE   COAVIEG OAMI'ATOG                                                          PRIMARY (GRA,
SC    CHOOL CERTIFICATE EXAMIATIO-
HSC  HIG.ER SCHOOL CENEIFICATE OO,AM-OTIO
//   PERIO. OP PRO-TICAL WORK
PRIMARY (GRA.O II)
I~~~~~~~                                                2 3 
1      2      3       4       5       6       7          8       9      10      11         12     13         14      I5      16      17      18
I   I      I           I      I       I       I          I       I       I      I           I      I          I       I       I       I       I
6      7       8       9      10      11      12         13      14     15      16         17      18         19      20      21      22     23
NOTE TOE AGE GROUP RELATIONSHIP APPLIES ONLY WHEN STUDENTS E-TER TOE SC...L AT A.E 6
ASH PROCEED THROUGH TOE SYSTEM WEREATING.
lBRD-TI 29(3R)






UGANDA: EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID*
GOVERNMENT AND AIDED SCHOOL ENROLLMENTS, 1969
YEAR OF STUDY                                                                                                                                                              TOTAL
POST SECONDARY                                                                                                                                                        ENROLLMENTS*
1 7                                                                                      61 18                                                                 (Thousands)
1 6                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~676   138
16                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.5
1 5                                                                                   807    161                                                                  0.5 %
14                                                                                  1,301     287
SECONDARY
UPPER  f13                                                   BOYS                          1,905  4t33                           GIRLS                                     5.6
I2                                                                                2,419 E1891                                                                     1.6 %
[II                                                                             5,838           1,828
10                                                                           7,247     2,467
LOWER5.%
9                                                                           8,013              2,623                                                             5.3 %
8                                                                          8,843               2,856
PRIMARY
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
6              51,161                                                          :. .......
4             ~~~~60,840o39g'' "'            ;       (0                                :    ii       0   2i-i    ;0 37 ,540                               7059.57
3             66,375                                                                                                                       44:::,237-:-::- : - ::::-: 
~       ~~~7                      .   ....  .-'-'''' ..'''''' . ....v
2           68 ,01 2                                                                                                                           4 5 .,  ::,:0:6 -  -,0:5
....... ,,,  - - -: :: -.. ' '': ''- .'.':. ' -: - . '' . ::-:':' :' '.'.-.':.-.v  :.'-
1 77,2 65                                                                                                                                              55,662 :-::::-   ::  ::
I ..............~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.       . . . . . . . . . ....I
80,000               60,000                                                                                                   40,000                60,000
* The percentages show the proportion oF the age group enrolled in government and aided schoolsD
and training institutions in Uganda and students attending courses abroad.N
IBRD - 5074 (2R)






UGANDA                                                                                                                                    |
EDUCATION  PROJ ECT                                                                                  A
D  A  Iv                                            ~~~~~~~~~UGANDA
e~~                                                                                            ~ Oltca  2501001  .  
A~~,  / ~~~ / <S AWDRO f /Se J <; r \~~~~~~~KI.b                                                                  AFRICA
@       'lstriot bodqoartor 0               >                 1,  |a e u                          /o 
f air roads h,RAX   S ]-JI',  
2-09 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~R
.fKE   \VI X   , /CTKA R TOR                                       J A i
* *9  S  S1ta-149                -                                                      U1UR
150-199 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ UCTOA.100
2 Ococoot 000 U          ON       OUR 0         LANGOS
;   2v&KIciomb7      /       \                J  M  U B  UNkc  Soooor  Scol  OISO               11ul   Rokloo Agrcolcra -'.o2 -, 200c '                                            Ni= +
{~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2000900u Seodr  Scso  - KIVOU
!   )    %  T  O  R  o             , ~~2  5000   S_odr  50001'A -; 10,1                     _UU                                       . UIOIN
Zot ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~1   Olyc  Tahrca  Scon                                 - 002. *AA '        1022                                                             a ,    co  00  S
,~~~~~~~~~~~~1   0                                     cOIolsohoci              -< Olcaa>g ,j 
|  : <1  W         2               }            <                    Z A K~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E    G  t/ CBUO  /  RU
<  /    v' rTF .S I - J        >           2  D10 eOhotstrt Tonchooiol Scoo   -   cI%,M 00           El00  IUUT
_                                                             MUg AgaksnR 52-snd2ryE SChOol- MASAtA             15  Bukal   hgrloing 2olloge  - E9h             02 ASAro
_~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~I _coc  for 10SO Elod TecdtSod .00o                                            -002 HBL35ELMO                  oos
L>g)                   11  tnrd  2bhn_2dhn c   S hool    - LrRA                  ME'ICAL 9UCATION                                                      #rAOctc
(>tv                                                                                     19  Me ,Cdl Tut r TTdi3idg ColleEe   -  gAMPALA                         mI Y.  Y.
APRI  191                                                                                                                                                                                       IRD    1c5



