CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 258 UG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 23, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 258 UG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
S
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 23, 1971


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 23, 1971, between REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 'h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless th.; context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. (a) The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million three hundred
thousand dollars ($7,300,000).
(b)   If, as contemplated in Section 3.07 of this Agreement, the Borrower
obtains assistance covering any of the items provided for in Part D or E of the
Project, the Association shall cancel $26,000 of the Credit for each man-year of
the services of educational specialists so obtained and $3,500 of the Credit for
each man-year of the grant of a fellowship so obtained.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as


﻿4
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, and in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 3 1, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March 15
and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 1981 and ending March 15, 2021, each installment
to and including the installment payable on March 15, 1991 to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound educational, administrative and


﻿5
construction practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in planning and supervising
the construction to be carried out under Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ architectural consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   In order to assist the Borrower by providing advice in carrying out
the Project and in training personnel of the Borrower, the Borrower shall employ,
under terms and conditions and following a timetable satisfactory to the
Association, educational specialists acceptable to the Association as specified under
Part D of the Project.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3 04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its
approval, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract
documents, construction and procurement schedules and lists of furniture and
equipment, for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿6
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall select sites acceptable to the Association
for the institutions to be constructed under Part A of the Project, shall take all
such action as shall be necessary to acquire not later than the start of construction
on such sites all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for
the construction and operation of these institutions, and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall endeavor to obtain the services of the
education specialists provided for in Part D of the Project and the grants of
fellowships provided for in Part E, through assistance from sources other than the
Association.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall cause the institutions to be established,
extended or supplied under Part A, B or C of the Project to be operated so as
to promote the educational objectives of the Borrower and to be provided with
qualified instructors and administrators in adequate numbers.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the buildings to be constructed and the
equipment to be supplied under Part A, B or C of the Project to be adequately
maintained and shall establish appropriate administrative procedures for that
purpose.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall establish a Project Management
Committee to formulate and review procedures for carrying out the Project and
for coordinating the work of the Ministries for this purpose. The Committee shall
consist of the permanent secretaries (or their representatives) of the Ministries of
the Borrower responsible for finance (Chairman), education, agriculture, labor,
health and planning.
(b)   The Borrower shall establish a Project Unit to carry out the Project.
The Unit shall consist of a Project Director and an architect, both acceptable to
the Association, as well as of an accountant and a procurement specialist, all
assigned to full-time work with the Unit and provided with adequate facilities and
supporting staff.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall, within one year of the date of this
Agreement unless the Association shall otherwise agree:
(a)   assign, on the basis of timetables agreed with the Association and after
any requisite training, officials of the competent Ministries or of its educational


﻿7
institutions to serve as counterparts to each of the educational specialists whose
services are to be provided under Part D of the Project;
(b)   modify, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the requirements
for entry into the National Teachers College to be extended under Part B(a) of
the Project;
(c)   modify, in a manner satisfactory to the Association, the curricula of
the several technical secondary schools to be extended under Part B(d) of the
Project; and
(d)   allocate funds for extending and upgrading for training purposes, on
the basis of plans acceptable to the Association, of the facilities of the Mbale
Hospital in connection with which the School for Nurses and Midwives to be
established under Part A(e) of the Project is to be operated.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall, before the scheduled completion of the
Vocational Training Center to be established under Part A(a) of the Project, prepare
and submit to the Association for its approval suitable curricula for the Center
and make appropriate provision for the part-time release, for training purposes,
of workers from their regular employment.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall make arrangements for the release each
year of about 30 medically-trained personnel from their regular duties and assign
them to participate in training courses at the Medical Tutor Training College to
be established under Part A(d) of the Project, and shall provide that the training
of all government teaching staff for para-medical personnel be carried out at that
College.
Section 3.13. The fellowships constituting Part E of the Project shall be
granted to qualified recipients acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenant
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
ensure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration and operations, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including ts balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿9
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
tc be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following evenis   specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Crc   Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The establishment of the Project Unit provided for in Section 3.09
(b) of this Agreement.
(b)   The appointment of the Project Director and the Project Architect
provided for in Section 3.09 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The date September 30, 1971, is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.04 (b), 3.08
and 3.12 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20 years after the
date of this Agreement whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿10
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Treasury
P. 0. Box 103
Entebbe, Uganda
Cable address:
Finsec
Entebbe
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿11
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By /s/ John B. Moli
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.   Imported furni-                1,930,000           100% of foreign
ture, equipment                                   expenditures
and construction
materials
II.   Educational                   2,170,000           75% of total ex-
specialists and                                   penditures
fellowships
III.  Construction,                 1,850,000           52% of total ex-
including site                                    penditures
development and
consultants'
services, and
locally procured
goods and services
IV.  Unallocated                    1,350,000
TOTAL        7,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;


﻿13
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit; and
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category II or
III shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to
such Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
A.    The construction, furnishing and equipping of the following new institutions:
Area              Enrollment
Type            Location          (sq. ft. approx.)        Capacity
(a)  Vocational
Training
Center           Jinja (Jinja)           90,900               680
(b)   District Farm
Institutes
and Rural        Mpigi (West
Training         Mengo)                  29,700               128
Centers          Pakelle (Madi)          29,700               128
(c)   District Farm
Institute        Bukwa (Sebei)           19,200                64
(d)   Medical Tutor
Training
College          Mulago (Kampala)         9,000                30
(e)   School for
Nurses and
Midwives         Mbale (Bugisu)          16,300               135
B.    The construction of extensions to, and the furnishing and equipping of, the
following existing institutions:
Additional           Additional
Area              Enrollment
Type            Location          (sq. ft. approx.)        Capacity
(a)  National
Teachers         Kyambogo
College          (Kampala)               17,900               100


﻿15
Additional           Additional
Area              Enrollment
Type            Location          (sq. ft. approx.)        Capacity
(b)  Demonstration
School of
National
Teachers         Kyambogo
College          (Kampala)               7,900
(c)  Upper            Aga Khan (Masaka)       26,400               120
Secondary       Iganga (Busoga)         17,800                120
Schools         Kitgum (Acholi)         15,900                120
Ibanda (Ankole)         18,100               120
(d)  Technical        Kisubi (West Mengo)     12,700               240
Secondary       Masaka (Masaka)         12,900                120
Schools         Mbale (Bugisu)           5,700                40
Lira (Lango)            11,000               110
Kichwamba (Toro)         6,700               170
(e)   Agricultural    Arapai (Teso)           19,600               140
Colleges         Bukalasa (East
Mengo)                  21,900               120
C.   The supply of equipment to the following existing institutions:
Type                                  Equipment
(a)  Uganda Technical                       furniture, teaching equip-
College at Kyambogo                   ment and library books
(b)   15 District Farm                      vehicles
Institutes
D.   The provision of the services of educational specialists in the following fields:
Man- Years
(approximate)
(a)  Educational Planning                    8
(b)  Teacher Training                       33


﻿16
Man- Years
(approximate)
(c)   Vocational Training                   27
(d)   Health Education                       12.5
E.    The granting of fellowships for overseas studies in the following fields:
Man- Years
(approximate)
(a)  Teacher Training                         7
(b)   Vocational Training                     9
(c)   Health Education                        2
Parts A, B and C of the Project are expected to be completed by
June 30, 1975; Parts D and E are expected to be completed by June 30, 1977.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    Grouping and Scheduling of Contracts
(a)   Contracts for construction to be financed under Category III of the
table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement (hereinafter called
construction contracts) shall, to the extent practicable, be grouped in packages
sufficiently large to facilitate international competitive bidding. Prior to inviting
bids, the Borrower shall obtain the Association's approval for a complete list of
such contracts, including the estimated value of each and a timetable for their
award.
(b)   The award of contracts for procurement to be financed under Category
I or III of the table set out in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
(hereinafter called procurement contracts) shall be arranged and phased in
accordance with sound procurement practices and to permit bulk purchases
whenever possible. Prior to inviting bids, the Borrower shall obtain the Association's
approval for lists of all items of furniture and equipment required for the Project,
including the specifications and estimated unit and total c.i.f. (Kampala) prices
of each item, and for a schedule showing the approximate time of procurement
of major groups of items.
2.    Large Contracts
With respect to any construction contract estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more and to any procurement contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $25,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report by the Project Unit


﻿18
provided for in Section 3.09 (b) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of the said Project Unit, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association
shall promptly inform the Borrower whether it has any objection to the intended
award on the ground that it would be inconsistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits referred to in Section 2.03
of this Agreement or with the Deveiopment Credit Agreement, and shall state the
reasons for any objections it may have.
(c)   If the contract shall be awarded over the Association's reasonable
objection, or if its terms and conditions shall, without the Association's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked, no expenditure
thereunder shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of any such contract.
3.    Other Contracts
With respect to any other construction or procurement contract, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall promptly inform the Borrower if it finds that the award of the
contract is not consistent with the Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Credits referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement or with
the Development Credit Agreement and, in such event, no expenditure under such
contract shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
4.    Evaluation of Bids
For the purpose of evaluating bids for procurement contracts and associated
services, bid prices shall be determined and compared in accordance with the
following rules:
(a)   The term  "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a manufacturer
established in the territories of the Borrower for goods manufactured or processed


﻿19
to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association) in such
territories; any other bid shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid".
(b)   The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the following
amounts:
(i)         the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their use or installation.
(c)   For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid,
the bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:
(i)         the c.i.f. (Kampala) price of such goods,
(ii)       the amount of any taxes on the importation of such goods
into the territories of the Borrower which generally apply
to non-exempt importers, or 15% of the amount specified
in (i) above, whichever shall be the lower; and
(iii)      inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods to the place of their use or installation.


