Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6822
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
*                                           THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 1518-SE)
June 4, 1987
Western Africa Region
Projectt Department
Transportation Division 1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency: CFA Franc (CFAF)
Year:
Appraisal Year Average: 1977                    Exchange Rate:  US$1 - 235
Intervening Years Average: 1978-1984                            US$1 = 295
Current Year Average: 1985                                       US$1 - 449



FOR OFVICAL US  ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wdshington. DC 20433
USA
Offce i Du.ttni.GAWq
Ope*atml Et. wgt,n
June 4, 1987
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Senegal
Third Railway Project (Loan 1518-SE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Senegal Third Railway Project (Loan 1518-SE)"
prepared by the Western Africa Regional Office. Further evaluation of this
project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may bf used by recipients only in the pertormance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL            FOR o ciAL USR oNLY
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT, LOAN 1518-SE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Basic Data Sheet  ............................                i
Highlights .....   .o....   .o.o....   o....... o...o......00...........0.  iv
I* INTRODUCTICNo        ................................o .........  1
II.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION
AND APPRAISAL ..........................................       1
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST  ..........o ..........o       5
IV.  TRAFFIC AND OPERATIONS ....... o......... o....             .... 12
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE. . . o . . . .. o-.ooo. .oo. o  o. oo    17
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT..........           22
VII.  ECONOMIC REEVALUATION... ..T..                                25
VIII.  ROLE OF THE BANK.................o.....oo.o..........         28
IX. CONCLUSIONS.....   o..o.....oo                                 31
TABLES
3.1  Actual and Expected Physical Completiono .............        33
3.2  Actual and Appraisal Estimates of Project Costs...o....       34
4.1  Actual and Appraisal Forecast of Passenger
and Freight Traffic, 1977-1985.......................       35
4.2  Actual Efficiency Indicators vs. Operational Targets..        36
4.3  Selected Operating Statistics, 1977-1985..............        37
5.1  Appraisal Forecasts and Actual Income Statement
of RCFS, 1977-85.        ..      . *. . .. .. ... ......... *  38
5.2  Appraisal Forecasts and Actual Balance Sheets
of RCFS, 1977-85 .o.. .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. .      39
7.1  Economic Reevaluation:
Track Rehebilitation -- Dakar-Thieso................       40
7.2  Economic Reevaluation:  Track Maintenance.............        41
7.3  Economic Reevaluation:  Dakar Marshalling Yard........        42
7.4  Economic Reevaluation:  Spare Parts and
Workshop Equipment...... ....... ....................o..     43
ANNEX I Compliance with LoanCovenants......................          45
ANNEX 2  Borrower Comments ..... ........ . .. ..... ............... ............. 49
GRAPH  Taux de Disponibilite des Locomotives.................        51
MAP    IBRD 13063R -- Senegal, Third Railway Project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT, LOAN 1518-SE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) has been prepared for the
Third Railway Project for which Loan 1518-SE, in the amount of
US$11 million, was signed on March 17, 1978. The Board approved the
project on February 7, 1978. The closing date was extended from
December 31. 1981, to Jine 28, 1985. The Loan was disbursed up to a
total of US$10.71 million, and the balance of US$0.29 million was
cancelled.
The PCR was prepa- ed by WAPT1 and is based on Appraisal Report
No. 1691a-SE dated January 23, 1978, supervision reports, legal docu-
ments, project correspondence files, and consultant reports.
Following a review of this PCR, the Government of Senegal
(GOS) wanted the post-PCR developments -- primarily the agreements
reached between the GOS and the IBRD -- integrated into this PCR.
Accordingly, a separate Annex (Annex 2) entitled "Borrower Comments"
is now attached.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project perfor-
mance audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the
Operations Evaluation Department (OED), but the project was not audited
by OED staff.



- Li -
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT. LOAN 1518-SE
PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal           Actual or
Item                                      Espectation       current Estimte
Total Project Cost (USS million)                                   14.26              U."6
Over/Underrun (S) (CFAF million)                                                      - 20
Loan/Credit Amount (US$ million)                                     -                21.0
Disbursed                                                                   10.71
Cancelled                                                                    0 Q.29
Repaid                                                     -                 1.83
Outstanding                                                -                 8.88
Date Physical Components Completed                             June 30, 1981    December 31, 1985
Proportion Completed by above date (%)                             100                  50
Proportion of Time Underrun or Overrun (M)                                             100
Economic Rate of Return (%)                                         22                13.5
Financial Performance                                              Fair                Poor
Institutional Performance                                          Fair                Poor
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENlS
(US$ Thousand)
FY79     FY80     FY81     FY82     FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86
Appraisal Estimate            5,965    9,120   10,360   11,000   11,000  31,000  11,000  11,000
Actual                          822    4,500    6,830    8,455    9,800  10,050  10,290  10,710
Actual or % of Estimate          14       49        6s       83       89      91      93      97
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Actual or
Item                                Original        Amended        Current Eatliate
First Mention in Files or Timetable                                               01/09/75
Government's Application                                                          11/19/76
Negotiations                                     11/77                            12/12/77
Board Approval                                   12/77                            02/17/78
Loan/Credit Agreement Date                      02/15/78                          03/1h7/78
Effectiveness Date                              07/19/78                          08/17/78
Closing Date                                    12/31/81       12/31/82           06/28/85
Borrower                                            Regie des Chemins de Fer du S6negal (CFS)
Executing Agency                                              Chemins de Fer du Sndgal (CFS)
Ficcal Year of Borrower                                                      July 1 - June 30



- iii -
MISSION DATA
No.of       No. of                            Date of
Item                      Mo. lYear    Weeks      Persons             Manweeks
Identification                     -            -           -                   -           -
Preparation                     02/75           1           3                  3           03/75
Preappraisal                    06/76 /         1.5         5                  7.5         07/76
AppraisAl                       02/77      %   3            4                 12           01/78
Total                                     55                            22.5
Supervision  1                  03/78           1.5         2                  3           05/78
Supervision  2                  07/78           1           3                  3           11/78
Supervision  3                  11/78           1.5         3                  4.S         02/79
Supervision  4                  06/79           1           5                  5           08/79
Supervision  S                  12/79           2           3                  6           01/80 h
Supervision  6                  05/80           2           2                  4           07/80
Supervision. 7                  U/80            1.5         3                  4.5         02/81
Supervision  8                  03/81           0.5         2                  1           04/81
Supervision  9                  05/81           2           2                  4          -06/81
Supervision 10                  U/81           1.5         3                  4.5         12/81
Supervision U                   06/82           1           3                  3           07/82
Supervision 12                  12/82           1           1                  1          01/83
Supervision 13                  03/84           1           1                  1          04/84
Supervision 14                  1/84            0.5         1                  0.5        12/84
Supervision 15                  05/85          0.5          1                  1          06/85
18.5                           46
/a Called preparation mission, but in effect a preappraisal mission.
k lack to Office Report only, no supervision report in files.
August U, 1986



- iv -
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT, LOAN 1518-SE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HIGHLIGHTS
i.        The objectives of the project were (a) to strengthen the Regie
des Chemins de Fer du Senegal (CFS) as an institution, so that opera-
tional efficiency could improve; and (b) to improve the cooperation
between the Senegal and Mali Railways, so that more international
traffic could be attracted to the railway. Within one year of Loan
signature, the project was revised and the track renewal work beyond
Thies was replaced by track rehabilitation between Dakar and Thies, the
most heavily trafficked section, which was considered essential and
urgent (3.04). Revision of other components included (a) the addition
of auditing of CFS accounts to consultant activities; (b) a reduction in
the training component because the emphasis on on-the-job training and
management training eliminated the need for the training school building
Dlanned under the project (3.11); and (c) a slight reduction in the
,.ocomotive rehabilitation program as some locomotives were damaged in
accidents and were scrapped during project implcmentation (3.09 and
3.10).
ii.       Overall progress of the project was poor:  there was more than
a four-year delay in implementation, mainly because local financing was
not available in time for the track rehabilitation component (3.05 and
3.06); there were very few improvements in the railway's operational
efficiency. In addition, the financial situation of CFS deteriorated
(5.02 to 5.04). However, substantial gains were made in such important
areas as improved coordination between the Senegal and Mali railways
(8.06 and 8.07), and the demonstration of the unprofitability of
passenger services. Besides, an exhaustive exercise in the conversion
of CFS into a Societe Nationale with a well-defined Contrat Plan was
carried out but it was not implemented by the Government, as it had no
solution to the over-staffing problem. But the exercise served to
demonstrate to the Government the need for improved cost recovery from
CFS operations through cost reduction, notably staff costs. As a result
of teis sensitization, CFS has gradually reduced its staff numbers
(6.02).
iii.      There were some limited improvements in the operational
efficiency of CFS during the last three years of the project, namely,
increased locomotive availability, increased locomotive-km per year,
wagon turnaround time, and staff efficiency. The improved locomotive
availability was partly due to the substitution of seven new locomotives
during project implementation in lieu of older ones which had to be
scrapped or were damaged in accidents (4.05 and 4.06).



- v -
iv.       The reestimated rate of return for the project is 13.5%, as
compared to 22% at appraisal(7.10). The appraisal estimate includes
track renewal which was subsequently dropped from the project in favor
of the more urgent rehabilitation of the track between Dakar and Thies
which carries practically all of CFS's traffic.
v.        The following points are of special interest:
--   competition for international traffic to Mali has in-
creased from other transport routes, which calls for
maintaining the coordination between the Senegal and Mali
railways at least the level gained during the project,
if existing traffic is to be retained and possibly
increased (4.01 to 4.03);
--   progress in such areas as improved coordination of the
two railways was very slow despite promises of Government
action on these issues embodied in covenants in the Loan
Agreement; and conversion of CFS into a Societe Nationale
never came to pass (4.07 and 6.09);
-- .CFS made very limited improvements in operational effi-
ciency, primarily because management lacked the will and
the freedom to steer clear of the political implications
of key issues like staff costs, staff discipline and
better operational understanding with Mali Railways (6.06
and 6.07);
--   The Bank played a key role in improving coordination
between the two railways and in dissuading the Government
from some major misinvestments. Recently, however, the
Government has been negotiating with Donors the financing
of new investments which the Bank considers uneconomic.
The Bank is discussing these proposals with the
Government and Donors in order to forestall any
misinvestment. It is evident that the Bank has an
important role in advising the Government on complex
railway issues, and is probably the only international
agency that can achieve results (8.05 to 8.07).
--   some parts of the project were revised in the light of
new information received within one year of loan signing;
and
--   the Study on the Future of the Senegal Railways, complet-
ed irn April 1986, should li come the basis for restructur-
ing the railway's management, finances and traffic;
including abandoning the unprofitable national services
and focussing on the international service, particularly
freight.



- vi -
Postcriit: Government's comment on the PCR: The Government's covment
on this completion Report (Annex 2) consists basically of a request to
reflect the developments in the discussion between the Government and
the Bank. As these developments are more of a policy nature rather than
of a narrow project focus, it was considered expedient to include the
agreements themselves as attachements to Annex 2 and make a brief
reference to them here. In brief the agreements covered:
(i) limitation of new investments to an agreed investment
plan, notably, choosing intensive maintenance of the main
line track to Mali in preference to complete renewal and
thus reducing the cost of this component from US$88.0m to
US$36.0m.
(il) decision to finalize and implement a Contract plan for
RCFS by January 1988;
(iii) a rigorous review of the viability of the Tivavouane-St.
Louis section with an 4treement in principle to close
down this branch line, if the review did not establish
its viability.



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT, LOAN 1518-SE
PROJEC1 COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Senegal railway system consists of a main line from Dakar
to the Mali border, a major branch connecting Dakar with the port of
St. Louis, and other minor branches. When the Third Railway Project was
arpraised, the Regie des Chemins de Fer du Senegal (CFS) carried most of
the country's phosphate production, part of the groundrut production and
Mali international traffic. The Senegal-Mali railway was less costly
(financially and economically) than the alternative C^te d'Ivoire route
for most of Mali's imports and exports but, despite the cost advantage,
traffic to and from Mali only grew by 48,000 tons between 1972-1975 on
the Senegal railway route, while increasing by 156,000 tons during the
same period on the C8te d'Tvoire route.
1.02      The purpose of the Bank's first two railway projects in
Senegal (Credit 96-SE, US$9.0 million, 1966 and Credit 314-SE,
US$3.2 million/Loan 835-SE, US$6.4 million, 1972) was to improve the
railway's carrying capacity and level of service so that it would offer
a competitive service for Mali international traffic. While the two
projects (together with parallel projects in Mali) helped to prevent a
collapse of operations on the Mali/Senegal railway system, Implementa-
tion was disappointing. Both projects were several years behind sched-
ule: deterioration of the railway was not fully arrested and operating
performance either declined or remained at the same low level. Lack of
coordination of operations between the two railways was also a serious
obstacle to improving performance. Consequently, the Third Railway
Project concentrated on improving operational performance, traffic and
international cooperation, giving emphasis to institution building,
technical assistance and training programs and a structural and organi-
zational study for CFS. In order to achieve an improvement of Senegal-Mali
railway coordination, the Bank prepared a third project for the Regie
des Chemilns de Fer du Mali (CFM) to be implemented at the same time as
the Third Railway Project in Senegal.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Identification and Preparation
2.01      During supervision of the Second Railway Project, the need for
a follow-on project was identified. Following project preparation
missions in 1975, the Bank expressed concern about the future role of



-2-
the railway because of (a) the decline in groundnut and other domestic
traffic; (b) the decline in international traffic to 1970 levels; and
(c) very little growth of phosphate traffic because of capacity con-
straints. The decline in traffic was largely because of the railway's
poor operational performance, vhich Bank missions attributed to the lack
of competence and authority of management, the lack of motivation of the
staff, poor utilization of technical assistance, lack of management-union
cooperation, and an inability to strike a rapport at operating levels
with Mali Railways   An additional problem at the preparation stage of
the project was the Government's proposal to transport phosphate over a
new railway line to be built from the phosphate mines to the port of
Cayar, thereby seriously threatening the financial viability of CFS
(this project was later dropped for lack of external funding). Given
its concern, the Bank recommended that appraisal of the project be
postponed until traffic increased, CPS improved its efficiency and the
Government reached a decision on the transport of phosphate. However,
an increasing need to move the appraisal of this project upstream was
felt not too long after appraisal of the Third Railway Project in Mali
(in July 1976), since the two projects were regarded as complementary
and essential for the coordinated movement of Mali traffic.
2.02      The Bank decided to place emphasis on the technical assistance
and training components because of CFS's staffing and managerial prob-
lems, and to keep the hardware components (equipment and civil works) to
the minimum necessary. The manpover and training needs of the railway
were identified during preparation missions in 1976, and a training
program was drawn up by the Bank and the Government for implementation
during the project.
2.03      In order to put pressure on the Government to strengthen CPS
as an institution, the Bank decided to make appraisal contingent on a
set of measures aimed at reorganizing and strengthening CFS management.
To make the railway more effective as an institution, the first condi-
tion was the completion of the reorganization plan for CFS by the
Senegalese Bureau d'Organisation et Methodes (BOX) and a start of imple-
mentation of the recommendations. The second condition required the
Government to issue decrees reestablishing the authority of the General
Manager and giving him the required managerial freedom, since in the
past, too many decisions which should have been made by CFS were made by
Government.  tiie other two conditions covered the appointment of two
assistant General Managers, one expatriate for technical a 'tters and a
local for administration and finance: the Bank considered that new and
more experienced management would help to overcome the managerial
weaknesses of the organization. The Government complied with all the
above conditions by February 1977, except for approval and implementa-
tion of the new organigramme. In order not to delay appraisal, the Bank
made this a condition of negotiations.



-3-
Project Appraisal
2.04      The project was appraised in February 1977 with the Bank
proposing to finance 100% of foreign costs and 68% of local costs.
However, by Board Presentation the estimated cost of locomotive spares
had nearly doubled together with smaller increases in other foreign
costs, so that the remaining loan funds could only cover 35% of local
costs. This decrease in local funding later proved to be a significant
obstacle to project implementation (para 3.05). Software components
(training and technical assistance) finally cDmprised about 20% of
project costs (Table 3.2), as opposed to thewA0% originally envisaged,
because it was considered inopportune to spend on a new training center
building, which, in any case, was found unnecessary, while funds were
required to meet the higher cost of locomotive spare parts necessary for
improving operations. In addition, the allocation for technical assist-
ance was reduced, as the Government preferred the technical assistance
financed from bilateral aid, although eventually it proved to be a mixed
blessing (para 6.05).
2.05      Most of the issues raised at appraisal and post-appraisal
(July 1977) centered around the institutional and financial problems of
CPS: measures to resolve some of those issues eventually became condi-
tions of negotiation. These conditions included:
(a) the promulgation and implementation of the new organigramme
for CFS;
(b)  the filling of 12 key positions at the department director and
assistant levels;
(c) preparation of a training program fir the gradual replacemer.t
of expatriates by Senegalese engineers and technicians;
(d) restructuring of CFS's balance sheet mainly through the
Government waiving about CFAF 2 billion of debt;
(e) preparation of transport plans for major commodities and
passenger services; and
(f) agreement with the Taiba Phosphate Company to improve terminal
operations at the mine and port of Dakar.
All of these conditions were met by the Government and negotiations were
held in December 1977.
2.06      Other issues for which acceptable plans were agreed at negoti-
ations were:
(a) the control of staff growth;
(b)  appointment of expatriates to positions for. which qualified
nationals were not available;



-4 -
(c) agreement between Government and the railway union to cooper-
ate on the CFS reorganization scheme;
(d) improved cooperation between CFS and CFM; and
(e) improvement of track renewed (but poorly laid) under the
Second Railway Project to official CFS track-maintenance
standards.
As a result of Bank pressure during appraisal, the Malian and Senegalese
Governments agreed to suspend a cumbersome international railway transit
agreement which had been disrupting traffic between the two countries.
The appraisal mission also recomended selective tariff increases which
were implemented in May 1977.
2.07      Conditions of Board Presentation.  In order to make the CFS
focus on the problems of low locomotive availability, the Bank set as
conditions of Board Presentation: (a) the preparation of locomotive
maintenance programs, including spare part requirements; (b) the prepa-
ration of daily utilization plans for each locomotive; and (c) the
setting up of a wagon rotation information system. All of these condi-
tions were met before Board Presentation.
*2.08     The uncooperative attitude of the railway union had long been
a major obstacle to staff motivation and productivity.  Therefore,
another condition of Board Presentation was a written agreement between.
the Government and the trade union, promising full staff cooperation for
smooth implementation of the railway's reorganization and improvement in
staff productivity. However, because of an illegal strike in June 1977
and subsequent dismissal of union officials, Government and union talks
did nuc resume until October 1977. Consequently, the Pank dropped the
requirement for a written agreement after the Government issued a decree
in December 1977 allowing productivity-linked bonuses for public corpo-
ration staff. Later events (paras 5.03, 6.07) proved the continuing
poor relations between the union and CFS to be a major problem.
Proiect Description
2.09      The primary objective of the project was to improve the
efficiency of CFS by rehabilitating existing infrastructure and strength-
ening CFSts operational and managerial effectiveness. Physical compo-
nents of the project (Table 3.1) included:
(a)  track renewal (60 km);
(b) track maintenance equipment and material (switches, gang cars
and other equipment);
(c) marshalling yard and telecommunication improvements in the
Dakar area; and



(d)  spare parts for motive power and ro. ing stock and workshop
equipment.
Software and institution-building components included:
(a)  training, including construction of a training school, train-
ing equipment and materials, technical assistance and training
abroad; and
(b)  consulting services for studies on groundnut transport and the
ownership, structure and organization of CFS.
2.10      Major covenants included in the legal documents are discussed
in Chapter Vl and in Annex 1.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
Effectiveness and Start-up
3.01      Loan effectiveness was delayed by four months due to the
Government's cumbersome administrative procedures, slowing down submis-
sion of the required standard documentation to make the loan effective.
There were no specific conditions of effectiveness. Preparation of
bidding documents was affected by the delay in effectiveness.
Revisions
3.02      There were four revisions to the legal documents for the
project. The first was in November 1979, when track rehabilitation of
the Dakar-Thies line was included in the project instead of renewal of
track on the international line (para 3.04). The second was in May 1980,
when the financing of consultants to audit the railway's accounts was
added to the project (para 3.12). The third was in June 1983, when the
Bank agreed to finance 1002 of the ballast costs instead of 35% of total
track rehabilitation costs (para 3.06). The fourth was in March 1985
when CFS was allowed to purchase ballast on the spot market (para 3.06).
Implementation of the Project
3.03      Completion of the project was delayed by more than four years,
not only because of delays in loan effectiveness, but also becausQ of
slow preparation of bidding documents, delays in the supply of
equipment, lack of local funds to carry out track works, repeated
failures of ballast contractors, the railway's weak management, and
Government's delay over the structure and ownership study. At one time,
implementation of the project and compliance with loan covenants were so
poor that the Bank seriously considered suspending disbursements. In
addition, the impact of the project on railway operations was below
appraisal expectations during the early stages of the project, but
during the last two years, operations improved significantly.



-6 -
3.04      Track Rehabilitation.  This component included the renewal of
60 km of track between km 271 and the Mali border (to Kounghuel).
However, immediately after loan signing, the Bank inspected the finished
track renewal works financed under the First and Second Railway Pro-
jects, since improvements of the renewed track had been a condition of
disbursement for the track renewal component. An alarming number of
defects were found, particularly on the heavily-trafficked Dakar-Thies
section, apparently due to the use of soft limestone for ballast. A
consultant, financed by French bilateral technical assistance, quickly
completed a comprehensive tfack rehabilitation study by May 1978 and
found the Dakar-Thies section to be of the highest priority. Therefore,
the project was subsequently amended to include rehabilitation of the
70 km of double track between Dakar and Thies and additional equipment
for the track maintenance component instead of the original track
renewal component. Increased costs were financed out of unallocated
funds and savings from other categories.
3.05      Track works were scheduled to start in July 1979, but most of
the equipment was not received until May 1980 because of delays in
bidding and supplies: ballast wagons were delivered even later
(para 3.16). Track works did not start until early-1980 but progressed
qulte well until October 1980 when, with only 25X of works completed,
operations were halted because of a shortage of local funds. There were
intermittent works between December 1981 and October 1982, but supervi-
sion missions found that inferior ballast was once again being accepted
by CFS and imposed stringent quality control measures as a condition for
further disbursements. As a last resort, in mid-1982, the Bank proposed
to provide Government with the necessary local funds for the remainder
of the track rehabilitation works through the Structural Adjustment Loan
if the Government approved the Contrat Plan (para 6.09). This would
have effectively released the Government from its obligations under Sec-
tion 2.02(a) and (e) of the Guarantee Agreement (Annex 1), but this
proposal was not implemented, as the Government agreed to make a special
effort to find the requisite counterpart funds. The major reason for the
shortage of local funds was the increase in CPS salaries, which amounted
to 66% of total operating expenses by 1982 (para 6.07), and the general
financial difficulties of the Government.
3.06      Track works were to resume in early 1983, but did not start
because of CFS's inability to find reliable contractors to supply
ballast due to the railway's reputation for delaying payments. Conse-
quently, in June 1983, the Bank agreed to provide 100% financing for
ballast works as the only recourse available to attract reliable con-
tractors on the condition that CFS meet all other track rehabilitation
costs. The work was to have been completed by June 1984, but CFS only
signed the contract for ballast in March 1984 because of the lengthy and
difficult procurement process. However, the new ballast contract also
failed in mid-1984 because of the supplier's impending bankruptcy. In
order to obtain an immediate supply of ballast, the Bank advised CFS to
alter its procurement procedures and purchase from the spot market,
where small suppliers offered.ballast at prices equal to or even less
than the contract price. The Government and CFS agreed and the loan



7-
document was revised 4ccordingly.  The track rehabilitation works were
finally completed in December 1985.  However, unless measures are taken
to prevent trespassing by pedestrians who disturb the ballast bed and to
remove blown sand and garbage dumped by city dwellers, the tracks in the
Dakar area will quickly deteriorate again.  As with track renewal works
under the Second Railway Project, the quality of ballast used for track
rehabilitation proved to be a serious problem. In October 1980, the
Bank became so concerned that test certificates certifying good quality
of ballast were required for disbursement against ballast works. CFS
wanted to purchase low quality ballast on the plea that ballast of good
quality was four to five times more expensive. But, later on, the spot
market disproved this contention. CPS found its hands tied in choosing
good ballast contractors and consequently several contracts failed.
Eventually, when management freedom was granted, reliable contractors
came forward to supply good quality ballast at reasonable prices,
provided they were assured of prompt payment.
3.07      Track Maintenance.  Delivery of equipment for track mainte-
nance was delayed until early 1980, when a systematic track maintenance
program was begun. CFS concentrated on the maintenance of 130 km of
international track from km 271 to the Halian border. given the extreme-
ly poor condition of the line. Work on this section progressed satis-
factorily dutring 1980-1982, using tamping and other equipment purchased
under the project and track material purchased under the Second Railway
Project. At the Bank's insistence, supervision by technical assistance
was increased and the expatriate experts were used more effectively in
the field. Consequently, derailments were reduced by over half in 1984.
3.08      Improvements in the Dakar Area.  Bid documents for equipment
for the improvement of track and telecommunications in the Dakar area
were combined with equipment for track work components to take advantage
of economies of scale, and, as a result, the bidding process took four
more months.  Bidding for other civil works (e.g., repair workshop in
Bel-Air) was 17 months behind schedule because CFS and its consultants
were very slow in preparing the design and bidding documents. There-
fore, those civil works did not start until November 1980 instead of
August 1978 as originally scheduled. Construction of a repair workshop
at the marshalling yard was satisfactorily completed by contractors by
December 1982, while track work undertaken by force account was not
completed until early 1984 because of problems with ballast supply.
3.09      Spare Parts and Workshop Equipment.  CFS did not carry out
advance preparation for bidding of spare part supplies as expected at
appraisal, due to the technical and managerial weaknesses of the rail-
way. Consequently, bids were called eight months later than scheduled.
However, all the spares, except the critical ones, were delivered within
appraisal estimates (June 1981), while the critical spare parts were
delivered about 18 months late. As a result, the locomotive rehabilita-
tion program could not begin until December 1980, over two years behind
schedule. The program was satisfactorily completed by December 1982,
eighteen months behind schedule. At appraisal it was estimated that 28
out of 36 CFS main line locomotives would be rehabilitated under the



-8-
project, but only 14 were actually rehabilitated. This reduced program
was because (a) three locomotives were lost in accidents; (b) seven
locomotives were scrapped because they were all over 20 years of age and
had deteriorated faster than anticipated; and (c) the four CC 2400
locomotives, which were not suitable for the local conditions in Sene-
gal, 1/ proved too problematical and expensive to be completely rehabil-
itated.  Only a few spare parts were provided for these locomotives (see
paras 4.09 and 4.10 for a detailed analysis of this component of the
project).
3.10      Of the six BB llOOs and five BB 12009 rehabilitated, one
BB 1200 has either been cannibalized or scrapped and one BE 1100 had
been awaiting repairs for 16 months as of the end of FY85 after an
accident in May 1984. Three BB 500s were repaired, but due to their
advanced age of over 25 years, certain parts, which had not been covered
under the rehabilitation, were found to be excessively worn. These
locomotives were deemed to be not reliable enough for main line opera-
tion and instead of sinking more money on those old locomotives, they
were transferred to shunting service. Two of these locomotives are
still in shunting operations, while a third one was lost in an accident.
The availability of the BP llOOs averaged 63% in FY85 compared to 65Z
target and 54% in FY76 and the BB 1200s 50% in FY85 compared to 80%
target and 79% in FY76.
3.11      Training.   During preparation of the project,. a Bank training
expert drew up training programs for CFS together with a French techni-
cal assistance advisor. The Bank was concerned about the quality of the
French technical assistance staff since few had actual training experi-
ence. Consequently, on the advice of the Bank, an experienced pedagogic
expert was assigned to head the Training School. The recruitment of
this expert and his start-up delayed the commencement of rail-specific
training courses. During supervision, an urgent need for mznagement
training was perceived. A different consultancy group was retained for
this purpose, and training programs for middle and senior managemeut
officials were successfully carried out in collaboration with the
Senegalese Bureau d'Organisation et Methodes (BOM). Nevertheless, this
component was also delayed because the first consultants selected were
rejected by the National Tender Board on the grounds.of being too
expensive, and rebidding was necessary. Courses were completed in
December 1981, six months behind schedule, as the program was found
beneficial and, hence, enlarged during implementation. Construction of
the training center was deleted from the project because on-the-job training
was considered more important than classroom training. Therefore,
classroom training was re-designed to consist of short courses with
well-focussed objectives for which existing buildings were utilized.
Some didactic equipment and books for a library were financed under the
1/     See PPAR for Senegal Second Railway Project (Credit 314-SE/Loan 835-SE).



-9 -
project. Besides, the project financed scholarships for training of
senior staff and executive level staff in the track training facility in
Abidjan and the workshop training facility in Douala,. both of which were
established and organized with the Bank's help.
3.12      Consulting Services.  Given the poor state of CFS accounts and
the fact that there had been no audits since 1976, the Bank agreed to
revise the project in 1980 to include financing of consultants to carry
out audits of CFS accounts for 1979-81.  This work Vas satisfactorily
carried out (para 5.11). The Groundnut Transportation Study was carried
out on schedule. However, the consultants' recommendations regarding
the transportation of groundnuts by the railways never had much chance
of being implemented because groundnut production fell very sharply
after the study. Also, the Government closed down the agency responsi-
ble for distribution of groundnuts because of allegations of corruption.
3.13      There were considerable delays with the Structure anu Owner-
ship Study because:
(a) Government was reluctant to let consultants study the owner-
ship of CFS outside the basic framework of a Societe Nation-
ale, thereby. delaying preparation of TOR;
(b)  Government was slow to approve consultants; and
(c)  the study period was longer than anticipated.
Phase 1 of the study considered seven alternative organizational ar-
rangements and finally recommended the division of the railway into two
separate companies, one for international and the other for national
traffic. The latter was to be the responsibility of a Societe Nationale
and this was accepted by the Government.  However, the idea of a
bi-national company for Mali international traffic.was not accepted, but
the Government agreed that the consultants could study the possibility
of an international service run by a separate unit under the Societe
Nationale. So far, neither of these recommendations has been implement-
ed, due to lack of political will necessary to take such a radical step
in the face of a turbulent labor force. Nevertheless, these are desir-
able changes to be pursued in an overall sectoral context.
3.14      The second phase of the study, completed in January 1981 (two
years after scheduled completion), concentrated on the structure and
organization of the Societe Nationale and the setting up of a joint rail
operations service. The Bank did not agree with all of the findings of
the study, particularly:
(a) over-optimistic traffic forecasts which encouraged over-ambitious
investment programs;
(b) advice to continue and even increase the scope of passenger
operations, despite overwhelming evidence that these services
caused major operating losses to CFS;



- 10 -
(c) recommendations that the Government assume all the long-term
debt of CFS by turning it into contributed equity In the new
Societe Nationale;
(d) omission of a study to determine the effect of proposed tariff
increases on traffic demand; and
(e) weak proposals for the joint rail operations service.
Phase 3 of the study was tiot carried out due to the divergence between
the study recommendations, Government's own priorities, and what the
Bank projected as realistic. Nevertheless* this study paved the way for
the Government to treat the transport requirements of the Industries
Chimiques du Senegal (ICS) project as an enclave operation and as a
first step in the restructurinj of railway operations. In view of the
railway's limited managerial aud technical staff resources to satisfac-
torily handle the delicate ICS traffic (such as corrosive acid and other
chemicals), the Government decided on creation of a new entity, Societe
d'Exploitation Ferroviaire des ICS (SEFICS), for this purpose. SEFICS
was also to take over transport of the short-haul phosphate traffic from
CPS, thereby fulfilling one of the objectives in the reorganization of
CPS, i.e., streamlining of railway operations. A second spin-off advan-
tage from this study was the urge it gave to CFS to coordinate better
its operations with Mali. As a result, operations between the Senegal
and Mali Railways improved in 1984 and 1985 with a consequent increase
in traffic (para 4.01).
Reporting
3.15      Reporting requirements were included in the Loan Agreement
(Schedule 6); further details on the monthly progress of each project
component were requested by the Bank in mid-1979, when the project was
falling way behind schedule. Adherence to the Bank's reporting require-
ments has been fair, although information was sometimes incomplete and
usually late. Reporting requirements included preparation of future
project implementation schedules, but these invariably proved to be
unrealistic and unreliable.
Procurement
3.16      There were a number of procurement problems during the course
of the project, including delays averaging about six to eight months in
awarding contracts, which seems to be inherent in Senegal's bureaucratic
procedures. CFS failed to appreciate that railway equipment usually has
a long procurement lead, and, hence, needed advance planning and stream-
lining of procedures. The bankruptcy of the Belgian company which had
been awarded the contract for ballast wagons posed a problem: rebidding
took place in December 1980 and the wagons were delivered only in Octo-
ber 1982, over three years later than scheduled. Tha Government incor-
rectly evaluated the second set of tenders for ballast wagons because of
the way price escalation was applied, and this was rectified after bids
were re-submitted without applying cost-escalation. There were also
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M                                           .



- 11 -
problems with both the pre-qualification of consultants for the Struc-
ture and Organization and Training studies, since the Government claimed
that the Bank's procedure did not comply with their regulations:
however, this was eventually resolved, although the problem did cause a
two month delay in approval of the Structure and Organization Study.
However, the most serious and persistent problems were in the area of
ballast procurement. There were continual delays and problems in
awarding contracts to ballast suppliers. As noted earlier, ballast
contracting was an area with a high degree of external interference.
The contractors were repeatedly found supplying sub-standard material;
and when it was not accepted and payments were stopped or delayed, the
contractors 5topped supplying.  The procedure of buying from the
spot-market, where prices were reasonable and any desired quality was
available, saved the track rehabilitation component from failing com-
pletely. In 1983, two contracts, one for ballast and the other for
maintenance equipment, were completed without the "no objection" from
the Bank. However, since the bidding procedures and evaluation did not
violate Bank guidelines, the Bank agreed to disburse against those
items.
Costs
3.17      Table 3.2 summarizes actual costs vs. appraisal estimates for
project components, both in local currency and in US$ equivalent,
including contingencies. Variations between comparisons made in local
currency and US$ are the result of fluctuations in the exchange rates
during project implementation, ranging from CFAF 245 per US$ in 1976 to
211 in 1980, to 449 in 1985. However, nearly 75% of expenditures took
place before 1982 when the CFAF declined far below the appraisal rate of
exchange against the US$. Overall actual project costs of US$11.46 were
20% less than the initial US$ appraisal cost estimate of US$14.26 million,
and 28% below the revised US$ cost (estimated after the track works
components were changed in 1978) of U§$15.89 million. However, in CFAF,
project costs were 11% less than estimated at appraisal.
3.18      The foreign cost of track works (rehabilitation and mainte-
nance) increased by 40% in US$ over the appraisal estimate due to the
greater scope of work envisaged for the track rehabilitation and mainte-
nance program. Additional equipment was purchased. Due to the longer
duration of the project than estimated at appraisal, the equipment
pr'ces had also gone up. The cost of Dakar area improvements was 53% of
appraisal estimate in dollar terms, as second-hand rails were used.
3.19      Prices of spare parts were substantially higher than original-
ly estimated, but total costs for the spare part component hardly
increased (in US$) because the amount ordered was less than originally
foreseen. Training costs were about 70% lower than estimated at ap-
praisal in CFAF and US$ because construction of a training center was
eliminated from the project and the cost of the head of the Training
Department was funded totally by the French Government. The cost of
consultant services for specific studies decreased by 38% in CFAF even
though these costs included auditing of CFS accounts not included in the



- 12 -
original project cost estimates. The cost of the Groundnut Study was
18% lower than estimated (in US$) and the Structure and Organization
Study 39% lower because the third phase was never carried out.
Disbursements
3.20      Due to delays in the project, disbursements lagged consider-
ably behind appraisal estimates, with only 71% of the loan proceeds
disbursed by the time of the last scheduled disbursement.. The closing
date for the Loan was June 30, 1985, against the original plan of
December 31, 1981. However, the project duration and disbursements were
close to the regional profile for railway projects.
IV. TRAFFIC AND OPERATIONS
A. Traffic
Freight Traffic
4.01      Allowing for the three year delay in project implementation,
actual freight traffic in FY1985 was nearly at the FY1982 level forecast
at appraisal in terms of net ton-km but still below the FY82 forecast in
tons carried. (Table 4.1). This difference was due to higher interna-
tional and lower national traffic than forecasti thereby increasing the
average haul distance. The increase in traffic has only taken place
since FY1983 because of (a) the increased availability of locomotives
following the purchase of six new locomotives in 1983 and the simultane-
ous increase of availability of Mali railway locomotives; (b) improved
coordination of operations between the Senegal and Mali railways; and
(c) an increase in demand for Mali imports because of the construction
of the Manantali Dam (about 25% of international traffic in FY1985) and
large increase in cereal imports due to the drought in Mali.
4.02      The appraisal best estimate forecast of freight traffic was an
average annual growth of 2.5% in tons and 2.1% in ton-km from FY77 to
FY82. Allowing for a three year delay in project implementation, actual
freight traffic increased by 3.0% per annum in tons and 7.6% in ton-km
from FY80 to FY85. However, most of this growth took place in FY84 and
FY85. International traffic in tons increased by 76% between FY83-85
and by 85% in ton-km. On the other hand, national traffic has declined,
from 1,570 (000) tons (or 191,000 ton-km) in FY77 to 1,509 tons (or
162,000 ton-km) in FY85, compared to a forecasted increase of 4.4% in
tons and 3.9% in ton-km from FY77 to 1982. The major reason has been a
drop in demand for phosphate which accounts for most of the national
traffic. Groundnut exports have practically ceased altogether because
of drought and generally deteriorating environmental conditions.
4.03      Future long-term international traffic projections cannot be
based on the increases in the last two years because both the Manantali
project and imports of large quantities of cereals are short-term



- 13 -
phenomena. Major problems also remain with (a) the capricious alloca-
tion of wagons to the .freight forwarding agents by the Malian represen-
tative in.Dakar port, called the EMASE; and (b) the Malian Government's
policy to reimburse the petroleum companies the full cost of transport
which kills any incentive to transport by the cheaper of the two routes
(by road from Abidjan to Bamako or by rail from Dakar to Bamako). As
far as national traffic is concerned, there may well be a further small
decline, at least in the short term, because of the poor world market
for phosphate and the increasing costs of production. The only large
increase in traffic is from the ICS fertilizer plant (which went into
production in FY86), but all of the inputs and 630,000 tons of fertil-
izer exports will be transported by SEFICS (para 3.14).
Passenger Traffic
4.04      Passenger traffic has drastically declined from 1,738,000 pas-
sengers in FY77 to 288,000 in FY85 at an average 20% p.a. This decline
compares to an appraisal forecast of a decline of 4.8% per annum from
FY77 to FY82. International traffic declined from 46,000 in FY77 to
28,000 in FY84, but increased sharply in FY85 to 59,000. National
traffic, which accounts for most of the passenger traffic, fell from
1,692,000 in FY77 to 229,000 in FY85. The main reasons for this decline
are:
(a) the poor quality of rail service (slow, unpunctual.and uncom-
fortable);
(b)  increasing road competition; and
(c) decreased passenger demand because of the deteriorating
economic situation in both Senegal and Mali due.to, inter
alia, the decline in groundnut production and drought condi-
tions.
Although national passenger traffic is expected to decline even further
and will have to be eventually phased out altogether because of its
proven unprofitability, the Government is expecting to recapture this
traffic with more investments in modern equipment.
B. OPERATIONS
Action Plan Targets
4.05      Selected operating targets were set by the Bank for CPS and
included in the Loan Agreement. These targets are compared with actual
performance in Table 4.2. In nearly all cases, targets were not met by
PY81 (although some locomotive utilization efficiency indicators had
reached the target level in FY79 but then performance declined again).
The one target that was met, locomotive breakdowns per locomotive, was
only achieved because six new locomotives were added to the fleet during
project implementation, which were envisaged at appraisal for procure-
ment in 1981-82. Despite the new locomotives, locomotive availability



- 14 -
was only 61% in FY81 compared to a target of 66% for an older fleet. By
FY85, availability had increased to 69%, mainly because of the purchase
of seven new locomotives from 1979 to 1983 and provision of spare parts
by the Bank and Caisse Centrale. Hower.er, the older BB 1200 locomotives
had very poor availability of 50% in FY85 compared to the targeted level
of 80% in FY81, despite having been renaired under the project. The
BB 500s were downgraded from mainline to shunting services and had an
availability of 33% compared to the FY81 target of 55%. This was due to
their advanced age and pastineglect. Availability of wagons never
reached the target of 85% set for FY81, but stayed around 74%, which is
a reasonably good result considering that nearly 702 of the wagons were
over 25 years old even at appraisal.
4.06      Locomotive utilization was 29% lower than projected in FY81
(on basis of ton-km per available locomotive horsepower per year), but
was only 18% below target in PY85. Staff productivity actually declined
from FY76 to FY82, but thereafter increased as the number of staff was
reduced by 16% by FY85 and the total traffic increased. By FY85, the
target for FY81 had almost been reached (190 traffic units per staff
compared with the target of 198).
Traffic Management
4.07      Traffic Management has been the weakest area, as in all other
railways in the Region.  The managers seldom visit the stations and
terminals.  Technical Assistants have also remained in their offices,
and have failed to infuse dynamism into the management. The result is
inefficient utilization of motive power and wagons and a constant demand
for new equipment.
4.08      Terminal delays both at the Dakar Port and at Bamako continue
without any improvement. Bamako terminal accounted for nearly 30% of
the turn-around time. This terminal has an antiquated layout and
inadequate shunting facilities and warehouse capacity. Consignees use
the wagons as storehouses and do not unload them for an average of
10 days with total impunity. The demurrage charges are very low, and
the Mali Government has not raised them despite the urgings of several
Bank missions. The Dakar Port terminal is only slightly less delinquent
as the Mali Free Zone agency's wagon allocation procedures were arbitra-
ry. 'Transitaires" or freight forwarding companies complained in vain.
In 1981, a Bank supervision mission persuaded both railways to withdraw
the wagon allocating responsibility from the Malian Agency and give it
to the CFS, which brought down the average terminal detentions at Dakar
from six or more days to four days. Phosphate and international freight
wagon turnaround times were the same in FY81 as at appraisal, while the
turnaround time for oil tank wagons, set at a FY81 target level of
9 days, was 16 days compared to i4 in FY1977. A major turnaround in
Senegal-Mali coordination came about when Bank supervision missions set
up the Groupe de Controle Cooperative (G.C.C.) in 1981. The G.C.C. led
to more frequent meaningful consultations between the two railways at
the management level and several operating problems were resolved. The
G.C.C. was very effective for nearly 18 months. When the lessons had



- 15 -
been well proven, they were Incorporated in the operating procedures and
the G.C.C., which was heavily personality-based, was phased out. The
benefits were sustained as seen in the substantial increase In interna-
tional traffic in FY84 and FY85 (para 4.02).
Eguipment Maintenance
4.09      There are a few Important lessons learned from the Locomotive
Rehabilitation element of the project. To quote the SAR, project design
covered the rehabilitation of "eight small locomotives BB-500, which are
21 years of age on average but still with acceptable availability,
16 locomotives of medium size (types BB-1100 and BB-1200), about
11 years of age on average and four large locomotives (CC-2400) about
10 years old." Although this package looked reasonably good, the
following factors mili.ated against successful rehabilitation:
(a)  The BB-500s had suffered 21 years of neglect, had run 1.7 mil-
lion km already without regular maintenance, and were working
with only 442 availability because of their sturdy construc-
tion. The rehabilitation covered mostly the electrical faults
in the wiring and the traction motors.
(b)  The BB-llOOs, ten of them in the fleet, had ages ranging from
19 to 15 and had run 1.4 million km on an average. They all
had the same symptoms - defects in the primary suspension,
traction motor, an obsolete axle box, electrical wiring and
the oil filter. The rehabilitation addressed these symptoms
but did not cover overhaul of the diesel engine itself.
(c) The six BB-1200s were only seven years old but bad the same
trouble with the primary suspension system - a design defect
rather than a problem of wear -  and, hence, could not be
eradicated by repair and rehabilitation.
(d)  The four CC-2400s were twelve years old and were notoriously
bad performers all over Africa. Conceptually, its drive is so
sophisticated that correct maintenance even in France needed
expert staff; it was impossible to maintain them in Africa.
Besides, it was such an exclusive design that spare parts were
very expensive. Again, it was a design problem which could
not be corrected through repairs alone. It is also signifi-
cant that by that time, other African Railways, notably RAN in
C8te d'Ivoire and Zaire, had started scrapping these locomo-
tives.
4.10      Basically the project attempted to:
(a)  rehabilitate either old locomotives which had suffered abuse
or locomotives which had serious design defects;
(b)  repair some of the more obvious defects but not a complete
overhaul; and



- 16 -
(c)  finance only the parts '.-eded for the repair of specific
defects but not other essential parts needed to catch up with
arrears of maintenance and bring the locomotives to a general-
ly sound condition. Rence, no lasting improvements could be
achieved. In addition, the problem was compounded by the
following deficiencies in CFS's management:
(i) failure to procure spare parts regularly and in adequate
quantities .ueedeJ for proper maintenance;
(ii)  inadequate availability of funds to correct (i) above;
(iii) lack of a standard list of spare parts needed regularly
to cover the annual maintenance program;
(iv) poor quality of workmanship due to weak supervision and
slack discipline and literally, no staff accountability;
(v)  lack of basic tools and electrical test equipment in the
field;
(vi) top management's mistaken methods of cost reduction: as
staff costs cannot be compressed, it cut down mainte-
nance; the management mistool. the high cost of mainte-
nance because of the age and the utnsuitable design as due
to wastage and so budget slashing was deemed to be the
remedy; and
(vii) lastly, running the locomotives beyond the due date for
scheduled maintenance, as the availability was low and
the on-line failures were high and traffic needed them,
-- a measure which set up a vicious circle of low avail-
ability, skipped maintenance, lower availability, etc.
The situation was further aggravated by the loss of locomotives in
serious collisions which take place on CFS with an amazing regularity.
The basic cause is the lack of discipline, some drunkenness and negli-
gence. Poor quality of maintenance in the workshop and depots became
c2.ronic in 1984 due to uncontrolled absenteeism and union activity.
Management subsequently introduced better monitoring procedures in the
workshop with resulting improvements in availability rates. However,
CFS remains seriously handicapped by an acute shortage of working
capital and consequent lack of spare parts.
Track Maintenance
4.11      At the end of the project about a 373 km section of the
international track (from km 271 to the frontier at km 644) will not
meet requisite standards because the rails (25 kg instead of the 35 kg
required) and the ballast (10 cm cushion instead of 25 cm) are inade-
quate for heavy diesels. Sixty km of track renewal on this section were
meant to be implemented under the project, but this compouent was



- 17 -
dropped in favor of the more urgent rehabilitation work on the Dakar-Thies
section. During 1978-79, international operations were hampered by the
poor condition of the track, partially contributing to the many derail-
ments at that time. However, once the maintenance equipment financed by
the project was delivered, CFS started an intensive maintenance program
on the section, and derailments caused by the poor condition of the
track were reduced. In view of the uncertainties involved in the
long-term future of this rail corridor to Bamiko, the Bank recommended
in 1983 a "spot-renewal" program as a medium-term solution, estimated to
cost some US$15-25 million over a six year period instead of a complete
track renewal program at an estimated cost of US$80 million. CFS has,
however, always wanted to renew the track completely, which would have
been the appropriate solution, if this line had an assured long-term
liffe of at least 40 years. In FY86, CFS has obtained financing, some on
1ery soft terms, for the co. /ete renewal of about 90 km -- PK271-361 --
of this weak section.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
General
5.01      The process of gradual deterioration of RCFS's financial
situation experienced under the Second Railway Project was not reversed
under the Third Project. RCFS's financial performance has remained
disappointing, as most of the improvements hoped for at the time of
appraisal were not achieved: insufficient growth of traffic revenues,
abnormally high personnel costs (which were only one indication among
others of RCFS's unsolved complex labor problems) and weak financial
management are the major factors contributing to RCFS's uninterrupted
record of losses from 1977 to 1985. As much as before, RCFS had to rely
on Government subsidies (for investments as well as operations) and
foreign financing to cover its deficit and finance investments, mostly
in rehabilitation. Despite the continuous inflow of external funds, the
structure of RCFS's balance sheet has worsened steadily with current
ratios and debt-to-equity ratios reaching an all-time low in 1984-85.
At last, RCFS's results improved in 1984-85, but it is to be seen
whether this improvement will be sustainable or whether it is a tempo-
rary event essentially due to the short-lived but unexpected surge in
international freight traffic with the construction of the Marantali
dam.
Financial Results
5.02      RCFS's income statements which compare actual results with
appraisal forecasts for 1977-78 to 1981-82 and detail actual r,esults for
1982 to 1984-85, are shown in Table 5.1. A summary of key indicators is
given in the following table.



- 18 -
CFAF Million
Item                 1977-78      1979-80      198V-62    1984-85
Traffic Revenues
Forecast                      4,760        6,132        7,807         -
Actual                        3,445        3,670        5,015       8,671
Net Operating Income (LoaS)
Forecast                       (149)        (144)         135        ^-
Actual                         (630)       (1,405) /a   (1,148)      172
Net Bookc Profit (Loss)
Forecast                       151           546          738        --
Actual                         (S25)       (3,154)       (936)     (3,203)
Working  tio (t)
Forecast                        87            84          83          --
Actual                          101          108           97         82
La 1,706 million of overdue interest prior to 1980, accounted in 1980 fitnancal charges.
Between 1976 and 1982, RCFS's traffic revenues increased les8 than
forecast (about 11X p.a. instead of 20S p.a.) because of lower than
expected traffic volume and lower tariff increases.  Revenues in 1981-82
from passenger traffic were only 672 of forecast or 601 higher (in
current terms) than actual revenues five years earlier. By 1981-82,
revenues from freight had only increased by 91, as the increase of
international freight was partly counterbalanced by a significant drop
in national traffic. Actual tariff increases were also less than
expected: only 20S in July 1978, 20 to 252 for passengers, and 202 for
freight, respectively, in March and December 1981, and 201 for freight
in January 1983. A significant improvement occurred in 1983 and 1984,
as traffic revenues exceeded at last the FCFA 6 billion level f6recast
for 1981-82 at the time of appraisal. This improvement stems from a
major increase in international freight traffic due to the construction
of the Manantali dam and food aid imports to Kali, and, to a lesser
extent, to a larger traffic of phosphates (larger volumes from Taiba,
and the regained traffic for Thies phosphates that RCFS had lost previ-
ously).  It is, however, not unlikely that the surge in international
traffic will be temporary, as it will be essentially dependent on food
imports into Mali and smooth operations of the Malian railways across
the border, when the Manantali works are completed. The implications
are critical since international freight traffic has grown to represent
601 of RCFS's revenues, instead of 351 ten years earlier.



- 19 -
5.03      At the time of appraisal, it had been expected that the
earlier rate of increase of working expenses would come down, thereby
bringing working ratio gradually down, from 97% in 1976-77 to between 78
and 83% in 1981/82. On the contrary, working ratios have generally
exceeded 100% as personnel expenses grew virtually as fast as revenues.
Until 1981, RCFS's management had succeeded in checking pressures for
higher salaries and had thereby brought personnel costs from 63% of
total working expenses in 1977-78, to 53% in 1980-81 (when they were
only 3^% higher in absolute terms than three years earlier). Under
strong union pressure, however, in 1982, a major proportion of personnel
was massively and unduly promoted to higher categories, 2/ while sub-
stantial salary increases were granted to the others. With these
increases, by 1984, total personnel costs had reached 186% of 1977-78
levels, representing again 62% of total working expenses. Currently,
average salaries paid by RCFS are the highest of the public and para-
public sectors in Senegal. Some progress had been achieved in reducing
the number of personnel, as the total of permanent plus temporary (in
fact, quasi-permanent) personnel was brought down frcm 3,500 in 1977-78
to about 2,750 in 1984-85. A recent evaluation by railway consultants
indicated that by normal standards, these numbers should be further
reduced to about 2,450. This current excess of personnel and especially
the artificial massive promotions into higher categories implemented in
1982 are estimated to cost about FCFA 1,400 million per year in exces-
sive personnel expenses.
5.04      From 1977-78 to 1984-85, RCFS's accumulated net operating
losses before subsidies amounted to FCFA 11.4 billion, i.e., an average
of 1.4 billion per year or 27% of revenues. During the same period, the
Government provided a total of 3.8 billion in operating subsidy. An
additional Government subsidy (through subsidies for investments 3/)
reduced RCFS's book loss by 280 million over the 1977 to 1985 period.
RCFS's book losses are, in fact, more signifikant than the net operating
income, since they take into account extraordinary losses which include
generally substantial provisions for bad debt (illustrative of RCFS's
inadequate collections of receivables and customer follow-up) and losses
due to RrFS's frequent accidents. Everything taken into account, RCFS's
book loss amounted to FCFA 8,456 million from 1977-78 to 1981-82 (in-
stead of the 2,170 million profit forecast at appraisal), and to
FCFA 7,279 million from 1982-83 to 1984-85.
2/   As a result, only 10% of total permanent personnel employed is
classified under the "workers' category."
3/   Investment subsidies are amortized annually at the same rate as the
corresponding asset is depreciated, and this amount "subvention
rapportee" is added back as extraordinary revenue in the income
account.



- 20 -
Sources and Application of Funds
5.05      From 1977-78 to 1981-82, RCFS's cash generation was, in fact,
negative, amounting to a loss of 5,351 million instead of the positive
cash generation of 2,690 million forecast at appraisal. Because of the
delayed project implementation, investments and renewals for the period
amounted to only 3,100 million. RCFS's needs were partly met through
2,735 million of operating subsidies, 400 million in investments subsi-
dies, and a 659 million of equity increase by the Government, and
978 million of net increase in long-term debt; the remaining needs were
met by a large increase in short-term debt (7,558 million, which ex-
plains the drastic worsening of RCFS's net working capital position, as
explained in para 5.08).
5.06      RCFS's inability to finance new i.westments and face debt
service, and the need to rely on further Government subsidies, addition-
al foreign loans and steady increases in short-tertu liabilities contin-
ued during the 1982-83 to 1984-85 period. RCFS's cash generation for
the period amouwved to a cash drain of 5,238 million, while investment
reached 5,020 million. RCFS's needs were met through 1,137 million of
operating subsidies, 741 million of investment subsidies and 857 million
of equity increase 4/ by the Government (under a CCCE loan) and a net
increase of 4,249 million of long-term debt.
Balance Sheets
5.07      RCFS'i actual balance sheets from 1977-78 to 1981-82 compared
with forecasts and actual 1982-83 to 1984-85 balance sheets are shown in
Table 5.2. The 5,647 million of successive capital increases (cash plus
loan conversion) were grossly insufficient to compensate for RCFS's
cumulated losses of 8,166 million for 1977-82 and 7,240 million for
1983-85. RCFS's assets were reevaluated in June 1980; the net reevalua-
tion surplus of 2,548 million was incorporated as reevaluation reserve.
Despite this reserve, the net investment subsidies, and the capital
increase, RCFS's net equity has been declining almost continuously, from
6.1 billioa as of June 30, 1977 to 2.1 billion in-June 1982 and 0.4 bil-
lion in June 1985. As simultaneously long-term debt was increasing, the
debt-to equity ratio has worsened dramatically from 64/36 in 1977 to
85/15 in 1982 (instead of the forecast 46/54) and 97/3 in 1985.
5.08      RCFS started at the beginning of the project implementation
with a sound working capital position (net working capital of 1.1 bil-
lion and current ratio of 1.7 by June 1978) as, at that time, the state
consolidated a larger amount of short-term advance into long-term debt
than foreseen at the time of appraisal. However, as explained above,
4/   The remaining 4,485 million equity increases in 1982 were
conversion of Treasury advances and other short-term debt of RCFS
vis-a-vis the State.



- 21 -
starting in 1978, RCFS had to turn again to the state for new short-term
advances and let arrears accumulate as it was not able to pay all
current maturities on long-term debt. By June 1981, net working capital
was again negative and deteriorated further to a negative 4.6 billion by
June 1982 instead of the positive 0.3 billion target.
Financial Targets and Covenants
5.09      As explained above, the various financial targets, working
ratio and working capital were not met (except briefly for working
eapital in 1977-79). The Government did in a certain way, comply with
the financial covenant whereby, In case of shortfall of funds, RCFS
would provide the amounts necessary or secure alternative financing to
assure full implementation of the project; however, this was done in a
less than satisfactory way, mostly through a mixture of long-term
foreign loans and local treasury advances and overdraft. In this
manner, RCFS did not comply with the covenant whereby it would not incur
additional long-term debt unless debt service coverage ratio would be at
least 1.5. RCFS's net cash revenue was negative, except in 1977-79,
vhen it barely covered financial charges. Given the unsatisfactory
structure of its balance sheet in 1985, RCFS is now barely surviving
because of continuous subsidies and the fact that its long-term debt
still features a low interest rate (about 3% average).
*5.10      Another financial covenant spelled out that RCFS would agree.
with the Bank on remedial action, if necessary, after discussions on the
financial results of the year and draft budget. Little has been achieved
on this ground, considering, for example, the inappropriate hike in
salaries in 1982 and the fact that until now, RCFS has done little in
curtailing the heavily loss-making domestic passenger services (for
which revenues do not cover variable costs) and abandoning the 400 mil-
lion per year loss-making Dakar-St. Louis line.
Audits
5.11      Audits were carried out, full audits of the 1978-79, 1979-80,
and 1982-83 statements, and limited audits for 1977-78, 1980-81, and
1981-82. These audits were generally completed after considerable
delays, as RCFS was able to close its books only two years, and some-
times more after the end of the fiscal years. These audits were ex-
tremely useful, as indicated by the many modifications recommended by
the auditors and incorporated in the audited statements (mainly under
extraordinary profit and losses), However, the opinions of the auditors
have always been qualified; most of their recommendations on RCFS's
accounting practices were generally not fully followed.



- 22 -
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT
Covenants and Borrowers Performance
6.01      In the first two or three years of the project, hardly any of
the loan covenants were complied with because of delays in project
implementation and Government's and CFS's inaction on several issues.
In the later part of the project, however, the Government was willing to
act on some of the Bank's recommendations, and many of the covenants
were complied with, as can be seen in Annex 1.
6.02      The main recommendation of the Structure and Organization
Study to convert CFS into a Societe Nationale has been accepted by the
Government and incorporated as a part of the draft Contrat Plan.
However, the contrat plan has not yet been implemented. The passenger
service covenant was complied with, although in 1981 the Bank had to
apply considerable pressure to make the Government change its mind about
the purchase of four railcar sets and 12 passenger coaches through a
Spanish line of credit. One of the most difficult covenants to enforce
was the coordination of activities with Mali Railways, but eventually
the two railways did agree to cooperate on railway operations on the
Dakar-Bamako line (para 4.08). Finally, financial covenants.for working
capital have certainly not been complied with, for the reasons outlined
in para 5.09.  The Government was not able to make up the funds neces-
sary for project execution but funds were made available through the
higher percentage financing of local costs from the loan. In future
projects, release of local funds for spare parts, maintenance, etc.,
should be enforced through appropriate tranching. The covenant requir-
ing salaries to be no more than 64% of total operating expenses by the
end of FY1982 was met in FY1979, but by FY1982 staff expenses had risen
to 66%. Measures were then taken to reduce the number of staff so that
by FY85 salaries had fallen to 57% of operating expenses.
6.03      While there were a large number of covenants included in the
Loan and Guarantee Agreements, most of them were necessary because of
the large number of structural, financial and operational problems to
resolve. For much of the project many of the covenants were not com-
plied with, but with the deteriorating situation of the railway and
increasing pressure from the Bank, CFS and the Government began to
realize in 1981 that decisive steps had to be taken to improve the
situation.
Consultants Performance
6.04      Consultants were engaged to carry out the Groundnut and
Structure and Organization studies, audit the accounts of CFS, and to
conduct management training courses for CFS. In general, performance
was satisfactory, although the consultants carrying out the Structure
and Organization Study did seem to be influenced rather more than they
should have beeu by CFS's and the Government's wish to have
over-optimistic freight and passenger t:raffic forecasts and an excessive



- 23 -
emphasis on continuation of passenger traffic (despite its uneconomic
nature) incorporated in the study. For example, at the interim stage of
the second phase of the study the consultants were recommending the
elimination of passenger services, but by final report stage they had
apparently yielded to pressure from CFS and included unrealistic fore-
casts of passenger traffic. On the whole, the consultants did not
measure up to the expected levels of professional independence, despite
their technical competence.
6.05      During implementation of this and the last project, the Bank
has been concerned about the quality of French bilateral technical
assistance (TA). In 1981-82, at the Bank's suggestion, some of the
technical assistants who were not very effective were replaced, but the
quality of those remaining still left room for improvement. The French
Government has been very cooperative, but the problem remained because
of their limited pool'of candidates, many of whom have not been recycled
in the French Railways for nearly two decades. Since 1983-84, OFERMAT
has instituted an objective-driven technical assistance program with an
injection of new talent from the French national railways., This has
improved the quality, but due to progressive reduction in the number of
TA from 26 in FY80 to 18 in FY85 and lack of freedom of action (see
para 6.07), the overall impact was uneven and inadequate. A lesson
learned in this project is that an agreement should be reached with
bilateral aid agencies already operating in the sub-sector that the
quality, performance targets and accountability of their TA personnel
would be periodically reviawed and necessary improvements made.
Institutional Performance
6.06      The primary objective of the project was to strengthen CFS as
an institution. During the first year of the project, FY78, the change
in management and new technical assistance had an immediate impact on
CFS -- operations improve4 and traffic increased. However, this im-
provement soon lost its momentum, and throughout FY79-80 operations
deteriorated: FY79 saw the largest number of locomotive failures per
million km in at least eight years, locomotive availability was at
pre-appraisal level, locomotive km per year and net traffic units per
locomotive horsepower available had declined to below 1972 levels, and
wagon turnaround time had increased. In addition, CFS did not appear to
be at all commercially-oriented.
6.07      There were many reasons for the poor performance of CFS, the
most notable being lack of staff efficiency and productivity which were
the result of:
(a) top management without any railway experience, lacking lasting
interest in railway development and following the dictates of
the Ministries and not taking difficult decisions needed to
improve the railways;
(b) non-existence of clearly defined policies governing staffing;



- 24 -
(c) low ratio of salaries of managers to salaries of lower level
staff: 1:2 between managers and Techniciens ordinaires and
1:3 between Managers and workers;
(d)  low salaries and low image of CFS as employer militating
against attracting and retaining qualified senior staff;
(e) lack of incentives to improve productivity;
(f) insufficient opportunity for advancement;
(g) a powerful labor union which was more interested in increasing
staff and salaries rather than improved performance;
(h) the most serious of all, the wholesale upgradation of all the
staff of CFS in 1982, which has resulted in staff pyramid
bulging at the middle with very few left to do the work:
managers - 8%; supervisors = 82%; workers - 10%; and
Mi) different remuneration for staff carrying out the same tasks.
All staff were to have been integrated under one salary
structure formulated in 1975 but not yet passed into law.
Partly because of the varioua different pay scales for the
same work, there are currently 4,840 ongoing legal suits
brought against the rilway by present staff and ex-staff.
6.08      The above problems are compounded by a lack of discipline
(partly as the result of the strength of the union), an over-zealous
respect for administrative formalities rather than railway operations,
and the poor condition of plant and lack of tools to carry out the work.
Relations between the first and second layers of top management have
often been strained and attempts have been made by two General Managers
to restrict the authority of their expatriate deputies.
6.09      The Bank wanted to ensure that CFS had sufficient autonomy
with (a) independent management and budget; (b) direct control over
operating staff and staffing policies; and (c) authority to determine
investment programs. The Contrat Plan would have achieved these objec-
tives for it included the setting up of CFS as a Societe Nationale and
included an agreed investment plan and arrangements for CFS's financial
viability. eFS has certainly made some institutional advances during
the last three years, especially with respect to increasing operational
efficiency on the international line through (a) improved coordination
with CWM; (b) reorganization of operations at the port in Dakar; and
(c) better organized track maintenance on the weak section of the
international line. In addition, the transport of ICS traffic has been
privatized (with the assistance of the Bank, Loan 2025-SE) although the
movement of phosphate traffic has not yet been handed over to SEFICS
because of fears of opposition from the powerful CFS labor union.
However, as pointed out in the 1983 Caisse Centrale Study of CFS organ-
izational and structural problems, there are still many problems,
including lack of staff motivation and discipline, insufficient numbers



- 25 -
of qualified staff, lack of tools and excessive staffing in some areas.
The recommendations of a manpower study of CFS have addressed some of
these issues and would be eventually incorporated in the plan to set up
CFS as a Societe Nationale.
6.10      The benefits of making CFS an autonomous organization could be
substantial, but there is also the possibility that the impact of such a
reorganization could be minimal, given the limited impact (if any) of
the 1977-78 reorganization which was started under the Second Project.
Political interference in managerial decisions is unlikely to disappear
immediately and other problems such as the strength of the union and the
lack of experienced managerial and supervisory staff, will make the
strengthening of CPS a long and complex process. In particular, the
lack of discipline and expertise has a severe impact on the number of
derailments and head-on collisions. In the last quarter of 1985 alone
*there were 16 derailments in stations, another three on the main line,
railway-wide, and two locomotives were lost in a head-on collision.
VII. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
7.01      The underlying rationale for the project was that the railway
had a clear economic cost advantage over other transport routes for Mali
international traffic, and represented the most economic mode for the
transportation of Senegal phosphate and groundnut production. The
project was designed to improve the efficiency of CFS and successfully
meet increasing road competition from both domestic haulers and those
operating on the C8te d'Ivoire route.  Only one component of the pro-
ject, the improvement of the Dakar-Bel Air marshalling yard, was de-
signed to increase capacity. The rest of the basic infrastructure and
rolling stock was reg;arded at appraisal as satisfactory to meet expected
traffic once rehabilitation needs had been met.
7.02      The economic rates of return for the project's major physical
components and the project as a whole were reestimated using actual and
reestimated costs, actual traffic and revised forecasts, and updated
comparative economic road and rail transport costs. All costs and
benefits are expressed in 1983 prices. The same shadow wage rate of 0.6
used at appraisal was used for the economic reevaluation.
Track Rehabilitation
7.03      The 60 km track renewal. component for the weak section of the.
international line between Thies and the Mali border was dropped from
the project in favor of track rehabilitation works on the Dakar-Thies
section. In 1982, the Bank decided that the very expensive track
renewal on the main line to Mali, including the section originally
included under the project, was difficult to justify in view of the poor
efficiency of both the railways and the consequent uncertainty of the
long-term viability of CFS, and therefore recommended only a spot
renewal program. This was based on the lower-than-projected levels of



-26 -
traffic during the project and doubts about future levels. Since the
economic rate of return at appraisal was only 13Z, it is very unlikely
that this component would have been justified if carried out as planned,
especially since the number of derailments appears to be below that
forecast at appraisal through good maintenance only. However. it is to
be noted that the line is severely restricted in speed (30-40 km ph on
several sections instead of 80 km ph), and this poses a constraint on
operation.
7.04      Track rehabilitation was carried out on the 70 'm of the
double track section between Dakar and Thies in accordance with the
project revision of November 1979. The same methodology as at appraisal
is used for reevaluating the econowic rate of return for the track
rehabilitation component, since one section of the track was only
substituted for another. The number of derailments caused by track
defects between FY79 and FY86 has been determined by CFS, as can be seen
below.
1979        1980        1981       1982       1983        1984       1985
5           5           3          6                      4          5
The effect of the 25% of track works undertaken in 1980 can be seen in
1981, but otherwise, speed restrictions seem to have had a masking
effect on the pattern of derailments, considering that substantial works
were not restarted until the second part of 1984. However, for the
purposes of the economic reevaluation, it has been assumed that without
the project, there would have been a steady decline in track conditions
and because speed restrictions could not continue indefinitely without
drastically affecting capacity, derailments would have increased to 10 a
year by 1990. Figures provided by CFS indicate that the cost of derail-
ments is somewhat higher than estimated at appraisal and therefore the
CFS estimates have been used. It was also assumed that without the
project, the capacity of the Dakar-Thies line would be affected quite
seriously by 1990 with the.result that the track renewal works would
then be undertaken given the seriousness of the ituation (in line with
the appraisal assumption). Other benefits include labor maintenance
cost savings.
7.05      The rate of return for this component is 10%, but it does not
include the cost of delays caused by derailments or the lower speed
restrkctions which would have been imposed as the track deteriorated
without the project. No rate of return was estimated at the time the
project was revised to include this component.
Track Maintenance
7.06      The track maintenance component was expanded at the time of
revising the project to include the 60 km of track that was to be
renewed under the original project in the maintenance program.



- 27 -
Intensive maintenance activities took place on this section of the
Thies-Kidira line and maintenance was improved on the remainder of the
line. There has been a drastic reduction in the number of derailments
on the Thies-Kidira section following the intensive maintenance programs
as can be seen below.
1979        1980        1981       1982        1983       1984       1985
20          21          21         20         14          14          13
Following the appraisal methodology, savings from avoided derailments.
were taken as the only benefits of the track maintenance program. It
has been assumed that the number of avoided derailments was about 11 in
1984 and is projected to slowly increase. The resulting rate of return
is 13% compared to 26% estimated at appraisal. The lower rate of return
is due to the higher cost of the maintenance component and the slower
rate of increase in derailments assumed in the reevaluation than at
appraisal.
Dakar Area Improvements
7.07      At appraisal, the capacity of the Dakar Bel Air marshalling
yard was not sufficient to handle more than 1.5 million tons of phos-
phate traffic per year and block trains had to be broken up at Eel Air
because of physical constraints at Dakar Port. Some phosphate traffic
was already being diverted to road and the appraisal attributed at least
part of this diversion to lack of capacity of the yard.  However,
traffic was still diverted even when the full capacity of the yard had
not been met, mainly because of lack of motive power and poor operations
of the railway. Improvements of the yard were included in the project
to increase the capacity from 1.5 million to 2.8 million tons of phos-
phate per year since traffic forecasts indicated that existing capacity
would be reached in 1979. In fact, the former capacity was only reached
in FY84 when 1.54 million tons of phosphate was transported by rail and
will likely exceed 1.5 million tons again in FY86 (estimated traffic of
1.68 million tons). However, the prospects for phosphate production in
the next few years appear not to be good; for the purpose of the econom-
ic reevaluation, traffic has been projected to increase by 1% p.a. Some
of the lower than forecast production of phosphate will be offset by the
ICS fertilizer production which was not envisaged at appraisal. An
estimated 0.55 million tons of fertilizer is to be transported by rail.
in FY86 and this should increase to 0.63 million tons in FY87 and
thereafter.
7.08      The possibility of expanding the capacity of the yard by
improving operations and overall productivity was not discussed in the
SAR although it may well have been possible to have at least delayed
investment through improved operations. Nevertheless, the SAR assump-
tion that such capital investments were required has been retained for
the reevaluation. The economic benefits of this component are the



- 28 -
savings from having to divert some phosphate traffic to road. At
appraisal, diversion to road was assumed to be no longer necessary by
1985 because production of phosphate was forecast to decline to 1.5 mil-
lion tons or lower, but this estimate has been extended to the year 2000
in the economic reevaluation given present projections of phosphate
production capacity. The reevaluated rate of return is 47% compared to
the appraisal estimate of 39%.
Spare Parts
7.09      By the time of the first full year of operation for the
locomotives rehabilitated under the project (1983), CFS had purchased
seven locomotives against six which were envisaged at appraisal -- four
1600s in 1980, three 1600s and three 1700s in 1983, the one extra being
to compensate three locomotives lost in collisions (see Annex 5, para 2
of the SAR).  The rehabilitated BB500s are now used for shunting and the
BB1100s and 12009 for passenger traffic (which is uneconomic in Senegal),
fir slow and service trains and for hauling some phosphate from Thies.
Availability of the BB1200s has been poor: availability was 50% in 1984
instead of the 80% projected at appraisal. In recalculating the rate of
return, it was assumed that an amount equal to the total phosphate
transported from Thies was hauled by the rehabilitated locomotives and
that other locomotives would be diverted from international traffic to
move the higher priority phosphate, in line with the assumption at
appraisal. The effect of not having the locomotives for slow and
service-trains has not been taken into account because of the difficulty
of estimating what would have occurred in the without-project case. The
resulting reevaluated rate of return is 10% compared with the appraisal
estimate of 57%. The lower rate is due to (a) the far lower levels of
traffic carried because of the unforeseen addition of ten locomotives to
the fleet (although some were to replace those lost in accidents); and
(b) the lower than projected availability of the B1200s. No account has
been taken of the passenger traffic hauled, although the uneconomic
nature of this traffic would tend to decrease the rate of return. The
rate of return would also be higher if expenditure on regular spare
parts requirements were increased, thereby increasing availability
rates.
Economic Evaluation of Whole Project
7.10      The reevaluated rate of return for the whole project is 13.5%
compared to 22% estimated at appraisal.
VIII. ROLE OF THE BANK
8.01      Project Preparation and Appraisal.  Shortly after loan effec-
tiveness, the Bank found that it was necessary to substitute track
rehabilitation for a track renewal component. The poor quality of track
renewal works financed under the First and Second Railway Projects had
been of concern to the Bank during preparation and appraisal of the



- 29 -
Third Railway Project, but it appears that a thorough inspection by
supervision missions was not done until after loan effectiveness. On
the whole, it appears, in hindsight, that more experienced consultants
should have been used to appraise the project rather than after signing,
especially in view of the problems encountered with delays in the
preparation of bid documents and incorrect assessment of track needs and
the condition of locomotives. OPS expressed some concern about prepara-
tion of the project at Yellow Cover review stage, particularly the
adequacy of the analysis of the derailment problem. A more comprehen-
sive survey of the situation was recommended.  Significantly, a major
revision was also made to the project scope of the Second Railway
Project.
8.02      During implementation of the Second Railway Project, opera-
tional efficiency did not meet the targets set, and in nearly all cases
either stagnated or actually deteriorated. It is now clear that the
operational targets set for CFS under the Third Project were
over-optimistic and required unrealistically large improvements in CFS
operational capacity. The availability targets for the BB500s, BB1200s
and CC2400s locomotive were especially unrealistic, given that many of
these had design problems and were old at the outset. Some of them had
to be scrapped during project implementation. Evidently, the unreli-
ability of two types of locomotives had not fully been taken into
consideration at appraisal, even though, once again, this problem was
raised by OPS at Yellow Cover stage. Four locomotives were purchased in
1982, as predicted at appraisal; as the benefits from the project had
just begun to accrue, this purchase could have been postponed by two
years; however, given the availability of finance, the Bank reluctantly
agreed to the purchase.
8.03      Parts of the project implementation schedule were also ex-
tremely optimistic considering the problems encountered in the past,
including the slow preparation of bidding documents, procurement delays,
and single sources for critical spare parts. Delivery of critical spare
parts was two years later than scheduled and track rehabilitation works
started nearly one year behind schedule, yet many of the causes for such
delays were the same as under the Second Railway Project. Most surpris-
ing of all was the assumption that the Structural and Organizational
Study would start immediately and be completed by December 1978. Given
the Government's sensitivity to the study and the fact that Government
approval of each phase was necessary before proceeding to the next
stage, this schedule was extremely unrealistic.
8.04      Supervision of the Project was quite intense and of a high
standard, especially at the time that CFS performance was rapidly
deteriorating. In particular, Bank missions set in motion the prepara-
tion and implementation of programs for (&) the improvement of safety
procedures following several bad accidents in 1979; (b) track mainte-
nance and spare parts programs; (c) improvement of operations at Dakar
port; and (d) improved coordination of operations between CFS and the
Mali Railways. Bank supervision missions made continued efforts to get
contractors to supply good quality ballast and in the end their



- 30 -
recommendation about obtaining ballast on the spot market was adopted
and proved to be a success.
8.05      Several times during project implementation the Bank had to
take a firm stand to achieve project objectives. In 1979, approval of
the reallocation of project funds for track rehabilitation was withheld
until certain measures were taken to speed up project implementation,
including the filling of the vacant Deputy General Manager's position,
submission of orders for spare parts, and invitations to consultants for
proposals for the Structure and Organization Study. In 1980, the Bank
refused to disburse against ballast contractb until papers certifying
the quality of the ballast had been submitted. The Bank promised
accelerated disbursement payments for ballast expenditures if te-,e
Government would commit the necessary local funds for track rehabilita-
tion works for FY1981-82, but this commitment was not made, given the
budgetary crisis in Senegal at the time. Finally, through 'the condi-
tions attached to the Structural Adjustment Loan, the Bank was able to
"dissuade" the Government from purchasing railcars which were going to
be procured through a Spanish line of credit. The Structural Adjustment
Loan also proved effective for obtaining Government commitment to the
acceptance, in principle, of a Contrat Plan, and conversion of CFS into
Societe Nationale, although those changes did not finally materialize.
8.06      Coordination With Mali Raily,  One of the objectives of the
project was to improve coordination of operations between the two
railways, and alrealy extensive discussions of this issue had taken
place under the Second Project. The Structure and Organization Study
was to devise a system for improving coordination, and there was a
c-ovenant in the Guarantee Agreement that the Government would implement
the findings. However, in view of the Government's and CFS's tradition-
al lack of cooperation with the Mali Railway, the Bank may have resolved
the coordination issue earlier in the project by making Government
commitment to specific proposals for improved coordination a condition
of disbursement for track renewal civil works (later track rehabilita-
tion), scheduled to begin in July 1979. As it was,. the Government was
able to adopt delaying tactics so that the study did not even begin
until January 1981. Meanwhile, the international traffic situation
continued to deteriorate, despite Bank efforts to get the two railways
to cooperate.
8.07      When the situation really became critical in 1980-81, partly
because of Mali Railway's acute shortage of motive power, the Bank
threatened to suspend disbursements if Senegal did not agree to form the
GCC (para 4.08) and loan two locomotives. The GCC, which provided for
the establishment of a trouble-shooting group (comprised of representa-
tives of both railways) to continually travel over the international
line, was finally implemented in early 1981 and coordination between the
two railways immediately improved. Great piessure was put on the
Government of Mali by the Bank to restrict the number of licenses
granted to truckers for the C8te d'Ivoire route. However, despite
assurances that the number of licenses would be restricted, the Govern-
ment of Mali has still been issuing licenses for the "renewal of worn-out



- 31 -
trucks" replacing eight-ton trucks with ones of higher load capacity
Given the restricted capacity of the railway up to 1982, it is probably
just as well that the Government of Mali continued to award truck
licenses.
IX. CONCLUSIONS
9.01      Appraisal and implementation of the project have been poor and
the objectives outlined at appraisal were not fully achieved. There was
more than a four year delay in project completion; the most serious
delays involving the track rehabilitation and Dakar area improvements
components.  The weak management of CFS and general inefficiency was
partly to blame for the project being delayed, although the lack of
local funds and ballast contracting problems became more significant
obstacles during the later years. In addition, parts of the implementa-
tion schedule were unrealistic, especially in the light of past experi-
ence with railway projects in Senegal. The main objective of the project
was to strengthen CFS as an institution and to increase operational
efficiency, but very limited progress has been made in these areas. The
little progress that has been made has occurred during the last three
years. But the financial situation of CFS has deteriorated to the point
where an urgent injection of working capital is required if progress
made during the project is not to be lost. This especially applies to
locomotive availability, given the chroaic shortage of funds for spare
parts. Railway traffic was far lover than projected until the last two
years, mostly because of operational problems and the lack of coordina-.
tion between CFS and the Mali Railway during the first part of the
project.
9.02      Better project preparation would have avoided the changes in
project scope and the railway investment plan less than one year after
the loan was approved by the Bank. Operational targets were not met,
but in many cases these were unrealistic. Fortunately, the project
received intensive supervision from the Bank: important issues, such as
railway coordination, were finally acted on by Government as a direct
result of continued Bank pressure. Given the poor performance of CFS in
the past and apparent lack of concern on the part of Government, more of
the project's objectives might have been achieved if disbursements were
somehow linked to improvements in performance of the railway. In
particular, the conversion of CFS into a Societe Nationale might have
occurred sooner if approval of this had been linked to disbursements.
9.03      The Senegal railway route was regarded by the Bank as the most
economic for Mali's imports. However, the cost differential in favor of
the railway is gradually being eroded by the inefficiency of the railway
service provided by CFS/CFm and the increasing efficiency of the Cote
d'Ivoire road transportation service, especially if inventory carrying
costs are included in the economic analysis. If the Senegalese and
Malian Governments cannot improve the efficiency of their railways, then
the cost differential will be completely eroded and it will make sense
for Mali to transport its goods via C8te d'Ivoire. The extent to which
the erosion of this cost differential can be checked has yet to be seen.
Ee4hA~~~~ibUf!.___



I                       i
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I  rO l



-33-                                                      TABLE 3.1
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT. L4A0 1518-SE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Actual and Expected Physical Completion
Percent of
original
major works
Date of units of                of components
Units of completion of                 completion of                  completed by
Major works                    malor works or coponents         major works or cogmonents            the expected
or components                 Actual           Expected          Actual          Expected            completion date
(a) Track Renewal Int'Line        0                60 Km             -               06/81                      0
Replaced with
Track Rehabilitation
Dakar-Thids                   70 K(E)          70 Km             12/85           06/81                     30
(b) Track M4autenance             11 Gang Cars      8 Gang Cars      11/80           06/80                     100
Equipment                     32 Switches      20 Switches
3 Trucks        3 Trucks
1 Crane         8 Inspection Cars
1 Bulldozer
Toola           Tools
Spare Parts     Spare Parts
2 Tampers
(c) Improvement in Dakar Area    Improve BelAir  Improve BelAir    2/84              03/80                      0
(Yard           Yard         )
( 8 switches    8 switches  )      03/80           03/80                     100
(I Truck        1 Truck      )
Telecomauni-    Telecommuni-
cation          cation             02/82           03/80                     60
SSR Radio
(d) Spare Parts                   Spares for 15   Spares for 28      12/82           06/81                     90
locomotives,    locomotives,
spares for      spares for
rolling stock,  rolling stock,
workshop        workshop
eq.ipment       equipment
(e) Training                      Equipment       Construction
Training school training center
for over 100    Equipment
staff in W.    Training abroad   12/81             06/81                     70
Africa, 40 man- 19 Railway staff
months mana-    13 man-years /a
gement training technical
consultants     assistance
(f) Consulting Services           Groundnut study Groundnut study   04/79            03/79                     9S
Structure and   Structure and
Organisation    Organiaation
Study           Study              01/81           12/78                      0
Auditing of     Auditing of
CFS Account     CFS Account        1983            -                          -
La Nine man-years financed by OFERMAT
WArnI
May 1986



X S   r  k   >   >  t    r          *   . -        -.    -
,,    a                                              I                        
2   }   .                                                .1t   
o   O                                   O*            
S   t   5  t  1    1     o   ^   gS                g I  t  
*2Z             *    |o,              a .                              |        | 
e. -,       ,       ...>                                                     ^L                 S
§   ls    '4    Ig  I          .0                   
2~ ~~' 5o                                                e     -*
4 I           a                                                    I   ;.|       O1 
'A        Is   I                               ,  
-   'A
_3 _ _a
2 - E3-l2V



IDUSC or SEMAL
5MOD RAIMAY PR CT. WMS 1518-SE
PROJECT txfNt lRUM
Actual ad chpratal  Fo  c.mt of Psse.  r *4 ftFrait TreffIt. 1977-1985
1§77               1978               1979                 1980                19l                  1982            193         194           198S
actual foret"t   Actual  Forecat  Actual  Forecast   hctuat  Porecat    Actusl  Forecast    Actual Forecast              Actual      Actual        Actual
(I) Actua) m4 FOrest P***euasr Traffi c Flusocial lear 1977-85
('00D teas)
Total Passaenrs
Passogers VOW0           1718        1764   1296       1867    1070      1.571      732        1475      873       1429      8s8      138          510          362          2
Pasaaa.era ft (111lIloal  182         18     146        IS0     138       I7        100lo       148       31)       167       109       165         74          69            T0
sat                                                                                              OOgAl
Passeoprs (0800          1692        1700   1250       1400    1020      150im      68         100       88        1350       807      1300        472          315          229
Paussomra lb ("ilItee)  159           153    123        146     11        1 U8       77         130        92       127        88       124         55           55           31
lneratt"_
P mo         a0000)                           A S 6      67      50         n        64    75              9         79        41        81         18           28            9
S_prage lb Mlltn)   23                32     23         34      25         36       23          38        21        40        21        41         20          tA            30
(1) Actual scn  FnrecAst frtClht Trffic:t  1977-5
(*U00 TIMPS)
ltenational TraffIc    23           216     2*7        295     227       318       215          32      2*3        341       225       34S        251         3#1           4*
Uets  (blit Iqaen)   133              17     194        I"9    187         209      169         218       202       226       194       230        "19          195                                I
*Aa&t.li -a- -                                                                                                                                      30          21           1- - o
imofrts (nh1I 3    1)    86            92     73        9        *0       1t9       *6          11        61        I5         31       15          23           33           27                   t
httLal traffIc           1324        1570   1*0        15"     1422       1641     1*6         1767      1563      1832       127      1950       1452         1586        2I09
oqste"-watba             1158        130   2335        120    1321       1360      1264         65       U30       150       10"       2800       1378         1518         1
-tfts           47          li     23       I25       22       t         1O          1SS       62       170        132      tfOJ
t;rvimt                    72        t1O      44        116      28        123       41         t27         0       1)3         25      180         36            1            0
O0heps                     47          SO      38        *5      51         40       45           33       71        30         34       so         38           47           41
traffte                  1563        189   1727        188     149        199      1681        2109                2174       149 O     29S       170)         1924         I953
(itI) Actual *d Foreenat ft*Ut Ttffict:  7uu.A  (utiltees)
Internattioal  ra ffic    147         t73    171        19D     .3         204      133         213       1*4       22        145       222        t51          207          2eo
Esports (Mli Imports)    94           114    124        128     114        154      105          140       20       145        125      148
o esotl DM                  *           _       _         _       _          _        _            _        _         _          _        _
Imorts Nlt Esports)    S3            50       47         62      24         70       28          73        41        74         20       74
National Treffic         It         191     17s        192     182        198      174         210        58       217        14*      251        166          175          162
pbospbatea-tba            130        146     150        1*6     1*8        150      132         162       18        168        123      179        15           267          t57
-Ihtes           4         10        2         11       2        13         1          14        7         IS        12        "5
Croqmdouts                 16        23        IS        24       8         25       10           26        0        27          6       29          10           1            0
Others                     11        12         8        12      74         10       10            8       13         7          5        7           6           7
Ttotl fre6bt
Tra ffic                  308        Y4       146       387     320        402      307         413       302       436        289      453         317         382           442
to  "st f,tImat."  forecat frg  Staff AppriSal Peport.
/b  Provisleal Eatiataa.
Sture: Actual:  CtS  stimet.s
Ferecaal Ct5 ca8trat-Flaf
134 28323



- 36 -                                     TABLE 4,2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT. OAN 1518-SE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Actual Efficiency Indicators vs. Operational TargLets
YEAR                         YEAR                YEAR           YEAR
1978/79                      1980/81             1981/82        1984/85
TARGETS               Targets         Actual       Targets        Actual       Actual         Actual
1. Availability of mainline
locomotives (M)
Ty;e of locomotives
BB 500                        55             30            55            19            65             0
BB 1100                       65             41            65            56            67            63
BB 1200                       80             69            80            45            61            50
BB 1600                       90             81            88            83 L          79/a          71/a
CC 2400                       50             46            45            83 A          93jf          83jl
Average                       66             49            66            61 A          67            69
2. Locomotive breakdovns
per year and per
locomotive in stock            8              9             7             5             4             4
3. Locomotive-km per day
and per locomotive
available                     322             -            338           319           214           258
4. ton-km per one avail-
able locomotive horse-
power per year              21,134         21,779        21,987        15,595        16,400        17,700
S. Tons hauled by one
available locomotive
horsepower per year            110            117           115            78            68            51
6. Availability of rail-
care Ct)                        50             60            50            37             -            28
7. Railcar-km per day and
per railcar available          463            356           486           264             -           212
8. Availability of
wagons (M)                      80             67            85                          80            74
9. Turnaround time for
oil tank wagons (days)          10             16             9            16            15 td         19
1O.Staff productivity in
traffic units per
employee ('000)                181            138           198           126           123           190
/ Includes four new locomotives not envisaged at appraisal.
b   Existing locomotives replaced by two new locomotives not envisaged at appraisal.
/c   Includes seven new locomotives.
/d   Based on first four months of FY 1982.
Sources CPS estimates.
WAPT
August 1986



REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT. LOAN 1518-SE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Selected Operating Statistics, 1977-85
Finmcial Year                                      1977         1978        1979        1980        1981        1982           1983        1984        1985
System
Total route (km)                               1.034        1,034       1.034       1,034       1.034       1,034          1.034      1,034       1,034
Total staff (thousands)                          3.3          3.5         3.2         3.2         3.2         3.2            3.0         2.9        2.7
Traffic
Passengers - total ('000)                      1.738        1.296       1.070         732         821        848             510         343        288
Pass-km - total ('000)                           182          146         138         100         105         108             7b         69          70
Average journey (kl)                             105          113         129         137         127         127            145        201         243
Net paying tons ('000)                         1.563        1.727       1.649       1.681       1,606       1.499         1.703        1,924      1,953
ret paying ton-km ('000)                         308          346         320         307         302         289            317         382        442
Average haul (kIL)                               197          200         194         183         188         193            186         199         226
iTr,fic Densitv
Pass-ku/route ko (thousand)                     176          141         125          97         109         101             72          66         67
Freipht-net ton km/route km (thousani)           298          335         309         297         292         280            306         369        427
Operations
Train-ko - passengers ('000)                   1.372        1.218
- freight ('000)                        725         907
- total ('000)                       2.097        2,125
Loco-km - diesel ('000)                        1.391        1.553
Number of Locos in Fleet                          36           29          26          23          23          20             20          26          26
Mainline - Small (c800 UP)                         12           8           6           3           3           0              0           0           0
- Medium (1000-1200 NP)                  16           15          14         11          11          11             11          11          11
- Large (1500-20001P)                     4            6           6          9           9           9              9          15          15
Shunting                                          28           28          23          21          21          21             23          23          23
Nuber of railcars                                  10           9           9           8           8           6              6           6           6
Number of passenger cars                         124            -           -          97         103         103            106         106         107
Number of freight cars                           716          791         794         797         699         653            623         688         691
Operating efficiency (freight)
Net tonl-km/train km                             442          377
Car turnaround tim  (days) - phosphate           0.4          0.4         0.6         0.5         0.4         0.4 /a
- int'l freight      20           23          24          24          21          20 7;                                  17
- int'l petroleum    14           14          16          18          16          15 7;
Traffic units/employer (tbousand)                151          145         138         126         123         127            161         156         190
Availability
Diesel locomotives                                52           4S          49          55          61          67             8.4         55          69
Railcars
Freight cars                                                   75          67                                                             75          74
Passenger cars                                                             38          48          46          42             73          75
/a lased on first four mouths of FY82.
Source: CFS Estimates
WAPTI
May 1986



ICMI OF ffO
aT111   FAILUT    t T. USm     15194E
9oasua  Fauiatts of etal lomI  Statumut of UI. 1977-5
INFUFlItwils
197-lil             I3970-79               19"4 19-b                               19-11-62                62-3         1-       114-
frwcnt  Actual       For.cut  Atul         Forcat   Atua   Fwwast  ,.tul   FW*CW    Metu                      Atug         kt,r3 katual
996136fi                                                                              (adatudi                                                (adatudI   LAam tdutadLaadtad)
PasII riW    ad tt)aoep
Inrtie al                             179        19         201        182        242        22      276        227      $15        246             317          J3         332
htarul                                79         35         74?t       49         773        423       32n       460       3         530             42          331        339
-            SbtOtall Psuas                     66"         7a3       95         617      1.015        651    3.,6        667   1.200         as              746          69          453
Fr____
Iuteruatsoml                        2,050      13575      2.420      1,60       2,7176     ,67n    3,}93      2.015   3,506       2.33            3,M          4,93       5.75
bttrol                              'tl.012     ,3144     2.049      1.0$?      2,341      1,146   2,67        1,276     .3        t,5            13,89         2,20      2,145
61tot    fftt pt3.2                       2.71       4.469      2.641      5.117      3.019    5a.D       3,31    4,S6        4,209           4,992       6,16       II0=
Iotattd                      4,.760     3.445      3.425      3.316      6,132      3,670    6.66       4.C0    7.,07       5,015          5,75S        6,97       6,071
5144                                   130       260        143        357        357        207      37$        205      190        631             334          257       i9
Total  mA                             4,890      3.7ii5     5,566      3,075      6.239      3,95     7.12;1     4.323    7,997      56*1            6.072        7,224     9,464             i
.__                                                 _B____-               - - -               ---    -  -  -
069735til f.P~
- Sti                                 3.019      2.350      3.34       2,J74      3.,        2.567    4.0.7      2,631   4,46        3,5tl           4,137       4,364      4,10
- f.tpialu                              967        *15      1.110        903      1,245      1.344    2,462      1.30     1,679      3.11            1.716       2.64       2,913
-tw                                   231        507        2*5        214         05        S13      352      1,103      445        336             I            4          437
- luau                                   53         60         61         65         69        29        79         i8       69         S5             67          1tS         too
slotowl 4t3tq*r  Flt_               4.270      3,752      4.7M2      3,M13      5.303      4.261    5.90       5.336    6,639      5,47            6,X25        6,W9       7,E34
IWKcItkO                                  455        433        529         60        712        62       us5    1,153        766        79            1.175        1.1S 
Total iwtsq fatpuan                   4.725      4,163      5.31       4,021      6,013      4,661    6,765      6.469    7,t45      6.,26           7,440       6,1691     8,
wrtiug   K lomi tuss.                     1t6       3456t       23?       t346        276       (924'    316      42,1w       592       t590)         33,3661        tlS)        73
lut mut2sMe4                                          72        342'      (t         0420i   (MM         '446)     A491    1457W        35)               36         53)        (jI)
Act  rate  tuco   (tou,                   (149      1630s)     31053      15713      t14      ajl3i,i    41332    i2,.oSS)    125     t1,3460         t2.304)       1,.453       172
lpurtahu   Motdv                          300        S00        ba         40Z        69         600      64S        487      r03        948             329          47         329
-tawetalu  Gin 6     13                              '195,                Itttl                 (6433                 33                (7363         33.578)41       161    (i,704)
Oct 060, frnfit tLons                     151        (525)      533       3319)       54      t3.154      533     C2.13A'     731       39363        13.253i         (Si8)    ts,203
at l3aclda       Wi 1P7 nlikar of tvrdoe tstrnt a  1M credit ruelet by iSwumot to It3. Po,uly xt ad cauted  w.i
b6  LOat   Wra rM*lUt   6V Ja   30, 19S0   jVrl, d9prsAut)if on   Ilncrease anccdiNglV Statiof  30 f781.
C     ttS Id    II otv CbatP_   duWroSte  rates.
d' lucluds  F6FA 743 3tIuoa in iacb9 rate vJtk       a at9"   f4trin 4 outrx. fF9F42   sIl,. 4o "UoPot lAu, due  to KCcat a  30A 3t9 f        ili'  of overdo1 adteret a  3I*
(4,d3t.  wuicoated from 1986 to 196                                                                                                                                                              -A
WiT3
I3I-AO-%b



- 39 -
eimuc W 84L                                                               TAMt 5.2
VW56 8AILY fAOKT, LB  15558
VUI W WII5 WORT
AWAueal FOeKASts, 400 Actual 8dalac Ibets Of Wit 1971-U
5977.78   5978-79               5~~~979400          19804               59854                 5994         5903-04    198445
Forecast  kctua       Fursces   kctua      furecet  Actua   Fereet  Actual  ForKcat  Actual                   Actual       Actua      kctual
(witilt)                                                (auited)   (unauted)(unasdated)
ASSETS
Cturrat Assets
-Cmib and laei                        (794)      772       (140)       130       1600)       265    (500)        365    (500)        540             519          944      5,068
-Pnelivabls                           900        625       5,000       III15,251             all   1,515         694    5,855        664             100          39         844
* Sn,utorue                           500     5I52          740      1,032        900      1,042    5,500      1,'3     5,300      1,'89           5,213        1,484      15,59
-othw                                             1 26                 1154         -        430        -       ,072               5,852           5,202        5,202      1,418
606     2,646       5,000     2,38       1,55)      2,608    2,151      3,464    3,051      4,445           3,494        4,025      4,943
LEMS  Current Siabuldies
*  utpplier                           910         53      5,050        378      5.300        716    1,500      1,508    5,600      5,005           5,40           22,        492
- reanurv Advane"eand Other lo.                    a                   on89                  807        -        709               1,213           5,424        1,182      2,212
-Current (lturatass Long-tero Neb     227        24         129        368        330        .93      33       5,967      330      2,27            3,938        4,038      3,032
Bumtelverdraf t                         -        so9-                                              -                              -                    -          513
*Others                               450        702        100        740        600      3,200      700      3,1        800      4,588           5,354        2,163      3,094
-           - .......-                                -    .-hi -_         -       ----        ---.           ...            -           --
5.627      15,52      low7      2,375      2,230      5,41a   2,530       7,564    2,730      9,073           7,966        8,521      8,830
Met Carreet Assets                   (5,025:     1,126       (879)        14       1619)   t2,80)    (379)    (4,100)       325     (4,633)         (4,472)      (4,096:    (3,861)
Fixed Assets
In Om. 6ross ye1rn                 20,178     59,992     22.671    20,572      24.453     80,885   25,440     81,624   27,830     95,829          85,963       83.072     84,515
Lots Depeciation                   (4,262)    (4,269)    (4,7195    (4,129     (1,503)   (63,343)  (6,308)   t64,4951  (7,0414   (65,284)       (66,459)     (67,576)   (60,451)
Not Fixed Assets in Usee            56,556     55,123     57,88     15,443     58,915     51,538   59,512     57,529   20,756     56,54           55,104       55,496     56,018
ar to Ps rolress                      600         74        698        230        482        284      472      5,208       95      5,928           2,905        3,300      4,263
Ithur                                   6         It          6         50          6         59        6         24        6         27              33          124         44
total Act Fixed Assets               17,122     55,808     18,584     55 18 5,403           57,841   59,050     58,365   20,853     18,500          58,438       5,920      20,365
TOTAL N(ET ASSETS                      16,501     16,934     I7,70      MMo9       18,724     55.033   59,235     14,265   25,574     53,867          13,966       14,824     16,478
LIABILITIES
Lonig-tere Debt                       4,538      4,904      5,639      5,273      6,552      6,557    6,086      6,62     7,895      7,2M            8,564        9,470     13,75
Act Pensiao Liability                  5,460      5,615      1,400      5,685      5,460     1,576    5,460      1,475    5,460      5,366           5,261        5,556      5,055
Provision for Lssss                       -         75          -        ,371                  605                 661        -        510             514          825        852
Treasury Advt"aneend Other State        600      3.48         boo      2,612        600      2,652      *00      2,102      600      2,612             168          463        443
luteS Loan Capital                    6,598     10,832      7.9        0,9413     8,172     50,906    8,146     55,375    9,951     55,810          50,507       11,914     16,059
Equity Equvaleot
Capital                             9,012      9,762      9,052      9,762      9,052      9,742    9,052     50,2819   9,052     50,421          15,105$      11,402     15,402
Shubsduse for Saevstoonts            3,72        537      3,72         60       3,72         183    3,72         954    4,03         926             at7          869      5,181
Ieevluatias beers                                             -                            2,548               2,548               2,548           2,548        2,548      2,548
CUMulated Resuts (Losse)            (3,382)    43,672)ai  $tl (3,25  (,05)    (2,728)    (5,652)  (2,182)    (8,766)  (1,649)   (10,905)         (11,83)      (15,09)   (15,909)
Current Twes Incees (Loss)            15         (525       5013      (312)ei    546      53,54)    533       (2,525)     438       (937)         (3,213)        (8585    (3,283)
total 1st Equity Equiualet            9503       6,102     590,06      4,754     5052        4,527   55,065      2,890   15,823      2,057           3,459        2,910        419
TOTAL. LIABILITIES                      56,501     16,934     17,705     15,697    58,12      15,033   19,231    54,265   25,774      13,867          53,966       14,824     16,478
w*"8w2V2X""338                         *0832138    2323338=1   8332283    23*323    3*88835,    333*1101i 382*13*    23323*            ni*3*33                      882        23
Curreot                    0.37        5.74       0.53       5,05      0,70       0.48     0.85       0.46      1,12      0.49            0.44         0,50       0.56
Dbit                        45          64         43         70        44         13       42         80       46         85              is           80         97
Equaty                5~ ~ ~~9 36           57         so         56         27       58         20       54        15               25           20          3
Al597979 audit indicated that ac tnetd Inase  of priw  yew. to 197 and I91-18 had bee  un*8stated by 1503 eiliSos.
hi kAccred ospeosu  we acooded to 598 to iKclud  ewurde  istwresto a     o 18treat rtelst to WI, prevousy set asoto d for.
WTI
5Hq4A6



-  40 -                                            TABLE  7.1
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT, LOAN 1518-SE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECONICIDC REEVALUATION
TRACK REHABILITATION - DAKAR-THIES (70km)
Cost of track
Capital  Noi of avoided  Derailment    Labor saince   renewal in nith-  Net
Year          Cost      derailments      cost savings  cost savings   out projKt case  Benefits
(million CFAF)                     ------------- (million CFAF) -----------------
1979            255                                                                         -255.0
1980            208                                             2.4                         -205.6
1981                              2              20             4.6                           24.6
1902             44               2              20             5.0                          -19.0
1983                              3              30             5.5                           35.5
1984            143               3              30             6.2                         -106.8
1985            294               5              50            14.9                     .   -229.1
1986           -110 a/            7              70            17.7                          197.7
1987                              a              90            18.3                           98.3
1989                              9              90            19.3                          108.3
1989                              9              90            18.3                          108.3
1990                             10             100            18.3             396          514.3
1991                              7              70            12.0             293          375.0
1992                              3              30,            6.0            293           329.0
1993                              0               0             0.0           -145 b/       -145.0
IERR            9.7Z
a/ Residual value of equipment.
b/ Includes capital cost less residual value of equipment of CFAP145 million
(502) of original cost).



- 41 -
TABLE  7.2
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT, LOAN 1518-SE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
TRACK MAINTENANCE
Capital      No: of avoided   Derailment        Net
Year           Cost       derailments       Cost Savings   Benefits
(oillion CFAF)                  (million CFAF)  (million CFAF)
1980           1023                                            -1023
1981                                                               0
1982                               3              30              30
1983                              10             100             1O0
1984                              11             110             110
1985                              13             130             130
1986                              14             140             140
1987                              15             150             150
1988                              16             160             160
1989                              17             170             170
1990                              la             180             180
1991                              19             190             190
1992                              20             200             200
1993                              21             210             210
1994                              22             220             220
1995                              23             230             230
1996                              24             240             240
1997                              25             250             250
1998                              26             260             260
1999                              27             270             270
1999                              28             280             280
2000                              29             290             290
2001                              30             300             304
2002                              31             310             310
2003                              32             320             320
2004                              33             330             330
2005                              34             340             340
2006                              35             350             3S0
2007                              36             360             360
2008                              37             370             370
2009                              38             380             380
2010                              39             390             390
IERR            13.2X



- 42 -
TABLE  7.3
REPUBLIC OF SENEBAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT, LOAN 1518-SE
PROJECT COIPLETION REPORT
ECNOMIC REEVALUATION
OAKAR MASLLING YARD
Capital      Tons phosphato  Transport            Not
Year           Cost      diverted         savings          mmnfits
4uillion CFAF)  (OOOT)         (eillion CFAf)  (aillion CFAF)
1900   .         13                                            -13
1981             47                                            -47
1982             49                                            -49
1983             40                                            -40
1984             20              31             40              20
1985                              0              0               0
1986                            184            237             237
1987                            186            239             239
1989                            199            242             242
1989                            190            244.            244
1990                            191            247             247
1991                            193            249             249
1992                            195            252             252
1993                            197            254             254
1994                            19             257             257
1995                            201            259             259
1996                            203            262             262
1997                            205            264             2N4
1999                            207            267             26
1999                            209            270             270
2000                            212            272             272
IERR           46.7X



- 43 -
TABLE 7. 4
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT, LOAN 1518-SE
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
ECONDOIC REEVALUATION
SPARE PARTS AND WORKSHOP EDUIPNENT
Capital    Savings from           Net
Year       Cost        traffic diversion    benefits
(million CFAF)
1980             435                            -435
1991             375                            -375
1982              75            1S               75
1983                             150             IS0
1994                             150             150
1985                             150             150
1994                             150             IS0
1987                             150             150
1988                             150             150.
1989                             150            10
1990                             150             150
I991                             150             150
1992                             150             150
IERR            10.0O



r~~~~rA
I                       <



- 45 -
NX 1
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT, LOAN 1518
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Compliance with Loan Covenants
Loan
Agreement     Description of Covenant          Comment
3.02(a)       Shall employ an Assistant        Complied with.
General Manager, training
advisors and consultants whose
qualificatlons, etc., shall be
satisractory to the Bank.
3.03          Borrower shall exchange views  Main recommendation of the
with RCFM on the implementation study, viz., to convert CFS
of the recommendations           into a Socifte Nationale,
affecting railway operations    has been accepted by the
resulting from study carried    Government but the contrat
out under Part FMi) of the       plan has not yet been
Project.                         implemented.
4.01(b)(i)    Borrower shall -carry out        Complied with, within the
freight operations (A) for       limitations of prevailing
phosphates and (B) for           market and economic forces.
groundnuts, petroleum products,
salt and fertilizer according
to a transport plan acceptable
to the Bank.
4.01(b)(iii)  Carry out its operations         Rehabilitation plan
according to locomotive and      completed; maintenance is
railcar maintenance schedules   reasonably satisfactory;
including spare parts supply    but regular importation of
schedules, etc., to be           spare parts impeded by lack
acceptable to the Bank.          of funds.
4.01(b)(iv)   Conduct its passenger            Complied with, though an
operations according to a plan  accelerated diminution of
acceptable to the Bank.          passenger service appears
more desirable.
4.01(b)(v)    For carrying out its             Complied with.
obligations under subpara (i)
of this para., employ qualified
and experienced staff in
adequate numbers responsible
for optimizing commodities
transport.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
Loan
kAgreement    Description of Covenant           Comment
4.01(c)       Borrower shall take all such    After several set-backs,
action necessary to meet the    operating improvements are
operational targets set forth   just being realized but not
in schedule 5 of this            up to the targets, which in
Agreement.                       the light of experience,
are too optimistic.
4.03          Borrower shall take action to   Coordination between CFS
facilitate railway operations   and CFM has improved.
between the territories of the
Guarantor and the territory of  Managements are taking a
the Republic of Mali.            positive attitude to its
work. A separate operating
entity is the ultimate
objective.
5.02          Borrower shall (i) have its       Audits were carried out
accounts and financial           with considerable delays;
statements for each fiscal year all reports were qualified
audited by independent auditors and indicated major weak-
acceptable to the Bank (ii)      nesses in accounts, for
furnish the Bank no later than. which RCFS generally
six months after the end of      failed to take sufficient
each such year certified copies remedial action.
of audited financial
statements, report of the
auditors, etc.
5.04          Except as the Bank shall agree,  Not complied with.
Borrower shall not incur any
debt unless the amount of its
net cash revenue for its fiscal
year .... shall be not less
than 1.5 times the maximum debt
service requirements for any
succeeding fiscal year on all
its debt.
5.05          Borrower shall take all steps   Not complied with.
necessary to maintain its
working capital at all times at
a level sufficient to cover
starting on June 30, 1982, the
aggregate of 1/6 of annual cost
of personnel, etc.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
Loan
ARgreement    Description of Covenant          Coment
5.06          Borrower shall by December 31,  Complied with in 1980
1978 make an inventory of its
fixed assets and by no later
than January 30, 1979 revise
its books in order to reflect
separately the change in the
values of its fixed assets in
service and shall thereafter in
consultation with the Bank
revise its books to be in
accordance with valuation and
revaluation principles and
rates of depreciation
acceptable to the Bank.
5.09          Borrower shall take such steps, Not complied with
including adjustment in its
tariffs, as shall be necessary
to maintain working ratios not
exceeding 87% for FY1977-78,
83% for FY1978-79, 81% for
FY1979-80, 79% for FY1980-81
and 78% for 1981-82.
5.11          Borrower shall take action to   Complied with as salaries
ensure that the proportion of   had been reduced to 56%
its expenditures in any !S  on   of operating expenses by
account of salaries and other   FY81-82.
related costs shall be
progressively reduced so as to
reach by June 30, 1982 not more
than 64% of its total operating
expenses.
2=1.,.-  -A.-*--0  .



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
Loan
AgEeement     Description of Covenant          Comment
Guarantee
AEeement
2.02(a)       Whenever the funds available to  Complied with.
the Borrower will be inadequate
to meet the estimated
expenditures and the debt
service requirements, the
Guarantor shall provide the
Borrower with needed funds.
2.02(d)       Guarantor should take            Complied with, with res-
appropriate action to enable    pect to obligations under
the Borrower to carry out its   Section 3.03; not com-
obligations under Section 3.03  plied with, with respect
and 5.08 of the loan agreement. to Section 5.08.
2.02(e)       Guarantor should take            Not complied with.
appropriate action including
maintenance of tariff levels
and provision of funds to
enable the Borrower to meet its
obligations under Sections 5.05
and 5.09 of the Loan Agreement.
2.03(a)       Guarantor shall take action to  Generally being complied
facilitate railway operations   with.
between its territory and the
Republic of Mali.
2.03(b)       Guarantor shall carry out        Being complied with.
programs based on studies
carried out under parts F(i)
and F(ii) of the Project.
WAPT1
August 1986



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION
Division Chief
Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank
Re: Third Railway Project Completion Report
Sir,
As far as I am concerned, the PCR for the above project does not
call for any particular observation.
Nevertheless, I should like to mention that certoin issues
discussed in this document have been addressed during meetings with the World
Bank, which took place from November 17 to 26, 1986 in Washington and from
December 15 to 17, 1986 in Dakar and which concerned the investment program
for the transport sector. At that opportunity, agreement was reached on the
modalities of the solutions to the problems. You will find the corresponding
records in the minutes of the above meetings.
Sincerely yours,
D/
Ousmane Diene
Cabinet Director



- 50 -                      ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
COMMENTS FROM THE BOROWER
M.F/Aln,.G    20.3.87
REPUHLJQUE DU SENEGAI.                              a  2.0U. --3 usiDOFIDDW
UN PWuPI  - UN mulr * FIN F01
MI N ISTE RE                            Dakar.Ie ...... 2.,1. 98?, .....,., 19
DE L'ECONOMIE ET DES FINANCES
DIRECTION
GENERALE DES FINANCES
DIRECTION DE LA DETE ET DES
INVESTISSEMENT!
A/
Che6 de Vivi6ion  ipawttemtnet de
t'Evatation RUkoapective dec
(8&ati~ ondZat
jBanque 14ondUe)
0 8 J E T  : Rappoxt d'Acflvement du 3e pwojet FeoviabAe.
Monieua te Chef de Vivi6ion,
La vehion pot'iWmnaie   du uppoJtt d'achivement du pJtojet
hu6mentionng n'appele pa6, pouA ma paAt, d'obWetwtion paVticaUWt
Je tappeUt, cependant, qUe tet hn   queatwn6 quz g
4ont 4outevieA ont W  aboidse4 avec ta 8anque UondiaU au eoau deo
Aeunwion  tvn=eA du 17 au 26 novembe 1986 a   aki.ngton et du 15 au 17
decembte 1986, a Pakai, 6u 4e Pwoguwme d'iDwutUi.6ement poak te 46ecu
deA tAan6po.t. A cette oemion, un aceoAdc 6'et Jait 4U& Lh    udoaitaLit
de .6otution deA ptoUbw.6 po4la, que vouc  pouvez, du ke6te, tAouveA dar4
Lu pILcaO-vmeJbax du Ounionu indiquees.
Veuitatz 44eetA, MoMbiewt te CheL  de Pivi4ion,
l'a6wuhance dei ma c0rsid&Aton di6tingule./.-
'ar dAltv+
i_-  I     -     S
/       w~~~ Outnuane DIEtlE



- 51 -
GAP
TAUX DE DISPONIBILITE DES LOCOMOTIVES
~1- _-    8>..         .__ __
.  . --      r:.     *      *   . O
_ _              -.. .. _,,,...__.
~ =          .      «a  . __
4..   *.   x * 
.. ...{                           s      .
'- ..    ** -S   *           -  =L| vt
____ . ];es~~ . . B :er I
,_ _* ... Et, ... . _I _ _ 



lOb      - * RABAT           '      00
0
CO                          0
> t  EL AIUN ,§^>~  ~  _  *        A       L      G      E      R       I      A
0C3
.t.                                     I ,,
OAKAA       ` £|OUAKCHOTT                                                                   
ketc              Kidra                                 Mopt 
,      ,'   .~~SE '4i
-BA           -                         ' \.NIAMEY Mo     '*%
9''  *--   e-         ° U       k°!tk            K     BURKINA FASO   4             t
BISSAU  ' /                             oulkoro       /            )UGOU    3           r
.O~  w~ _          '4    >      '>4                  J9  .                  KAAVJI RESERVO
0uongol  ~ ~ ~ ~~IG
CONAKAY                   Ouangofodougo   Y     .i?\  
IS ERRA'          0.
L E ONEi   COTE                         3
-?            .,                    cV I-MORVvondE      ' *
o                 '_. /                      \i,ttdK  'fT   
%~~~
G  u    f        O  f       G  u i n e a
EQUATORIAL GUll
-C_ 5Re              _S or
etrwirSdd^rt_edtr



IBRD 13063R
i A         l                              2               -       CRETE
S  %\iJ)                     M E DTERRANEAN  SFA
-.7 v                               r8ENGNAZ     '
$  -             WEST AFRICA
A            i                                                        SENEGAL
l I B Y A                           THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
I  I   I  |   Railways
R6gis du Chemin de Fer du Senegal
Major roads
- _-__ -- Earth roads
- ~ Nh --  *   \    *                           69 National capitals
;  ;   *  -  -  lBoundary of Former Spanish Sahara
.jf1\.                              . *-*- International boundaries
O'.~~                                                         .2020                                   0 e   o
I!  o,.,,1~O KILOMETERS
I    I    G    E  R       /         C     H      A      D             n,,ES
(~~~~
W DJAMENA                      7
G  A
.      0
V)}                                         ° r CENTRAL AFRICAN
*f   t  t    *                 ~~~~~~R E P U B L I C            *
K7  YAOUNDE     \J    19AI
GUIN.                           T              I
J lio    V  -7~10 THECONG          2r--   
JUNE 1986



