Document of
F I L E COM P Y                 The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2174a-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REGIE DES CHEMINS DE FER DU SENEGAL
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR THE
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
January 24, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:           CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00            =     CFAF 245
CFAF 1 million    =      US$4,080
FISCAL YEAR OF THE RAILWAY
July 1 - June 30
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
1 meter (m)       2                 3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (m )           -   10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2)     =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km        =    0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (t)              =    2,204 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOM       -    Bureau d'Organisation et Methodes
OFERMAT   -    Office Central des Chemins de Fer d'Outre Mer
Service Technique et du Materiel
ONCAD     -    Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au
Development
SONED     -    Societe Nationale des Etudes de Developpement



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       Regie des Chemins de Fer du Senegal
Guarantor:      Republic of Senegal
Amount:         US$11 million equivalent
Terms:          20 years including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.45% p.a.
Project
Description:   The focus of the proposed project is a large program of action
which is aimed at improving operational and financial perfor-
mance, and which includes measures to strengthen the Railway's
organization, management, and staff training. To complement
the action program, the project also provides for some impor-
tant physical investments designed to improve productivity.
The main components are: (i) track renewal (about 60 km);
(ii) procurement of track maintenance equipment and materials,
spare parts for motive power and rolling stock, and workshop
equipment; (iii) extension and rehabilitation works at the
Dakar-Bel Air marshalling yard; (iv) a three-year training
program for selected middle- and high-level managers and about
300 skilled laborers and low-level supervisors annually; and
(v) consulting services for studies.
The project will yield direct benefits mainly from rehabilita-
tion of existing infrastructure and rolling stock. If the
proposed project were not carried out as planned, there would
inevitably be a severe deterioration of railway capacity, and
international traffic to landlocked Mali one of the poorest
countries in the world, as well as domestic phosphate traffic,
would be increasingly diverted to more expensive alternate
routes.  An additional risk would be the very negative effects
of interrupting a major management and training program set in
motion during project preparation. The main concern for
physical implementation of the project is the possible shortfall
of local funds; however, the project is based on very conserva-
tive traffic assumptions, and it is likely that the Railway
will achieve higher cash revenues than forecast. In any event,
the Government has agreed to make available whatever funds are
needed to cover any shortages in funds.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated
Project Cost:  The estimated cost of the proposed project is US$14.3 million
equivalent (exclusive of taxes and duties from which the
project is exempt), of which foreign costs comprise US$9.3 mil-
lion (about 65%). A summary table of cost estimates is shown
below:
Local  Foreign   Total
-----US$ Million------
Track renewal
(60 km)                               2.87    1.53      4.40
Track maintenance
equipment and material                 -       1.65     1.65
Spare parts for motive
power and rolling stock,
and workshop equipment                 -      2.48      2.48
Improvements in
Dakar area                            0.41    0.63      1.04
Training                                0.41    1.29      1.70
Consulting Services                      -       0.54     0.54
TOTAL                              3.69    8.12    11.81
Contingencies
Physical (10% on local
track works)                          0.33     -        0.33
Prices (Average 15%)                    1.01    1.11      2.12
GRAND TOTAL                            5.03    9.23    14.26
Financing
Plan:            The proposed Loan of US$11 million will finance 100% of
the estimated foreign exchange component of the project
and 35% of local costs, equivalent to about 77% of total
costs net of taxes and duties. The Railway will finance the
remaining local costs estimated at US$3.26 million equiva-
lent.
Estimated
Disbursements:                        FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82
------(US$ millions)-----
Annual               5.96   3.16   1.24   0.64
Cumulative           5.96   9.12  10.36  11.00
Rate of Return:  The project is expected to yield an overall economic
return of 22%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:         Report No. 1691a-SE dated January 23, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REGIE DES CHEMINS DE FER DU SENEGAL
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR THE THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Regie des Chemins de Fer du Senegal with the guarantee of the Republic
of Senegal for the equivalent of US$11 million to help finance the Third
Railway Project. The Loan would have a term of 20 years including 5 years of
grace, with interest at 7.45% percent per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY*
2.         A report entitled "The Economy of Senegal" (212-SE) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on September 10, 1973. Since then, a series of
preparatory sector missions and an October 1976 basic economic mission visited
Senegal to update the macroeconomic data base and to review the country's
development strategy. The following paragraphs reflect the findings of these
missions, whose conclusions will be included in a basic economic report now
being prepared. Updated country data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.        Senegal is situated at the extreme western part of the African con-
tinent. In the interior, the mainstay of the economy is millet cultivation
and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic consumption, and groundnut cultiva-
tion for exports. Soils are generally poor, and variations in rainfall
periodically cause severe food shortages in the months between the sowing
and harvesting of the next crop. The large river basins -- some of them
fed in the tropical rain zone -- have so far been exploited only marginally.
Land distribution is fairly even. In the western part of the country arable
land is becoming scarce, but in the extreme south-east some good land is
still available. The modern sector of the economy is concentrated in Dakar,
a well organized city of about 1 million inhabitants. The economic base of
Dakar consists of excellent port facilities, an industry which is turning
gradually toward exports, and a small but fast-growing tourist sector.
Senegal's per capita GNP for 1976 was estimated at $390, but average in-
come in Dakar is roughly five times as high as in the countryside.
*    The text of this Section is substantially unchanged from the President's
Report for the Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project which was
distributed to the Executive Directors on January 6, 1978.



-2-
4.        During the 1960s, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual stag-
nation as real output increased less rapidly than population, and per capita
GNP declined. Two factors were responsible for this situation. First, with
independence, Senegal lost its privileged position as the center of French
West Africa, and therefore had to adjust to reduced economic, administrative
and political circumstances. Secondly, in the latter part of the decade,
groundnut production fell due to unfavorable weather and declining export
prices. In the 1970s, a new stage in Senegal's development set in, charac-
terized by a higher rate of private and public investment. Private invest-
ments, which had hovered around 4 percent of GDP in the late 1960s, rose
to 7.5 percent during the period 1970-75. Until 1972, public investments
stayed at around 5.5 percent of GDP, but increased to 7 percent in during the
1973-75 period.
5.        While the 1970's saw a rise in the rate of investment, output and
incomes were depressed in 1972 and 1973 by the Sahel's most severe drought
in over a century, which brought a decline in real national income. After
1973, when weather conditions improved and purchasing power of the rural
population was restored, both agricultural and industrial production shot up.
The long-standing Government program to modernize rainfed agriculture proved
to be very successful in years with better rains. In 1975/76 the groundnut
crop reached a historical record of 1.45 million tons (more than double the
average for the 1968-73 period), followed by a crop of 1.1 million tons in
1976/77, but the 1977/78 crop was again below average because of bad rainfall;
industry grew by about 10 percent per year between 1973 and 1975. Total
production increased in real terms by 4 percent in 1974, about 10 percent in
1975, and 6 percent in 1976, but will stagnate in the following twiD years due
to less favorable crops.
6.        Strong price increases for Senegal's major exports helped to bring
about the economic recovery. The prices of both groundnuts and phosphates
quadrupled over the period 1969-74, providing strong incentives to production.
However, since prices of imported oil and food also increased at high rates,
the gains in real income from the rise in export prices were limited. More-
over, in 1975 international prices for Senegal's exports again began to fall,
almost offsetting the growth in real output. These wide international price
fluctuations had serious consequences on domestic prices, public finance, and
balance of payments.
Public Finance and Balance of Payments
7.        The Government responded with flexibility in the adoption of eco-
nomic policies. In 1974, the Government initially tried to maintain stable
domestic prices in the face of the skyrocketing food import prices. By
end-1974, it became clear that the costs of this policy were becoming ex-
cessive and that changes would need to be made, even though transfers to the
public sector resulting from improved groundnut production and prices were
much higher than in the preceding year. To reduce subsidies and put public
finances on a sounder footing, the Government raised the prices for rice,
sugar, and groundnut oil by 40 to 90 percent. To compensate for the rapid



-3-
increase in basic food prices, Government salaries were raised on average by
16 percent, with actual increases ranging from 60 percent for the lower grades
to 3 percent for the higher ones. The minimum wage was increased by 47 per-
cent, thus raising the entire wage scale of the private sector. Average
consumer prices rose by some 28 percent in six months' time, but the Govern-
ment managed to stabilize prices almost completely thereafter. At the end of
1974, the Government also increased producer prices for groundnuts to bring
them closer to world prices which were at that time particularly high. The
cost to the Treasury of this latter step was expected to be compensated in
large part by additional revenues from the profitable phosphate mine in which
the Government increased its participation while levying an 80 percent tax on
the excess profits accruing from the quadrupling of the export prices of
phosphates in 1972/73. In 1974 and 1975, Government revenues from phosphates
amounted to roughly $45 million a year.
8.        These steps led to an increase in public savings from a yearly
average of US$27 million during fiscal years 1970 through 1973, to US$46
million during fiscal years 1974 through 1976. The higher level of public
savings was doubtless an important factor in stimulating the Government to
increase its expenditure on public investments from a yearly average of US$24
million to US$56 million during the same two periods. In addition to the
rise in investment, purchases of equity and lending to domestic enterprises
by the Government increased from an annual average of US$5 million to US$62
million in FY74, $35 million in FY75, and about US$32 million in 1976, mainly
because of the participation in the phosphate mine and the acquisition of two
foreign-owned public utility companies. The combined capital outlays of the
Government were thus substantially in excess of public savings, and were
financed in large part through foreign bank loans. As a consequence, foreign
debt service carried by the Central Government increased from $8 million in
FY73 to $38 million in fiscal year 1976, representing about 10 percent of
Central Government revenues.
9.        The balance of payments came under heavy pressure in 1973 because
of low groundnut exports and increasing imports of foodstuffs and equipment
goods, and net foreign reserves of the country fell to minus US$15 million.
In the following years the deficit on current transactions was reduced, but
the outflows of private capital related to the acquisition of foreign enter-
prises continued, and net foreign reserves reached a level of minus US$48
million at the end of 1975. This was financed by US$30 million in IMF oil
facilities, and the rest by increasing indebtedness of the mostly foreign-
owned commercial banks with their parent companies. Senegal's membership in
the West African Monetary Union, the European Economic Communities (EEC)
Stabex Fund, and available IMF facilities, lessens the risks usually asso-
ciated with such low foreign reserves.
10.       During 1976, the balance of payments remained under pressure.  The
state marketing board purchased the large groundnut crop from the farmers at
the favorable prices established in 1974, injecting massive purchasing power
into the economy, while the Government continued expansive monetary and
budgetary policies. This substantially increased the demand for imports.
However, export revenues stagnated since groundnut prices were 45 percent



- 4 -
below the 1974 peak, and phosphate prices were down by 40 percent. Price
declines of the same order of magnitude took place in some of Senegal's food
imports, but the net effect on the terms of trade was heavily negative. The
year 1977 did not bring any substantial improvement in the balance of payments
situation, although the groundnut crop was again good. In August 1977 net
foreign assets were down to minus $62 million, and with a 1977/78 groundnut
harvest about one-third below average, use of the existing safeguard mechanisms
is likely this year. Senegal has already been declared eligible for drawings
on the IMF Trust Fund of up to $7.7 million.
11.       The drop in export prices also created a considerable problem for
public finance. The losses on groundnut transactions in the stabilization
fund were, to a large extent, compensated by gains on the domestic sales of
rice and sugar imports, but budgeted revenues from excess profits on phosphate
operations did not materialize, creating unexpected deficits during 1976/77.
Moreover, the decline of phosphate revenues diminished Government's ability to
cover its financial deficits on the Eurodollar market. In January 1977, the
Government decided to adjust its fiscal policies. It postponed all new cur-
rent and capital expenditure programs, increased duties on imports from the
EEC, and is considering an increase in the sales tax and taxes on the export
of groundnut products. It also abolished subsidies on wheat flour, and
reduced fertilizer subsidies by 50 percent. The whole package should improve
Government finances by $37 million on an annual basis which will, to a large
extent, compensate for the loss of phosphate revenues. Finally, in 1977 there
was a recovery of groundnut prices which eliminated the losses on groundnut
transactions in the stabilization fund. One can conclude that the Government
has successfully restored a balance in its current operation.
Prospects and Creditworlhiness
12.       The Government's long-range development strategy remains based
on promotion of agriculture and export-oriented activities. The agricul-
tural program calls for development of areas less affected by rainfall
fluctuations (Casamance and Eastern Senegal) where cash crops other than
groundnuts can be grown. Irrigated cereal production is being developed
in the arid northern part of the country along the Senegal River. This
policy will make the country less dependent on the uncertainties of its
climate and world market prices; but since the majority of the rural poor
are involved in groundnut farming, the Government is continuing its efforts
to promote animal traction, treated seeds, fertilizer use, and crop rotation
to raise the productivity of farmers. The Government also aims at long-term
improvement of the balance of payments mainly through modest expansion of
phosphate mining capacity, promotion of local cereal production to reduce the
heavy burden of food imports, and development of light export industries and
of tourism. The Government is actively preparing projects in these fields,
but because costs are relatively high in mining and other export sectors,
progress in developing efficient investments may be slow, and a cautious view
of the long-term outlook is warranted. In particular, the expansion of
phosphate mining is uncertain owing to capacity increases in other parts of
the world and falling world market prices. With chances for export growth
limited, and substitution of locally produced cereals for imports critically
dependent on very large investments in irrigation, the trade deficit may stay



high, even if the growth objective is cut back to about 4 percent a year,
as compared to an official objective of 5.8 percent. Foreign capital aid
and some commercial loans are expected to be available up to a potential of
$200 million a year during the 1977/78-1980/81 Plan period in order to finance
a widening gap in the balance of payments.
13.       In the medium term, the Government will need a relatively large
proportion of foreign financing for its public investment program.  The share
of the public sector in total investments will go up, partly because of the
critical dependence of the economy on the acceleration of publicly financed
irrigation, partly because of the increased share in ownership and control
which the Government has recently acquired in the most important sectors of
the economy, and partly because of the private sector's low propensity to
invest due to high production costs in Senegal. Unfortunately, public savings
cannot be expected to increase at the same pace as public investments. The
tax effort is already considerable in Senegal, and all additional taxable
capacity has been used to offset the revenue losses in the phosphate sector.
There may be scope for slowing down growth of recurrent expenditures in some
categories of the budget; however, insufficient maintenance of the existing
capital stock, operating costs of ongoing development projects, and efforts of
foreign donors to persuade Government to increase its contribution to their
current programs all augur for higher recurrent expenditures, which in turn
limit the possibility of significantly increasing public savings. The Govern-
ment could further increase taxation of groundnut farmers; but since this is
still the most profitable large-scale production open to Senegal, higher
taxation of this sector would harm the long-term growth prospects of the
economy. Additional savings would have to be generated within the para-public
sector whose efficiency Government is trying to improve for this purpose.
14.       Through the economic stabilization program launched in 1977, the
country re-established itself as a potential borrower of Eurodollar funds.
Should the Government use these funds to finance projects whose internal cash
generation covers the additional debt service, then the availability of
Eurodollars will not worsen the public finance situation. However, if this
borrowing is used to finance infrastructure or social projects which do not
generate cash, the high debt service on these loans would compete with other
recurrent expenditures essential for economic development. Without a suffi-
cient level of public savings, the periodic disturbances inherent in the
Senegalese economy could easily force the Government to a position of having
to roll over medium-term commercial debt. In such a case, the confidence of
foreign private lenders would be eroded, and the country's creditworthiness
would be adversely affected. To avoid such a situation, one important step
would be an undertaking by Government to foreign donors that at least 15 per-
cent of the public investment program would be financed from public savings
(in the Fourth Plan, 1973/74 - 1976/77, public savings financed 30 percent
of public investments mainly because of the relatively low level of public
investment actually achieved). Achieving the 15 percent target during the
Fifth Plan period means a 25 percent reduction in planned investments, and
some reduction in the growth rate of current expenditure which requires,
among other measures, rigorous screening of new projects on the recurrent



- 6-
costs that they may generate. As to foreign financiers, it would mnean that
out of the roughly 85 percent of the public investment program to be financed
by them, a substantial part of the local costs would be covered. This high
percentage of foreign financing would have to be maintained for some years to
give the Government time to make the structural changes required to achieve a
iiore satisfactory contribution to public investment.
1V 5.On the assumption that Government takes steps to maintain a balance
between public investments and public savings, Senegal would remain credit-
worthy for lending on IBRD terms. The Government has demonstrated its commit-
ment to development by increasing public investments between 1970 and 1976 by
19 percent per year in current prices. The development strategy continues to
be based on agricultural production and rural development, to which 27 percent
of the new investment program is allocated. The Government has also demon-
strated its capacity to respond adequately to the problems which its vulner-
able economy is bound to encounter periodically. There are also reasonable
prospects for long-term diversification and growth. Senegal's access to
short-term financing facilities and membership in the West African Monetary
Union also reduces the risks associated with economic fluctuations. However,
lenders (including the Bank) should provide a large part of their assistance
on concessionary terms in order to avoid a rapid buildup of debt service. In
conclusion, assuming the continuation of responsive and sensible policies,
public debt service is expected to increase from 6 percent of export earnings
in 1976 to roughly 11 percent in 1980, and to be kept between 10 and 15
percent in the long run.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
16.       The Bank Group has had 37 operations in Senegal to date.  Total
outstanding lending amounts to US$167.3 million, including eighteen IDA
credits, thirteen Bank loans, two blends of Bank and IDA funds, three IFC
operations, and one blend of Bank and IFC funds. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of December 31,
1977, and notes on the implementation of ongoing projects. Execution of these
projects is progressing reasonably well, except that some operations particu-
larly in highways and education have been affected by the shortage of counter-
part funds due to the Government's continuing difficult public finance situa-
tion, as well as by lack of qualified local staff for key positions. The
Government is very well aware of the need to constantly seek ways to reduce
delays caused by these problems, and particularly of the importance of assur-
ing good management supervision of projects in all sectors. In this respect,
we shall try through the technical assistance project approved by the Board in
January 1978 to resolve on a sector-wide basis some of the issues regarding
the general situation of the country's finances and Government control of
public enterprises and mixed companies, particularly those which are channels
tot Bank Group assistance.



-7-
17.       The Bank  Group's share in total external aid disbursements to
Senegal over 1977-81 will stay at around 16 percent, of which roughly 45 per-
cent in IDA financing. The Bank Group's share in outstanding debt was 21 per-
cent in 1976, and will slowly start to surpass that level after 1981. The
Bank Group's share in public debt service is expected to increase from 3.8
percent in 1976 to about 8 percent in 1981, a rise which is mainly due to the
increase in Bank loans from 21 percent of Senegal's outstanding disbursed debt
to the Bank Group at end-1976 to about 42 percent by 1981.
18.       The objectives of Bank Group lending in Senegal fall under five main
headings. We continue to give priority to rural development, including dev-
elopment of irrigation in the Senegal River Valley Region (e.g., the ongoing
River Polders project, and the Debi Lampsar Irrigation Development project
which we expect to present for consideration by the Executive Directors later
in FY 78), intensification of groundnut production and diversification into
new crops and new regions (e.g., the Sine Saloum agricultural development
project, Terres Neuves Resettlement and Eastern Senegal Livestock projects,
and the Second Sedhiou rice project in Casamance); as in the past, we would
expect our agricultural lending over the next few years to exceed one-third
of the total. Secondly, we have supported diversification of the economy by
lending to the growing industrial sector through the Societe Financiere
Senegalaise pour le Developpement de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT),
a development finance company established with Bank Group assistance in
1974. This diversification objective is being further assisted by a second
Loan to SOFISEDIT approved early in FY 77 which includes provision for de-
veloping an integrated scheme to provide assistance to small-scale Senegalese
entrepreneurs, as well as by a tourism project approved later in FY 77 for
construction of infrastructure and common facilities to support a 2,500-bed
hotel development on the Petite Cote. Thirdly, we have encouraged moderniza-
tion and expansion of the country's infrastructure particularly through
lending in all modes of the transport sector; we are pursuing this effort
through a project for a major extension of the Dakar Fishing Port approved
by the Board in April 1977, as well as through the present project which is
designed to improve the organization, management, and operational and finan-
cial performance of the Senegal Railway. Fourthly, Government has asked us
to help re-orient and expand the country's education system at all levels,
and we have identified a proposed Third Education Project which would help
meet some of the major objectives in the sector, particularly the need for
trained high- and middle-level technicians and managers in the modern sector
and in agricultural development activities, and enable a start in gradually
reducing existing widespread illiteracy. Overall, we remain conscious of
the need to prepare project components in the social services sector (par-
ticularly nutrition and health), within the limits of the Government's ability
to bear the recurrent costs involved. And finally, we are assisting Govern-
ment in increasing its absorptive capacity for planning, executing, and
managing development projects through institutional support within individual
Bank Group projects, and through broader efforts such as the recently approved
Technical Assistance Project for the Para-Public Sector.



- 8 -
PART III: THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
19.       Senegal possesses a fairly well-developed transport system concen-
trated on the Cap Vert Peninsula (including the capital city of Dakar) and
the Groundnut Basin farther to the east, which are the areas with the largest
population and economic activity. Roads are the principal mode of domestic
transport, carrying about 75% of commercial inter-urban passenger and freight
traffic excluding phosphates. The railway system consists of a main line from
Dakar to Kidira on the Mali border, and several branch lines including connec-
tions from Dakar to St. Louis in the north and to the Taiba phosphate mine.
Traffic at the Port of Dakar, mainly phosphates, petroleum, general merchan-
dise, and international traffic for Mali and to a limited extent Mauritania,
has doubled over the last ten years, and now totals about 6 million tons
annually. Aviation centers on the Dakar airport, a major international
transit point for Europe-Africa-South America traffic. Three secondary
seaports and 18 regional airports and airfields are located outside the Cap
Vert region. Traffic volumes on the three navigable rivers are modest and
declining due to substitution by road transport.
20.       The Government's transport strategy aims essentially at:  (i) devel-
oping local transport infrastructure in support of overall economic growth,
particularly in agriculture and fisheries and in the newly developing indus-
trial and tourism sectors; (ii) promoting regional integration, especially
to develop efficient transport links within rural areas, and connections with
Eastern Senegal and the Casamance region in the South; (iii) assuring adequate
maintenance for the already extensive investment in the sector; and (iv) main-
taining Senegal's position as a regional center for international transport
for its own economy, and to a lesser extent for Mali, Gambia and Mauritania.
The Government's ability to do effective sector planning and coordination has
been improved by the creation in 1975 of the Directorate of Studies and Pro-
gramming (DSP) within the Ministry of Public Works, Urban Development and
Transport. The primary responsibilities of DSP are to execute economic and
technical studies, and help to determine strategy and investment priorities
in the transport sector. During its initial years of operation, the Director-
ate is staffed with technical assistance personnel financed by the Bank Group
under the ongoing Third Highway Project.
21.       Bank Group operations in the sector have helped to establish the
basic transport infrastructure, and then to assure its successful maintenance
and efficient use; the greatest activity has been in highways, particularly
in pavement strengthening and maintenance operations, as well as feeder road
construction and improvement. Total lending in the amount of US$48.3 million
equivalent has helped finance four projects in the highway sub-sector, two
directed toward improving the physical infrastructure of the railway system
and increasing locomotive capacity, one in aviation for major improvements
to the Dakar Airport, and two for construction and extension works at the Port
of Dakar; the more recent of these port operations was an FY77 project which
represented a major step in expanding fishing port facilities so that Senegal
can realize the important potential contribution of the industrial fishing
sector to the country's economic growth. Details on execution of ongoing
projects are given in Annex II.



- 9 -
PART IV: THE RAILWAY
Organization and Management
22.       The Railway is a state-owned public corporation under the authority
of the Minister of Public Works, Urban Development, and Transport (MPWUT).
Following a Presidential Decree of early 1976, the Railway now enjoys consid-
erable financial and managerial autonomy. The Railway is administered by a
board of 23 members, including a Chairman nominated by the Prime Minister,
eighteen representatives of Ministries or governmental agencies, two repre-
sentatives of the trucking industry, and three representatives of the rail-
way union. The Board has overall authority for railway administration, but
financial planning and commitments require specific approval by the Ministers
of MPWUT and of Finance.
23.       The Railway has in the past proved highly sensitive to outside
pressures, mainly from a strong labor union. This situation combined with
the lack of qualified personnel, has had an adverse effect on the Railway's
ability to operate efficiently and led to its poor financial performance.
The Government and the Bank have discussed several options for changing the
Railway's administrative structure, including an eventual merger with the
connecting Mali Railway to simplify organization, administration, and opera-
tions of the two systems which were once under single management. The
proposed project provides consulting services to review the relative advan-
tages and disadvantages of various alternatives, and draft terms of reference
have been discussed and agreed. After agreement with the Bank on final
objectives and terms of reference for the study, the Senegalese Government and
Railway will agree with the Malian Government and Railway on items affecting
both countries. All parties will then agree in consultation with the Bank on
how to implement the consultants' recommendations. The study is expected to
start towards end-1978, and to take about one year to complete (Sections 3.03
of Loan Agreement and 2.03 (b) and (d) of Guarantee Agreement).
24.       Operational and financial management of the Railway is the respon-
sibility of a General Manager appointed by the President of the Republic,
assisted by an Assistant General Manager (Technical) appointed by the Minister
of MPWUT following Board approval, and a Secretary-General. Since the enact-
ment in 1976 of specific laws and decrees reinforcing staff discipline, the
General Manager functions with adequate authority. The Railway is now being
reorganized and staffed according to a plan prepared by the Bureau d'Organisa-
tion et Methodes (a Government consulting and training agency attached to the
Office of the President), at the Government's request and in consultation with
the Bank. The reorganization provides for five administrative and four
technical departments each headed by a Director. The reorganization, as well
as the appointment of a new Senegalese General Manager and an expatriate
technical specialist as Assistant General Manager, were all conditions of
project appraisal which were fully met. To ensure that future Assistant
General Managers meet the required qualifications and experience, agreement
has been reached that such appointments would be subject to Bank approval



- 10 -
(Section 2.02 (b) of Guarantee Agreement and Section 3.02(a) of Loan Agreement).
All positions of director and deputy director have been filled, some by French
technical assistants until qualified nationals can be trained under the
project (paras. 26 and 27); all candidates for these positions were selected
and approved in consultation with the Bank.
Audit
25.       The Government's Commission de Verification des Comptes et de
Controle des Etablissements Publics (CVCCEP) is responsible for reviewing
the audit of accounts in para-public sector companies, including the Railway.
However, because the Commission is understaffed, the account reviews are not
done on a regular basis and will not meet the Bank's annual auditing require-
ments. This situation has been discussed with the Railway, and agreement
reached on the scope, form, and timing of future audit reports to be submitted
to the Bank for review no later than six months after the end of each fiscal
year (Section 5.02 of Loan Agreement).
Staff and Training
26.       Total railway staff numbers about 3,300, of whom about 1,600 are
permanent employees and 1,700 auxiliary staff; there are also 28 technical
assistance experts financed by French technical aid through the railway
agency Office Central des Chemins de Fer d'Outre-Mer Service Technique et
du Material (OFERMAT). The Government and the Railway have agreed that tech-
nical assistance staff will be gradually replaced by local personnel, and
have prepared a plan for recruitment of qualified Senegalese which lists
measures proposed to attract and retain qualified candidates and to provide
appropriate additional training, as well as a timetable for implementation.
This plan has been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory, and it will
be updated and reviewed annually in consultation with the Bank (Section 3.04
of Loan Agreement and Section 2.04 of Guarantee Agreement).
27.       The Railway's training activities have to date consisted only of
informal programs carried out in most cases without provision for practical
application, and under part-time instructors without the appropriate pedago-
gical and technical skills. Training has therefore not been very effective,
partly due also to inadequate facilities and equipment, and because technical
assistants in the operating departments have tended to neglect training in
favor of concentrating on their other duties. An attempt was made under
the previous project to step up the training effort, but with very limited
success. The Railway and the Bank have now made a joint effort to remedy
this situation, and a comprehensive training scheme has been agreed consisting
in principle of: (i) a short-term interim program which can be carried out
with resources presently available; (ii) a two-year priority program to start
as soon as Bank funds can be utilized; and (iii) a three-year program which
would follow and consolidate action taken under the priority program, and
which would be initiated under the proposed project. To allow implementation
of this scheme, the proposed project provides for: (a) establishment of a
new training center at Thies; (b) purchase of training equipment and mate-
rials; (c) training of 10-12 Senegalese technicians in Thies and abroad to



- 11 -
become instructors; (d) recruitment of training advisers and expatriate
instructors, and (e) training of selected middle- and high-level management
personnel in Thies and abroad. The program also provides for expansion of
the curriculum to include new courses for about 300 skilled laborers and
low-level supervisors to be trained annually. The necessary design, refine-
ment, and coordination of the proposed extensive training programs will be
done in consultation with the Bank under the responsibility of a highly
qualified expatriate instructor financed by the French technical aid program
who assumed duties as head of the Training Division in October 1977. The
Railway has agreed to make available qualified and experienced personnel for
training as instructors, and to release adequate numbers of personnel from
their various departments for training (Section 3.02 of Loan Agreement).
Traffic
28.       The railway is the only land connection with the transit center
at Dakar for most of eastern Senegal and Mali, and provides Mali with the
cheapest route to the sea for about 70% of its international traffic (see
Map 13064). However, international traffic on the Dakar-Bamako line has
been subject to continuing difficulties, primarily due to operational prob-
lems on both the Senegal and the Mali railways, and to insufficient institu-
tional and technical coordination between the two railway systems (para. 34).
As a result, Mali traffic particularly in bulk commodities such as petroleum,
fertilizers, and cement has increasingly been diverted via the Abidjan route
at unnecessarily high cost. In an attempt to reduce this, the Mali Government
and Railway agreed under a project approved by the Board in May 1977 to take
all necessary measures to allow the Senegal Railway to recapture this lost
traffic (para. 36). The present project is expected to increase the effi-
ciency of the Senegal Railway and allow it to carry out its responsibilities
in this effort.
29.       While the transport of Mali international traffic is the main
justification for rail service, the Railway's financial viability depends
very much on the transport of almost all short-haul domestic phosphate pro-
duction, much of the groundnut crop, and miscellaneous domestic freight
traffic. The volume of freight traffic carried has varied over the past ten
years, increasing from 1.7 million tons in 1965/66 to a peak of 1.9 million
tons in 1971/72 - 1972/73, and dropping again to 1.6 million tons in 1975/76;
the average growth rate over the period was about 3%. The level of traffic
has been determined primarily by the transport capacity which the Railway has
been able to provide (the record traffic in 1971-73 occurred shortly after
six new locomotives were delivered). Throughout the ten-year period, and
particularly in the later years, demand for railway transport has far exceeded
the traffic actually carried, resulting in increasing diversion to other modes
at substantialy higher transport costs.
30.       The Railway carries most of the country's phosphate production
(about 1.5 million tons annually in normal years); but only over about 100 km
between the two phosphate mines and Dakar port. Inefficient railway services
have increasingly resulted in diversion of phosphate traffic to road trans-
port. However, in view of expected improvements as a result of the proposed
project, the Railway should in future be able to carry all available phosphate



- 12 -
traffic, and it has negotiated an agreement with the Taiba phosphate company
defining their individual responsibilities for improving terminal operations
at the mine and the port of Dakar. This agreement has been reviewed by the
Bank and found satisfactory.
31.       The volume of groundnut traffic transported has also declined over
recent years partly because of inadequate railway service, but primarily
because of continuing problems of coordination between the Railway and ONCAD
(Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance pour le Developpement), the
State marketing agency. In view of this experience, only modest increases
in groundnut rail traffic have been forecast. Transport options for carrying
the groundnut crop will be examined in a Government-sponsored comprehensive
study to be carried out by the para-public enterprise Societe Nationale
des Etudes de Developpement (SONED). The study will examine the related
problems and costs associated with these options, with special emphasis on
rationalizing the allocation of traffic flows between road and rail, and
including recommendations for improving terminal operations and the distri-
bution system. The proposed project provides for a contribution toward the
cost of that study, and draft terms of reference have been agreed with the
Bank. The study is expected to start in February 1978 and to take about
one year to complete. The Government has agreed to review the consultants'
report with the Bank, to inform the Bank of recommendations which it has
approved, and to implement those recommendations affecting railway traffic
and operations in consultation with the Bank according to an agreed timetable
(Sections 2.03 (b) and (c) of Guarantee Agreement).
32.       Railway passenger traffic has declined continuously over the past
several years from 3.8 million in 1966/67 to 1.8 million in 1975/76, and its
contribution to total operating revenues has decreased over the period from
25% to about 20%. The drop in passenger transport has been due mainly to
increased road competition following pavement improvements and increased
modernization and provision of passenger vehicles, as well as faster and
more reliable road service compared to the continuing deterioration in rail-
way service. The decline has been particularly sharp on the main line Dakar-
Kidira, and within this section, for short-distance traffic close to Dakar.
Rail passenger fares are lower than for buses, but the difference is rela-
tively small and tariffs are not a decisive factor in the choice made by
passengers on short distances such as Dakar-Thies. International passenger
traffic has increased at a good pace over the past years, and this trend
is expected to continue.
Plan of Action
33.       Traffic and operating statistics over the past ten years show that
railway motive power and rolling stock have been underutilized because of
poor availability and inadequate planning of operations. Also, because of
the Railway's inability to use its equipment efficiently, actual traffic
carried has been far less than the demand for railway transport, and the
excess has been diverted to competitors offering comparable costs and ser-
vices; worse, however, the Railway has even lost access to transport of large



- 13 -
volumes of commodities for which it enjoys an important cost advantage.
In order to achieve the required overall quality and efficiency of opera-
tions, agreement has been reached on the implementation of a detailed plan
of action (Annex IV) with specified targets calculated to allow the Railway
to carry expected volumes of traffic. (Section 4.01 (c) and Schedule 5 of
Loan Agreement). The Railway has also agreed to prepare monthly reports for
review by the Bank explaining its performance vis-a-vis the expectations set
out in the plan of action, and detailing problems encountered and remedial
steps taken. The Railway will also prepare a detailed Project Completion
Report. (Sections 3.06 (c) and 4.01 (b) of Loan Agreement.)
PART V: THE PROJECT
Background
34.        The Bank Group has financed two previous railway projects in Senegal
which provided for extensive equipment purchases and physical rehabilitation
works. The first project started in 1966 (Credit 96-SE, US$9.0 million) and
the second in 1972 (Loan 835-SE, US$6.4 million/Credit 314-SE, US$3.2 million).
Physical implementation under both projects has been very slow, due primarily
to early problems of the Railway in following Bank Group bidding procedures,
and later to the Railway staff's lack of experience in mechanized track lay-
ing, and to frequent shortages of local funds. The Railway's operating per-
formance has been disappointing as a result of poor management, an inadequate
organizational structure and staffing, and generally low productivity. These
problems have affected the connecting Mali Railway since the two railways
basically operate a single system, and parallel Bank Group operations have
therefore been carried out to produce coordinated results. Despite the
inadequate performance of both Railways, however, the projects have helped
prevent the total collapse of operations on the important Dakar-Bamako line
which is essential to both countries.
35.       An audit report on the First Senegal Railway Project issued by the
Operations Evaluation Department on January 10, 1977 specified as major
issues the Railway's poor financial performance, under-achievement of fore-
cast traffic levels, and resulting reduced economic rate of return. These
have been taken into account in preparation and appraisal of the present
project by highlighting the problems and expectations of the Railway's finan-
cial situation; by using a three-fold approach in traffic forecasting ('best
estimate' for the economic and financial analyses, 'target' for establishing
objectives under the plan of action, and 'conservative' for sensitivity
testing); and by ensuring that the estimated economic return is acceptable
under the conversative forecast.
36.        Follow-up projects were prepared for both Senegal and Mali despite
the abovementioned shortcomings, because the Governments have demonstrated
over the past two years a sincere desire to remove the underlying deficiencies
of the Railways by taking strong remedial action to restore their efficiency.



- 14 -
In the case of Senegal, important measures have been taken to strengthen
the Railway's management, financial autonomy, the quality of technical assis-
tance, and to overcome obstructive actions of the trade union. To minimize
the occurrence of any such actions in the future, the Government and the
Railway have agreed under the proposed project to cooperate closely with the
union to achieve smooth implementation of the ongoing Railway reorganization,
to improve staff productivity and the Railway's overall efficiency, and to
ensure the payment of productivity-linked bonuses. Further Bank Group assis-
tance to the two Railways would provide for continued physical rehabilitation
of the Dakar-Bamako line, but more importantly, would provide support to steps
already taken by the Governments and the Railways to improve their operating
efficiency and financial performance. To this end, a Third Railway Project
for Mali (Credit 713-MLI, US$10.5 million) was approved by the Executive
Directors in May 1977.
37.       The proposed Third Senegal Railway Project covers the Railway's
investment plan for 1978/79 - 1980/81 which has been prepared in consulta-
tion and agreement with the Bank. The project is designed to fit into the
Government's overall transport strategy, particularly by allowing the Rail-
way to fulfill its main role in providing the principal outlet to the sea
for Mali's foreign trade, and as the prime carrier for domestic phosphate
traffic; the Railway would also contribute to the continuing effectiveness
of Dakar as a large international port and transit center. The project has
some important physical elements, but its focus is a large training component
to supplement and support a very substantial input of highly trained personnel
from the French railway aid agency OFERMAT, and a program of action aimed at
improvement of management, staff training, productivity, and operational and
financial performance. Preparation of this project has been marked by an
exceptional effort on the part of the Government to cooperate with the Bank's
own initiatives to try to establish the conditions for efficient railway
operation, and significant progress has already been achieved as outlined in
para. 36 above.
38.       Negotiations for the proposed Loan were held in Washington in
December 1977 with a Senegalese delegation headed by Mr. Ousmane Seck,
Minister of Planning and Cooperation. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 1691a-
SE) is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A Loan and
Project Summary is given at the front of this report, and the railway system
is shown in Map 13064.
Description
39.       The proposed project consists of the following components:
(i)  track renewal (about 60 km);
(ii) procurement of track maintenance equipment and material
(switches, gang-cars, and miscellaneous items);
(iii) procurement of spare parts for motive power and rolling
stock, and workshop equipment;



- 15 -
(iv) extension and rehabilitation works at the Dakar-Bel Air
marshalling yard, including telecommunications improve-
ments in the Dakar area;
(v) staff training (a three-year program aimed at improving the
standard of railway operations, maintenance, and safety, by
training and re-training annually about 300 skilled laborers
and low-level supervisors, as well as selected middle- and
high-level managers); and
(vi) consulting services for studies to determine (a) the optimal
administrative structure and ownership of the Railway;
and (b) the least-cost mode for groundnut transport and its
effect on railway traffic.
Cost Estimates
40.       The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$14.3
million equivalent (exclusive of taxes and duties from which the project is
exempt), with foreign costs of about US$9.3 million (about 65%). A summary
table of cost estimates is shown below:
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign   Total
-----CFAF Million----       ---US$ Million------
Track renewal
(60 km)                     702       375   1,077      2.87      1.53      4.40
Track maintenance
equipment and material        -       405      405       -       1.65      1.65
Spare parts for
motive power and
rolling stock, and
workshop equipment            -       608      608       -       2.48      2.48
Improvements in
Dakar area                   100      154      254      0.41     0.63      1.04
Training                      102       315     417      0.41      1.29     1.70
Consulting Services            -        133     133       -       0.54      0.54
TOTAL                   904    1,990   2,894       3.69      8.12    11.81
Contingencies
Physical                       80       -        80      0.33        -      0.33
Prices                        247       274     521      1.01      1.11     2.12
327      274      601      1.34     1.11      2.45
GRAND TOTAL           1,231    2,264   3,495       5.03      9.23    14.26



- 16 -
41.       Cost estimates for track renewal works and procurement of equipment
and materials for track maintenance are based on prices quoted by suppliers.
Costs for locomotive spare parts and telecommunications equipment have been
estimated by the Railway on the basis of recent quotations updated to 1977
prices. Estimates for consulting services (about 64 man-months) are based on
an average cost of $100,000 per man-year, according to recent costs for
similar services in the region. Physical contingencies have been provided at
10% of the local cost of track renewal works. Price contingencies have been
applied as follows: for 1977-79, 9% on civil works and 7.5% on equipment; for
1980-81, 8% on civil works and 7% on equipment. The overall average price
contingency is 15%.
Execution and Procurement
42.       Project implementation is expected to start in early 1978 and to
take about three years to complete. Track renewal work on the international
line and track work at the Dakar-Bel Air marshalling yard (US$3.8 million)
will be carried out by the Railway's staff since they have the necessary
equipment and the work has to be done under traffic conditions. Civil works
contracts for construction of a repair workshop at the marshalling yard and
for the training center at Thies (US$0.6 million) will be too small to attract
the interest of foreign firms, and will therefore be awarded following com-
petitive bidding advertised locally under local procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Local procedures will also be followed for the purchase of trucks and
workshop equipment, and furniture and materials for the training center
(US$0.6 million). Small items of track maintenance tools and workshop equip-
ment costing less than US$10,000 individually (US$350,000 in total) will
be procured through competitive bidding following local procedures, and by
international and local shopping as appropriate, all in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines. Critical spare parts for motive power, rolling stock,
and tampers (to a maximum of US$3.0 million) will be purchased by obtaining
quotations from established manufacturers and by direct negotiations with
original suppliers.  All other equipment and goods financed under the proposed
Loan, particularly track maintenance equipment and material, and telecommuni-
cations equipment (US$4.3 million), will be procured following international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. The Railway has
appointed a supervisor responsible for preparing detailed lists of spare parts
to be purchased for all locomotives and railcars as outlined in the plan of
action, and for ordering required spare parts and keeping the lists updated.
43.       All consultants for the proposed studies and instructors for the
training program will be selected in agreement with and under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. Recruitment of expatriate training in-
structors will be based not only on their knowledge of railway operations, but
also on their actual training experience in developed as well as in developing
countries. Draft terms of reference for the proposed studies have been agreed
with the Government and the Railway. All the above arrangements for procure-
ment of goods and services have been agreed with the Government and the
Railway (Schedule 4 of Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
Financing and Disbursements
44.       The proposed Loan of US$11 million will finance 100% of the foreign
costs and 35% of the local costs of the project, equivalent to about 77% of
total costs net of taxes and duties; the Railway will finance the remaining
local costs, estimated at US$3.26 million equivalent. The Government has
agreed that, in case of any shortfall in Railway funds, it will provide the
amounts necessary or secure alternative financing to assure full implementa-
tion of the project (Section 2.02 (a) of Guarantee Agreement).
45.       Loan proceeds will be disbursed towards the various project com-
ponents as follows: (i) for track renewal, extension of marshalling yard
and improvements in the Dakar area, and the training items, 100% of foreign
costs and 35% of local costs; (ii) for track maintenance equipment and mate-
rial, spare parts for motive power and rolling stock, workshop equipment,
and consulting services (except for the groundnut study), 100% of foreign
costs; and (iii) for the groundnut study (para. 46), 75% of total expenditures.
46.       A condition of disbursement of Loan funds allocated for the track
renewal component will be the completion of improvements to track renewed
under the Second Project to meet modern track maintenance standards. (Sche-
dule I of Loan Agreement).
Financial Evaluation
47.       The Railway's financial position has deteriorated over the past ten
years, despite large subsidies from the Government, because of its low produc-
tivity and resulting poor traffic performance, and also because necessary tar-
iff increases were implemented late. The financial analysis carried out for
the proposed project examined the extent to which expected improvements in
operating performance would allow the Railway to meet its financial commit-
ments. The analysis shows that even if the Railway were to achieve forecast
target traffic and productivity levels, it would still need substantial Gov-
ernment assistance for several years to cover its debt service and its share
of project costs, and would not reach financial equilibrium until at least
1982.
48.       The calculation of operating revenues includes selective tariff
increases implemented to generate revenues 30% higher in 1977/78 than would
have been possible using tariff levels at February 1977. The major part of
this increase was applied between March and May 1977, and the rest was im-
plemented in late 1977. Additional selective increases are assumed to
be made in each year through 1981/82 to produce annual revenues 10% above
those generated by the previous year's tariffs. Higher tariff increases would
jeopardize the Railway's ability to compete successfully with Ivory Coast
routes for international traffic, and with road transport for domestic traffic.



- 18 -
49.       In recognition of the urgent need to restore some financial stabil-
ity to the Railway, and as a demonstration of the Government's commitment to
making available satisfactory rail service, the Minister of Finance, acting
under the instructions of the Prime Minister, is arranging to convert into
equity about CFAF 2.7 billion of the Railway's outstanding debt owed to the
Government, by June 30, 1978. Implementation of this and other similar
measures will result in a substantial improvement in the Railway's working
capital.
50.       In the meantime, in order to preserve the Railway's financial
position during the project period, agreements have been reached on the
following principal items: (i) the Government will provide appropriate
subsidies to Railway working capital if the Railway's cash generation is
insufficient to reach an agreed desirable level by June 30, 1982 (Sections
2.02 of Guarantee Agreement and 5.05 of Loan Agreement); (ii) the Railway
will take appropriate measures to achieve working ratios (based on target
traffic) not exceeding 87% in 1977/78, 83% in 1978/79, 81% in 1979/80,
79% in 1980/81, and 78% in 1981/82 (Section 5.09 of Loan Agreement); and
(iii) to give the Bank an opportunity to comment on the Railway's budget
before presentation to its Board and the Government for approval, the Rail-
way will discuss with the Bank, by March 15 of each year of the project,
the draft budget for the following year; if necessary, the Government and
the Railway will promptly agree with the Bank on appropriate remedial action
(Section 5.08 of Loan Agreement).
51.       A sensitivity analysis was conducted to test the impact on the
Railway's financial position of the following risks: (i) traffic levels
achieved according to the conservative forecast rather than the best esti-
mate forecast; (ii) 10% increase in working expenditures; and (iii) 10%
increase in project costs. The analysis showed that simultaneous material-
ization of all three assumptions, which is however unlikely, would result in
a cumulated shortage of funds over 1977/78 - 1981/82 totalling approximately
CFAF 7.8 billion (US$32 million equivalent). As tariff increases assumed in
the main analysis are already high and close to what traffic could reasonably
be expected to bear, agreement has been reached that these shortages would be
overcome by a combination of additional Government subsidies and borrowing
(Section 2.02 (a) of Guarantee Agreement).
Economic Evaluation
52.       The proposed project is expected to yield direct benefits mainly
from rehabilitation of existing Railway infrastructure and rolling stock
which is the main objective of the proposed physical investments; these in-
vestments are expected to allow a reduction in the number of derailments and
corresponding cost savings, as well as savings in labor maintenance costs,
and benefits from avoided traffic diversion. Overall, the physical invest-
ments should lead to greatly improved operating efficiency, thereby avoiding
continuing increases in operating and maintenance costs. The only project
component designed to increase capacity is the proposed improvement of the
Dakar-Bel Air marshalling yard for handling phosphates, a commodity for which
a steady growth in production is forecast.



- 19 -
53.       The proposed project also includes provision for technical assis-
tance and staff training, elements which account for only about 20% of total
project costs, but which supplement and support a large technical assistance
input by the French railway aid agency OFERMAT which has worked in close coop-
eration with the Senegal Railway and the Bank to make available highly quali-
fied expatriate managers and technicians on temporary assignments.
54.       All the main physical components of the project have been evaluated
separately, and each investment yields an acceptable economic return, as
follows: track renewal, 13%; extension of the marshalling yard, 39%; spare
parts, 57%; track maintenance equipment, 26%.   The overall economic re-
turn for the project (including the investment for training and consulting
services) is estimated at 22%. A sensitivity analysis carried out for each
component shows that even if traffic follows only the conservative forecast
and investment costs are 10% higher than estimated, the economic returns for
individual components remain satisfactory, and the economic return for the
project as a whole drops to 17% which is still acceptable.
Project Risks
55.       If the project were not carried out as planned, there would in-
evitably be a severe deterioration of railway capacity, and international
traffic to landlocked Mali, as well as domestic phosphate traffic, would be
diverted to more expensive alternate routes; this would mean increasing losses
for the Government which is already forced to provide heavy subsidies for
railway operations. An additional risk would be the very negative effects of
interrupting a major management and training program already set in motion
during project preparation. Overall, it is considered safe to assume that the
Government's recent wholehearted support to the Railway will continue, and
that there will be such a marked improvement in operations that the Railway
will have a significant long-term role in domestic and international transport
patterns.
56.       The main concern for physical implementation is the possible short-
age of local funds, a problem which has hampered execution of the two previous
railway projects. Since the present project is based on very conservative
traffic assumptions, it is likely that the Railway will achieve higher cash
revenues than forecast. In any event, the Government has confirmed that it
will make available whatever funds are needed to cover any shortages in funds
(Section 2.02 (a) of Guarantee Agreement).
57.       There is always the possibility that the agreed new railway organ-
ization and its staffing will not bring about all the desired operational
improvements. The Bank has taken an active role during project preparation
and since appraisal in reviewing and approving the organizational structure
and the selection and assignment of senior managerial and technical staff.
For the future, the Bank is committed to follow the performance of the organi-
zation and staff through intensive supervision of the project which will
give early warning of any necessary corrective actions to be taken.



- 20 -
PART VI: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Regie des Chemins
de Fer du Senegal, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Bank and the
Republic of Senegal, and the Report of the Committee provided in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of the project are
listed in Annex III, Section III. Features of particular interest in the
draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements are described in paras. 23 through 52 of
the present report. The draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements conform to the
normal pattern for loans for railway projects.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII: RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments:
Washington, D.C.
January 24, 1978



ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                              Page 1 of 4 pages
SENEGAL             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA S,.EET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 ------------------------------------------------
_______________                                  SENEGAL                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOrAL      196.2                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      80.0                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           GHANA          IVORY COAST   TUNISIA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    200.0 *   270.0 *  390.0*/a              430 .0      350.0       370.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)            3.4        4.4       5.1/a               B.6         5.4         5.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       17.0       22.0      26.0/a              36.0        16.0        31.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        L,3 0      55.0      64.0/a              64.0        32.0        67.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU. AV)         48.0       47.6       47.6               49.8        46.1        44.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          27.5       24.4       23.9               24.4        23.3        16.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)    193.0            ..   158.0                 156.0          ..       125.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       35.9       40.0      40.0                41.5        41.0        51.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 .-       3.0        3.0                3.2         3.1         3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (X)
TOTAL                                 2.1        2.6        2.7                2.6         3.4/a       2.3/a
URBAN                                 3.5        6.0        6.0                4.5         8.7/b       3.0/b
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          22.7       29.0       38.8               28.4        28.0        40.1/C
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       42.6       41.2      44.2/a              46.9        42.5        46.3
15 TO 64 YEARS                       53.6       54.9      52.7taT             49.5        54.8        50.2
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.8        3.9        3.17a              3.6         2.7         3.5
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9        0.8        0.9/a              1.0         0.8         1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2/a      1.2/a      1.4/d              1.4         0.9         1.a/C,d
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           .-         ..         ..               10.9           .       112.2
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..        ..         ..                2.0          .         12.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         1300.0    1600.0       1650.0            3300.0      2600.0      1300.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)           ..       73.0         ..               54.0 /a    82.0         57.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             .-       7.0         ..                6.2           ..       12.0
INCOME DISTRIBUT1ON
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                lb
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            62           ...
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHLOLS             3.21b                  ..                 ..
LOWEST  40X OF HOUSEHOLDS             9-4/b                            ..          ..
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            .5  05 
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            22100.0/C 16640.0  17330.0               1295D0o/b  15320.0       5950.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..    2680.0/C 2100.0                1070.o7F   2830.0/d    730.0/f
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           830.0/d   80.07F  850.0/e                760.60    1150.0       4730l.0f
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         97.0       91.0      97.0               99.0        114.0        94.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              64.0       64.0      65.0                46.0        60.0       63  I/h
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..       28.0/d       **               10.0/c      18.0/e      i4 7 
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..         ..                  ..         ..
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       27.0       43.0      43.0                61.0        76.0      100.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      3.0       10.0        ..                11.0        11.0       23.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             13.0       13.0      13.0                15.0       13.0        13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(X OF SECONDARe)                       .,        9.0                          23.0        7.0        12.QLd
ADULT LITERACY RATE (I)                   *       110.0      io0;.L0            25.0        20.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                1.5/e                                                           2.7/C
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                      12.0..6
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                      __..                                                        60.0/C
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 96.0/f      *.C ..                         ..         ..        2
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                     ..         ..         ..                 ..          .
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         47.0       69.0       66.0               78.0          .        77,0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THou PoP)           6.0        9.0                           5.0        10.0       13.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           41.0       73.0      94.U               338.0       95.0       135.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.1        0.1       0.2                 0.4         0.2        0.1
---------------_-_-_------------------------------------------------__------__---------_-----_------------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNE I
-   Page 2 ci 4 pages
Unles  ohtherise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1910 between 1968 and 1970, and for Mont Recent tEtinste between
197 3 and 1975.
GNP Pee o-pita data are boaed on the Wend Bonk Atlas netbodelogy (1914-76 basis).
Tun1!isia  ban been seleted astSe objectIve neatry because of s-n  sislarity of its  ranny  Ith the Sonegales  ewnoy, inclodng [soorble
proocsfo  the  eeaen o.:            ffIsherIes and teuia..
SENEGAL          1968    Ratast  of pupsleeion under 15 and 65 and ove  to total laorn force;    lb  Poptulation;    Ic  1963;    Id  1962, goo-  neet
bhspita1 establielen.ts ;    /   Total, urban and rural;    If  Data are for wonen   of labor only and refer to Eoropean-ryPe
dwellings ; I Inside only.
1970         Rtittl  of populatien under 15 and 65 and oner to total labor Onon               b  Gov-ereee  boupitale blas1no                 I   IncludIng
aseli.atat nooses ;/d 1964-66.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:       /a1976;    /b  1970-71;          7w  1971;    /d  Ratio of popoIatine under 15 and 63 and ove  to total labor
fame;    it  Govenmet haspita1 entablishneets.
GHANA            1970     /   ExcludIng uneplyed;    lb  Registered, not all practIinig Ln the coun.try;    /c  1966-68.
IVORY COAST     1970    DaSu  to iemigratie  population growth rate is higher than the rate of natural increase ;    lb  l9bS-l0;    /c  Ratio of
population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    Id  Goversmet only, inclodieg oidelves;    In  1964-66.
TUNISIA          1970         D..Su  to esigratiun population growth rate is lowe  than eatrur1 i.ocreau;            /b  1956-66;    /c  1966;        /d  RatIo of
.poplation under 15 and 65  nd over to total labor force;    ie  Covring 4.5  illio- beoteco  of private land, secluding
0.9 million hectarea in ownership, and 2.1 million hectares of collortive land; /f Personne in government services;
/A  GO...rsvaet hospital establialnsents  only;    /h  1964-66;    /i  Encludiog t-chnita1 econy and troheica1 industry;
/l  Registered only.                                  _
tIO, December 1. 1977
DEFINITIONS OP SRCIaL INDICATORS
L..d   (h.. .21                                                                         Ppelastim ter uraise perto  - Population divided by number of prac tng
Total - Totl s-rfac  ura-prising land area and Inland waters,                                  male amd fanle grad nate nurses,  teamed' or 'certified  nurses,. and
Agtic.-  M-s  -eec  ea  nr   f agriculura  area oad temporarily or Pea-                        aeiliary perseml with training or esperiSne.t
tIsl.f-' crps. p-str-, -arket A kitohee gardens or to lie fallow.                        P.D.ati          "Ver itaetl bed - Population divided by n-ber of hospital beds
-rr-  -rkt pri..               -Mavileble in psebie and private genera  so d ap-itelied bospltal end
UN? one caGNP01- l  Per"     iaetmtsa   urn   aktpia                                           rehabilitation  sntses; senldaa nursing hossa  aed establisl-sets for
-caloslaed by  aecocr ---  nhod asWorld tank ArIas (1973-75 basis);                          tuettdia1 and prsvatlve care.
1960; 19/A and 1975 dato.                                                                  Per canit supply af ealtrs  f%. of r-sirantta) - Cup.tpnd fre enemgy
eqoivlet  ofmtod sapEplisa a-alblsh    In o-stry pee capita per day;
,poolatlo and oCa   - caclsic                                                                  available suples conprlas dsestciP prducion, ImLPorts les..          ptr.  and
fonalclid-yea  mIllion)   Aof July first:  if no -vilable, avsragn                      ch-gaa in creek; net suppl inn ... lde animal feed, aneds, quatte  need
of tw  n-d-yea  natiostes; 1 60, 1978 and 1975 data,                                         in fend proeossing and lasses in distribution; requiremets were estimated
by FAO base d on phyinlngiea1 ma.de far ..e-I  ctolity and health tanad-
Population deolc  - ear anure be - Mid-year papsaation par square kilassr                      sring eniramal tnperasune, body nights, age and ass distributIons of
(100 hecaclo  tta  ae.                                                                        opltio, and allowin  liltarwate at house -hold Coalt.
foeaton  ensty  tae  anue  k of axeic. land - Coaputed aabove for               r           cpt aor f  rnit               n  ear day    Protein co-ta   nf per capita
agricultural land only.                                                                      net suply of feud per day; mtspply of food is defined.:anb. shn;rquite-
usr   o   l   -onries eateblished by USDA Er onnic Rse.rc  lrooe
Vital statistics                                                                               proide for a fisno  s11wan,e of 60 gra. of total protnin parday, ad
Cr-do birth rate ear thousad. avrsa   - Anua  live birtba par thouaan.d of                     20 gras of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 gran  shouldheail
d-_year  .popultion; ten-ye.rarisnthl taverages anding in 1968 and 1970,                     protein; abase atandards are lowr than tbene of 75 giea of total protein
sod flo-peur aees.go endIng in 1975 for meat recen.t e.iasies.                               and 23 graa of animal preteis as an vergo for the world, proposed by FA0
_rde death rte' nt tho.e.nd- .-vena - -nua  dMth. per tbhuaad of mid-year                      in th. Third Wloeld Food Sur--ey.
populati_n; ton-yse arit_stic average:eding int1960 and 1970 and floe-                     Par capit. protii sunnly fr-n anIma au.d pnlss - Prctin supply of food
y..r aveag .ediog in 1975 for  -oa t-r:en  et.imae                                           derived fran animals and pulses in greme pee day.
Inatorilty c rte (ithun)  A-.Anua deaths of infania under en  year of age              Set trae   h/iu uses 1-4 - Annua deahs pot thousand in age group 1-4
Per thousad lion births.                                                                     years, to ohildeen in this ae goroup; euggentedusa  indIctotr of
Lifa ene_ct..ncy atbirth (yr.) -Average mahr of years of life  meling  asalntrition.
birth; u-a11y fiv-yea  averages ending in 1960R,1970oad 1975 far develop-
tog w-ntie.Edanaie
irosreprodutlo  rate  - Average staber of live daughters a easet will bease                   Adiuated anrella t ratio - primary schoo  - arel1annt of all agas as per-
iv bet ni-sl reproductive period if abs emperienree present age-specific.                     antage of primary school-age population; itteludes children aged 6-11 years
foril ty rates; uaasly five-year. vraga  ending in 1960, 1970 ad 1975                        boa adjusted fee diff-rst lengtha of primary educasban; for narrs  with
for developing o-trien.                                                                      uieslauain   naletmyece   0 sneesppl  are below
Ponaia ur_. rsoteyi   tota  - Copsed annua  growth rain  of nid-ysar                       or abov- b  offiells o  ags.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                               AdJustd en..n ai  -e naeshool - Canputad as shoe; secondary
Popnlatian grooth rate(.) -rban -Canpused like growth rats of total                            education requires  as ..at four years of appove  primary inareutiun;
population; different definitiom   of urban areas may affect etaparahility of                provides ganara1, eacasional or teacher training intutosfor pnpiln
data enung wo,etrie-.o   1o1  yesr  of age  c:r,p:aoscure re geaes lly. scluded.
Urba esnlaton  7. o  toall- Ratio of urban to stat  population ; different           Yer  fahulu   rvdd (first adstd lees       oa   ers of
definitin   of orb-a areas may affect emoparebilisy of data amog  -outrina.                   sobenliog; as seconadary level, voca.tiona  inatrutio  usy he partially o
cosplataly -ecdodd.
la,e utrucrure lpercest  - Childeo  (0-li yer)   orking-ae. (15-64 years),                   Vocational aonrollaat ft of esndrn       t-faaional  jn-luiasiside
sod  'retre  [65 yearn and ovr) as percentages af ci-am peplatle.                            stnboica, industrial an othaer pr-grn  -ishio  operate independentlyora
ge sesden   rtin- Ratio of papulatin under 15 end 65 and evr ta th.se                     dapraments of sendary lutaittsiana.
(4  ge  I  trogh64.                                                                   Adlt literacy rate Mt   - Litarate adults (able to read and ovite) as Pe-
coaic deonodenr- ratio  -  atie of population and-r 11 and 65 and evr so                     -tanag  of toas1 adult population aged 15 yoars andovr
thelborfrei  ega graup of1564ysas
Palmy elaust    - accepters icaalative   bee) - C,nltive ns- of acceptars                    11iRelk
of hirth-rensr1 deviree under apicee ef national fanily pliseig progrean                   hen   a   a          rban) - Average onhr of Persan  per roain   utnupied
stare inception.                                                      oessvem~~r tieml dwellings in, urbanaras  d-Ieings sac lode a-p-ean-
famIly elseba-asr   tuPerid  n                   Percentages of earnd nasa of                   ts rurs  and unennpiad parse
child-hearing age(15-44 yer)eleue birth-cnat-1 d-vios  to .   alleeid                      D.cuee dellins. withou pled mai t)r   -ittupied conoi ldwellings
cnnia  age croup.                                                                    Sin urba  en"d e    I ral a-a  wthout inside or auaid  piped watr fsrilitiaa
as perrentge of all acopied dwellings.
teeleymect                                                    Access to slentricisy ft ef all dweallings    - Cnetionl dwellings wish
flrllbrfore itbeuand) - Econnically active paonam, inclding aend                         electrinity in living qur!ter  as Percent of tuta1 dwellngs in urban end
forces and aeeplayd boa ene1aieg h-sa-I-,  t aasaane, at;definitions                         rural ara..
in earlua  coutries, are net eparable.                                                     Rural dwellIng cenneosed to al1ntrimity t)-Coopsted as above f orrua
Labor farsinJ rewtr  (11  - Agritesltural labor fovea (in faming, fareasry,                     deellisg  only.
hunig  and fishing) as Par--tga ef tasal labor fans
Unanelead Mt of labor Pee,nml -   mkpelayd an usualy defined an paeasns vwh
an  able and willing te tabs   jab, ass af a jb an a glea  bay, gseined ant                 W g..&.manr  t.m pop  - All type of eaceiver  Pfr -di. banaiate
af aJab, and 9smkieg verb for a specified mfetals    period ast eoanedleg ess                ts geerl pubiIc par thftoed of pepalatims; aeclde  -sligemed recaivara
nab; any wt he eapeanble berasa, easutrife *Aa to difftares dafinltimas,L   megantries, end in yaan sham regiatrasin of radio sass as in affecs;
of ,aapleyd and ame  of data, e.g.., mop1wea  offices  tatitic, swPIm                         datef Prneanst yaaea ny net he  nparable  Iabs met eantrs   abalisbad
aseea,epul.ary osoplapsst iners.,                                                        Ilin fe a.
P"sner earsfan  thee sP-) - Psa"segr cars tProir meter can  esting
Imc   dldeteibutiLa   - Percentage af private Sae  (both in gash and kind)                      les  ha  e tl pennas; includes amb.1oasa, herarses, and military
resis  byrihst 5%, richest 21X, Penms.  lilt, and peemt 4ilt of bma-.vhcls
holds.                                                            glantnigit~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y (Ibb/e meat capl - Annual entsuptien af tedutri.1, eneercia1,
pubic   dprivate, electricity in killnstt beers per capita, g-nrally
Diitribasioa  of land   --henie - Percentages a  land eaad by wealthiest lOt                   basd anp    tdei. data, without al-osane. fee lasa  in grids bet allo--
and pooret 10% oP land ner.                                                                    a  Per  -ena       d peaprta  af slaetriity.
~erit te/v -rnap   - per capita anua   c-aptien in bilogr-
Health and Nutrition                                                                            as:Tistadfa  SeION1  productive plue   t imp-rts ef newsprint.
Population ear pheysician - Pnpulation divided by n,br of practicing
phyairiana qualifIed Pen a eoadira1 enhool at nivereity leve.



88180 I
E11N0MIC LgVELOFhEET DATA                                                     PAgN   3 of 4 rege
3Do_otes in alllose of U.S. dollars)
29TD 19T3 ProJected
1973         1973         1975
Actusl                 ProedamonP l  Eatioted   ProJected    to              to           to                                       ProJected
1970       10T3         1337          19T7         1978         1980      13            75          198D              1930         1975         1980
YMTI10oAI CC-IST
Nounl Dots at 1971 Pi     ad Erhg  Rdtes                         A-err A        I Gdrth Rtn                        Ao Peroet of GDY
1.  Groes  oo-eietd  Prodoct                              893.4        996.3        933.8       1307.3       3089.1        1211.4     0.1           7.1          3.4             99.8        ioo.6           104.1
2.  dabs  roa Tors=  of Trade (+)                           2.0         -3.2          21.2          6.2       -20.8         -.9o4                                                  0.2        -o.6          -4.1
3.  Gross  Desetici  I=oe (1 2)                           895...       889.1        955.0       1021.1 llt973              1159.5    -0.2           7.1          2.T            100.0         100.0        100.0
4.  Iporta 1/                                             306.1        301.8        308.6         309.4        367.l        367.1    -0.5           0.3          3.4              34.2         30.3         31.5
51. xports 8899153j/J481  r aldtC                         062.3        302.8        268.8       720.6          313.0        306.2    _5.4          10.5          2.5             09            26.5         26.3
6. R esog ro    p (  -51                  T3.8                           9           39.           38.8         55.1        93         .             .            . 4.9                                      5.2
7.  Css.aptio=  Eope-dit-res                              799.5        506.1        818.6         810.1        975.3       1030.6      0.3          4.5          3.2              89.3         86.2         88.6
8.  I-veet-st Zxpe=dit-re-  (i-oladidog atoe)             139.7        162.8        IT6.2        1 9.8         139.0        193.8      5.2          5.1          1.5              15.6         17.6         16.6
9.  Daoatic  Savaga (8 - 6)                                95.3         83.0        138.1        141.0          84.9        132.9    -4.7          31.0         -1.2              10.7         13.8         11.4
10   National 8eviaga                                      114.1         99.9        143.3         152.8        103.7        146.1    -8.0          23.6         -0.9              10.0         15.0         12.6
AP===1 Data at Correct Prices                                                                            As Per-est of Total
Iaports
CaPidsl golda                                        83.8        T7.3          90.6        108.8           98          182    21.7          18.8         10.8              23.5         18.7         22.6
Istero-diate go=ds (ed clodiog feels)               45.1         68.7         100.5        160.           . 153        i80    18.1          54.0          2.3              21.2         27.6         22.4
Thess sd related a_ter_ias                          10.9          23.8         6o.9         69.2           67           83    28.5          71.8           5.2              5.6         11.9         11.1
Poodatoffa                             11~~ ~ ~~~~~~           ~~~~~          ~~~~.0  12.1  688  138.8  105  212    33.8        3.2          9.2              27.9         213.3        26.5
Other  onsa_ aio   gd                               44 .3         62.9         32.1 4       o6.2          152          141    12 4          29 9           5.8             22.8         18.3         17.5
fetal M-rc hs=dis             e Oaoxrta CoOT       193.9         360.0        8363         581..          s75          9       22.9         27.2           6.7            100.0        100.0        100.0
Grooodoot plroduts                                  73.6          88.6        141.3        188.2          225          200    -2.3          66.0          1.2              48.5         410.7        35.3
Pboaphates                                          01.9         22.2         103.7        100.T7          47           79     23.2        116.0         -8.7               T.8        20.4          14.0
Psrolepp products                                    14.2        11.4          22.0         32.54          32           42    39            8              5.3              2.8 78.                    74.
Other6.                                                          24E.75     123.7          13.1           1410         3)4    195.0         20.9         12.0             .40. 9        29p9         43 .3
Total Mere-hadi-e Experts  Cfxd)                   151.9         197. 7390.8               )27            552          5        9.0         51.6          4.1             100.0   l 00.0            100.D
Toori.. sod horder Trade 3/
osrerhsolse Trade ooI=ies                                                do-ra9e 1971 = 1OO  (is cFAV)
loport Price Index                                   91.6        121.5        021.3        191.3        162.2        193.2
=port Price Isdec                                   90.5        128.7        191.3         197.9        185.4        254 5
Terc   oPrad  Index                                101.2          94.         113.9         968.1        88.0         77.5
Oxport V=1o  Index                                 132.7         103.9        122.4        149.1        192.0        202.e
VALUg ADLED BY  3ECTOR                                         dAxoal Dats at  1931 Pricean                                       Avser    A        roth  Dates                   As Perce=t of Tat
Agriedotora                                         223.8         194.2        239.0        310d.8XcV 3386            36o.8      -4.6         28.7           3 0             25.0         30.3         29.0
Isd-so  sad MlOoms                                  191.         196.0         219.1        240.0        288.0        335.9       1.3         12.1           8.3215                       24.0         23.77
lories   pdMi=i=g49T7                                             585.4 T      T9T3         469.5       458  5        514.0       2.8         -3.7           1.9             53.5         24.7         42.5
Terviot                                              8935         89.3         933 9       1902.3       1089.1       12104        0.1          1.1          3.4             100.0        100.0        100.0
PU3LC FINAdCE                                        FiPIcal  earn (July 1/J-pe 30)  80 bAll ons of ourre=t CFA  Ar==ca            Aorage  dAx-al Grovth  lasso                      An P -rcest xf GDP
1972'73      1973/74      1974/75      19T5/76      1976/77      1990/81    72/73 1o t.475    74/75 to 60/81               1973          1974         0975         1976         198a
=orreot ReeeiFts                                55.1         55.4         37.3          83.2         98.7          140          18.                  9.5                 19.9         19.6          18.1         18.8         19.5
Correot r.7 Salnxelts                               s_ 49,                                  84           88.3          130           15.3                00.5                10..          17.3         16.3          l7.3        0
Dodgatacoc Isringe                      4.~     ~    ~~~~         ~~~~        ~              ~           ~ ~~3 5.7  9.o  3.1 9  ~ 229       93                   37           2.3          IT5           1.          57
Other PCblie Se-t4r                                   2.4           3.2          0.3          5.9          5.0            7         C                   C                      1.7           1.1          o.6          1.0          1.0
Public  caor onveateent 4/                           14.5          22.3         28.1         31.6         4i1.           73           41.9               15.2                  6.3          7.11          6.4          7.5          9.7
IcRREnT EiPEITGR3 DETAILS (Ce=tral lorerels                                                                                 DETAIL O3 PLh73ED INV35TMEdTS               1972/73 - 1976/77 Plp RDi.li-stios
(As 8 Total Corrals golceoditur_s)                                           Acsuals    1974/75                                                                      Millions of US D211-rs  Perceot of Total
E.ducatio=  pd8 eagrts21.9                                         2             0 22.9                   21.9               Agriculsore                                       140.2                  19.1
8.     U.         7.          7.2           7.2               Irdotrprsd Mioion                                   80.6                 1u.
Igricolt-re                                            5.3          5.6          4.9         4 .5          4                 Poser                                              37.8                   5.2
Other RE-o=d  Slanides                                 7.9          3.5          P.T         6.9           6.9              Tra-rport and Cousocationa                         203.4                  27.7
Oseoral Osevicas o./                   ~~~~ ~ ~~~                 ~~~~~~40.  31 38.9  38.9  140.8              Other170c.
Gtlornl Services0S/                                  415.6          1           18.3        20.4          1.8 3Total DxpsooTtores                                              733.7                 100.0
Total Curre=s Topeoalsurss                          100.0       100.0        100.0              100.0   0N.CING
01102r82  T-9ICATO'S                                 1960         1065         19T7         1975
(Caleolarod    ont- 3-ypsr averaged data)            so           so           so          so                                  r dgssrr  Snoings                                  8                  11.6
1385         1970         13%         1380                             Othe  Collie Irvin8                                   78                 lo.6
Avera                                                ICOR  1SF     9.81         5.C3-_S O x o                                                lid                293 39.9
I       lli El-tiritY                                 0.31         2.03         1.1,     1o.61                              CoIsercial L                                          93                   9.9
Marglxal Oxoastic  Rovirgs Rts                       -D0.14        0.11         0.i6        0.07                            Prins  Sector                                        184                  29
DargRsia Tasixoal Savjngs Rate                        ..           ..           0.17        0.98                                                                                                     lDO.0
LABOR FOP dlCE                              Total  sLebr  Poroe
OUTPUT PER kORiER                 Lp Th=ustE97         1971                                                                   In 0/1/ Tltorn       Perod ot or Av1rlas
1971  1911                                                                                   97~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10119'
Ugriculo re                    811.6                   68.4
Iodustrp                         92.8                    7.9                                                                  203.3                  30.2
srvi-e                          266.0                   22.0                                                                 1090.7                 279.1
Total -1,1736                                          100.0                                                                 o682.0                 350.8
072.7                7no00
.et applieslle       - oil or segligille                     3/  I=cluding Soe-Pacsor
net a-ailbhlo       -- lees thee half tha                    2/  Rogi-resd trade otki;
asulleetoeAt shod           ~~~3/  loDor trad  is ex  -eos  s             I-ete     iot As 1 ieosiocs-
adjoetoacts ade x  the re-ister-d tseds at lIe Ialaros of
4/  loclodieg ito-esco-o finnacei  d coder roreiro sid;
5/  Teeloudeg Osseral  dOileistsrtio-, Defee, Juxtice  ard Polie.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
'ALArNCE  0F PAYMENTS, I'EEPNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts Sn millions of U S/E dollars at current prices )
Actual                                     Provisiona  Estimated                   Projected               10ruti Sate
4972         1271         0972         1973         1274         1975         lAs          1977         1900         21927         199-0        1970-7t        -975-81
SUEAR! BALANCCE OF PAYMENTS
Enports (includi6 NFgS)                     236.8        23C.8        333.4        355.5        601.5        693.3        669.1        682          630          759          854             23.8           4.3
Enmpors (jovioldin  179 )                  276. - 3    -PA4.             .        -403.1       -6905        -793.6        784.6       -813         -42          -94         -1057             23.6           5.9
Aesource Balncee  (X-M)5                   -39.1         -6            3          -19 _ 2.       89.o -100.3             -115.5       -131         -212         -181         -230             20.5          15.1
Interest (net)                              -2.2         -1,7         -2.1          -4.5       -11.5        _21.6         -27.9        -21          -I8          -30          -32             58.3           8.2
Direct Invste  Inoo=e                      -10.2        -10.7        _12.3         -16.4       -26.5         -37.1        -15.3        -10          -10          -15          -21             29.6 A20 1
Workers'  -emluta_ce                       -16.1        -15.-;       -19. A        -t8.         -19.9         -6.3         -5.4         -5           -5           -4           -4            -17.0          -8 7
Other Factor Services                        7.6          869         1D.9          11.7         10.2         13.1          8.0          9            9           10           11              5 9           1.7
C-rrect Tr-srfera (set)                     31.3         44.5          53.3         55.9         63.9         67.5         56.1         53           59           66           73             12.6           1.6
Ba-=ne on Current Accounts                 -23.0        -37:'        -13.2       -03.6          -72.8        -877         -92.8       -s8          -007        --1:76                         30.8 94,9
Pni-at  cDirset T-t-,s                      -0.2           3.2         2.          - :4.8        -5,2         11.5          7.5          0            3           15           21                .12.
Officis  Capital Grants                     11.9        1.6            8.3         19.1         19,4         22.4         23.0         24           27           33           33             13.5           8.A
Public M snd LT L...n
Dinbiro-ensta                             18.6         23.2 9       195           99.2         90.1        76.7          70.3        102          122          190          221             32.8 0' 5
-Repas,oeets                               -4.6         -7 9         -8.4         -22.5       -19.4        -20.2         -23.7        -34          -44          -50          -59             43.3          23.3
Set Dinburse=ents                           14.4          1           O            .l 76.7       30           46.6                      68           7B          I13          162             32.2          23.
Other M ao  LT Losac 1/
Diaturse=ents                             01.0     B     .4         10.9          -            31.3          -            -
_Repays ents               _44.6                        -B.1         -7.9        -27.7        -33.8        -22.4          -0.2         ...          . ...      ... .         ...
Net Distbrse=ents                            7.2           0.3          3.0       -27.7          -2.5        -22..4        -2.2        ...          ...
Cepita1 Trsction-s n-.e. 2!                              -0.5         -7.9          3.4         22.9           9.6        14.2
Chbge in NSt 3eserves (incresnec )          23.6          07          e2.6       -43.9          -7.5         10.          -1.7          8          _74           31          +4O
3RANTS AND LOAN CONNTTMEN"S
COf icial  gents  sod  nrscst-tiOa 3/       47.3         64.2         5G.6         74.0         T7.7         59.5          7
Current ASsOnt                            94                        48.3         94.9         58.3         67.1         54.9
Copital grauts                            11.9         18.6          9.3         19.1         19.4         22.4         23.0
ublic M_ ed 4LT a'sts                        8.4         31.3          9.         ln.9          63.8        1219.4 
Private Antkn nd 11RD                      -            -7          15.           s .6         3.0          7.0         2.
IDA                                        2.1          7.0         11.2         23.7          -           25.0         10.5
Africa  D-ev p.opee.t Fpnd                 -            -            -            -            4.8          6.1
Oth-e M.u tilatertl -                                   1.5          1.1          3.1          5.4          3.7         12.6
Cn--r-mnnte                                4.6          T.2         14.3         59.5         41.5         40.9         37.8
Supp:iers                                  1.'          2.2          3.6         11.0          0.9                       -
Dioncoini  an-titutiot-                    -           03.4          6.3        8i.o           8.2         46.7         24.8
TPtal Grnts  and Loan Coaaitseots           55.7         25L.        115.7        251.9        141.5        218.9        189.3
EYTERNAL DEBT                                   Actual Debt Ontatn-disa  unoeber 31, 1976
Disbursed 3ny                           Percent
WArld Bak                                         14.4.
IDA                                               55.4                               16.5
ther Multiloteral                                  8.7                                2.6
loverTeznets                                    101.5                                 30.2
Ouppliera                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~11.5                      3.4
Pr vste Banks ted lnstitutiocs                  140.2                                 41.7
Souls                                              3.9                                 1.2
Public Dtbts 0.0.i.
rOt5l Pobli0 M and LT Debt                       335.6100
oer M anM i       bt                            100.0b
3hort-ter= Debts
DEBT AND DEB' SERVICE
Public Debt Outat-nding  nd Linbse-d           1970         1911         1972          13'          1974         19'S       P 9'6
Interest o Public DSbt                       1.4          4.4          4.6          7.2         13.6         18.4         17.7
Repa,v=ents on Public Debt                   4.6          7.8          9.4         22.5         19.4         20.2         23.7
Total Public Debt Service                    6.0         12.2         13.0         29.7         33.0         38.6         41.4
Ot0e  lobe ESevice (cot)                     7.9          6.3          7.4         27.2         32.1         21.9
Tota  Debt Secoder (ceo)                    13.8         oA.5         20.4         56.9         65.1         60.5
Burden on 3Eport Earnings (%)
Public Pebt Sor- en                       2.5          5.3          3.9           B.3          5.5          5.5          6.1
Total Debt Service                        5.9          8.o           6.o        16.o I/      13.B 1/        B.7
TDS   Direct Investment Paymeet         10.1         13.2         l0.4         20.9 V/      15.4 Y/      14.2
A-vere,3 Tress of Public Debt
Itterest us I Prier letr DO otd            1.6        4.3          3.6          0.2          6.7          7.6           6.3
Adortic-ti-t us 8 Price Dear Y  0 ned D  5.2           7.7          6,7         16.2          9.6           0.L          8.1
1BRD Debt Outstandin6 apd DiEsursed
0BRD Debt Ds f           btbO1c Orbs 0 sad D  2.2      0.8          1.7          1.4          1.4          3.5           4.4
ISA] Debt as  F Public Debt Service       4.1          3.2          3.1          0.B          1.9          2.D           3.0
IDA Debt O-tstanding and Dioboroed
IDA Debt an 9   blie Debt I and D         9.5          B.4         11.4         10.2         13.0         14.1          16.5
IDA Debt as 6 Public Debt -eevice         1.1          3.5          0.7          0.3          0.7          3.7           3.9
net  epl-l                                                        stuff cotitnt
-  pidabe                                                        il  tr negligibll
cot sonlib Ie sp-- leon tbao bhlf the
but inoluded id  utotl                                            anallent snit shne
1/  Diference bet.eeo Senegal's  public  debt report to the IBED and M and LT leans
-ccedirg to the Cettral Back.
/  sleet- tern copo- l, apd errors  tod         scions.
3/ On ditbursekent baobs.



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of December 31, 1977)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan or                                                      (US$ Million)
Credit Number   Year   Borrower        Purpose          Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Three Loans* and five Credits fully disbursed             7.0    24.8
252-SE         1971   Senegal   Rice Development                3.7         0.1
253-SE         1971   Senegal   Technical and Agri-
cultural Education             2.0         0.1
254-SE         1971   Senegal   Settlement Scheme               1.4         0.1
835-SE         1972   Senegal   Railway                6.4                  0.8
336-SE         1972   Senegal   Housing Site and
Services                      8.0        4.4
866-SE         1973   OPTS       Telecommunications   6.25                  2.6
366-SE         1973   Senegal   Highway Maintenance             8.0         0.5
404-SE         1973   Senegal   Agriculture Credit              8.2         1.0
446-SE         1974   Senegal   Drought Relief                  3.0         0.2
987-SE         1974   SOFISEDIT Development Finance  3.0                    0.4
530-SE         1975   Senegal   Education                      15.0        13.3
S-18-SE         1975   Senegal   Irrigation Eng.                 1.0         0.2
549-SE)        1975   Senegal   Agric. Diversifica-
1113-SE)                           tion                 7.0      7.0        10.8
578-SE         1976   Senegal   Terres Neuves II                2.0         1.1
1221T-SE         1976   Senegal   Feeder Roads           6.6                  4.5
1222-SE         1976   Senegal   Third Highway         15.0                  7.0
633-SE         1976   Senegal   Livestock                       4.2         3.8
647-SE         1976   Senegal   Second Sedhiou                  6.3         6.0
1332-SE         1976   SOFISEDIT Second Development
Finance              4.2                  3.9
1405T-SE**       1977   Senegal   Port of Dakar           6.0                 6.0
1412T-SE         1977   Senegal   Petite Cote Tourism  8.0                    8.0
1413-SE         1977   Senegal   Petite Cote Tourism  5.6                    5.6
Total                                   75.05   94.6        80.4
of which has been repaid              2.10    0.2
Total now outstanding                   72.95   94.4
Amount sold                   0.4                0.1
of which has been repaid  0.4          -        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA***    72.95   94.3
Total Undisbursed                      45.80   34.6         80.4
*  A Loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in 1969
was cancelled on March 25, 1971.
** Not yet effective.
*** Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of December 31, 1977)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Year    Obligor                     Type of Business   Loan   Investment   Total
1967    Societe Industrielle        Fertilizer
d'Engrais au Senegal       Plant                2.45        1.01       3.46
1972)   BUD Senegal                 Vegetable             -         0.87       0.87
1973)   S.A.                        Export
1976)
1974    SOFISEDIT                   Development
Finance Company      -          0.21       0.21
Total Gross Commitments                         2.45        2.09       4.54
Less Cancellations, Terminations                2.30        0.37       2.67
Total Commitments now held by IFC               0.15        1.72       1.87
Undisbursed balance
C.   Bank and IDA
Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. 254         Terres Neuves Settlement Project; US$1.35 Million Credit of
June 18, 1971; Effective January 31, 1972; Closing Date:
March 31, 1978
The project is completed and 300 farmers' families have been re-
settled. Six new villages have been installed. The school is in operation
and the dispensary is nearly completed. Only a few farmers' cooperatives have
been established, but the Societe des Terres Neuves (STN) the State Corpora-
tion in charge of the project, continues its formation efforts. The project
has been successful in providing higher incomes than expected for settlers,
and has attracted families with more adult workers than originally antici-
pated. A Project Completion Report is being drafted following a mission in
October 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. 314/        Second Railway Project:  US$3.2 Million and US$6.4 Million
Ln. 835         Credit and Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective December 29. 1972;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
The original project was substantially modified to reduce track
renewal works in favor of making funds available to purchase spare parts for
track laying and maintenance equipment and for locomotives. Track renewal
has now been completed, as well as procurement for workshop rehabilitation
and track equipment, and orders have been placed for locomotive spare parts.
Rehabilitation of workshops and installation of equipment should be completed
by mid-1978. Material for modernization of freight cars is being delivered,
and the entire modernization program should be completed by mid-1978. As a
result of sustained efforts by the Bank, a new General Manager has been ap-
pointed, and a qualified French engineer has been recruited to fill the new
position of Deputy General Manager. Much improvement is still needed, how-
ever, in management efficiency and training, and this is the focus of the
proposed Third Railway Project presented in this report.
Cr. 336         Site and Services Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of
September 29, 1972; Effective August 31, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Project execution is about six months behind schedule due to delay
in approval of contracts caused by lack of counterpart funds. However, a
first disbursement of counterpart funds took place in February 1977, allowing
work to resume. To speed up the completion of priority infrastructure, the
percentage of IDA funds disbursed has been temporarily increased from 45%
to 67%. This increase was made possible by the postponement of construction
of community facilities beyond June 1978; their construction according to the
October 1976 schedule was no longer justified in view of the slow pace of
plot occupancy. The percentage of IDA disbursement will be reduced after
June 1978 to a level consistent with the balance of IDA funds. Most of these
funds will then be used to help finance the construction of community facili-
ties which should be completed by June 1979. The project will continue to
receive close supervision.
Ln. 866         Telecommunications Project:  US$6.25 Million Loan of
December 19, 1972; Effective June 5, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Large cost overruns have raised the cost of this project from US$8.9
million at appraisal to US$20 million according to recent estimates. A co-
financing formula was successfully worked out which included a loan from the
French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) of US$4 million, new
French suppliers' credits of US$4 million, and an increased contribution
from the borrower, Office des Postes et Telecommunications du Senegal (OPTS).
The new financial package and conditions of the CCCE loan were accepted by
the Senegalese Government, and the agreement would enable the project to be
completed as originally appraised. The impact of the additional investments



ANNEX II
Page 4
on OPT's financial position cannot yet be determined because the account and
financial statements have not been audited recently, and because OPT has not
introduced an analytical accounting system providing for separation of tele-
communications and postal/financial operations. The Commission des Comptes
is currently undertaking the first full-scale audit of OPT's accounts and
financial statements as of the end of FY 76. The Government has authorized
payment of arrears to OPT, but actual disbursement has not yet taken place
due to the weak financial position of the Treasury. As far as the physical
execution of the project is concerned, some progress has been made, but due
to uneven timing of the execution of different components, completion is not
now expected before mid-1979.
Cr. 350        River Polders Project; US$4.5 Million Credit of January 9, 1973;
Effective June 8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project was intended to develop the Dagana Polder with full
water control permitting double cropping on about 2,730 ha for production
of paddy, sorghum, and vegetables; to improve irrigation through flood con-
trol for single cropping on 1,780 ha in the Debi and Lampsar Polders; and
to strengthen the implementing agency SAED with extension staff, training
facilities, equipment, and agricultural research. After completion of the
construction design for the Dagana polder, it was expanded with IDA agreement
to 3,200 ha. Later, primarily because the effects of inflation and adjust-
ments in exchange rates resulted in much higher costs than estimated, and also
because Government decided to introduce full water control for perimeters in
the Delta, Government requested and the Association approved reallocation of
the entire Credit to the Dagana Polder. Although there were some delays in
building construction, physical execution of the irrigation works was good,
and planting for the 1977 season covered about 85% of the targeted area.
Overall, it is estimated that the increased project cost and delay in intro-
duction of double-cropping will be offset by higher output prices, and higher
paddy yields, and the revised rate of return is estimated at approximately the
appraisal figure of 14%. A Project Completion Report will be prepared
shortly.
Cr. 366         Second Highway Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of April 9, 1973;
Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project consists of pavement strengthening of primary roads,
implementation of a four-year maintenance program, and preinvestment studies
and a review of feeder road requirements. The strengthening program was
reduced from 109 km originally scheduled to about 40 km due to construction
costs being much higher than estimated at appraisal, the effects of inflation,
and also because all the unallocated funds under the Credit were devoted to
maintenance operations; the remaining sections are being financed under Loan
1222-SE for the Third Highway Project. Construction was satisfactorily
completed early in 1977, about 15 months later than anticipated. The highway
maintenance program is progressing, but well behind schedule, primarily due
Lo the slowness of Government services in implementing consultants' recommen-
dations, as well as to the shortage of key local supervisory personnel and



ANNEX II
Page 5
funds for operating expenditures.  The Association has agreed with the Gov-
ernment on a program of actions necessary for successful project implementa-
tion. The preinvestment studies for 228 km of primary roads, and the review
of feeder road requirements, have been successfully completed.
Cr. 404         Second Agriculture Credit Project; US$8.2 Million Credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
The 1975/76 season was good: groundnut and cereal production
reached their highest levels since 1969. Results of the 1967/77 season are
not yet available, but fertilizer use did increase from 80,000 to about
100,000 tons. Demand for short and medium-term credit remained stronger than
anticipated, but available credit funds were sufficient to meet requirements.
Government is eliminating the subsidy on some farm implements, and reducing
the subsidy on fertilizers. The on-going study of fertilizer applications
financed under the Credit should provide a basis for policy review in due
course. Major organizational and financial problems still exist at ONCAD
despite technical assistance provided since 1969. Steps taken by Government
in early 1975 to remedy this serious situation--maintaining staff levels,
giving ONCAD management more financial autonomy, and strengthening it with
qualified accountants--resulted in some improvement, especially in accounting.
However, ONCAD's overall performance has not improved, and the organization
remains overstaffed. ONCAD credit requirements attained record levels partly
because of accumulating operating losses, but mainly because of the large
groundnut and millet stocks and prolonged prefinancing for Government's
account.
Cr. 446        Drought Relief Project; US$3.0 Million Credit of December 7, 1973;
Effective February 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is part of the Senegalese plan to rehabilitate people
in drought-affected areas by helping them redevelop and improve their farms
and lands. Equipment and operating costs financed under the Credit have en-
abled some Government services to achieve efficient performance levels, and
overall the project is progressing satisfactorily. Areas destroyed by bush
fires in 1975/76 have decreased by 50% compared with the previous year, and
animal health services have been able to visit and vaccinate an increasing
number of animals, which reflect the reconstitution of the national herd
severely affected by the 1972 drought. The scope of the well digging pro-
gram, the last component of the project, was reduced in agreement between
the Government and IDA, since costs proved to be higher than expected partly
because works involved remote locations and difficult terrain.
Ln. 987         SOFISEDIT Project; US$3.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1974;
Effective November 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
SOFISEDIT was created by the Government in March 1974 for the
purpose of providing long-term financing for development enterprises in
industry and tourism. By September 30, 1977, SOFISEDIT had approved 34 loans



ANNEX II
Page 6
totalling about US$9.2 million equivalent, and 8 equity investments totalling
about US$585,000 equivalent. A second Loan of US$4.2 million was approved by
the Board in September 1976.
Cr. 530         Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 19, 1975; Effective April 22, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
This project aims to help Senegal meet its modern sector needs
through rehabilitating existing vocational training schools, and providing
new ones, for industry, fishing and the hotel trade. The project also pro-
vides practical training for the rural population through an experimental
scheme of 30 village education centers, and creates science and technology
teaching facilities for lower secondary schools as well as building four new
schools. Construction of the science facilities is about 24 months behind
schedule; civil works costs are about 25% above appraisal estimates, and the
Government has proposed constructing 8 centers rather than the 11 originally
proposed. The vocational ugrading center is in operation, with courses
underway to meet the needs of industry. Sketch drawings for the hotel/tourism
school have been completed. The rural education component is proceeding
slowly due to difficulties in coordinating the activities of Government
agencies concerned with the program. The management of the Project Unit
continues to be efficient.
Cr. 549/        Sine Saloum Agricultural Development; US$7.0 Million Credit and
Ln. 1113        US$7.0 Million Loan of May 22, 1975; Effective October 31,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project aims at increasing and diversifying agricultural produc-
tion in the Sine Saloum region through strengthening the activities of the
Societe de Developpement et de Vulgarisation Agricole (SODEVA). Activities
under the project, including the setting up of extension services, are under-
way as planned. Preliminary results of monitoring project output on 100 farms
do not show a significant increase in revenue as a result of the project's
intensification themes. If this trend is confirmed by the results of the next
season, new ways will be sought to bring about increases in production and
farm incomes. On the other hand, results of the promotion of maize production
and the integration of livestock are generally satisfactory. Contract for the
construction of Project Headquarters has been awarded; construction of field
offices and stores has begun. The applied research program on animal-drawn
farming equipment proceeds satisfactorily. Coordination with ONCAD for the
delivery of agricultural inputs and the marketing of project's output remains
a problem.
Cr. S-18        Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Engineering Credit, US$1.0 Million
Credit of May 22, 1975; Effective February 13, 1976;__Clsing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit finances execution of the engineering studies needed for
implementation of the Debi-Lampsar irrigation scheme. A project for execution
of the proposed construction works will be presented for consideration by the
Executive Directors later in FY 78.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. 578        Terres Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal Technical
Assistance Project; US$2.0 Million Credit of August 6, 1975;
Effective November 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is on schedule: 420 families have been settled, 7
villages have been built, 180 families remain to be recruited, and one new
village remains to be installed. All mechanical land clearing (900 ha) has
been completed. The contract for the last 44 km of village access tracks has
been awarded. The timely installation of hand-dug wells and the inadequate
accounting system of the Societe des Terres Neuves are still problems. The
study for the Eastern Senegal Regional Development Plan is underway.
Ln. 1221T       Feeder Roads Project; US$6.6 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of improvement and maintenance of 1,250 km
of feeder roads, purchase of highway equipment and spare parts, and technical
asistance. Contracts for equipment procurement have been awarded, and the
administrative structure for maintenance operations is being established.
Ln. 1222        Third Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of pavement strengthening of 204 km of pri-
mary roads, equipment procurement, and consulting services for preinvestment
studies, highway maintenance, and to develop the domestic construction in-
dustry. Project implementation is well underway. The pavement strengthen-
ing program started about nine months later than anticipated at appraisal,
but work is now progressing satisfactorily. The Government requested Bank
approval to drop about 29 km of project roads from the program and replace
them by 23 km of other roads considered to have higher priority for improve-
ment. Consultants for preinvestment studies have been selected, and work
is expected to start shortly.
Cr. 633         Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit
of June 17, 1976; Effective June 29, 1977; Closing Date
June 30, 1982
The project consists of developing and operating a controlled
grazing scheme, and providing effective animal health, extension and credit
services to some 30,000 livestock owners. Effectiveness was slow because
of delays in the loans of co-financers BADEA and the Kuwait Fund being made
effective. Prior to project effectiveness, Government used about US$100,000
of the Project Preparation Facility accorded by IDA. The 1976/77 vaccination
campaign financed under the Project is underway; the first pastoral unit
has been established, and livestock producers appear to accept the project
enthusiastically.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. 647         Second Sedhiou Project:  US$6.3 Million Credit of June 25, 1976;
Effective November 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is the second phase of the Casamance Rice Project
initiated in 1971 in the Sedhiou district and now completed. The objectives
of the present project are to increase and diversify agricultural and live-
stock production, and raise the incomes of the district's rural population.
The project would be based on improved farm practices successfully introduced
under the first operation. Despite delays in disbursements, Government fund-
ing has enabled the project to operate satisfactorily during the transition
period from the first to this second project. Also, despite a five-month
delay in appointing expatriates, PMU is proceeding satisfactorily to es-
tablish the project organization and management. Wet paddy and groundnut
production exceeded appraisal estimates; however, upland cereals production
was low, which affected credit recovery. Demand for farm inputs remains
strong. Complementary project components are being well planned, and with
the exception of the cotton development component still handled by SODEFITEX,
execution should now proceed rapidly and effectively. SOMIVAC, the Regional
Development Agency of Casamance, is expected to become operational soon.
Ln. 1332        Second SOFISEDIT Project; US$4.2 Million Loan of October 14,
1976; Effective April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
US$4 million of the Loan amount would meet approximately two-thirds
of SOFISEDIT'S requirements for financing the foreign exchange component of
approved industrial and tourism projects through December 1978. The remain-
ing US$200,000 would be passed on to the Societe Nationale d'Etudes et de
Promotion Industrielle (SONEPI) to help develop an integrated scheme for pro-
viding assistance to small-scale Senegalese entrepreneurs.
Ln. 1405T       Dakar Fishing Port Project:  US$6.0 Million Loan of June 7,
1977; Not yet effective; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project has four major objectives: (i) increasing the berth
space available to accommodate industrial fishing vessels; (ii) providing
essential waterfront areas for repair, storage and maintenance of fishing
gear, ice plants, workshops, and administrative offices; (iii) ensuring
maximum revenues by application of effective control over fleet operations
and setting adequate tariff structures; and (iv) studying the requirements for
handling future container traffic. Loan effectiveness is late because of
delays in effectiveness of the loan from one of the co-financers.
Ln. 1412T       Petite Cote Tourism Project:  US$8.0 Million and US$5.6 Million
Ln. 1413        Loans of June 7, 1977; Effective January 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project consists of three major components: (i) provision of
infrastructure and common facilities for development of the first hotel zone
at Sali Portudal, including construction of a 250 bed pilot hotel, and a new
telephone exchange at M'Bour; (ii) renovation on Goree Island; and (iii) funds
for project administration, technical assistance, and studies.



ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) First Bank mission to consider the project: June 1976
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  The Railway, assisted by
Bank staff and French technical assistance personnel
(c)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  February 1977
(d)  Date of completion of negotiations:  December 1977
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:  May 1978
Section II: Special Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(i)  a plan and timetable prepared by the Railway for replacing
expatriate technical assistance staff with qualified Senegalese
personnel has been agreed, and will be updated and reviewed
annually in consultation with the Bank (para. 26);
(ii)  to assure success of the training program, the Railway will make
available qualified and experienced personnel for training as
instructors, and adequate numbers of personnel will be released from
their various departments for training (para. 27);
(iii)  the Railway will implement a detailed plan of action with
specified targets agreed with the Bank, including prepara-
tion of monthly progress reports for review by the Bank,
as well as the Project Completion Report (para. 33);
(iv)  in case of any shortfall in project funds, the Government
will provide the amounts necessary or secure al-ternative
financing to assure full implementation of the project
(paras. 44 and 56);
(vi)  the Railway will take all appropriate measures, and the
Government will provide necessary funds, to achieve specified
working ratio levels (para. 50); and
(vii)  no later than March 15 during each year of the project, the
Railway will discuss with the Bank its draft budget for the
following year, and will promptly agree with the Bank on
necessary remedial actions (para. 50).



ANNEX III
Page 2
A condition of disbursement of Loan funds allocated for the
track renewal component will be the completion of improvements to track
renewed under the Second Project to meet modern track maintenance standards
(para. 46).



ANNEX IV
Page 1
SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Plan of Action
In order that forecast target traffic reach satisfactory performance
levels with the existing motive power and rolling stock fleet, the Railway's
operational efficiency has to be increased by 2% per year starting in 1977/78.
The Railway and the Bank have discussed and reached agreement on actions to be
taken and operational performance indicators to be achieved in 1978/79 and
1980/81.
Prior to Loan negotiations, the Railway satisfactorily completed
the following actions.
(a) preparation of transport plans for the following
main commodities: international traffic comprising
petroleum products, salt, and fertilizer; domestic
traffic comprising phosphates and groundnuts;
(b) determination of required number of trains, types of
locomotives, number of wagons for the main commodities;
Cc) preparation of a new timetable for freight trains on
the basis of priorities established by the transportation
plans;
(d) appointment of three operations supervisors who will
be responsible for achievement of target freight traffic.
One supervisor will be assigned to each of the three main
freight traffic categories: international traffic, phosphate
traffic, and groundnut traffic; and
(e) preparation of transport plans for passenger services.
The Railway also completed the following actions prior to Board
presentation of the proposed project:
(a) preparation of more realistic schedules for locomotive
and railcar maintenance to increase availability;
(b) preparation of short- and long-term spare parts lists
for all locomotives and railcars on a unit-by-unit
basis;



ANNEX IV
Page 2
(c) appointment of one supervisor responsible for achieve-
ment of target availability, and a second responsible
for preparation and updating of spare parts lists and
timely ordering of spare parts;
(d) preparation of coupling plans for locomotives and railcars,
and a priority list for substitution of motive power in case
of motive power shortfalls; and
(e)  introduction of an information system clearly identifying
main bottlenecks in wagon turnaround.
During the project period, the Railway will prepare monthly reports
to be airmailed to the Bank for review prior to the 10th of the following
month, starting April 10, 1978, giving the following information:
(a)  freight traffic by commodity in tons and ton-km;
(b) reasons for traffic shortfalls per commodity in
comparison with target traffic;
(c) actions taken by the appointed supervisor and
management to avoid such shortfalls;
(d) success of the actions taken;
(e) passenger traffic in passengers and pass-km;
(f) number of train delays, reasons for the delays grouped
in categories, actions taken by the appointed supervisor
and management to reduce delays, and success of the actions
taken;
(g) availability of motive power and rolling stock on a type-
by-type basis (e.g. BB500, AAIO, tank wagons, coaches),
reasons for any default of agreed target availability,
actions taken by the appointed supervisor and management,
success of the actions taken;
(h) line locomotive and railcar mileage per day and unit
available, ton-km performed by each line locomotive,
available pass-km performed by each railcar available,
actions taken by supervisors and management, success of
actions taken;
(i) wagon turnaround times for different types of wagons
used for main commodities, description and qualification
of reasons increasing this time, actions taken by the
appointed supervisor and management, and success of actions
taken.



ANNEX IV
Page 3
The Railway has agreed on the following targets to be achieved by
fiscal year 1978/79 and 1980/81:
Targets                         Actual       ----Objectives---
1975/76      1978/79   1980/81
1. Availability of mainline
locomotives (%)
Types of locomotives
BB  500                                    44            55          55
BB 1100                                    54            65          65
BB 1200                                    79            80          80
BB 1600                                    -             90          88
CC 2400                                    45            50          45
Average                                    55            66          66
2. Locomotive breakdowns per
locomotive in stock                          9             8           7
3. Locomotive-km per day and
per locomotive available                   293           322         338
4. Ton-km per one available
locomotive horsepower per year          19,663        21,134     21,987
5. Tons hauled by one available
locomotive horsepower per year              96           110         115
6. Availability of railcars (%)                41            50          50
7. Railcar-km per day and per
railcar available                          421           463         486
8. Availability of wagons (%)                 n.a.           80          85
9. Average load per wagon in tons
(excluding phosphate traffic)               25            27         28
10. Turnaround time for oil tank
wagons (days)                              n.a.           10           9
11. Staff productivity in traffic
units per employee ('000)                  165           181         198






t SENShL  /  W - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MA UR1T A N4"  ' r:  
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                 4
N    A   X   .   _   _  vJ  lo  en Rt \ , v k , ~~~~~~~~~~~ASEKGAL
TRACKTOSE RENEWED
RAIUROADS
-EXISTING PAVED ROADS
--PAVED ROAOS UNDER CONSTRUCTION
GRAVEL ROADSA  
- - - - EARTH ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                Eq.  nN 6
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
INTERN4ATIONAL NOUNDARIES        o,pI        NOrfl 
&I(A 29f)405 i.   -\                                                       O/ DobD_ ogowlO<  k RrrY 
b                   M-ty~~~~g'odoN,~neon                                         ~      _- 
M,oy                                                     N  e d       D.-      B.g                                                                                   B  .k     .1A >  f\G F   I N E N E.
_    _                                                           _
Do,on,e TojboM~~r,cowT., T,.k.-I~
h.  hI            on,do                      ~K,kn
Nd-    oN                                                             0IT-b-  4                              M.b
S   IS 25   3   ~    5   00Komogold '--                                                     ~      oooboO      Tougv.o
MduS                                                  Diana on~~~~~~~\K D.
Sehoo SN'gd.re S~  eii          ~         aoO         P0o 
0 ~~S5DW7SR09DI0S    (DIgI~~~~&~O                  ToonIi~~                                                                                                   -t-
CpSk1rr.o~~~~ Oo~~aooye  G  U  ~~~~ N  E A   B      SAl)            -                                                 RoodofoNi K~~~~N,N koo0Kob
I                                                                                                G    U   F   NE-hw- ..  415B-



