Report No. 1691a-SE
Appraisal of                                                                   FILE Copy
Third Railway Project
Senegal
January 23, 1978
Western Africa Projects Department
Ports, Railways, & Aviation Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:            CFA Francs (CFAF)
US$1.00             -     CFAF 245
CFAF 1 million     -      US$4,081
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
1 meter (m)      2              3.28 feet (ft)
I square meter (I )             10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m )              35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2        0.620 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )        0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                  2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (t)                2,204 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
BOM     -  Bureau d'Organisation et Methodes
CFM     -  Regie du Chemin de Fer du Mali
CFS     -  Regie du Chemin de Fer du Senegal
CVCEP   -  Commission de Verification des Comptes et de
Controle des Etablissements Publics
DOT     -  Directorate of Transport
DPW     -  Directorate of Public Works
DSP     -  Directorate of Studies and Programming
MOF     -  Ministry of Finance
MOP     -  Ministry of Planning
MPWUT   -  Ministry of Public Works, Urbanism and Transport
OFERMAT - Office Central des Chemins de Fer d'Outre Mer
Service Technique et du Materiel
ONCAD   -  Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance
au Developpement



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUIMMARY ...         .................................................   i-v
1.  INTRODUCTION ........................                                           1
2.  BACKGROUND              .................................                       2
A.    Economic  Setting  .................................                   2
B.    The Transport System ......               .......................      3
C.    The Role and Prospects of the Railway  ............                    4
D.    Transport Planning and Coordination  ..............                    5
3.    THE RAILWAY  ...........................................                      6
A.    Organization and Management  ..................           ....         6
1.    Structure  .......        .................... .                6
2.    Governmental Supervision and Control  ........                  7
3.    Organization  ......         ................... .               7
4.    Management  ..        ................................           7
5.    The Railway and the Trade Union  .............                  8
6.    Staff and Wages  ......          ................. .            8
7.    Budgeting, Accounting and Auditing  ..........                  9
8.    Training               ....................................    10
B.    Railway Property  ......            ...........................    10
C.    Operations  ........           ................................    11
D.    Traffic  ........          ..................................    12
4.    THE PROJECT  ...........................................    14
A.    Description and Cost Estimates  ...................    14
B.    Financing of the Project  .........................    18
C.    Execution,  Procurement and Disbursement  ....               ......   18
This appraisal report was prepared by Messrs. P. Levy (financial
analyst), H. Levy (economist), D. Stockmann (railway engineer) and G. Morra
(training officer).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..........    .........................   19
A.   General .........................................   19
B.   Track Renewal Program      .............................   20
C.   Dakar-Bel Air Marshalling Yard ...     .................  20
D.  Spare Parts .......................................   20
E.   Track Maintenance Equipment ...... .................  21
F.   Sensitivity Analysis . .............................  21
G.  Project Risks   .....................................   22
6.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION ...................................  23
A.   Background ........................................   23
B.   Past Finances .....................................   24
C.   Future Situation ..................................   26
D.   Risk Analysis .....................................   30
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....      .............  31
CABLES
1.   Fleet of Motive Power
2.   Fleet of Rolling Stock
3.   Summary of Operating Statistics
4.   Motive Power Performance and Availability
5.   Freight and Passenger Traffic - Actual 1971/72-1976/77;
Forecast 1977/78-1981/82
6.   Target and Conservative Freight Forecasts 1977/78-1981/82
7.   Investment Plan 1978/79-1980/81
8.   Schedule of Disbursement
9.   Financing Plan
10.   Income Account:  1965/66-1969/70
11.   Income Account:  1970/71-1973/74
12.   Balance Sheet:   1965-74
13.   Income Account:  1974/75-1981/82 (best traffic assumption)
14.   Income Account:  1977/78-1981/82 (target traffic assumption)
15.   Income Account:  1977/78-1981/82 (conservative traffic assumption)
16.   Balance Sheet:   1974/75-1981/82
17.   Source and Application of Funds:  1974/75-1981/82
18.   Fixed Assets and Depreciation
19.   Price Indices



-3-
ANNEXES
1.   Terms of Reference for Consulting Services
2.   Organization Chart
3.   Description of Railway Property
4.   Plan of Action
5.   Transport Capacity
6.   Freight Traffic Forecast
7.   Passenger Traffic Forecast
8.   Training Program
9.   Investment Plan
10.   Economic Evaluation
MAPS
IBRD 13063 - West Africa
IBRD 13064 - Senegal






SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        In early 1975 the Government of Senegal and the Regie des Chemins
de Fer du Senegal (CFS) asked the Bank to help finance an investment program
designed to continue the physical rehabilitation of CFS infrastructure and
equipment begun under two previous projects. However, in subsequent reviews
of the railway's operational and financial circumstances in concert with the
Bank, it became clear to both the Government and CFS that priority should be
accorded to improving operating and traffic performance rather than to expand-
ing physical plant and capacity. This led to the preparation of CFS's 1978/
79-1980/81 investment plan which constitutes the project appraised in this
report. The plan's main objective is to improve CFS organization, management,
traffic and operating performance, and finances. Its principal components
are, therefore, staff training and consulting services. Although these ele-
ments of the Bank loan account for only about 20% of the total cost of the
project, they supplement and support a very substantial technical assistance
input by the French aid agency (Office Central des Chemins de Fer d'Outre Mer
Service Technique et du Materiel--OFERMAT). In close cooperation with CFS
and the Bank, OFERMAT has made major changes in the organizational structure
of its technical assistance services including the temporary assumption of
executive posts by expatriate technicians. The physical elements of the
project are also designed to improve performance rather than increase capacity
which is potentially sufficient to handle foreseeable traffic. They comprise
track renewal work, the provision of track maintenance equipment, expansion of
the Dakar-Bel Air marshalling yard, spare parts for motive power and rolling
stock, and workshop equipment. The estimated cost of the proposed project is
CFAF 3.5 billion (US$14.3 million equivalent), net of taxes, with physical and
price contingencies of about CFAF 600 million (US$2.4 million equivalent); the
foreign component is estimated at CFAF 2.3 billion (US$9.2 million equivalent).
ii.       While the two previous railway projects (together with parallel
projects in Mali) have prevented a collapse of operations on the Mali/Senegal
railway system, implementation has been disappointing. The first project was
completed six years behind schedule due to: (a) problems with bidding proce-
dures, (b) inexperience of CFS staff in mechanized track laying, and (c) fre-
quent shortages in local funds. The scope of the second project had to be
substantially changed to provide funds for urgently needed spare parts. The
railway's operating performance has been equally disappointing. This project
is proposed in spite of these shortcomings because the Governments of Senegal
and Mali have demonstrated a sincere desire to remedy the underlying deficien-
cies and have taken drastic remedial action to restore the efficiency of the
railways. The Senegalese Government, in particular, has taken strong action
to strengthen the railway's management and overcome trade union obstruc-
tions. The components of the proposed project, with bilateral technical
assistance, are specifically designed to support the Government's measures.
However, even under the most optimistic assumptions, it will be some time
before signs of recovery are evident.



- ii -
iii.      Senegal's transport system consists of:  (a) a 1,034-km railway
network; (b) a 13,300-km road network, 2,600 km of which are paved; (c) a
deep-water port at Dakar and three secondary seaports; and (d) an inter-
national airport at Dakar and a network of small airports.
iv.       In addition to its importance for international traffic (it is the
cheapest transport mode for about 70% of Mali's imports and exports), the
railway carries almost all the country's phosphate production and a part of
the groundnut crop. International Mali traffic is regulated by a traffic and
customs agreement between Governments and a convention between the railways.
Following Bank advice, the two Governments agreed in March 1977 to suspend
cumbersome customs procedures (introduced in January 1976) until a revised
agreement on simplified procedures can be drafted in consultation with the
Bank.
v.       Responsibility for transport planning and coordination is shared
by the ministries of Public Works, Urbanism and Transport (MPWUT), and
Planning (MOP). MPWUT executes the Government's transport policy, administers
the national h:ighway system and regulates the various transport modes. MOP
has overall responsibility for preparing the four-year investment plans.
Market prices determine the distribution of general cargo traffic between
road and rail. The allocations of the more significant volumes of phos-
phates and groundnuts are determined by an agreement between CFS and the
phosphate companies in the case of the former and from decisions of a Gov-
ernment committee in the case of the latter. The proposed project includes
a study aimed at optimizing the allocation of groundnut traffic between rail
and road.
vi.       CFS was established in 1960 after the Dakar-Niger railway was
partitioned between Mali and Senegal. It operates the Senegalese section
of the international line from Dakar to Bamako and a few branch lines. It
is a state-owned, public corporation under the authority of the Minister of
MPW@UT and administered by a Board whose chairman is nominated by the Prime
Minister. To reduce political interference affecting staff morale, bring an
end to persistent obstructive actions by the trade unions and attract addi-
tional traffic, the Government is considering setting up a mixed state and
private company, with participation of major users of railway services, which
could eventually merge with the Mali Railway. Such a possibility is under
active discussion by the highest authorities of both countries. The proposed
project includes consulting services to analyze the advantages and disadvan-
tages of a merger and to assist in the implementation of such changes as may
be agreed upon by the governments of Senegal and Mali and the Bank.
vii.      Under CFS's present organization, its management has been unable
to coordinate the different departments' activities, improve discipline and
respond to users' needs. Consequently CFS is being reorganized under a plan
prepared by the Government's Bureau d'Organisation et Methodes. The reorgani-
zation provides for five administrative and four technical departments each
headed by a Director, who will report to the General Manager through an
Assistant General Manager. The reorganization and the appointment of a new



- iii -
General Manager and of a highly qualified and experienced expatriate railway
engineer approved by the Bank for the position of assistant general manager
were conditions of appraisal. These conditions were fully met. To make sure
that future assistant general managers meet the required qualifications and
experience, the Government and CFS have agreed that their appointment be
made contingent upon Bank approval. All positions of director have been
filled, some by French technical assistants until qualified nationals can be
trained under the project. To minimize the obstructive action of the union,
the Government has recently taken strong action against uncooperative union
leaders. A new union committee has been selected which works in close coop-
eration with the Government and the railway. Staff morale will also improve
as a result of a recent decree providing for productivity linked bonuses for
staff.
viii.     CFS has about 1,600 permanent and about 1,700 auxiliary staff.
There is almost a complete lack of professional staff. Training has been
generally poor because of the lack of training facilities and a shortage of
instructors. The training component included in the project is designed to
remedy this situation.
ix.       CFS budgeting and auditing procedures are adequate but the time-
liness of audits needs to be improved. Its accounting will be satisfactory
once a new computerized, analytic accounting system becomes operational later
this year.
x.        Some of CFS infrastructure is in bad condition, including about
370 km of track, the Dakar-Bel Air marshalling yard (which has also reached
capacity) and switches. In addition, locomotives are not properly maintained
due to inefficient workshop organization and activity and lack of spare parts.
All these weaknesses are reflected in CFS poor operating performance and are
compounded by an inept operational management, poor staff training and ineffi-
cient operations at the Dakar port railway terminal. The transport capacity
attainable through expected progress in operating performance and use of the
infrastructure improved under the project has been assessed and made the
operational target of the project. A detailed plan of action agreed with the
railway provides the means to achieve this target.
xi.       Under the best estimate traffic forecast (that most likely to be
achieved), CFS freight traffic should reach 2.29 million tons and 4.53 mil-
lion ton-km in 1981/82. This would represent an annual growth of 4.5% in both
tonnage and in ton-km over the 1976/77 level. Main products transported are
Mali international traffic, phosphates and groundnuts. The project will
include measures to increase international and groundnut traffic, and to
expand capacity to carry anticipated increases in phosphate production.
Since operational efficiency is the key to traffic development, freight
traffic could surpass the above best estimate and reach the level set as an
attainable maximum (the target traffic) within the time-frame of this project,
should CFS achieve the operational target. Domestic passenger traffic,
however, is expected to continue declining following the trend of recent
years.



- iv -
xii.      CFS will be responsible for the execution of the project, which
will require extensive Bank supervision. Track renewal and rehabilitation
will be performed by CFS own staff. Civil works of other project components
will be awarded on the basis of bidding advertised locally. Track maintenance
equipment and material will be purchased by international competitive bidding
and international shopping. Spare parts for rolling stock will be purchased
under international bidding except for critical parts which will be ordered
from original suppliers. Consultants will be selected in agreement with and
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
xiii.     The economic evaluation of the proposed investments yields a 22%
rate of return for the whole project, and all individual components are
economically jiustified even under low traffic and cost overrun assumptions
utilized for sensitivity analysis purposes. Benefits from the project will
include reduced maintenance and operating costs of track and rolling stock,
increased utilization of existing locomotives and increased capacity for
phosphate trafEic.
xiv.      Despite large subsidies from the Government, CFS financial posi-
tion has deteriorated to an unacceptable level. This has been caused by
inadequate traffic performance and tariff-setting policies over the past
10 years. The Government has agreed to strengthen CFS finances by waiving
about CFAF 2.7 billion that CFS owes the Government. However, even with pro-
jected traffic and tariff increases, CFS financial position could not be fully
restored before 1985 under the best estimate traffic forecast or by 1982 if
the attainable target level of traffic were achieved. The Government and CFS
have agreed undler the proposed project to include the revaluation of fixed
assets in an inventory to be made by OFERMAT, to show the revalued value of
fixed assets in a supplementary statement, and to charge the accounts of the
year immediate]y following completion of the inventory with depreciation
provisions reflecting the replacement value of the fixed assets.  They also
agreed to (a) make additional revaluations as may be appropriate in consulta-
tion with the Bank; (b) achieve working ratios not exceeding 87% in 1977/78,
83% in 1978/79, 81% in 1979/80, 79% in 1980/81 and 78% in 1981/82; (c) provide
CES with funds necessary to restore its working capital; and (d) discuss draft
arLnual budgets with the Bank prior to submitting them to the CFS board for its
approval.
xv.       Despite the numerous measures already taken and planned, the main
financial risk under the proposed project remains a possible shortfall in
CES cash generation resulting from (a) CFS possible failure to achieve fore-
cast traffic (b) working costs exceeding forecasts and (c) higher than fore-
cast project costs. Therefore a sensitivity analysis of financial forecasts
was conducted under the following assumptions: (a) traffic levels following
the conservative forecast (i.e. a level below the best traffic forecast); (b)
10% increase in working expenditures; and (c) 10% increase in the cost of the
project. The analysis showed that simultaneous materialization of all three
assumptions would result in a cumulated CFAF 7.8 billion (US$32 million)
shortage over 1977/78-1981/82. As tariff increases assumed in the main



analysis are already high and close to what traffic can bear, it has been
agreed that these shortages, should they materialize, would be overcome by a
combination of additional Government subsidies and borrowing, in agreement
with the Bank.
xvi.      The proposed project, with conditions as stipulated, is suitable for
a Bank Loan of US$11 million to CFS with the guarantee of the Government of
Senegal.






SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In early 1975 the Government of Senegal and the Regie des Chemins
de Fer du Senegal (CFS) asked the Bank to help finance a project designed
to continue the rehabilitation of CFS infrastructure and equipment begun
under two previous projects. Because of the extremely poor operational
performance of CFS, which was adversely affecting its finances, the Bank
initiated discussions with the Government which led to the conclusion that
the project should be directed primarily toward improving CFS management and
operations, and consequently its finances. A project was conceived, composed
of technical assistance, training and consulting services, complemented by
the minimum required physical component. To ensure that the Government was
fully in agreement with the Bank's views, formal appraisal was delayed until
the Government took action on the following measures, essential to achieving
these objectives: (i) preparing a reorganization plan, (ii) reinforcing the
authority of the general manager, and (iii) appointing a new general manager
and a new assistant general manager. These measures were carried out by early
1977 with the full cooperation of OFERMAT, and the appraisal mission took
place in February 1977. The staff training and consulting service components
account for about 20% of total project cost. The physical component comprises
track renewal work, the provision of track maintenance equipment and material,
workshop equipment, expansion of the Dakar-Bel Air marshalling yard, and spare
parts for motive power and rolling stock. The cost of the proposed project
is estimated at CFAF 3.5 billion (US$14.3 million equivalent) net of taxes and
including physical and price contingencies, with a local component of about
CFAF 1.2 billion (US$5 million equivalent). The proposed US$11.0 million Bank
Loan would finance 77% of total cost, including 100% of foreign cost and 35%
of local cost. The railway would provide the remaining 65% of local cost.
1.02      This would be the third railway project in Senegal since the country
became independent in 1960. The first (Credit 96-SE, US$9.0 million, 1966)
was fully disbursed in February 1974. Disbursements under the second (Credit
314-SE, US$3.2 million/Loan 835-SE, US$6.4 million, 1972) should be completed
by the end of 1978. Prior to independence, what was to become the Senegal
Railway benefited in part from a US$7.5 million Bank loan (Loan 100-FR) to the
Office Central des Chemins de Fer, a French Government agency managing railways
in francophone Africa.
1.03      Physical implementation of the two previous railway projects has
been disappointing. The first project was completed six years behind schedule
due to (a) the Government's and railway's lack of understanding of Association
bidding procedure, (b) the railway staff's lack of experience in mechanized
track laying, and (c) frequent shortages of local funds. Since spare parts
for idle locomotives and track maintenance equipment were urgently needed,



- 2 -
tlhe track renewal component of the second project was reduced from 175 km
to 28 km and the funds so released were diverted to spare-part purchases.
B,ecause of delays in freight car modernization and rehabilitation of the
Thies workshop, the project is expected to be completed by end-1978
about three yeiars behind schedule. The railway's operating performance
during implementation of the two previous projects has been even more dis
appointing than implementation of their physical components.
1.04      CFS was once part of the Dakar-Niger Railway (DN) which operated
under a single management until 1960 when DN was dissolved. Its assets were
split between CFS, 62%, and the Regie du Chemin de Fer du Mali (CFM), 38%.
Since the two railways basically operate one system, parallel Bank Group
Operations have been made to each to produce coordinated results. Mali was
granted Credit 95-MLI (US$9.1 million, 1967) parallel to Credit 96-SE and
Credit 384-MLI (US$6.7 million, 1973) parallel to Loan 835-SE/Credit 314-SE.
A US$10.5 million Credit to Mali (Credit 713-MLI, May 1977) has been onlent to
the Mali Railway. The Mali Railway's performance in implementing the previous
projects and meeting operational and financial objectives has been slightly
better than that of CFS.
1.05      Despite the inadequate performance of both railways, the previous
projects helpecl prevent the total collapse of operations on the Dakar-Bamako
line. The Governments of both countries have demonstrated over the past two
years a sincere desire to remedy the underlying deficiencies by taking drastic
remedial action to restore the efficiency of the railways. In particular, the
Senegalese Government has taken strong action designed to strengthen the
railway's management and overcome obstructive actions of the trade unions.
FuLrther Bank group assistance to the two railways, including the proposed
project, would provide for continuation of the physical rehabilitation of the
line and, more importantly, for technical assistance to supplement measures
already being taken by the governments and railways to improve their operating
efficiency and financial performance. Progress, however, will be slow.
1.06      This appraisal report is based on information supplied by the
Government and CFS and the findings of an appraisal mission in February 1977
comprising Messrs. P. Levy (financial analyst), H. Levy (economist), G.
Morra (training officer) and D. Stockmann (railway engineer).
2. BACKGROUND
A.   Economic Setting
2
2.01      Senegal covers an area of about 196,000 km , most of which is
located in Sudano-Sahelian Africa. Its population is about 5.0 million and
grows at an annual rate of 2.7%. About 70% of the labor force is engaged in
rural activities, mainly agriculture.
2.02      Per capita GNP in 1976 was about US$390.  In the interior, the main-
stay of the economy is cultivating millet and raising cattle for domestic
consumption and cultivating groundnuts for export. Dakar, a city of about



- 3 -
1 million inhabitants, is the economic and political capital. Some minor
industries, mainly groundnut oil plants and cotton processing plants exist
in other cities. The main mining activity is phosphate rock, which is
extracted from a site about 100 km east of Dakar.
2.03      Economic development was slow between independence (1960) and 1974,
first because of the loss of Dakar's political and economic influence as the
capital of French West Africa, later because of unfavorable weather condi-
tions, with several serious droughts between 1967 and 1973. Rainfall was
satisfactory in 1974 and 1975, and world market prices for groundnuts and
phosphates, the country's two main export commodities, reached record high
levels in those years. World prices for these commodities declined sharply
in 1976, but have increased somewhat in 1977 and are expected to continue
rising, although at a slower pace.
B.   The Transport System
2.04      The transport system consists of:  (i) a 1,034 km railway, (ii) a
13,300 km road network, including 2,600 paved and 3,300 km all-weather roads,
(iii) one deep-water, protected port at Dakar (the only one with such character-
istics in the Sahel zone) and three secondary seaports; and (iv) an inter-
national airport at Dakar, which is an important stop-over on transatlantic
air routes, and a network of small airports.
2.05      Senegal's roads are concentrated in the western regions:  popula-
tion and economic activity are centered in the Cap Vert peninsula and in the
groundnut basin, the latter covering the zones around Diourbel, Thies and
south and east of Sine Saloum. Road links with the east are limited to a
few low-standard connections. One of them, running parallel to the railway
line, is partially paved and will be fully paved from Dakar to Tambacoumba
in 1978. Many of the paved roads were built before independence; most are
more than 15 years old and underdesigned for present traffic loads. A major
reason for road deterioration is truck overloading above the allowed maximum
single-axle weight of 10 tons, particularly by trucks carrying phosphates
from Taiba and Thies to Dakar. Weighing scales purchased under the Second
Project (Credit 366-SE, US$8 million, 1973) are being installed to enforce
axle-load limits. The Third Highway Project (Loan 1222-SE, US$15 million,
1976) focuses on pavement strengthening and highway maintenance.
2.06      Senegal's port and waterway system consists of major international
port facilities at Dakar, supplemented by secondary ports at St. Louis,
Kaolack and Ziguinchor. Cargo through Dakar doubled in the last ten years
and now totals about 6 million tons per annum. Major traffic includes petro-
leum (for the national refinery and for the port's bunkering services),
international traffic for Mali and Mauritania, and phosphates. The port's
financial performance has improved in recent years, due primarily to addi-
tional traffic temporarily generated by the closure of the Suez Canal and the
implementation of tariff increases. The Senegal, Saloum and Casamance Rivers
are navigable during most of the year, but traffic volumes are modest and
declining due to substitution by road transport.



C.   The Role and Prospects of the Railway
2.07      The railway system consists of a main line from Dakar to the Mali
border, a major branch connecting Dakar with St. Louis, and other minor
branches. The railway is the only land connection with Dakar for most
of eastern Senegal and Mali, and provides Mali with its cheapest route to the
sea for its foreign trade. The Senegal-Mali railway route is cheaper than the
alternative Ivory Coast routes for about 70% of Mali international traffic 1/;
for Malian imports, the cost differential between the Dakar and the Abidjan
routes ranges from CFAF 3,600/ton for cement to CFAF 10,150/ton for petroleum
products. However, the Senegal and Mali railways have not carried the volume
of international traffic that the cost differential would suggest as adequate.
From 1972 to 1975 Mali international traffic grew from 204,000 to 252,000 tons
via the Dakar route, but from 84,000 tons to 240,000 tons via the Abidjan
routes.
2.08      The main obstacles to international traffic on the Dakar-Bamako line
are operationaL difficulties on the Senegal Railway line, slow main-line
oaperations in Mtali, and insufficient coordination between the two railways.
In the paralle:L railway project in Mali, the Government and CFM agreed to take
institutional and technical measures to enable the railway to regain traffic
of bulk commodities such as petroleum, fertilizers and cement which have been
diverted to Abidjan at an unnecessarily high cost. Thle present project will
inicrease Senegal Railway's efficiency allowing it to carry out its part in
this effort.
2. 09     The CFS carries most of the country's phosphate production, about
1.5 million toil/year (but only over about 100 km between the two phosphate
miLnes and Dakar port), and a part of the groundnut traffic. While the short-
haul phosphate and groundnut traffic is vital to the railway's financial
v:iability, the transport of Mali international traffic is its main justifi-
cation. The recent deterioration of CFS efficiency and quality of service
has caused substantial diversion of Mali traffic to Ivory Coast routes and
a decrease in groundnut and other domestic traffic. This has weakened the
railway's financial performance, forcing the Government to subsidize the
ra,ilway. If eff'iciency improves, the railway should continue to be the most
economic alterrLative. The institution-building, managerial, training and
physical components of the proposed project are designed to allow CFS opera-
tions to become more efficient. Failure by CFS to meet these expectations
would seriously jeopardize its role in international traffic, worsen its
financial performance and threaten its existence.
2.10      International traffic through Senegal is carried by an international
pcol of wagons allocated by CFS and CFM and is regulated by an agreement be-
twreen the Governments of Senegal and Mali providing for tax-free movement of
goods between the countries. In early 1976, to cut dcwn on smuggling, the two
gcvernments created a complicated system of customs procedure that resulted
in long delays in loading operations and border formalities, hampering inter-
national traffic. In March 1977, the two governments agreed with the Bank
1/   See appraisal report of Mali Third Railway Project (Report No. 1355-MLI,
May 2, 1977).



- 5 -
to suspend the new system. Under Credit 713-MLI the Mali Government committed
itself to consult with the Bank before putting a revised system in operation;
the Government of Senegal has made a similar commitment under the proposed
project. To protect the line from possible political interference, any
substantial interruption in international traffic between Senegal and Mali for
any reason other than technical or other reasons beyond the Governments'
control will be considered a default under the proposed Loan.
D.   Transport Planning and Coordination
2.11      The responsibility for transport planning and coordination is shared
by several ministries and organizations, including the Ministry of Planning
(MOP), the Ministry of Public Works, Urbanism and Transport (MPWUT), and the
Ministry of Finance (MOF). MOP has overall responsibility for preparing the
four-year development plans. MPWUT executes Government transport policy
mainly through two directorates: the Directorate of Public Works (DPW), which
administers the national highway system, and the Directorate of Transport
(DOT), which regulates and controls the transport modes. The DOT director
chairs the Transport Coordination Committee (TCC), comprised of representa-
tives of the various modes and their main users. A third directorate, Studies
and Programming (DSP), was created under the Third Highway Project and is re-
sponsible for transport investment. The DSP, now fully staffed, should help
substantially in improving the quality of transport planning. MOF determines
the amounts to be invested in each mode, establishes the structure and level
of taxes affecting transport and keeps a tight financial control over the rail-
way and the port; a priori financial control of the railway was suppressed in
1975, giving CFS greater management freedom.
2.12      Most domestic traffic is allocated to CFS through special arrange-
ments. Phosphate traffic is subject to long-term agreements between the
railway and the two mines at Taiba and Thies. Rail tariffs for Taiba phos-
phate are substantially lower than road tariffs, and the company uses the
railway as much as possible. Road and rail tariffs are very similar for
the smaller-volume, shorter-haul Thies phosphate traffic. The railway is
studying a lower tariff for Thies phosphate to compete with trucks. Groundnut
traffic is allocated by the TCC; transport tariffs are set by the Office
National de Cooperation et d'Assistance au Developpement (ONCAD) and are
nearly the same for road and rail. Due to CFS's inadequate operating perfor-
mance and the lack of cooperation between ONCAD and CFS, the latter has not
carried as much groundnut traffic as it could despite efforts made during the
First and the Second Railway Projects to increase the railway's share through
mandatory allocations set by TCC. As a result, despite lower rail costs for
medium and long hauls, much of this traffic is carried by trucks. ONCAD's
reorganization, being considered by the Government, would likely help remedy
this situation. A study of groundnut transport from production centers to the
oil processing plants and of rationalizing the allocation between rail and
road is included under the proposed project (para. 4.07).



3. THE RAILWAY
A.   Organization and Management
1.   Structure
3.01      CFS is a state-owned, public corporation.  It is regulated by a
presidential decree of February 1976 replacing the original October 1967
decree. The main objective of the new decree was to expand the railway's
managerial and financial autonomy by freeing it from cumbersome a priori
financial control of the Centre des Etablissements Publics, a department of
the Ministry of Finance (paras 3.12 - 3.14). CFS is under the authority of
the Minister of Public Works, Urbanism and Transport. It is administered by
a board of 23 imembers, including a chairman, nominated by the Prime Minister,
eighteen representatives of ministries or governmental agencies, two represen-
tatives of the trucking industry and three representatives of the railway
union. The Board is responsible for administration except financial planning
and commitments which require specific approval of MFWUT and MOF. Except for
major investment decisions and financial planning, the Board can delegate its
powers to a Management Council, headed by the chairman of the Board and
comprised of representatives of MPWUT and MOF and members selected by the
Board. The Management Council reports its decisions to the Board.
3.02      Under the present set-up the railway is highly sensitive to outside
pressure, main:Ly through its union. In addition, employees consider themselves
as civil servants and have little motivation to improve their performance. A
new corporate and ownership structure would have the advantage of not only
aittracting additional traffic but also lessening this outside pressure.
Thie Government and the Bank have, therefore, discussed changing the railway's
administrative structure and even its ownership. Different options have been
considered; for the present the most practical would be setting up a mixed
company owned -jointly by the Government and public and private customers, e.g.
O0NCAD, the phosphate and possibly iron ore companies, and international
shipping companies like SOCOPAO-SENEGAL.  This railway company could ultimately
merge with the CFM to simplify organization, administration and operations of
the two railway systems.  The highest authorities of Senegal and Mali are in
favor of this mlerger. The Government and the Bank have agreed that the
proposed projec:t would include consultants' services to review the advantages
and disadvantages of such a change. Draft terms of reference for these
services are giLven in Annex 1. After agreement with the Bank on the final
objectives and terms of reference of the study, the Senegalese Government and
railway will have to agree with the Malian Government and railway on items
affecting both countries. Both governments and railways would have to agree
in consultation with the Bank on how to implement consultants' recommendations.
This procedure has been agreed by all parties.



2.   Governmental Supervision and Control
3.03      A "Commissaire du Gouvernement" appointed by decree is in charge
of supervising and controlling the railway on behalf of the Government with
regard to (a) implementation of legal and statutory regulations, (b) recruit-
ment and termination of staff, (c) implementation of financial and accounting
procedures and planning, and (d) control of recurrent and capital expenses
(which is carried out a posteriori). The Commissaire, under changes to
occur as a result of the Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project,
recently approved by the Board, will be part of the staff of the Financial
Control of the Presidency (FCP) which will be in charge of the strategic
control of the entire para-public sector. The Association will provide FCP
with technical assistance under the above project.
3.   Organization
3.04      CFS is being reorganized under a plan prepared by the "Bureau
d'Organisation et Methodes" (BOM) at the Government's request and in consul-
tation with the Bank. BOM, an official Government agency attached to the
office of the President, provides training and consulting services. The
new organization shown in Annex 2, consists of five administrative depart-
ments (General Administration, Economic and Financial Planning, Accounting,
General Inspection and Marketing) and four technical departments (Transport,
Fixed Installations, Rolling Stock, Stores). Each department is under a
director assisted by a deputy director. Administrative departments report
to the general manager through the secretary general and technical depart-
ments, through the assistant general manager.
4.   Management
3.05      The general manager is appointed by the President.  He appoints
managerial and supervisory staff and is responsible for the operational and
financial management of the railway. He may approve contracts up to CFAF 10
million (US$40,000 equivalent). Since promulgation of the February 1976 law
and of two July 1976 decrees reinforcing staff discipline, the general manager
enjoys adequate managerial freedom. This freedom and the availability of a
fast and reliable flow of information once the reorganization is in effect are
expected to allow him to perform his duties more efficiently. The assistant
General Manager is appointed by the Minister of PWUT after Board approval.
While the general manager deals with policy making and planning, the assistant
general manager is in charge of day to day operations. The latter function
requires a strong technical background with considerable experience. To ensure
that future assistant general managers meet the required qualifications and
experience, the Government and CFS have agreed that their appointment will be
contingent upon Bank approval.
3.06      In June 1976 the Government and the Bank agreed that appraisal would
be contingent on implementation of a set of measures aimed at reorganizing and
strengthening CFS management. In compliance with this agreement the Govern-
ment (a) had BOM complete the new reorganization plan; (b) issued two decrees



reinforcing the authority of the general manager; (c) appointed a new general
manager; and (d) appointed an expatriate technical assistant as assistant gen-
eral manager. Since appraisal, the railway has filled all department director
and deputy director positions (by foreign specialists in cases where qualified
nationals are not available) and has appointed a new head of the railway's
training division. The Bank was consulted and approved the selection of this
staff.
3.07      French technical aid will continue to finance technical assistance
to CFS through OFERMAT. The efficiency of the OFERMIAT team has been substan-
tially increased by (a) reorganizing the team, (b) putting most of the 28
French technical assistants back into executive positions, and (c) replacing
unqualified technical assistants by qualified ones carefully selected by
01ERMAT in consultation with the Bank. In addition OFERMAT is providing
aLmost cost-free short-term experts to assist CFS with specific managerial,
technical, financial, operational and training problems.
3.08      Gradual replacement of technical assistants with Senegalese requires
that the Government assign qualified professionals to the railway who will
receive adequate vocational training. The Government and CFS produced a plan
for recruitment: of qualified nationals. This plan, which lists measures aimed
at: attracting and retaining candidates and includes a timetable for its imple-
mentation, has been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory. The Govern-
ment and CFS will review and update the plan annually in consultation with
the Bank.
5.   The Railway and the Trade Union
3.09      The uLncooperative attitude of the railway union has long been
a major obstacle to staff motivation and productivity. After the union
initiated an illegal strike in June 1977, obstructive union leaders were
dismissed. A new union committee selected in October 1977 opened a construc-
tive dialogue with the Government and the railway. This dialogue should be
facilitated by the implementation of a recent decree allowing for productiv-
ity-linked bonuses for the public corporations staff. The Government, under
the proposed project, has committed itself and the railway to (a) cooperate
closely with the Union for achieving smooth implementation of the ongoing
railway reorganization and improving staff productivity, and (b) pay produc-
tivity bonuses to staff.
6.   Staff and Wages
3.10      The following table shows the number of staff, productivity and
staff costs at appraisal of the two previous and the proposed projects:



-9-
1st project  2nd project  3rd project
1964/65       1970/71      1976/77
Technical assistance                             63           44           28
Permanent staff                              1,892         1,907        1,580
Auxiliary staff                              2,261         1,481        1,721
Total                                   4,216         3,432        3,327
Traffic units: total (million) 1/               569          567          549
per employee (units)       135,000       165,000      165,000
Staff costs:  total (CFAF million)           1,626         1,812        2,554
per employee (CFAF)         386,000       528,000      768,000
% of staff expenses to total
working expenses                           67            76           71
1/   Ton-km + pass-km.
Although CFS reduced its staff by 18% between 1964/65 and 1970/71 and by
another 3% between 1970/71 and 1976/77, it was unable to meet its commitment
under the plan of action of the Second Railway Project, which stipulated that
the proportion of staff costs to total working expenses be reduced to 64% by
1976/77. In fact, this proportion is expected to reach 71% in 1976/77 because
inflation and railway union pressure have pushed up wages. The Government and
CFS have agreed under the proposed project to reduce staff costs to 64% of
total working expenses by 1981/82, a level considered attainable because of
the expected effect of cooperation between the union and the railway and
because of the expected increase in productivity as a result of the project.
7.   Budgeting, Accounting and Auditing
3.11      Under CFS present organization, the accounting department prepares
annual capital and recurrent budgets which are reviewed by the management
controller prior to being submitted to the Commissaire de Gouvernement and
the Board. Under the new organization, preparation of budgets will be the
responsibility of the Budgeting Control Division. To become effective the
budget must be endorsed by the Board and approved by the Ministers of Trans-
port and Finance.
3.12      CFS was granted financial autonomy under Law 74-58 of November 26,
1974, effective July 1, 1975. In addition to releasing the CFS from a priori
control of the Centre des Etablissements Publics, the law provides that the
CFS will keep its own accounts instead of having them done by the Central
Accounting Agency (ACC) of the Ministry of Finance. As of July 1, 1977 CFS
own accounting and computing departments are fully in charge of the accounts,
using a new accounting plan.
3.13      This plan, based on one prepared by the consulting firm SOFRERAIL
under a Bank-financed study included in the Second Railway Project, includes
general and analytic and cost accounting.   The CFS accounting department
is headed by an Agent Comptable Principal who reports to the general manager



- 10 -
through the secretary general. His deputy is one of the two French technical
assistants who prepared the plan. The accounting and computing staffs are
generally competent.
3.14      By law, the Government's Commission de Verification des Comptes et
de Controle des Etablissements Publics (CVCEP) is responsible for the audit
of CFS accounts. However, the Commission is under-staffed and consequently
unable to comply with the Bank's annual auditing requirements. Agreement has
been reached with the Government and CFS on the scope, form and timing of
future audit reports to be submitted no later than six months after the end
of each fiscal year. After a comprehensive audit of the CFS accounts from
1970/71 through 1974/75, CVCEP concluded that it urgently needs a comprehen-
sive updated inventory of its fixed assets. This inventory will be carried
out shortly by OFERMAT.
8. Training
3.15      Little progress has been made by CFS in implementing training pro-
grams. Despite the recruitment of a training adviser from OFERMAT in 1975,
training activities are still at a standstill, partly because of the adviser's
inexperience in this field and partly because of lack of training facilities
and equipment, poor work relations between the Training Division (TD) and the
operating departments, and a shortage of instructors.  Notwithstanding the
general emphasLs on training in their terms of reference, the training actually
carried out by the technical assistants in the operating departments has been
minimal due to concentration on their other duties or their lack of training
experience. The training component included in the proposed project will
imnprove the quality of CFS staff by establishing training facilities, providing
adlditional expatriate instructors and training equipment, adding new programs
for skilled laborers and low-level supervisors, and providing training on-the-
job and abroad for high-level managerial and mid-level supervisory staff. A
highly qualified French instructor financed under the French technical aid
program was appointed head of the Training Division in October 1977. He is
in charge of refining and coordinating CFS extensive training programs.
B.   Railway Property
3.16      The meter-gauge CFS is 1,034 km long with only 70 km of double track
between Dakar and Thies. On the international line to Mali, 271 km of track
was renewed uncder the two previous projects; the remaining 373 km of track is
in poor condition. The capacity of the Dakar-Bel Air marshalling yard is not
sufficient to handle the forecast phosphate traffic.  Signaling and telecom-
munication equipment are adequate for present traffic except in the Dakar
area. The completely dieselized motive power fleet consists of 33 line
locomotives, 28 shunters and 9 railcars. Five old line locomotives will be
scrapped during 1977/78, and three new line locomotives were supplied in 1977
under CCCE financing.  CFS has allocated 28 passenger coaches to international
traffic and 98 coaches including 28 trailers to national traffic. The wagon
fleet consists of 887 wagons for commercial traffic of which 202 are allocated
to international traffic; 716 are owned by CFS and 171 by private companies.



- 11 -
About 65% of CFS fleet is more than 25 years old; 75 new wagons ordered undesr
CCCE financing modernized the fleet in late 1977. The workshop at Thies is
adequately equipped. Tables 1 and 2 and Annex 3 give details of railway
track, equipment, motive power and rolling stock.
C.   Operations
3.17      Inefficient management, lack of staff motivation and discipline,
and low training standards are the main reasons behind the railway's poor
traffic performance. Table 3 summarizes available traffic and operating
statistics from 1970/71 to 1975/76, showing that CFS under-utilizes its
motive power and rolling stock because of poor availability and inadequate
operation planning. The statistics for 1976/77 continue to reflect a de-
teriorating trend, because the changes in organization and personnel were
not made until late in the 1976/77 fiscal year (April 1977).
3.18      To improve the quality and efficiency of CFS operations, CFS and
the Bank have agreed upon a plan of action with specified targets (Annex 4).
The plan will permit CFS to optimize availability and utilization of railway
equipment in order to carry target traffic (para. 3.21). Achievement of
this traffic would require a low 2% per year improvement in CFS operational
performance during the next four years. This will necessitate improvements in
fleet availability and utilization, which in turn will require immediate and
substantial improvement in workshop efficiency and traffic patterns.
3.19      An assessment of CFS attainable capacity for freight transport,
using expected improvements, is presented in Annex 5. Based on the assessed
capacity, on origin-destination and seasonal variations of traffic, and on
shippers' service needs, CFS prepared transportation plans acceptable to the
Bank to increase its traffic of main commodities. These plans estimate the
required number of trains, types of locomotives and number of wagons. Existing
timetables have been revised accordingly. CFS has appointed supervisors
responsible for optimizing the transport of each of the major commodities.
3.20      CFS has examined the pattern of its passenger traffic.  In accord-
ance with forecasts (para. 3.29) it has allocated the limited fleet of pas-
senger cars and railcars to the most profitable long-distance passenger
traffic and has restructured passenger timetables accordingly.
3.21      The availability of main-line locomotives (Table 4) decreased
steadily from a high of 61% in 1970/71 to a low of nearly 49% in 1974/75.
The low average availability stems mainly from the poor performance achieved
by five, 22-year old locomotives, which will be scrapped during 1977/78, and
the four ten-year-old CC2400 locomotives, which had in 1975/76 an availability
of only 44%. CFS will increase its efforts to improve the availability of
motive power and rolling stock. Spare parts and three new locomotives,
financed under the Second Railway Project and French aid respectively, and
additional spare parts provided for under the proposed project will contribute
to increasing locomotive availability. In line with the plan of action



- 12 -
CFS prepared schedules for preventive maintenance for all locomotives and
railcars and appointed a supervisor responsible for achieving the target
availability. The target availability of the locomotive fleet is 66% by
1978/79.
3.22      Low mileage per available locomotive (Table 4) is mainly explained
by inadequate traffic planning. In addition, a high number of derailments,
speed restrictions on sections with light and old rails, slow marshalling yard
operations and locomotive failures hinder train operations. The renewal of 60
km of track, the installation of new switches, the improvement of the Dakar-
Bel Air marshalling yard, the training program and the operational study for
the entire Dakar - Bamako line included in the Third Mali Railway Project will
contribute to improving utilization. CFS has set up a plan to optimize
locomotive and railcar utilization and a priority list for replacement of
locomotives an,d for cancellation of trains in case of locomotive failures. To
suipervise wagon turn-around times more effectively, CFS has improved its
information system to warn stations, loading points and the head office of
unduly long waits of wagons.
3.23      As outlined in the plan of action, CFS has agreed to prepare through-
out the project period monthly reports to be sent to the Bank on freight and
passenger traffic performance, execution of transport plans, and availability
and utilization of equipment, detailing problems encountered and remedial
actions taken.
D.  Traffic
Freight Traffic
3.24      As a result of the railway's inability to use equipment efficiently,
demand has exceeded traffic for the last ten years. The traffic CFS was
unable to carry has been diverted to competitors offering comparable costs
and services. However, the railway has also lost access to transport of even
larger volumes of commodities for which it enjoys a major cost advantage.
The main freight items carried by CFS are:  (a)  international traffic,
250,000-300,000 tons annually, consisting of (i) Malian imports: petroleum
products (about 35,000 tons/year), salt (25,000 tons/year) and foodstuffs
(60,000 tons/year); (ii) Malian exports: groundnut products (about 30,000
tons/year) and cotton and cotton products (about 10,000 tons/year); and (iii)
ot:her Mali exports and imports; (b) phosphates (about 1.4 million tons/year);
(c) groundnuts (about 100,000 tons/year).
3.25      Table 5 shows traffic from 1971/72 to 1976/77 and the best estimate
forecast for the period 1976/77 to 1981/82; details are given in Annex 6. The
best estimate is used in the main analysis of the economic and financial
evaluation. Alternative forecasts, one "conservative" based on the his-
torical growth of traffic and constrained by limited railway capacity and a
"target" forecast representing the maximum traffic that could be carried out
by CFS under optimum railway capacity and marketing performance, are presented
in Table 6. Under the best estimate forecast, total freight traffic should



- 13 -
reach 2.29 million tons and 453 million ton-km in 1981/82, representing an
annual growth rate of 4.5% in tonnage and ton-km based on the 1976-77 level.
The annual growth rate in tons (similar rates in ton-km) during the period
1976/77-1981/82 by main traffic category, would be: 5.2% in international
traffic, 4.8% in phosphates and 5% in groundnuts; general cargo will decline.
Most of the expected growth in international traffic will consist of petroleum
products, which are expected to climb from 44,000 tons in 1975/76 to 75,000
tons in 1981/82. This increase will result from three measures taken in the
Mali Third Railway Project: provision of 18 new tank wagons; finalization
of long-term agreements between the oil companies, CFS and CFM for the
transport of petroleum products; and the recent agreement between the Sene-
galese Government and the oil companies to load petroleum products for Mali at
a single depot instead of three. During the last four months of 1976/77, the
international oil traffic to Mali reached an average of 5,000 tons per month.
Mali exports also increased slightly during the fiscal year 1976/77.
3.26      Phosphate traffic increased steadily until 1975/76 when production
fell sharply due to the slump in the price for phosphate. Recovery of the
phosphate market started in 1977, and Taiba production is expected to reach
1.6-1.7 million tons by 1980. The Lam-Lam mine at Thies is also expected to
increase production. Since 1972 the railway has not been able to carry all
phosphate produced due to poor locomotive availability, delays in terminal
operations because of a lack of shunting equipment, and occasional bottlenecks
at the Dakar-Bel Air marshalling yard.  As a result, during the period 1972-76,
1.04 million tons were diverted to road transport at substantially higher
costs.  CFS should be able to carry all future phosphate traffic because of
(a) the increased capacity from the new locomotives received in 1977 and
spare parts provided under the proposed project, (b) the proposed improvements
to the Dakar-Bel Air marshalling yard, and (c) the recent finalization of an
agreement regulating CFS and Taiba's responsibilities in terminal operations
for phosphate traffic.
3.27      Rail groundnut traffic has decreased from about 250,000 tons in
the mid-sixties to about 100,000 tons, despite Government commitments to
allocate 400,000 tons/year to CFS under the First Railway Project and 250,000
tons by 1975/76 under the Second Railway Project. The traffic shortfall was
due to poor coordination between CFS and ONCAD, and poor utilization of motive
power and rolling stock. In view of the past experience, only modest increases
in this traffic are foreseen in the best estimate forecast. A comprehensive
study of the costs and problems of evacuating the groundnut crop is included
under the proposed project (para. 4.07). Given CFS future transport capacity
and cost advantages, the study is likely to recommend an increase in CFS share
of this traffic.
3.28      The railway enjoys a distinct cost and tariff advantage over
competitors for phosphates and most Mali international traffic. However,
there is only limited scope for increasing tariffs, because excessive tariff
increases could: a) diminish the competitiveness of Senegalese phosphates



- 14 -
since world market prices have not yet fully recovered to pre-slump levels,
and b) reduce or eliminate CFS competitive position for international traffic
where the tariff differential with the Ivory Coast routes is small (para.
6.09). Since the tariffs for groundnuts are nearly the same for rail and
road, raising tariffs would result in increased competition from trucks.
Passenger Traffic
3.29       Rail passenger traffic reached 3.8 million passengers (295 million
pass-krn) in 1966/67, constituting 25% of the total operating revenues. Traf-
fic decreased steadily in the last 10 years, and in 1975/76 it reached 1.8
million passengers (158 million pass-km), representing about 20% of revenues.
The main drop took place in short-distance traffic with origin or destination
in Dakar. In the section Dakar-Thies, passenger volume dropped by more than
50% from 1971/72 to 1974/75. The main reason for the decline in passenger
traffic is the increase in highway competition, which offers more frequent
service and greater speed. In the sections near the Mali border where there
are no roads, rail passenger traffic has remained relatively stable. The
passenger forecast (Table 5 and Annex 7) foresees a gradual decrease from 1.7
million passengers in 1976/77 to 1.3 million passengers in 1981/82. Interna-
tional passenger traffic, having grown at a good pace in the last years, is
expected to continue this trend and to increase at a 5.5% average annual rate
between 1975 and 1981.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Description and Cost Estimates
4.01       CFS and the Bank have agreed on a 1978/79 - 1980/81 investment plan.
T'ie proposed project covers this plan which includes the following:
(a)  Tracic renewal - CFAF 1,077 million (US$4.40 million);
(b) Traclc maintenance equipment and material- CFAF 405 million
(US$L.65 million);
(c)  Marshalling yard and telecommunications improvements
in Dakar area - CFAF 254 million (US$1.04 million);
(d) Spare parts for motive power and rolling stock and
workshop equipment - CFAF 608 million (US$2.48 million);
(e)  Training - CFAF 417 million (US$1.70 million);
(f)  Consulting services - CFAF 133 million
(US$0.54 million); and
(g) Contingencies - CFAF 601 million (US$2.45 million).



- 15 -
The estimated total cost of the project is CFAF 3.45 billion (US$14.26 million
equivalent) net of taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange component of CFAF
2.26 billion (US$9.23 million) (65%). Additional details are given in Table 7
and Annex 9. As in the two previous projects, the Government has agreed that
CFS will be exempted from taxes and duties levied on imported goods financed
under the project.
4.02      Material for track renewal on part of the international line to the
Mali border (644 km) was financed under the two previous railway projects.
Track was renewed from Dakar up to kilometer 271. Due to cost overruns the
laying of an additional 102 km was deleted from the Second Project although
rails had been delivered. Most of these rails will be used in the proposed
project to renew 60 km of track and the rest for the rehabilitation and the
extension of the Dakar-Bel Air marshalling yard and for annual track renewal.
The project also includes equipment required for this track renewal. A
condition of disbursement of Bank funds for this component will be the rail-
way's improving track renewed (but poorly laid) under the Second Railway
Project to official CFS track-maintenance standards.
4.03      During the past four years, worn-out switches and inadequate track
maintenance have caused numerous derailments. The project provides financing
for 20 switches, gang cars and other track maintenance equipment.
4.04      Operations in the Dakar area are hampered by limited capacity and
poor maintenance of the main Dakar-Bel Air marshalling yard, which handles
vital phosphate and groundnut traffic. Furthermore, operations are often
interrupted by derailments caused by worn-out switches and slowed by inade-
quate telecommunication facilities. The proposed project includes an addi-
tional track at the marshalling yard, track rehabilitation, telecommunication
equipment and eight switches.
4.05      The availability of motive power and rolling stock has decreased
because of a lack of spare parts and because of inefficient workshop opera-
tions. To increase the availability of the existing fleet, the project pro-
vides funds for the purchase of spare parts. CFS has prepared detailed lists
of spare parts for all locomotives and railcars and has appointed a supervisor
responsible for updating the lists and checking on their timely delivery. To
improve maintenance of rolling stock at the Thies workshops, urgently needed
tools and equipment will also be purchased under the proposed project.
4.06      The three-year training program to be financed under the proposed
project will supplement and support a very substantial technical assistance
input financed by French technical aid and implemented by an OFERMAT team of
28 experts. It aims at improving the standard of railway operations, mainte-
nance and safety by training and re-training about 300 laborers and selected
middle and high level managers. Since the training program was formulated
before the new training advisor was hired, the program may be amended in
consultation with the Bank as implementation progresses. The proposed program



- 16 -
(Annex 8) includes: (a) establishment of a new training center at Thies, (b)
training equipment and materials, (c) training of ten to twelve Senegalese
technicians in Thies and abroad to become instructors; (d) recruitment of
training advisers and expatriate instructors, and (e) the training of selected
middle and high-level management personnel in Thies and abroad. For (e), six
to eight new engineers will be recruited who, after at least one year's ser-
vice with CFS, will receive intensive training to enable them to take over
from French technical assistants in high management positions. In addition,
the Government and CFS have agreed to make available experienced personnel
for training as instructors and to insure that a sufficient number of person-
nel is released from individual departments for training.
4.07      The primary objective of the proposed project is to improve CFS
efficiency in carrying Mali international and national bulk traffic. The main
factors impeding efficiency have been weakness in top management and an
inadequate organizational structure. The project provides funds for consult-
ing services for: (a) a study to determine the optimal structure and owner-
ship of CFS (about 50 man-months); and (b) a contribution toward a Government-
sponsored study of groundnut transport to determine the least-cost transport
mode and its effect on railway traffic with recommendations for improving
terminal operations and the distribution system. Draft terms of reference
for the consulting services, including a timetable for implementation, are
given in Annex 1. The Government and CFS have agreed to provide the Bank with
a copy of the groundnut study, to inform the Bank of those recommendations it
has approved, and to implement those recommendations affecting railway traffic
and operations in consultation with the Bank. They have further agreed to
implement the recommendations of the organization study, in agreement with the
Government of Mali and the Mali Railway and in consultation with the Bank.
The timing for implementing the recommendations of both studies will be agreed
upon with the :Bank.
4.08      Cost estimates for track renewal civil works, track maintenance
material and equipment, and switches are based on prices received from CFS
and suppliers. Cost for locomotive spare parts and telecommunication equip-
mient was estimated by CFS on recent quotations and updated to 1977 prices.
Cost calculations for consultant services were based on a yearly average of
US$100,000 per man-year, based on recent costs for similar services in the
rtegion. Physical contingencies have been provided at 10% of local cost of
track renewal works. Price contingencies have been provided at 9% of civil
works and 7.5% of equipment for 1977-79, and 8% and 7% respectively for 1980
and 1981. The overall average price contingency is 15%. Detailed cost esti-
mates are given in Table 7 and summarized below:



- 17 -
% of Foreign   Proposed
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    Exchange            Loan
-----CFAF Million----    -----US$ Million -----                  (US$ Million)
Track renewal
60 km                  702    375    1,077    2.87    1.53    4.40           35           2.538
Track maintenance
equipment and           -     405       405      -       1.65      1.65     100            1.653
material
Improvements in
Dakar area             100    154       254    0.41    0.63        1.04      61            0.771
Spare parts for
motive power and
rolling stock and
workshop equipment    -       608       608      -       2.48     2.48      100            2.483
Training                102    315       417    0.41    1.29        1.70       76           1.431
Consulting
services                -     133       133      -      0.54      0.54      100           0.543
TOTAL               904  1,990    2,894    3.69    8.12    11.81           69           9.419
Contingencies
Physical /a              80     -         80    0.33       -       0.33         0           0.111
Prices                  247    274       521    1.01    1.11        2.12      52            1.470
GRAND TOTAL          1,231  2,264    3,495    5.03    9.23    14.26          65           11.000
/a   10% on local track works.



- 18 -
B.   Financing of the Project
4.09      The project will be financed by CFS and the Bank.  The financing
plan is given in Table 9. Under this plan the Bank will finance 100% of
foreign costs and 35% of local costs. CFS will finance 65% of local costs.
The Government has agreed that, in case of any shortfall in funds,
iit will provide the amounts necessary or secure alternative financing to
assure full implementation of the project.
C,.  Execution:, Procurement and Disbursement
4.10      Trackc renewal work on the international line and track work at the
Dakar-Bel Air rnarshalling yard will be carried out by force account, since
CFS possesses the necessary equipment and because the work has to be done
under traffic conditions. Civil works contracts for construction of a shop at
the marshalling yard and for a training center at Thies are too small to
at:tract foreign firms; thus they will be awarded by competitive bidding in
accordance with the local procedures acceptable to the Bank. The same proce-
dures will be followed for the purchase of trucks and workshop equipment, and
material for the training center. Small items of track tools and workshop
machinery costing less than US$10,000 individually will be procured through
competitive bidding in accordance with local procedures and by international
and local shopping as appropriate. Critical spare parts for motive power and
rolling stock will be purchased by obtaining quotations from established
manufacturers aLnd by direct negotiations with orginal suppliers. All other
equipment and goods covered under the Loan will be procured following interna-
tional competitive bidding procedures under Bank guidelines. It is estimated
that out of the Loan amount, approximately US$4.3 million will be covered by
ICB procedures. Detailed procurement procedures item by item are given in
Annex 9, Table 1. The consultants and instructors, providing technical
assistance and training courses respectively, will be selected in agreement
with and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
4.11      Disbursement of the Bank contribution to the study on groundnut
transport, to be undertaken by SONED, the state-owned consulting firm, will be
ma,de in accordance with an agreement between the railway and SONED acceptable
to the Bank.
4.12      The proceeds of the Loan will be disbursed as follows:
(a)  Track renewal (60 km)              100% of foreign cost and
35% of local cost
(b) Track maintenance equipment
and material                       100% of foreign cost
(c)  Improvements in Dakar area         100% of foreign and
35% of local cost



- 19 -
(d) Spare parts for motive
power and rolling stock
and workshop equipment             100% of foreign cost
(e)  Training                           100% of foreign cost and
35% of local cost
(f)  Contribution to groundnut          75% of total expenditures
study
(g)  Consulting services                100% of foreign cost
The estimated annual rate of disbursement for the total amount of the invest-
ment plan and the estimated quarterly rate of disbursement of the Bank loan
are given in Table 8, page 2. Disbursements from the loan account will be
fully documented except for force account expenditures, which will be made on
progress statements certified by the technical director of CFS. The project
is expected to be implemented according to the schedule given in Annex 9,
Table 2.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The railway's performance in the past years has been poor, and
traffic has stagnated despite available demand. The railway has the basic in-
frastructure and rolling stock to meet present and expected traffic but both
need to be rehabilitated. The task of rehabilitation is the main objective
of the project's physical investments. These investments will prevent a drop
in operating efficiency and capacity, thereby avoiding corresponding increases
in operating costs. Only one component of the proposed project, the improve-
ment of Dakar-Bel Air marshalling yard, is designed to increase capacity.
This is solely for phosphates, for which a steady growth in production is
foreseen. A parallel railway project in Mali (Credit 713-MLI) provides
financing for rehabilitating and expanding the Mali Railway's capacity.
5.02      Despite the railway's inefficiency, it is still the cheapest
transport mode for Mali international traffic and Senegalese phosphate
and groundnut traffic carried over longer distances. However, the railway
faces increasing competition from road transport for groudnuts and from the
Ivory Coast routes for international traffic; increased diversion of this
latter traffic may threaten the viability of the Dakar-Bamako line. To
improve CFS efficiency to successfully meet competition, the project includes
a substantial technical assistance and training component in addition to
physical investments.
5.03      All main physical components of the proposed project have been
evaluated separately, and a single return has also been determined for the



- 20 -
whole project., A sensitivity analysis to test the change in main parameters
on the rate of return has been undertaken for all project components. Details
of the economic analysis are presented in Annex 10.
B.   Track Renewal Program
5.04      Under the proposed project 60 km of old rails will be renewed with
aLvailable heavy rails. On the total 368-km section equipped with old rails,
CFS needs to re-lay some 8 km of track yearly with used rails where broken
rails require immediate replacement. CFS is running out of used rails for
t.his purpose aLnd those which will be obtained from the section to be renewed
will be used in the emergency re-laying program.
5.05      Because of the deteriorated condition of the track laid with light
rails, the number of derailments is increasing, and will continue to grow
even more quickly if the track is not renewed. The main benefit of the track
renewal investment is the avoidance of the economic costs of an increasing
number of derailments; an additional benefit is a reduction in labor required
for track maintenance. On the basis of these two benefits, the economic rate
of return for this investment is 13%, which is acceptable. At the pace of 30
km/year, track renewal of the whole light-rail section could be completed by
CFS force account in about 10 years. The rate of return for the track renewal
investment would be substantially higher than estimated if the risks of traf-
fic stoppages or line closures which could occur in case of postponement of
the works were taken into account.
C.   Dakar-Bel Air Marshalling Yard
5.06      The capacity of the marshalling yard (about 1.5 million tons/year)
is not sufficient to handle forecast phosphate traffic; already it is becoming
increasingly difficult for CFS to handle all phosphate traffic, particularly
during the groundnut season, when the yard is congested. Under the proposed
project, one more track will be built bringing yard capacity for phosphates up
to 2.8 million tons/year. Due to a combination of low locomotive availability
and capacity constraints at the marshalling yard, there has been a diversion
of phosphates to road every year since 1972, with a high of 311,000 tons in
1974. Diversion of phosphates to road can only be made at a substantial
iacrease in transport costs; in the case of Taiba phosphate, the difference in
economic costs between road and rail is estimated at CFAF 683/ton. In addition,
h,savy phosphates trucks are generally overloaded and cause serious damages to
roads. On the basis of transport cost savings from avoided diversion to road
transport and under the prudent assumption that phosphate production would
only last until 1985, the proposed investment yields a high economic return of
39%.
D.   Spare Parts
5.07      The 'Lack of spare parts has resulted in a low level of locomotive
availability, and this has been a major reason preventing CFS from carrying
available traff-ic demand. The proposed investment is intended to help remedy



- 21 -
this situation. The economic evaluation of the purchase of spare parts is
divided into two parts: first, the rate of return of the investment is cal--
culated with respect to a do-nothing situation; second, a cost comparison
is made between the proposed investment and an alternative investment in new
locomotives to determine whether the purchase of spare parts is the least-cost
solution to increasing CFS carrying capacity. In the rate of return analysis,
it is assumed that without the spare parts there would be a drop in locomotive
availability, reducing CFS transport capacity and causing traffic to divert
to other modes at higher economic costs. The analysis quantifies only the
increase in availability of locomotives carrying phosphates and international
traffic, the two major traffic categories, and therefore benefits from the
investment are somewhat underestimated. Considering the cost differential
between rail and the competing modes, the analysis assumes that in the
do-nothing case priority would be given to phosphates over international
traffic. The economic rate of return, based on the avoided costs of traffic
diversion, would be 57%. The return is over 100% if it were assumed that CFS
would carry all available Mali traffic, and that lack of motive power would
result in diversion of phosphates rather than international traffic.
5.08      The alternative of purchasing spare parts or investing in new
locomotives can be weighed by comparing net present investment and operating
costs under each of these two alternatives. The assessment of investments in
new locomotives is based on horsepower required to equal the increased
availability of existing locomotives allowed by the spare parts. The analysis
shows that the savings generated by purchasing spare parts instead of new
locomotives, at a 12% discount rate, are equivalent to over CFAF 200 million
in 1977 prices. The purchase of spare parts is, therefore, the best investment
alternative.
E.   Track Maintenance Equipment
5.09      This component consists of 20 switches, 8 gang-cars and other minor
track maintenance items. Worn-out switches, which are about 60 years old
and cause derailments at crossings and stations, will be replaced. The
gang-cars will replace equipment which is about 15 years old and can no longer
render adequate service. Each of CFS eight maintenance districts will
receive a new gang-car. Without new gang-cars it would be impossible to
mobilize maintenance staff and equipment, track maintenance would be severely
hampered, regular maintenance could not be carried out and rails would quickly
deteriorate. Evaluating the benefits of the proposed investment in track
maintenance in terms of (a) cost savings from derailments avoided by the
new switches and (b) increase in the service life of rails, the rate of return
for this component is 26%, which is satisfactory.
F.   Sensitivity Analysis
5.10      All the above components of the project have been separately sub-
jected to sensitivity analysis under the following assumptions: (a) freight
traffic. increase according to the conservative projection instead of the
best estimate; (b) investment costs 10% higher than estimated; (c) the simul-
taneous occurrence of (a) and (b). The results of the sensitivity analysis
are satisfactory, as shown below:



- 22 -
Rates of Return (%)
Conser-               Conservative
Best     vative    Higher         estimate
estimate  estimate   invest.   traffic and higher
traffic   traffic    cost         invest. cost
Track renewal                   13%         12%        12%             11%
Dakar-Bel Air
marshalling yard              39%         18%       35%              16%
Spare parts                     57%         57%       49%              49%
Track maintenance equipment   26%           24%       24%              23%
All the project's components are economically justified. The return for the
whole project is 22%, including the costs of training and consulting services.
With the combination of the two sensitivity assumptions, lower traffic
and higher investment costs, the return would drop to 17%, which is satisfac-
tory.
G.   Project Risks
5.11      Physical implementation of the project is relatively straightforward;
the traffic and operating targets on which the project's return is calculated,
have been set conservatively following the experience of the earlier projects.
Failure to proceed with the project would result in a major deterioration of
the track, cause diversion of international traffic and phosphates to more
expensive alternatives, and interrupt a major management and training program
already set in motion during project preparation. Therefore, the risks of not
proceeding with the project appear greater than the risks of difficulties in
physical and institutional implementation and of a shortfall in operating
performance.
5.12      The main risk in the physical implementation of the proposed project
is the possible shortage of local funds. This has hampered execution of the
two previous projects. As this project is based on very conservative traffic
assumptions, it is likely that the railway will achieve cash revenues above
those forecast. However, if these revenues are not forthcoming, the Govern-
ment has agreed to cover any shortages in funds.
5.13      Therie is a risk that the new railway organization and its staffing
will not bring about the desired operational improvements. To mitigate this
risk, the Bank approved the new organization and the selection of the staff.
Tlne Bank will follow the performance of the organization and staff through
close supervision of the project, which will provide the opportunity to
generate additional changes as required.



- 23 -
6. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.   Background
6.01      CFS low productivity and resulting poor traffic performance and
late implementation of necessary tariff increases have led to a gradual
deterioration of its financial situation. This has obliged the Government
to provide CFS with large subsidies over the past years to keep it solvent.
The object of this financial analysis is to examine the extent to which an
improvement in CFS's operating performance, which is the primary objective of
the proposed project, will allow it to meet its financial commitments. The
analysis shows'that even if CFS were to achieve the target traffic and pro-
ductivity levels, it would still need substantial Government assistance (to
compensate for an anticipated shortfall in funds) to cover its debt service
and its share in the cost of the project during its implementation and
would not reach financial equilibrium until 1982.
6.02      Although CFS new accounting procedures, which include cost account-
ing, are not yet operational, available information shows that under June
1977 tariffs:
(a) the revenues from most national traffic, namely phosphate
and groundnuts, cover full operating costs of the service
provided and generate a profit;
(b) international traffic revenues cover variable costs and make
some contribution to fixed costs; and
(c) passenger revenues fall far short of covering even variable
costs.
Passenger traffic is responsible for most of CFS net operating losses. Imple-
mentation of the agreed plan for rationalizing passenger services will reduce
this loss significantly. A large increase in passenger tariffs is not practic-
able because passenger services are utilized by the poorest classes of Senegal's
and Mali's population, and freight tariffs are constrained by competition
(para. 3.28). Therefore the only practical approach to improvement involves
a substantial increase in operational efficiency coupled with an increase in
freight traffic leading to lower unit operating costs. Successful implemen-
tation of the plan of action, an important part of the proposed project, will
help CFS to meet this indispensable objective. However progress will be slow
because CFS operations and consequently its traffic performance can only be
improved gradually. Dependence on Government subsidies for several more
years is unavoidable.
6.03      The financial tables (10 to 18) have been prepared in current
CFA francs under inflation assumptions shown in Table 19 in order to assess



- 24 -
realistically CFS liquidity position during implementation of the proposed
project. Table 13, showing the breakdown of operating revenue and working
expenses under the best estimate traffic assumption, is in both constant
and current CFA francs. All proposed targets are based on current prices.
B.   Past ancd Present Finances
6.04      Tables 10 to 12 show CFS income statements and balance sheets
from 1965/66 through 1973/74 i.e. during implementation of the First Rail-
way Project. The total net operating loss from July 1, 1965 to June 30,
1974 was about CFAF 1.6 billion or 7% of the total gross revenue. Although
CFS received CFAF 6.5 billion in external funds during the above period
(an increase in loan capital of CFAF 3.9 billion, plus grants of CFAF 2.6
billion), its net assets increased by only CFAF 4.4 billion showing a loss
in its own funds of CFAF 2.1 billion.
6.05      The following table summarizes CFS income statement, balance
sheet and sources and application of funds for 1974/75 through 1976/77.



- 25 -
(CFAF Million)
Fiscal year ending June 30              1975        1976   1977-Close Estimate
INCOME ACCOUNT
Operating revenue                       2972        3366           3795
Working costs                           3517        3383           3625
Depreciation                             291         365            345
Net operating revenue (loss)            (836)       (382)          (179)
Interest charges                         (46)        (71)           (85)
Provisions and exceptional             (1378) 1/   (115)            (43)
revenue (loss)
Net revenue (loss)                     (2260)       (568)          (303)
Government subsidy against
operating loss                         300         300            300
Net book profit                        (1960)       (268)            (3)
BALANCE SHEET
Net current assets                       (57)      (1403)         (1820)
Net fixed assets                       14868       15308          15977
Total assets                           14811       13905          14157
Financed from
Loan capital                          5893        7423           7678
Equity equivalent                     7238        6482           6479
TOTAL LIABILITIES                      13131       13905          14157
CUMULATED SOURCE AND APPLICATION
OF FUNDS
SOURCE                                                                   Cumulated
Cash generated from operations          (567)       (869)           123    (1313)
Loans (except Government)               1041         608            373      2022
TOTAL SOURCE                             474        (261)           496       709
APPLICATIONS
Investments                              636        1266           1014      2916
Debt service                              61         719            199       979
Increase (decrease) in working
capital                                774         639           1396     2809
Subsidies and loans from Government   300            900            900      2100
1/   Rectifications on previous years accounts resulting from corrections
after the 1974-75 audit of CFS accounts. The main items were (a) a
write-off of obsolete store items (CFAF 460 million); (b) a reserve
for-questionable debts (CFAF 250 million); and (c) CFS overdue con-
tributions to the Government's pension fund (CFAF 1680 million).



- 26 -
6.06      The tables show that (a) CFS suffered a cumulative operating loss
of CFAF 1397 million (US$5.7 million equivalent) during 1975-77; (b) CFS
current liabilities surpassed its current assets by CFAF 1.8 billion (US$7.4
million equivalent) by June 30, 1977; (c) the debt-to-equity ratio reached
an unsatisfactory 54/66 level by the same date; and (d) the Government pro-
vided CFAF 2.1 billion (US$8.6 million equivalent) to help CFS pay its work-
ing expenses, its share in investments and debt service. The only positive
element in CFS disappointing financial results was the progressive decrease
in the net operating losses from CFAF 836 million in 1974/75 to CFAF 180 mil-
lion in 1976/77.
6.07      To make up for this unfavorable financial situation, the Government
has restructured CFS balance sheet as of June 30, 1977 by converting into equity
about CFAF 2.1 billion CFS long term debt to it and a short-term 1976 treasury
advance of CFAF 600 million. As a result of this conversion, the CFS balance
s'heet as of June 30, 1977 is as follows:
CFAF million
Niet current assets    (1220)         Loan capital              6165
Nest fixed assets      15977          Equity equivalent         8592
Total assets           14757          Total liabilities        14757
The deficit in working capital has been reduced by CFAF 600 million, and the
debt-to-equity ratio reached an acceptable 42/58 level.
C.   Future Situation
Income Account
6.08      CFS forecast income account from 1977/78 through 1981/82 under
the best estimate traffic assumption is given in Table 13 and summarized
below:
Current CFAF Million
F:iscal year ending June 30        1978   1979    1980    1981    1982
Operating revenue                  4890   5568    6289    7081    7997
Working costs                      4270   4782    5301    5960    6639
Cash generated from operations    620    786        988    1121    1358
Depreciation                        455    529      712      805      766
Net operating revenue (loss)        165    257      276      316      592
Interest charges                    314    362      420      448     457
Net profit (loss)                  (149)  (105)   (144)   (132)   (135)
Government subsidies                300    638      690      665      603
Bcok profit                         151    533      546      533      738
REatios
Wcrking                              87      86      84       84       83



- 27 -
6.09      Operating revenues include selective tariff increases implemented in
late 1976/77 and early 1977/78. These increases were calculated to generate
revenues 30% higher in 1977/78 than those that would have been generated using
February 1977 tariffs. Additional selective tariff increases will be made each
year through 1981/82 to produce annual increases of 10% above those generated
by previous year's tariffs. This program compensates for inflation pressures
and yields a slight additional margin of increases. Higher tariff increases
would threaten the ability of CFS to compete successfully with the Ivory Coast
routes for international traffic and with road transport for national traffic,
at a time when CFS is making a major effort to increase efficiency and attract
traffic.
6.10      Personnel expenses as a percentage of working expenses progres-
sively decrease from 71% in 1976/77 to 64% in 1981/82. Personnel expenses
have been calculated under the following assumptions: (a) staff will decrease
slightly in line with staff productivity forecast and (b) salary increases
will be restricted to the inflation rate except for 5% annual promotion
increases and bonuses. Under the above revenue and working expense assump-
tions, CFS working ratio would decrease from 87% to 83% during the period
under review.
6.11      Depreciation allowances are detailed in Table 18.  For the period
under analysis, they have been calculated basically on historic values of
fixed assets and, although underestimating actual values, are substantially
higher than allowances made in earlier years. Consequently, CFS fixed assets
should be revalued. Senegalese law, however, does not permit entering such
a revaluation into the accounts because the resulting increase in deprecia-
tion allowances would adversely affect the basis for calculating income tax.
To circumvent this the Government and the railway have agreed under the pro-
posed project to (a) include the revaluation of fixed assets in the forth-
coming inventory under the proposed project to be carried out by OFERMAT,
(b) show the revalued value of fixed assets in a supplementary statement,
and (c) charge the accounts of the year immediately following completion of
the inventory with depreciation provisions reflecting the replacement value
of the fixed assets. The latter provisions will be entered into the accounts
under two separate items, one showing the depreciation based on the historic
value of the fixed assets and the other showing the additional provision. CFS
will periodically review its fixed assets in consultation with the Government
the Bank and, if required, undertake appropriate revaluation. Due to the low
depreciation provisions, the above table shows increasing net operating reve-
nues for each year resulting in a rate of return on non-revalued fixed assets
improving from 1% in 1977/78 to 3% in 1981/82. An increased depreciation pro-
vision resulting from the revaluation of fixed assets will adversely affect
net operating revenues and consequently increase net losses shown in the
above table after interest payments.
Sources and Applications of Funds
6.12      Assuming revenues and expenses shown in the above forecast income
account materialize, CFS projected sources and applications of cumulated ftnds
from 1977/78 through 1981/82 will be as follows (details are in Table 17):



- 28 -
CFAF Million
Source                                        Applications
Cash generated from operations         4873    Investments and renewals         8143
blobilization of loans and
credits for investments              4733    Debt service                     3548
Subsidies for investments               760    Increase in working capital  1541
10366                                   13232
Subsidies provided by Government    2866
13232
Balance Sheet
6.13      CFS consolidated balance sheet resulting from the above analysis
under the best estimate traffic assumption is given in Table 16 and summarized
below.
CFAF Million
As of June 30th                     1978    1979    1980        1981      1982
Assets
Net current assets                 (1021)   (879)   (679)    (379)        321
Net fixed assets                   17122   18584   19403    19610    20853
Total assets                       16101   17705   18724    19231    21174
Liabilities
Long term debt                      6598    7699    8172       8146      9351
Equity equivalent                   9503   10006   10552    11085    11823
Total liabilities                  16101   17705   18724    19231    21174
Ratios
Current                              0.4      0.5      0.7       0.9       1.1
Debt-to-equity                     41/59   43/57   44/56    42/58    44/56
The table shows that CFS current assets position and working capital should
progressively recover from their unsatisfactory 1977/78 level. It would,
however, be far. from reaching the desirable level which, on the basis of
the Bank's assessment of CFS needs, would have to cover all of the fol-
lowing:



- 29 -
1/6 of annual staff costs (2 months),
50% of annual expenses for materials excluding
fuel and lubricants
25% of annual expenses for charges, and
25% of interest and loan repayments due the
following year.
The Government has given assurance that it will commit itself to provide
CFS working capital with appropriate funds if CFS were not to reach the above
estimated level by its own cash generation by June 30, 1982. The table
also shows that the debt-to-equity ratio will remain acceptable after restructur-
ing CFS balance sheet as of June 30, 1977. However, in order to control CFS
borrowing, CFS has agreed to consult with the Bank before incurring any long
term debt in addition to that related to the project unless its net cash
revenue for the fiscal year or the twelve consecutive months immediately
before the date of incurrence, whichever is greater, is 1.5 times the maximum
debt service requirements of any succeeding year on all debts of CFS including
the debt to be incurred.
Financial Targets
6.14      The decree establishing CFS requires the Government to subsidize
the railway's losses. Under the best traffic assumption used in calculating
the above table this subsidy would reach a cumulative total of about CFAF 2.9
million in 1976/77 through 1981/82 to make up for CFS forecast shortage in
funds for financing its debt service and its share in investments. Table 14
shows that the railway's cash generated from operations could increase by
CFAF 1.6 billion if it were to achieve the target traffic, thereby decreas-
ing Government's subsidies by an equal amount. Under the target traffic CFS
working ratio would decrease from 87% to 78%, and the rate of return on non-
revalued fixed assets would improve from 1% to 6% in 1977/78 through 1981/82.
The latter ratio is meaningless because the impact on depreciation provisions
of the revaluation of fixed assets is not known; therefore the working ratio,
should be used to determine CFS revenue targets. This working ratio should
be based on the target traffic in line with the objectives of the plan of
action. The best estimate traffic which assumes some slippage in fulfilling
the plan of action would yield the following working ratios: 87% in 1977/78,
86% in 1978/79, 84% in 1979/80 and 1980/81, and 83% in 1981/82. Full achieve-
ment of the plan of action and of the relevant target traffic forecasts would
improve the above working ratios to the following level: 87% in 1977/78,
83% in 1978/79, 81% in 1979/80, 79% in 1980/81 and 78% in 1981/82. The
Government and CFS have agreed to the latter ratios.
6.15      If CFS were to achieve the target traffic, its balance sheet as
of June 30, 1982 would be summarized as follows:



- 30 -
CFAF Million
Assets                                  Liabilities
Net current assets          1,940      Long-term debt               9,351
Net fixed assets           20,853      Equity equivalent           13,442
22,793                                  22,793
The current ratio would reach 1.7 and the debt to equity ratio 41/59 instead
of 1.1 and 44/56 respectively under the balance sheet resulting from the best
traffic assumption.
6.16      Due to the railway's anticipated difficult financial situation,
agreement has 'been reached between CFS, the Government and the Bank that,
during each year of the project, CFS will discuss with the Bank (by March 15
at the latest) the estimated financial results for the current year and the
draft budget for the next year. This will enable the Bank to offer comments
on the budget lbefore CFS presents it to its Board and Government for approval.
It was also agreed that, if necessary, the Government and CFS will promptly
agree with the Bank on remedial action.
D.   Risk Analysis
6.17      Despite all precautions provided under the proposed project there
is a risk that CFS may fail to meet even the best estimate traffic forecast.
This would adversely affect CFS financial performance and consequently its
cash generation.  Another possible risk is that working costs surpass appraisal
forecasts in case the Government and CFS were unable to limit salary increases
and/or the cost of materials, mainly imported spare parts. A third risk would
consist of an increase in the cost of the proposed project beyond present
estimates. The occurence of any of the above risks would increase CFS needs
for cash. As stated previously, an increase in tariffs beyond those used in
the main analysis would have an adverse affect on CFS traffic and consequently
worsen the situation. The Government has therefore agreed to provide funds or
secure alternative funds through additional borrowing in case of a shortfall
in CFS cash generation. A combination of both options would likely be required
and agreement has been reached that this would have to be worked out in
consultation wiLth the Bank.
6.18      A sensitivity analysis of financial forecasts was conducted to
test the impact: of the occurence of the above risks on CFS financial posi-
tiLon. The following were assumed: (a) traffic at levels used for the con-
servative traffiic assumption; (b) 10% increase in working expenditure; and
(c) a 10% increase in the cost of the project. Table 15 shows a breakdown
oi' revenues ancd working expenses under the conservative traffic assumption.
6.19      The f'ollowing table summarizes sources and applications of CFS
cumulated funds from 1977/78 through 1981/82 should all three sensitivity
assumptions materialize simultaneously, which is unlikely.



- 31 -
CFAF Million
Source                                      Applications
Cash generated from operations         231    Investments and renewals       8760
Loans and grants for investments    5493    Debt Service                     3548
Total source                          5724    Minimal increases in working
capital                       1220
Subsidies to be provided by
Government under main analysis       2866    Total applications            13528
Shortage of funds                     4938
13528
6.20      Assuming that the above shortage in funds could be borrowed at an
interest rate of 8% and reimbursable in 20 years including 5 years of grace,
8% CFS's debt service would increase by about CFAF 60 million p.a. starting in
1982/83.
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMENDATION
7.01      The following principal items were discussed and agreed upon with
the Government and/or CFS:
(a)  appointment of assistant general managers will be con-
tingent upon Bank's approval of their qualifications
and experience (para 3.05);
(b)  a plan and timetable for replacing technical assis-
tants with Senegalese; the plans and timetables will
be reviewed and updated annually in consultation with
the Bank (para. 3.08);
(c)  CFS and the Government will cooperate closely with
the railway union and pay productivity bonuses to
the staff (para. 3.09);
(d)  during the project period, CFS will prepare monthly
reports to be sent to the Bank for review on freight
and passenger traffic performance, execution of
transport plans, and availability and utilization
of equipment, detailing the problems encountered and
remedial actions taken (para. 3.23);



- 32 -
(e) the Government will (i) provide the Bank with a copy of
the groundnut study, (ii) inform it of those recommendations
it has approved, and (iii) consult with the Bank prior to
implementing railway-related recommendations (paras. 3.27
and 4.07);
(f) the Government and CFS will make available experienced
personnel for training as instructors and insure that a
sufficient number of personnel is released from individual
departments for training (para. 4.06);
(g) the Government and CFS will implement the recommendations
of the organization study, in consultation with the Bank
and in agreement with Mali Government and Mali Railway
(para. 4.07);
(h)  the Government will, in case of any shortfall in funds,
provide the amounts necessary or secure alternative
financing to assure full implementation of the project
(paras. 4.09 and 5.12);
(i) the Government will provide CFS working capital with
appropriate funds if CFS does reach the agreed estimated
level by its own cash generation by June 30, 1982 (para.
6.13 and 6.17);
(j)  CFS will consult with the Bank before incurring any addi-
tional long-term debts unless its net cash revenue for
the fiscal year or the twelve months prior to the date of
incurrence be 1.5 times the maximum debt service require-
mients of any succeeding year on all debts of CFS, includ-
ing the debt to be incurred (para. 6.13);
(k)  CFS will take necessary measures to achieve working ratios
not exceeding 87% in 1977/78 in 83% in 1978/79, 81% in
1979/80, 79% in 1980/81 and 78% in 1981/82 (para. 6.14)
and;
(1)  during each year of the project and the five following
years, CFS will discuss its estimated financing results
for the current year and draft budget for the following
year with the Bank no later than March 15 and, if neces-
sary, CFS and the Bank will promptly agree on remedial
actions (para. 6.16).
7.02      A condition of disbursement of Loan Funds allocated for the
track-renewal program is that CFS improves the track renewed under the
Second Railway Project to official CFS track-maintenance standards (para.
4.02).



- 33 -
7.03      Disbursement of the Bank contribution to the study on the trans-
port of groundnuts to be undertaken by SONED will be made in accordance
with an agreement between the railway and SONED acceptable to the Bank
(para 4.11).
7.04      The proposed project is suitable for a Loan of US$11 million to
CFS with the guarantee of the Government of Senegal. The Loan would be
for a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.45%
per annum.
January 1978






SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Fleet of Motive Power (as of February 1977)
Yearly        km without
Manu-       Year of  Max.Load       km/loco.         engine        Availability        Axle load   Max. speed
1.    LOCOMOTIVES                   Hvse            HP       Number        facturer      _elivery hauled(tons)  75/76          failure (75/76) (O) I'eb. 77            (tons)      (km/h)
1.1    Line Locomotives           BB 100           610         2-         Alsthom          49        600         7,400            1230                 0                12.5         70
BR 500          740         83/"                       55/56      650        49,130            6140                50                12.8         85
BB 500   740         ~~3/130                                                                                                               7
BB 600          800         3-                         57/60      600         11,900           3970                33                13.0         70
BBllOO        1,050        10            "           59/63/65    900         51,000            6380                50                15.0         70
BB12004/      1,100         6                           72/73     900        66,050            5080               100                13.5         70
BB1600-       1,500         3            "               77     1,200            -              -                  -                  -           -
CC2400        1,950         4            "              67      1,800        44,700            4060                50                15.0        70/90
Total                                          365/                                                                                    55
1.2   Shunting Locomotives        AA  10           150        17-         V/BDR             56       250        13,380            n.a.                65                11.0         28
AA  50          420         6          Moyse          69/71        500         9,710           n.a.                50                13.0         55
AA  50-         420         2                            77        500           -                                 -                  -           -
BB  60          300         3          Alsthom           53       350        20,180            n.a.                33                08.5         70
Total                                          28                                                                                      58
2.    Railcars                    Z  130           550         6-/        de Dietrich    58/62         90       67,960            8500                67                07.5         80
Z  120          550         5          Soule             70         90       63,000           21000                40                11.4         90
Total                                          11                                                                                      45
1/  To be scrapped 1977/78                                                                        4/  Ordered, supply expected mid-1977.
2/  One to be scrapped 1977.                                                                      5/  One to be scrapped 1977.
3/  Two to be scrapped 1977/78;third one will be allocated to shunting services.                  6/  Two to be scrapped 1977.                                                               a
December 1977



SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Fleet of Rolling Stock (as of February 1977)
Total Capacity       Age (Years)                       Allocated to
Number      Seats/tons/m3        0-25 over 25         Owner        Inter. Traffic
1. Passenger Cars
International Traffic                    26            962                         26         CFS               26
National Traffic                         44          2,240                         44
Luggage Vans                           17            -                   2       15
Trailers                               28          1,913                23        5
Service Cars                            9            -                            9
Total                              124          5,115                 25       99                           26
2.  Freight Cars
2.1 CFS-Owned Cars"/
Covered Box Cars                        478         13,395               190      288         CFS              156
Open Cars                               166          4,205                55      111          "                28
Flat Cars                                54          1,360                 6       48          "                13
Tank Cars                                18            413                 -       18          "                 8
Total                              716         18,960 tons           251      465                         202
413 m3
2.2 Privately-Owned Cars
Hopper Cars                              95          4,437                95       -          TAIBA             -
32         1,316                 12       20         PECHINEY          -
Tank Cars                                 5            220                 5       -          TAIBA             -
3           123                  3       -          PECHINEY         -
32         1,315                 26        6         CAT               32
2             80                 2       -          MOBIL            -
1             25                 -        1         BP
Refrigerator Cars                         1             13                 1       -          SOBOA             _
Total                              171          5,766 tons           144       27                          32      X
1,763 m3
2.3 Service Cars                              232            -                   -       232         CFS
1/ Additional seventy-five cars are ordered under CCE-financing (10 tank cars, 15 open cars and 50 covered
good cars).



S E N E G A L
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Summary of Operating Statistics
1971/72            1972/73             1973/74            1974/75             1975/76
I. .NIE TIC
Route-km                                  1,034               1,034              1,034               1,034              1,034
II. TRAFFIC
Passenger numbers (000)                   2,759               2,449              2,284               1,882              1,850
Passenger-kn: (million)                     241                 227                219                 193                186
Average journey (km)                         87                  92                 96                 103                 101
Freight tons (000)                        1,910               1,906              1,887               1,886              1,606
Freight ton-km (million)                    341                 353                383                 359                330
Average haul (km)                           179                 185                 203                190                 20.5
Traffic units (ton-km plus pass-
kin) (million)                            582                 580                602                 552                516
III. TRAFFIC DENSITY
Passenger-km per route-km (000)             233                 220                 212                187                 180
Freight net ton-km per route-km (000)  1,847                  1,843              1,825               1,824              1,553
IV. OPERATIONS
Train-km - passenger trains (000)         1,942               1,822              1,780               1,362              1,382
- phosphate trains (000)          259                 270                 271                293                 233
- other freight trains (000)    630                   976                 713                678                 721
- total (000)                   2,831               3,068              2,764               2,333               2,336
Notive power -km -locomotive (000)        1,926               1,799              1,733               1,510               1,761
-railcars (000)         1,275              1,117               1,031                 783                718
-total (000)            3,201              2,916               2,764              2,293               2,479
Number of locomintivas and
rolling stock
- mainline locomotives                     27                  30                 33                  33                  33
- shunters                                 26                  26                 26                  26                  26
- railcars                                 11                  11                 11                  11                  11
- trailers                                 28                  28                 28                  28                  28
- coaches                                  96                  96                 96                  96                  96
- wagons                                  716                 716                716                 716                 716
Availability (%)
- mainline locomotives                     55.6                58.7               54.5                49.4                50.3
- shunters                                 79.9                75.4               67.1                64.5                66.9
- railcars                                 63.9                56.8               51.1                48.0                41.0
- trailers                                 n.a.                n.a.               n.a.                n.a.               n.a.
- coaches                                  n.a.                n.a.               n.a.                n.a.               n.a.
- wagons                                   n.a.                n.a.               n.a.                n.a.               n.a.
Average journey per day in service (Icm)
- mainline locomotives                    305                 263                245                 279                 293
- railcars                                465                 463                443                 416                 421
- wagons                                   60                  65                 87                  n.a.                n.a.
Average load of wagons (tons)
- phosphate traffic                        46                  46                 46                  47                  47
- other freight traffic                    22                  29                 24                  24                  25
Number of wagons loaded
- phosphate traffic                    30,423             31,312              31,100              31,391             25,412
- other freight traffic                21,315             20,350              18,573              17,587             15,852
- total traffic                        51,738             51,662              49,673              48,978             41,264
Wagon turnaround time (days)
- phosphate traffic:
Taiba (112 km)                           0.3               n.a.                 0.8                n.a.                0.4
Lam-Lam (87 km)                          0.6               n.a.                 0.6                n.a.                1.8
- national traffic                          -                   -                 n.a.                 -                   -
- international traffic                     -                   -                 n.a.                 -                  221
- petroleum traffic                         -                   -                 n.a.                 -                  151/
Accidents
Number of breakdowns
- locomotives                             293                 305                361                 293                 243
- railcars                                 69                  49                 47                  44                  61
V. OPERATING EFFICIENCY
Passenger-km per train/railcar-km           124                 125                 123                142                 135
Freight net ton-km per train-km             384                 283                389                 369                 346
Freight net ton-km per freight-car
available (000)                            n.a.                n.a.               n.a.                n.a.               n.a.
Locomotive km per mainline
locomotive available                  113,800             79,600              81,000              88,400             76,300
Railcar km per railcar
available                             188,700            188,900             186,800             152,000            163,000
Ton-km per locomotive horsepower
available                              20,055             20,250              21,347              21,316             19,663
Tons per locomotive horsepower
available                                 112                 109                105                 112                 96
Gross ton-km to net ton-km
(freight traffic only)                     n.a.               n.a.                n.a.                n.a.               n.a.
1/   CFS  estimates.
May 1977



SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
MOTIVE POWER PERFORMANCE AND AVAILABILITY
AVAILABILITY (%)                       YEARLY KM PER LOCOMOTIVE IN STOCK
70/71   71/72   72/73   73/74  74/75   75/76   70/71   71/72   72/73   73/74   74/75   75/76
1. Locomotives
1.1 Line locomotive  BB 100    42.3    44.1    14.1    18.5    1.0    22.5  113900   61350   16650    5870                  561    7400
BB 500    65.1    55.0    58.1    52.3   35.8    43.8   77180'  57270   52930   40750   36400   49130
BB 600    62.8    47.1    35.2    33.0   51.7    23.3   60020   52750   40200   18700   26800   11900
BB1100    59.8    61.1    60.8    61.4   52.6    54.3   71450   73150   69200   64400   49700   51000
BB1200      -        -       81.1    71.2   78.1    78.8        -         -     46200   86100   98827   66050
CC2400    65.3    55.4    60.9    50.5   43.8    44.7   70000   72000   55200   49200   49600   44700
Average                       61.2    55.6    58.7    54.5   49.4    50.3           -        -        -        -        -        -
1.2 Shunting
locomotive        AA  10    93.8    90.2    82.5    71.5   66.3    77.0   17730   17170   13870   12830   13660   13380
AA  50    97.8    72.5    69.5    48.4   76.8    42.0    8640   14760   18880    8200    5530    9710
BB  60    98.2    36.4    47.3    80.0   30.1    60.0   24890    8344   11190   16100   13270   20180
2.  Railcars           Z  130    61.5    61.6    62.1    51.7   44.3    34.8   16200  104300   87590   78480   63360   67960
Z  120    86.0    66.7    50.5    50.5   52.5    48.5  169400  138800  119600  111970   84500   63000
BREAK-DOWNS /LOCOMOTIVE                          LOCOMOTIVE KM/BREAK-DOWN
70/71   71/72   72/73   73/74  74/75   75/76   70/71   71/72   72/73   73/74   74/75   75/76
1. Locomotives
1.1 Line locomotive  BB 100    15          20        7       13       0        6       7590    3070    2380        450      561    1230
BB 500    10         9       11        9       9        8      7720    6360    4810    4530    4400    6140
BB 600    18        15       14       15       9        3      3330    3520    2870    1250    2980    3970
BB1100    11        11       10        9       9       8       6500    6650    6920    7160    5520    6380
BB1200      -        -       13       12     13       13        -        -       3550    7180    7600    5080
CC2400    16        14       15       13     11        11      4380    5140    3680    3780    4510    4060
Average                       13       12       12       11       9        9      6276    5808    4973    5285    5112    5342
1.2 Shunting           AA  10                                                                                                             H
locomotive        AA  50                       n.a.                                                      n.a.                         m
BB  60                                                                                                             4
2.  Railcars           Z  130      9        7        5        7       5        8      12690   14900   17500   11200   12600    8500
Z  120      1        5        4        1       2        3    169400   27760   29900  l11000   42300   21000
May 1977



SENEGAL
_MIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
FREIGHT AND PASSENGER TRAFFIC: ACTUAL 1971/72-1976/77 AND FORECAST 1977/78-1981/82
A    C    T    U    A    L                                                                                   F    0    R    E    C    A    S    T
1971/72          1972/73           1973/74             1974/75              1975/76               1976/772/            1977/78            1978/79            1979/80           1980/81            1981/82
ton/   ton-km./  ton/   ton-km/   ton/   ton-kn/   ton/   Lon-km/   ton/   ton-km/                  ton/   tan-km/   ton/   tot-km/   ton/   ton-km         ton/         ton-km/    ton/   ton-km/   ton/   ton-ka/
pass   pass-km    pass   pass-km    pass   pass-km   pass   pass-km   pass   pass-km    kin)    pass   pass-km   pass   pass-km    pass   pass-km    pass   pass-km    paso   pass-km    pess   pass-km
(000)   (mill.)  (000)   (mill.)  (000)   (mill.)  (000)  (.ill.)  (000)   (mill.)                  (000)  (mill )   (000)   (m(000)   (000) (-ill.)  (000)   (mill.)   (000)   (mill.)  (000)  (mill.)
FREIGHT 11
INTERNATIONAL TRAFFIC          705      129       230     139       303      190      251      156       263    166.6               269      173      295      190       318      204       332      213       341     219       345      222
Exp-ots (Mali imports)        142       80       163      101      251      158       205     128       166    102.7       642     177      114       199     128       209      134       218      140       226      145       230      148
Imports (Mali exports)         63       41        67      38        52       32       46       28        97     63.9      642       92      59        96       62       109       70       114       73       115       74      115       74
NATIONAL TRAFFIC             1,705      212    1.676       214    1,584      193    1,635      203    1,343    163.0              1,570      191    1,586       192    1,641      198    1_767       220    1_833       217    1950       231
Phosphates  - Txiba          1,277      143    1,331      149    1,291       144    1,383      155    1,086    121.4       112   1,300       146    1,300      146    1,3         150    1,450       162    1,500       168    1,600      179
Phosphates - Thi64            143       12       128      11       139       12        86       7       110      10.0      91      110       10       125      11       140       13       155       14       170       15       180      16
Oroundnuts                    107       24        71      18        50       12        76       20      105      21.5      205     110       23       116       24      121       25       127       26       133       27       140       29
Other                         178       33       146      36       104       25        90      21        42      10.1     240       50       12       45       11        40       10        35        8        30        7        30        7
TOTAL FREIGNT TRAFFIC         1,910      341    1906        353    1,887      383    1.886      359    1.606    329.6              t.839      364    1.081      382    1.959       6102    2,099      423    2,174       436    2295       453 _
PASSENGERY
National                     2,715      220    2,398      202    2,217       186    1,829      166    1,791       158        88   1,700      153    1,600       146    1,500      138    1,400       130    1,350       127    1,300       124
Internati-nal                   44       21        51      25        67       33        53      27        51       28       50n      64       32        67      34         71      36        75       38        79       40        81      41
TOTAL PASSENGER TRAFFIC       2.759      241    2,449       227    2.284      219    1,882      193    1,850       186             1,764      185    1,667       180    1.571      174    1,475       168    1.429       167    1,381       165
3/ This is "best estimate" fErecast. Conservative and target forecasts are shown is Table t
2J Estimate based os 6 months.
Sourc: Senegal Railsays and Bank estimates.
Juns 1977



SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
TARGET AND CONSERVATIVE FREIGHT TRAFFIC FORECASTS 1977/78-1981/82
1977/78            1978/79            1979/80            1980/81             1981/82
ton    ton-km      ton     ton-km     ton     ton-km     ton     ton-km      ton     ton-km
(000)   (mill.)   (000)   (mill.)   (000)   (mill.)   (000)   (mill.)   (000)   (mill.)
TARGET FORECAST
International traffic         295       190       333      214       362      232       371       238       375      241
Exports (Mali imports)      199       128       224      144       248       159      256       164       260       167
Imports (Mali exports)       96        62       109       70       114        73      115        74       115        74
National traffic            1:;586      192    1,761       212    1,907        229    2,083       249    2,230        265
Phosphates - Taiba        1,300       146    1,400       157    1,500        168    1,600       179    1,700        190
Phosphates - Thies          125        11       180       16       205        19      260        24       300        27
Groundnuts                  116        24       141       29       167       34       193        39       200        41
Other                        45        11        40       10        35         8       30         7        30         7
TOTAL TARGET FORECAST          1,881      382    2,094        426    2,269       461    2,454       487    2,605        506
CONSERVATIVE FORECAST
International traffic         265       171       286      184       299      192       270       173       301      194
Exports (Mali imports)      179       115       188      121       196       126      183       117       197      127
Imports (Mali exports)       86        56        98       63       103       66        87        56       104       67
National traffic             1,570      190    1,615       194    1,650        196    1,680       197    1,790        212
Phosphates - Taiba        1,300       146    1,340       150    1,370        153    1,435       161    1,500        168
Phosphates - Thies          120        11       130       12       140        13      130        12       150        14
Groundnuts                  105        22       105       22       105       22        85        17       110       23
Other                         45       11        40       10        35         8       30         7        30         7    X
TOTAL CONSERVATIVE FORECAST  1,835        361    1,901        378    1,949       388    1,9501/    3701/  2,091         406    a
(D
1/  Traffic constrained by lack of transport capacity, according to conservative capacity forecast (Annex 5 ).
June 1977



S E N E G A L
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Tnvestment Plan 1978/9 - 1980/8I
Exchange Rate US$1.00 - 245 CFAF
 _____ ----1978/779-----            ----------- 1979/80 -    ----------1980/81-------                                 -------1978/79-1980/81-------           -------1978/79-1980/81--------
---------------------------------------------------------------- CFAF Millio-U               ------------------------------------------i-------- -                            US$ Million ---------
Local      Foreign        Total         Local       Foreign        Total        Local        Foreign       Totai         Local        Foreign       Total        Local        Foreign         Total
1.  Track renewal - 60 kn                 A-/      142          375           517          280             -           280          280            -           280           702          375          1,077         2.87         1.53           4.40
B         14          -              14          28             -            28            28           -            28            70            -              70        0.29           -             0.29
C         22          45            67           74             -            74          105            _           105           201            45            246        0.82         0.18            1.00
D        178         420           598          382             -           382          413            -           413           973           420         1,393         3.98         1.71            5.69
2.  Track maintenance equipment           A          -          405           405           -              -            -            -             -            -             -           405            405          -          1.65            1.65
and material                       C          -           49            49           -              -            -             -            -            -             -             49             49         -           0.20            0.20
D         -          454           454           -              -            -             -            -             -            -            454            454         -           1.85            1.85
3.  Improvements of telecommunication A              50         124           174           50            30            80           -             -            -            100           154           254         0.41        0.63            1.04
facilities 4 track in Dakar         B          5          -               5           5             -             5            -            -             -            10            -              10        0.04           -            0.04
area                                C          8          15             23          13              6           19            -            -             -            21            21             42        0.09         0.08            0.17
D         63         139            202          68             36          104            -            -             -           131           175            306        0.54         0.71            1.25
4.  Spare parts for motive power          A          -          384           384           -            191           191           -            33            33            -            608           608          -           2.48            2.48
rolling stock                       C         -           33             33          -              38           38            -            9              9           -             80             80         -           0.33            0.33
and workshop equipment                        - D        417            417          -             229          229            -           42             42            -           688            688          -          2.81
5.  Training                              A          34         105            139          34            105          139            34         105           139           102          315            417         0.41        1.29            1.70
C          5          13             18           8             21           29            12          29            41            25           63             88         0.10        0.26            0.36
D         39         118            157          42            126          168           46          134           180           127          378            505         0.51        1.55            2.06
6.  Studies                               A          -           90            90           -             43            43            -            -            -             -            133           133          -           0.54            0.54
C         -           10            10           -              6             6            _            -                                        16            16          -           0.06            0.06
D         _          100           100           -             49            49            -            -            -             -            149           149          _          0.60            0.60
TOTAL                                 A        226        1483          1709          364           369           733           314         138           452           904         1990           2894         3.69        8.12           11.81
8         19          -             19           33             -            33           28            -            28            80           -              80         0.33         -              0.33
C         35         165           200           95            71           166           117          38           155           247          274            521         1.01        1.11            2.12
D        280       1648           1928          492           440           932          459          176           635         1,231         2264           3495         5.03        9.23           14.26
A - Price level 1977
B - 10% phyaical en0tingencies on civil works
C - Price inflation according to Bank guidelines of January 31, 1977
D - Total of A, B and C
December 1977



Table 8
SENEGAL                                Page 1
Third Railway Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements-/
Million CFAF and US$
1978/79      1979/80      1980/81      1981/82      Total
1. Track renewal - 60 km       L2/      178          382          372           41         973
F       420           -             -            -          420
2. Track maintenance
equipment & material       L         -            -            -            -           -
F       227          227            -            -          454
3. Ilrprovement in Dakar
area                       L         63           68           -            -          131
F       139           36            -            -          175
4. Spare parts for motive
power & rolling stock    I,          -            -            -            -           -
and workshop equipment    F         417          229           42            -         688
5. Training                    L         39           2            41                      127
F       118          126           121           13         378
6. Studies                     L        -             -            -            -           -
F        100           49           -            -          149
TOTAL                    L       280           492          413           46       1,231
F     1,421          667           163           13      2,264
CUMULATIVE               L       280           772        1,185        1,231       1,231
F     1,421        2,088        2,251        2,264        2,264
T     1,701        2,860        3,436         3,495       3,495
in US$                   T      6.58        11.17        13.53         14.26       14.26
1/ Cost includes physical and price contingencies
2/ L - Local
F - Foreign
T - Total
December 1977



SENEGAL                             Table 8
rage 2
Third Railway Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Bank Ican
Bank Fiscal Year and                                   Cumulative Disbursement at
Quarter Ending                                         End of Quarter (US$'000)
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                         1,460
December 31, 1978                                          2,920
March 31, 1979                                             4,505
June 30, 1979                                              5,965
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                         6,785
December 31, 1979                                          7,605
March 31, 1980                                             8,300
June 30, 1980                                              9,120
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                         9,430
December 31, 1980                                          9,740
March 31, 1981                                            10,050
June 30, 1981                                             10,360
1981/82
September 30, 1981                                        11,000
December 1977



Table 9
SENEGAL
Third Railway Project
FINANCING PLAN
(1977 CFAF Million)
SENEGAL -BANK-----------
Local  Foreign    Total          Local      Local  Foreign    Total
1. Track renewal - 60 km    702         375       1,077         455         247      375        622
2. Track maintenance
equipment & material    -         405          405          -          -       405        405
3. Improvements in Dakar
area                     100      154          254          65         35      154        189
4. Spare parts for motive
pcwer & rolling stock   -         608          608          -          -       608        608
and workshop eqtripment
R Training                    102      315          417          66         36      315        351
6. Studies                      -      133          133          -          -       133        133
TOTAL                 904   1,990        2,894         586         318   1990        2,308
7. Contingencies
Physical                     80       -           80          52         28       -           28
Price                       247     274          521         160         87      274         361
GRAND TOTAL         1,231   2,264        3,495          798        433   2,264       2,697
December 1977



SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Incos-  Account
CFAF Million
1965-66                                   1966-67                                    1967-68                                    1968-69                                     1969-70
Average           Tariff  Rev.                A-.            Tariff  Rev.                Av.            Tariff  Rev.                 A-.            Tariff  Rev.                 Av.            Tariff  Rev.
Paso/Tons  Distance  Pr/TX    per   Eop.   Poon/Toan  Disc.  Pi./TK   per   Elp.   Pans/Tons  Dint.  PR/TK   per    Eop.   Pa.s/Toes  Dint.  PK/TK   per    Exp.   Pa.s/To.s  Dint.  PKITK   per    Eop.
000       KE         niiliiou   omit          000         Kn    nilli-o  unit             900       KEn    million  unit             000         Ku      illion  unit            000        KE    itlion  .nit
OPERATING REVENUE
PASSENrERS AND LUGGAGE
National                                                                  643                                        643                                         604                                         628                                         632
International                                                              74                                          92                                         74                                          76                                          83
Sub-total Pa.uenger-                  3518         82      290    2.47   717        3825        77    295    2.49   735        3574        77    277    2.45   678         3656        80    291    2.42   704         3503        80    280    2.55   715
FREIH
National:  Phosphate Taiba           1043        108       113    2.43   275        1202       108    131    2.37   310         944       108    102    2.63   268         1044       109    114    2.42   276         1127       109    123    2.72   335
GOo..dnotu                 282        166        47    6.09   286        223       192      43    7.33   315         259       162     42    8.29   348         203       172      35    7.69   269         131       229      30    8.97   269
Other                      138        202        28    9.11   255        158       202      32    8.81   282         147       190     28    7.82   219         174       167      29    8.28   240         155       193      30    6.60   198
Rub-total National                    1463        129      188    4.34   816        1583       116    206    4.41   908         1350      127    122    4.85   835         1421       127    178    4.34   785         1413       130    183    4.38   802
Intes-tito..l                          182       637       116    6.41   743         202       644    130    6.90   819         186       634    118    6.47   763          241       622    150    8.00   920          224      625    140    6.19   866
Dmb-total Freight                     1645        185      304    5.13  1559        1785       188    336    5.14  1726         1536      189    290    5.51  1598         1662       199    328    5.15  1705         1637       197    323    5.16  1668
SUNDRIES                                                                  146                                         172                                        214                                         132                                          67
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE                                                  2422                                       2633                                        2490                                        2541                                        2450
OPERATING EXPENSES
Staff Clots                                                              1926                                        1840                                       1642                                        1667                                        1615
PeZs oos                                                                  129                                         190                                        136                                         166                                         160
Hateriali:  F-el and
lubricanto                                                   208                                         369                                        563                                         391                                         458
Other
Chargen                                                                   169                                          64                                        161                                         147                                         166
Tones                                                                      19                                          17                                         14                                          18                                          18
Sub-total Working enpanditure                                            2451                                       2480                                        2516                                        2389                                        2417
Tepreciatios                                                              225                                         239                                        221                                         217                                         258
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                                                 2676                                       2719                                        2737                                        2606                                        2675
NET OPERATING REVENUE (LOSS)                                             (254)                                        (87)                                      (247)                                        (65)                                       (225)
Interent ch-rges                                                          (24)                                         (2)                                       (28)                                        (44)                                        (54)
Exceptional revenue (Loon)                                                 86                                         (17)                                       (22)                                        (26)                                         42
Net revenue (Lon)                                                        (192)                                       (106)                                      (297)                                       (135)                                       (237)
Appropriation for reneval                                                  (59)                                       (96)                                       (44)                                       (178)
NET BOOE PROFIT (LOSS)                                                   (251)                                       (202)                                      (341)                                       (313)
RATIOS
Working  2                                                                101                                          94                                        101                                          94                                          99
Operating  %                                                              110                                         103                                        110                                         103                                         109
Staff costs to  total nth0ing  con7n  2                                     79                                         74                                         65                                          67                                          67
Average set fined noneto in ue                                           9628                                        9896                                      10148                                       10569                                       11301
Return on net fiod a.sets   ose  2                                      (2.6)                                       (0.9)                                      (2.4)                                       (0.6)                                       (2.0)
May 1976



SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Income Account
CFAF Million
1970-71                                    1971-72                                      1972-73                                     1973-74
Average            Tariff  Rev.                Av.             Tariff  Rev.                 Av.             Tariff  Rev.                 Av.             Tariff  Rev.
Pass/Tons  Distance  PK/TK   per   ERp.   Pass/Tons  Dist.  PK/TK   per   ERp.   Pass/Tons  Dist.  PK/TK   per    Exp.   Pass/Tons  Dist.  PK/TK   per    Exp.
000         Km        million  unit            000          Km    million  unit             000         Km    million  unit              000         Km    million  unit
OPERATING REVENUE
PASSENGERS AND LUGGAGE
National                                                                     606                                         588       2399        84    202    2.50   504          2217        84    187    2.76   517
International                                                                 75                                          76         51       490      25    2.64    66           67       507      34    2.91    99
Sub-total Passengers                   2793         92       257    2.65   681         2759        87    241    2.76   664         2450        93    227    2.51   570          2284        97    221    2.79   616
FREIGHT
National:  Phosphate Taiba             1234        109       134    2.84   381         1420       109    155    2.79   433         1331       112    149    2.48   370          1293       111    145    3.55   514
Lam Lam                                                                                                      128        86      11    4.82      53        137        87      13    5.00    65
Groundnuts                 117         188        22    8.32   183         107       224      24    8.58   206           71       253      18    8.50   153           50       240      12    9.16   109
Other                      204         172        35    3.31   116         178       185      33    4.91   162          146       246      36    6.29   223          104       240      25    9.76   244
Sub-total National                     1555        123       191    3.56   680         1705       124    212    3.78   801         1676       128    214    3.73   799          1584       123    195    4.78   932
International                           228        618       141    6.95   980         205        615    126    6.26   790          229       620    142    6.07   862           298       621    185    5.59  1035
Sub-total Freight                      1783        186       332    5.00  1660         1910       177    338    4.71  1591         1905       187    356    4.67  1661          1884       202    380    5.18  1967
SUNDRIES                                                                      66                                          90                                           80                                          131
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE                                                    2407                                         2344                                         2311                                         2714
OPERATING EXPENSES
Staff costs                                                                1593                                         1612                                         1757                                         1832
Pensions                                                                     144                                         139                                          135                                          126
Materials:  Fuel and lubricants                                              449                                         279                                          335                                          280
Other
Charges                                                                     157                                          173                                          151                                          144
Taxes                                                                         19                                          61                                           56                                           13
Sub-total Working expenditure                                              2362                                         2264                                         2434                                         2395
Depreciation                                                                 253                                         254                                          271                                          279
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES                                                   2615                                         2518                                         2705                                         2674
NET OPERATING REVENUE (LOSS)                                                (208)                                       (174)                                        (394)                                         (40)
Interest charges                                                           (115)                                        (113)                                        (129)                                        (142)
Exceptional revenue (Loss)                                                   (29)                                         26                                          (19)                                          22
Net revenue (Loss)                                                          (352)                                       (261)                                        (542)                                         (80)
RATIOS
Working  %                                                                    98                                          97                                          105                                           88
Operating  7                                                                 109                                         107                                          117                                           99
Staff costs to total working costs  %                                         67                                          71                                           72                                           76
Average net fixed assets in use CFAF Million                              11996                                        12437                                        12436                                        12474
Return on net fixed assets in use  7.                                         (1.7)                                       (1.4)                                        (3.2)                                         0.03
May 1976



Table 12-
SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
In CFAF Million:                                                   Balance Sheet
As of June 30                                   1965      1966      1967      1968      1969      1970      1971      1972      1973      1974
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and Bank balance                            116        57      (201)      109      (527)   (1123)       321       122       145      (131)
Receivabies:  Trade                               75        55        38        21       214       167       141       201       181       295
Current accounts                 106       255       396       477       392       379       491       621       532       522
Mali Railways and                166       251       370       340       375       351       380       414       225       217
SOCOPAO
Other                            159       193        41        49        53        94        30        25        13        35
Prior to 7/l/66                                       89        66         4
Sub-total Receivables                            506       754       934       953      1038       991      1042      1261      1061      1069
Inventories                                      723      751       746       621       689       630       549        567      612       617
Suspense                                                              63                                                          10
Sub-tocal Current Assets                        1345      1562      1542      1683      1200       498      1912      1950      1828      1555
(minus) CR'RENT LIABILITIES
Creditors:  Trade                                606       910       283       525       468       285       608       501       623       316
Investment supplies                 80        49        98      1116       661       157       245       158                 806
Treasury advances                                      898      1317      1252      1310      2293      2687
Other                              172         75       65       412       258       113         73      102       180       283
Loan termi                         253       198        32        59        56        85
Prior to 7/1/66                                        303       247       244       241       241       241       24l       241
Sub-total Creditors                             1111     1232      1179      3676      2939      2191      3460      3689      1044      1726
Suspense                                          25        30         5                                                           1
Sub-total Current Liabilities                  1136      1262      1684      3676      2939      2191      3460      3689      1044      1726
TOTAL NET CURRENT ASSETS                        209        300      (142)   (1993)   (1739)   (1693)   (1548)   (1739)          783      (171)
STQCRS                                            12        12        12        12        12        12         7         6         7        10
?TID ASSETS
In use  gross value                           10704    10904    11544    11703    12825    13641    14494    14790    15009    15347
(minus) Accumulated depreciation               1062      1290      1365      1586      1803      2061      2081      2328      2598      2809
Net fixed assets in use                         9642     9614    10179    10117    11022    11580    12413    12462    12411    12538
Works in progress                                           18        84      1275       741       361       295      636        768      1840
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSETS                         9642      9632    10263    11392    11763    11941    12708    13098    13179    14378
GRAND TOTAL ASSETS                              9863      9944    10133       9411    10036    10260    11167    11355    13969    14217
F'NANCED FROM
Loan Capail.
Government Treesury advence                      582       954       733       293       235       176     1425      1486      4413      2113
IDA Credit 96SE                                       -             258       332      1082      1659      1669      1975      2121      222:
IDA Credit 3145E                                                                                                                           50
Suppliers credit for locomotives                                    226        169       113        56        56        57
CCCE                                              66        51         2                                                          71      246
TOTAL LOAN CAPITAL                              648      1005      1219        794     1430      1891      3150      3518      6605      4633
EQCITY EQUtVALENT
Capital                                        9013      8999      8999      8999      8999      8999      8999      8999      8999      8999
Subsidies:  Government                                                                  137       137       137       137        13         13
FED                                615       630       712       712       523       523       523       523       523       523
FAC-FlDES                                                                  176       176       176       266       326       326
Renewal reserve                                 543       209       306       349       526       526       526       526       526       526
Accumulated revenue accourLt                    (956)   (1219)   (1421)   (1763)   (2075)   (2312)   (2664)   (2925)   (3343)   (3423)
(minus) Governrant subsidies                                                                                                             2300
against operating losses
TOTAL NET EQOJITY EQUIVALENT                   9215      8939      8914      8617      8606      8369      8017      7847      7364      9584
GRAND TOTAL LIABILITIES                        9863      9944    10133       9411    10036    10260    11167    11365    13969    14217
RATIOS
Current                                         1.2       1.2       0.9       0.5       0.4       0.2       0.6       0.5       1.7       0.9
Liquid                                          0.6       0.6       0.4       0.3       0.2      (0.1)      0.4       0.4       1.2       0.5
Debt to Equity                                 7/93      10/90    12/88    8/92        14/86    18/82    28/72    31/69    47/53    33167
May 1976



C22S   |    2                            2)7o     23  C 2 r   C'                                 -                  I  i  an>gWgr* Ra
22C2r1         g            o           22              2                                                                                             r  g   F2sgn,                                    ;
sg e C   w|   M                      a C  -                       - 
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C r O 22                         -                                         ' 1  C  WN              
-~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~ W'  8                                                      4-                                     ga
2~~~~~~~~                                                   WC N                    N                 
i~~~~~~~ -                                                                          -_                              |f    
'   '   ' ' ' '   ' ' ' ' '   '   ' ' ' ' ' ' '   '   ' g ' ' 4   C'w '  O'4     2' > *       |    a' C        2 2 . w |   l
D    w   O   g  o  O X  Inr |~~~~~~~~2~
G                                       WO   N                   2 OI                                          C  ~  I   I             C'WW _ W W G W           1 - _     s _ [ 
C N
,,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,,  ,,,,,,,,                                                                                             ,,,,,, -,,,,, ,,,, ,,,, ,, N  h ,  o , @2 .A=@o|_t
WOD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                                                 w22                 G            N   N                    sru       _Dz z4~1E5t4        SDIl 



-00  01          o    a          o                   0'   0    0                      g~~~~~~~0'0'~   00z       .- S0 00                   0       0        '0              0
0'  0''0~                     4 ~-0~4~0*.'. 0....                              00..                  40..0                         '     '............0''' ''                                                                    0     
lool                         --           -                     o0.............. ...                                                   ..            . ........                ..      .     ..      .    .
Ad                                                                         -~~~ --      0   ---------0----
I        ~       I                     I 0    0..                              ..0
I ~ ~   ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ..       .    .     .    .          ..      .     .    .     .    ..                                  .    .    .     .    .     .    .     .    .
a                           oI                  0                                    .000
0 0 0                1    ~ ~ ~~~~....                                         .                  .....                     .             0'. 000  .0.0.'..            .0.4. .0. . ..       .0 .          ..00..0'.. 
4 0 0                       4    0    0'   -000'.         ..    ..      ..       .. .....440..0.0.0.    ...    ..                                   .     ..      .     .
t  t    2 1.   -.m0                                                                 40'                                         0                                              oI
IO: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~         ~          ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        ~         ~        ~       ~       ~       .....



1/ET6tSAL O? TB/~RD RA/tORY ORB OPC
coeA-..ve.I   CPAF eLlijn                                                                                                                                 Table 14
----------1977-78 -----------7---------- 978-79 -----------/----------  979-90 -----------    ---------- 980-817---------                                                                                                                      ----------1981-82 ----------
Pas/Roe    Average                   Ta-iff   ToTTp."eag                                              f    -MOt/e.            ,      A--e        TSge        Taif        e/op                   Avera.ge                 Isif      Re/ep                                   ,_ae P7/7           Rev/fop.
Rn0/AT               tItn                                             cA elltltoos                          I5       _             ClA      niltioe ____                ke .        __        CPAF    ni/lItr                      iFCAF    nillior
7PRRATIN4 RB7RLO,U
Pessene.erseed 1-...e
...rtt  ra                  67        577         32        4.76        138           71          507        36          4.76        146           75         5070        38        4.76        t54           /9          507        49         4.76         162           87         577        4t         7.76         L66
Netio-1                        7607          9/       t46         3. 79       5 53       1507           97        138         3.7t        573         1400           93       130         3. 79      493         1357           t9e       727        3. 79        487         1377          95        774        3 .19        470
fotel                  7~~~         ~         ~~~~667  ISO            691         t571                    174                     669         1475                    168                     647        [429                     iL6                      643        1381                    165                      636
petotieve           62        ~~~~       ~~~~642  47  9.87       397           81         64    529.9                        57           177          642        64         9.80       ilt          104          642         67        9.8/          654        173          942         68         9.17         660
Ont-o                         733         4         157        4.97       t82           2737         642       162          7.90       17/9          762         647        /68         7.7       12            26/          642       g/79                    /354         270          642        1073        7.9        1369
Scb-ftliinrrioa                 295                   190                    1572          333                    214                    1/88          362                    232                   2978          171                     238                    2078         3075                    241                     2029
plve Inrr....  IRariffs
rbehr-Ooiba            1377         172       146         5.68       829         1477          112       1,57         5.69        8997        1907          i12       169         5:68       934         760           1/2       779         5.,68       L1018       1377          1ll        /97        3.68        178
PhosphaeL.a. Le               129          80        II        9.97a       777          783           87        16          9.75        142          793          80         79        9.19        762          267           8         74         97           756         370           87         27        9.i           237
176        270         24       12.26        294          141          270        29         12.26        363          767         277         34       12.76        430           93          210        39        /7 26         490         207          210         41       12.2631
Other                          45        24/         I1       15.58        171           47          247        17         75-58        150           35         240          8         5.51       13/           30          247         0        /5.58         /712         37'         247          0       15.58         1112
Svb-toia1 eat local            1586                   192                    1394        7761                     272                    7545         79307                   229                   7670         2/83                     049                    7933        2237                     265                    195
Totl  Fell                       1817                    383                   2966         2794                    426                     3333        2289                    461                    3635         2454                    48'                     3941       2685                     506                     3974
Total Treffir                    3548                    562                   357          366 5                   607                    4077         3044                    6 29                   4282        3983                     654                     4484       3996                     671                     4617
Sdi-I0toodrs                                                                     7                                                            7                                                         7'9                                                         1too                                                         104
TOTAL 8PRETING RfENUli                                                         3757                                                        4172                                                        4382                                                         4504                                                        4707
le- L.eriff aboe                                                           .30                                                         .43                                                         .50                                                           53                                                         .90
1977 tariff                                                                 4890                                                         5866                                                       6023                                                         '930                                                        8949
WorRln  coa-f    de                                                            4170                                                        4082                                                        5331                                                         3960                                                        6639
/,cebr o f traffiroits                                                          362                                                          576                                                        591                                                          883                                                         618
t-d-r c/ trafflr
notaL ixeed Cost                                                               2135                                                        2391                                                        2831                                                         2384                                                        2656
Bo-a  BVriabLe Coat-                                                           2737                                                        2331                                                        2630                                                         3506                                                       3983
Vatal  rest pe                                                              3.80                                                        4.15                                                       4.48                                                          5.93                                                       6.45
Tota   elbere
ceder narget trafflr                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2135                                         2490                                                       2818                                                         3808                                                        4328
BT-l orki,1r-et
veder  -srgs   -rafPt                                                      4270                                                         4881                                                       5469                                                         6262                                                        6984
0O18.T708    .NOR                                                              628                                                         983                                                        1234                                                         7668                                                       1965
cASH GRnEATRD reos
OPReATIOn   -sOR                                                               628                                                         086                                                         988                                                         '727                                                       1358
DIFFE-PCE IN CAH GREREATEO                                                                                                                  199                                                         266                                                          54'                                                        6807



SENEGAL
ApPRAISAL OF 13110 HA llWAY P'R02ECT                                                                                                          Tbe1
r=c    Aecceat - CrP  Hilticn                                                                                                                Tbl. 
Based an Canservarice Traffic Asacapciac
-- - - - - - - - -1977-78-- - - - - - - - -            - - - - - - - - - -1978-79-- - - - - - - - -           - - - - - - - - - -1979-SO-- - - - -- - - -           - - - -- - - - - - -1980-RI-- - - - -- - - -             -  - - -- - - - - - -1981-8R     - - -- - --     - - -
P Macacrs   i  s  e  2   2       Rev/Exp   Pass/OO=#  disterce  yjiliors  f              2eV/exP   pass/tons  dise geCPA!  PC/EI                     2 7PaF&ss/rOe       Av-erae                          Ecap         a    a Ap-              P/         Tariff 
Pa.a/,cca   Avrge       P/I        Tariff    e/c         aaica AeaeTrf    RecEp 11                                          Average        l       T-rift    Ray/Ap9....pK .    eaif                                                          diacac                              CPA
000      RIlliaca  -r~        ~~~ cci00                daeceprcl                                               clarcc                             CPA!                 di r,ac                                       '-lcape   c      000'   dilac    arci
___Hi li. . _i                                                      .. .. __ _ _ _   i li a   i l c aNi l c a                                   p r  cc i  RKicl__ _ _ _             e         __ _ _ _  _ _ __ _    h l c e     __ _ _ _ _    ic       _ _ _ _   _-_ _ _     R l i c
OPERATING R8E1VE5R
P^saaccer aaad LaceaRe
ictercariacal                67         507        32         400        138          71       507          36        406       146           75         507        38         406        154         79         507        40         406         162          81         507        41         4106        166
Sali-eal                   1600           91       146         379        553       1500         92        138         379       523        1400          93       130         379        493       1350           94       127         379        481        1300          95       124          319        470
T-al                      1667                   IS0                     691       1571                   174                   669        1475                   168                    647       142                    167                    643        1381                    165                    636
Prelait
Icsr-aticcal<
Petralcca                  62         672        40         980        390         62        642         40         980       390          62         642         4G         980        390         62         642        40         980         390         62          642        40          908       390
Other                     203         642       130         490        638        224        642        144          790     1136          037        642        152         790       1202        200         642       133          790        05                                  3          790        212
Ich-ictil iccercac icasl   265                     170                   1028        286                   184                  1526         299                   192                   1592        270                    173                   1"45         301                   193                    1602
pica tcrease i= tariffs
207
Naiac-l:
Ph-aphateTaiba           1500         112       146          568       827       1340        112        150          560      052         1370         112       153         568        0 72      1435         112       161          568       983        150           812       168          56         954
Pheaphata -   Le La       120          87        11         910         95        130         87         12         910       103          140          87        13         910        111        130          87        12         910         103        1.58          87        14         910         119
Gr-ccd-cl                 105         210         22        1226       207         105       210          22        1226      270          105         210        22        1226        270         85         210         17        1226        219         110         210        23         1226        283
Other                      45         240        11         1558        168        40        240         12         1556       150          35         240         8        1558        131         38         240          7        1558        112          30         240          7        1558        112
Scb-tc-l aiic..l          1570                   190                    1297      1615                    194                  1375        1650                   196                   1384       1680                   897                    1347        1790                   212                    1468
T-tal Freichc              1835                   361                   2325        1901                   378                  2901        1949                   388                   2976       1950                   370                    2792        2091                   406                    3070
Tecal Traffir              3502                   541                   3016        3472                   552                  3570        3424                   556                   3623       3379                   537                    3435        3472                   571                    3706
Scadrlca                                                                  100                                                    100                                                      100                                                      10o                                                       100
TOTAL OPERATIlG RAVIESE                                                 3116                                                    3670                                                     3723                                                     3535                                                      3806
I        i_ .   I rit af ve                                                30                                                    43                                                       .51                                                      .73                                                       .90
1977 tariff                                                           4311                                                   5248                                                     5345                                                      6115                                                      7231
Worki=g tct ceder
N/E traffic                                                             4270                                                   4782                                                      5301                                                     5960                                                      6639
Ncaber cf traf f Icalls
cadre S/c traffic                                                         562                                                    576                                                      591                                                      603                                                       618
Tctal fleed Cee-                                                        2135                                                    2391                                                     2651                                                     2384                                                      2656
Tatal Variable faCE                                                     2135                                                    2391                                                     2650                                                     3576                                                      3983
r        tffi a  par                                                 3.80                                                   4.15                                                      4.48                                                     5.93                                                      6.45
Total eseabia te st
Tcd-r target rraf le                                                 2061                                                   2291                                                      2491                                                     3184                                                      313
Iciali -krAlg teat
cad _c ir _a       f rfOi                                            4196                                                   4682                                                      5142                                                     5568                                                      6339
GAvIN GrAERATER PEON
oPERATIOWI USNrE                                                         113                                                    566                                                      703                                                      547                                                       892
TARGE N   FFIC
CASN GCEERATRO FMON
OPERATIO UN DNEN
NkST ESTINAIC
DrfrRENcE 1N CASH Gff00RA018



Table 16
SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF ThIKTILAILVAY PROJECT
Balance Sheet - CFAF Million
Based on Best Estimate Traffic Assumption
Revised
1974       1975       1976        1977       1977      1978        1979       1980       1981        1982
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and bank balance                                    (131)      (727)      (368)       (820)      (820)     (794)       (700)      (600)       (500)      (100)
Receivables:  trade                                       295        505        419         500        500       500         600        700        800        1000
current accounts                          522        244        229         250        250       300         300        400        500         600
Mali Railways and                         217
Socopao
other                                                225          37        150        150       100         LOO        151         251        251
prior to 7-1-66                            35
Sub-total receivables                                    1069        974         735        900        900       900        1000       1251        1551       1851
Inven:ories                                               617        693        303         400        400       500         700        900       1100        1300
Suspe,,se                                                             38        285
Sub-total Current Assets                                   1555        978         955        480        480        606       1000       1551        2151       3051
Minus Current Liabilities
Credit:ors trade                                          316        423         146        200        200       350         250        600         900       1100
Investment supplies                                      886         328        328         600        600       600         600        700        600         500
Treasury advances                                                               600         600
Other                                                     283        266        181         380        380       450         500        600         700        800
Loan terms                                                            15         749        520        520       227         329         33        330         330
Prior to 7-1-66                                           241
Sub-total Creditors                                      1726       1032       2004        2300       1700      1627        1577       2230       2530        2730
Suspense                                                               3        354
Sub-tottli Current Liabilities                             1726       1032        2004       2300       1733       1627       1179       2230        2530       2730
TOTAL NET CURRENT ASSETS                                     (171)        (57)    (1403)       1820      (1220)   (1021)        (879)       (679)      (379)         21
STOCKS                                                         10           6          6          6           6         6           6          6          6           6
FIXED ASSETS
In use:  gross value                                      15347      17825      18127       19107      19107    20778        22671      24418      25440       27830
Minus depreciation                                         2809       3097        3462       3807       3807      4262        4791       5503        6308       7074
Net fixed assets in use                                   12538      14728      14665       15300      15300    16516        17880      18915       19132      20756
Works in progress                                          1840         134        637        671        671        600        698        482         472         91
Total Net Fixed Assets                                      14378      14862       15302      15971      15971      17116      18578      19397       19604      20847
GRAND TOTAL ASSETS                                          14217       14811      13905      14157       14757     16101      17705       18724      19231      21174
FINANCED FROM
Long tern debt or pension fund                                        1680        1570       1460       1460       1460       1460       1460        1460       1460
Loan capital
Govern-ent treasury advances                             2113       2113       2113        2113        600       600         600        600        600         600
IDA Crsdit 96-SE                                        2224        2237       1635        1635       1635      1550        1464       1379       1293        1207
IDA Credit 314-SE/Loan 835-SE                              50       1078       1686       2059        2059      2179       2099        2018       1938        1858
Supplisr credit for losses                                            30           8                             455         348        241         134         27
CCCE                                                      246        300        276         276        276       233         190        147         104         61
Other                                                                135         135        135        135       121         107         93          79       1565
Proposed IBRD loan                                                                                                          1431       2234       2538        2573
Total loan capital                                         4633       5893        7423       7678       6165      6598        7699       8172        8146       9351
EQUITY EQUIVALENT
Capital                                                    8999       9012        9012       9012       9012       9012       9012       9012        9012       9012
Subsidies:  Government                                       13                                         2113       2113       2113       2113        2113       2113
FED                                           523         523        523        523         523       523        523         523        523         523
FAC-FIDES                                     326         326        326        326         326      1086       1086        1086       1086        6066
Renewal reserve                                             526
Accumulated revenue account (loss)                        (3423)     (5683)      (6279)     (6582)    (6582)   (5731'    '68356         '8980)      (7112)     (6977)
Minus subsidies against operating losses                   2310       2600        2900       3200       3200       3500       4108       4798        5463       5766
Appropris.tion for write-off of obsolete stocks                        460
TOTAL NET EQUITY EQUIVALENT                                  9584       7238        6482       6479       8592       9503      10006      10552       11085        1823
GRAND TOTAL LIABILITIES                                     14217      14811       13905      14157       14757     16101      17705       18724      19231      21174
RATIOS
Current                                                    0.9        0.9         0.4        0.2        0.3       0.4         0.5        0.7         0.9        1.0
Debt-to-equity                                             32/68      40/60       53/47      54/46      42/58    41/59        43/57      44/56       42/58      44/56



SENEGAL                                                 Table 17
APPRAISAL OF THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Source and Applications of Funds
CFAF Million
Based on Best Estimate Traffic Assumption
1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976/77      1977/78      1978/79      1979180    1980/81       1981/82
SOURCE
Operating revenue                               2714         2972         3366         3791         4890         5568         6289         7081         7997
Working expenses                                2395         3517         3383         3625         4270         4782          5301        5960         6639
Sub-total cash generated                         319         (545)         (17)         166          620          786          988        1121          1358
from operations
Exceptional revenue (loss)                        22          (22)        (852)         (43)
Sub-total net cash generation                    341         (567)
SUBSIDIES
Government                                      2300          300          300         2413          300          608           690         665          303
FAC-CCCE                                                                                             760
Other
Sub-total subsidies                             2300          300          300         2413         1060
LOANS
Treasury                                                                   600          600
IDA 96-SE                                                      13
IDA 314/SE-IBRD 835-SE                           103         1028          608          373          120
CCCE                                             175
Other                                                                                                                                                   1500
COFACE - Rolling stock                                                                               540
IBRD proposed loan                                                                                               1431          803         304            35
Sub-total loans                                  278         1041         1208          973          660         1431           803         304         1535
TOTAL SOURCES                                     2819          774          639         3509          2340         2825         2481        2090         3196
APPLICATIONS
Investments
Previous projects and annual                    1427          636         1266         1014          300          378          407         436           450
revenue
Rolling stock                                                                                       1300                                                1500
Proposed IBRD project                                                                                            1613         1124          576           59
Sub-total investments                           1427          636         1266         1014         1600         1991          1531        1012         2009
DEBT SERVICE
Interest                                         142           46           71           81          314          362          420         448          457
Amortization                                    2300           15          648         2231           227          330          330         330          330
Sub-total debt service                          2442           61          719         2312          541          692           750         778          787
Increase (Decrease) in working capital            (674)         673         1705          635           173           48          100         200          300
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                3195         1370          280         3961         2314          2731         2381        1990         3096
CASH SURPLUS (DEFICIT) AT END OF YEAR             (276)        (596)         359          (452)          26           94          100         100          100
CASH BROUGHT FORWARD FROM PREVIOUS YEAR            145         (131)        (727)         (368)        (820)        (794)        (700)       (600)        (500)
CASH BALANCE AT END OF YEAR                       (131)        (727)        (368)         (820)        (794)        (700)        (600)       (500)        (400)



Table 18
SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OP THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Fixed Assets and Depreciation (CFAF Million)
As of      Increase  As of       Increase  As of       Increase  As of       Increase  As of        Increase  As of       Increase  As of       Increase  As of    Increase  As of
6/30/74   1974/75   6/30/75   1975/76   6/30/76   1976/77   6/30/77   1977/78   6/30/78   1978/79   6/30/79   1979/80   6/30/80   1980/81   6/30/81   1981/82   6/30/82
Revised
by audit
Land:  Gross value                     10          -           10       -             10      -            10       -            10       -              10       -           10        -           10      -             10
Depreciation                    -
Buildings and Track                 11325        1685      13010       211         13221      244       13465       121       13586       757        14343      1029      15372         482      15854      572       16426
Depreciation                11346          130       1476       159         1635      146        1781       204        1985       206          2191       217       2408        232       2640      240         2880
(66 years)
Fixed installations and tools         322          105       427         30          457       40         497       150         647        24          893       120        1013        114       1127       50        1177
Depreciation                  110           24        184        34          218       30         248        33         281        43           324        60        384         68        452       75          527
(15 years)
Transport equipment                  3544         682       4226         21         4247      680        4927      1300        6227       352         6579       316       6895         128       7023      650        8673
Depreciation                 1246          128       1374       163         1537      155        1692       197        1889       249         2138        263       2401        275       2676      280         2956
(10 years)
Materials and furniture                152         -          152        40          192       16         208       100         308       200          508        100        608        136        744      100          844
Depreciation                    54           9         63         9           72       14          86        21         107        31           138        51        189         61        250       74          324
Total gross value                   15353        2472      17825        302        18127      980       19107      1671       20778      1555        22333      1565      23898         860      24758    2372        27130
Depreciation                 2806          291       3097       365         3462      345        3807       455        4262       529         4791        591       5382        636       6018      669         6687
Studies                                                                                                                                   181           181        14        195        -          195      -            195
Depreciation (8 years)                                                                                                                                         90         90         104        194      -           194
Training                                                                                                                                  157          157       168         325        162        487       18          505
Depreciation (5 years)                                                                                                                                         31         31          65         96       97         193
Total fixed assets gross                                                                                                      20078      1893        22671      1747      24418        1022      25440    2390        27830
Total depreciation                                                                                                             4262       529         4791       712       5503         805       6308      766        7074
In progress                                                                          637       34         671       (71)        600        98          698      (216)       482         (10)       472     (381)         91
TOTAL                                                                              15302      669       15971      1145       17116      1462        18578       819      19397         207      19604    1243        20847



Table 19
SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Price Indices
Year                  National Pricesl/         Equipment 2/         Local Labor
1976/77                      100.0                100.0                   100.0
1977/78                      107.5                107.5                   107.0
1978/79                      115.6                115.6                   112.9
1979/80                      124.3                124.3                   118.5
1980/81                      133.0                133.0                   124.4
1981/82 and                  142.3                142.3                   130.6
after
l/ Bank Guidelines on Expected Price Increases (January 31, 1977)
2/ Mission estimate






ANNEX I
Page 1
SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR CONSULTING SERVICES
I.   Study on Restructuring of Senegal Railways
Objectives
1.        The Government of Senegal has decided to take all necessary actions
to improve the efficiency of the Senegal Railways (CFS) to allow it to fulfill
its role as the main carrier of Mali international traffic and of Senegal's
bulk traffic. Necessary physical investments will be made under financing
from the World Bank. CFS management has recently been strengthened with the
appointment of qualified top executives and the railway is being reorganized
to provide it with a more efficient administrative organization. However,
important managerial problems will remain as a result of the existing CFS
strict public agency structure and control which reduce management decision-
making ability, curtail its power and reduce its flexibility. The Government
has decided to ask consultants to study all possible changes of structure and
ownership of CFS to eliminate these constraints.
Scope of Work
2.        The study will consist of three phases, as follows:
Phase I
3.        This phase will consist of the identification of feasible options
for restructuring CFS, and an analysis of the main advantages and disadvan-
tages of each option. Consultants discuss with government officials and
relevant representatives of the private sector to ascertain the feasibility
and benefits of each option.
4.        The result of Phase I will be the preparation of a report contain-
ing a preliminary analysis on the various options studied. The Government,
in consultation with the Bank, will select two or three options for further
study.
Phase II
5.        In Phase II the consultants will carry out all data gathering, in-
vestigations and discussions as required to elaborate in detail the options
selected in Phase I. For each of these options the consultants shall estab-
lish suggested distribution of ownership in CFS among the eventual partners,
responsibility for CFS' management, personnel, tariffs and profits policy.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
The relation lbetween CFS and the Government, particularly as regards regu-
lation, control and the provision of uneconomic (social) railway services,
should be clearly defined.
6.        On the basis of a report prepared by the consultants at the end
of Phase II, and a discussion within the Government and with potential part-
ners, CFS and Government will, in consultation with the Bank, select CFS'
new structure.
Phase II-t
7.        In ithis phase, the consultants will be asked to assist in the
implementation of CFS' restructure agreed in the previous phase.
rTime Schedule
A tentative time schedule for execution of this study is given
below:
-    Inviitation of proposals from consulting firms         June 1978
-    Start work in the field                                Nov. 1978
-    Completion Phase I                                     Feb. 1979
-    Completion Phase II                                    July 1979
-    Completion Phase III                                   Oct. 1979
II. Study of Groundnut Transport
Objectives
8.        Senegal produces around 1,000,000 tons of groundnuts a year, which
constitutes the country's main foreign exchange earnings.  Marketing of the
crop originates a transport chain comprising transport from production to
collection centers, and from there to final destination at the groundnut
processing plants, and storage and loading/unloading operations at the col-
lection centers and the oil plants.  During the last year there have been
increasing problems in the operation of the chain, including major bottle-
necks at the transfer points, insufficient storage and transport capacity,
transport delays, etc. The purpose of this study is to analyze in detail
and make recommendations on the various stages of the chain with a view to
ieducing operational bottlenecks and marketing costs. The study will place
special emphasis on optimizing the allocation of groundnut flows between
road and rail.
Scope
9.        The study will be made in two phases:
Phase I: Diagnostic
10.       The purpose of this phase will be to analyze in detail the existing
marketing system (transport chain) including crop collection, storing, trans-
port and processing of groundnut to determine the main bottlenecks of the
chain. The main points to be studied are:



ANNEX 1
Page 3
(a) Crop collection: equipment for collection and handling
of groundnuts; personnel employed
(b) Transport:
-    historical distribution of groundnut flows by mode
of transport, origin and destination
-    transport costs and tariffs
-    routes used and their condition
-    transfer points, equipment and organization
-    transport times, including travel time, loading/
unloading times, vehicles' waiting time, etc.
-    types and condition of equipment utilized
(c) Storage:
-    description of storage facilities owned by the oil
plants, ONCAD, cooperatives
-    storage costs for the different types of facilities
-    historic utilization of the storage facilities
Phase II Recommendations
11.       Based on the results of Phase I, the consultants will study several
alternatives to improve the operation of the transport and reduce transport
costs. Recommendations may include organizational and institutional measures
as well as investments. In particular, the consultants will recommend the
optimum distribution of groundnut transport flows by road and rail and the
required measures and physical facilities required to achieve it.
Time Schedule
The study is expected to be started in February 1978 and to be
completed a year later.



SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
d'Administration I       --  -       -- -  -- -  - T                                        Gouereent
i____________            |Directeur General
Comite de         Lil
Direction
Directeur General Adjointj
Secretar atInaspection
de la Direction            Generale
Generale          I
. _ . _    ...   -_ Inspection
Generale Administratiw
I   Secretaria t General  1                              Inspection
I    t                     i G  I                        Generale Technique
Representations
a Dakar                                                                      I
Direction            Direction            Dirion on t           Aence                    et i Bamako                aDirectio             Direction             Direction         nDeparteent            Secretariat
Commnerciale         Economique et        Adinis trat ive       Coptable                        a                -  Produc tion et        Inatallations         Maateria           Approvisionnement   Couvaremdo
Financie're          Generale            i _._Transport                                                              Fixes                Roulant                                   G      e
December 77



ANNEX 3
SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Description of Railway Property
1.        The Senegal Railway system, a part of the former Dakar-Niger
Railway and the former Dakar-St. Louis Railway, was constructed between
1885 and 1924. The 1,034 km long meter-gauge system is mainly single track;
the double track line (70 km) between Dakar and Thies was completed under the
First Railway Project (Credit 96-SE). The track was partially renewed under
the two previous projects; CFS has adopted a modern track standard including
concrete sleepers and long-welded rails. Old light rails and wooden sleepers
are still used on the Louga-Linguere branch line (20 and 25 kg/m rails) and on
the international line between kilometer 271 and the Malian border kilometer
644 (25 and 26 kg/m-rails). Switches are in poor condition as their renewal
has been neglected. Train control and telecommunication equipment was par-
tially renewed under the two previous projects and should meet operating needs
for some years ahead. Signalling equipment is simple, but considered adequate
for the frequency and speed of trains.
2.        The Dakar-Bel Air marshalling yard serves mainly phosphate and
groundnut traffic. Maintenance is poor and capacity of the yard is too low to
handle growing phosphate traffic as well as peak groundnut traffic at the same
time.
3.        The head office of CFS is at Thies, as are workshops, rail welding
and sleeper plant. The former training center at Thies was taken over by
the Ministry of Education and is now used for non-railway purposes.
4.        Workshops at Thies were modernized under the Second Railway Project
(Credit 314-SE/Loan 835-SE) and with possibly minor additions, particularly
equipment, should meet CFS needs for some years.
5.        Details of locomotives and rolling stock as of February 1977 are
given in Table 1 and 2 and in Annex 5.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Plan of Action
J..       In order that CFS reach performance levels required to achieve
t:arget traffic with the existing motive power and rolling stock fleet, the
operational efficiency has to increase by 2% per year starting in 1977/78.
CFS and the mission discussed and agreed on actions to be taken and operation
performance indicators to be reached in 1978/79 and 1980/81.
2.        CFS took the following actions prior to negotiations:
(a) Preparation of transportation plans for the following
main commodities: international traffic comprising
petroleum products, salt and fertilizer, national
traffic, comprising phosphates and groundnuts;
(b) determination of required number of trains, types of
locomotives, types of wagons for the main commodities;
(c) preparation of a new timetable for freight trains on
the basis of priorities given by the transportation
plans;
(d) appointment of at least three operation supervisors,
who will be responsible for achievement of target
freight traffic. Each of them will be appointed to
one of the three main freight traffic categories:
international traffic, phosphate traffic and ground-
nut traffic; and
(e) preparation of acceptable transport plans for passenger
services.
3.        CFS will have taken the following actions prior to Board presenta-
tion:
(a) prep.aration of more realistic schedules for locomotive
and railcar maintenance to increase availability;
(b) preparation of short- and long-term spare parts lists
for all locomotives and railcars on a unit-by-unit basis;
(c) appointment of one supervisor responsible for achieve-
ment of target availability and a second responsible for
preparation and updating of spare parts lists and timely
ordering of spare parts;



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(d) preparation of coupling plans for locomotives and railcars
and a priority list for exchange of motive power in case
of motive power shortfalls; and
(e) introduction of an information system clearly identifying
main wagon turnaround bottlenecks.
4.        CFS will prepare monthly reports giving following information to be
airmailed to the Bank prior to the 10th of the following month, starting
April 10, 1978:
(a)  freight traffic by commodity in tons and ton-km;
(b) reasons for traffic shortfalls per commodity in
comparison with target traffic;
(c) actions taken by the appointed supervisor and manage-
ment to avoid such shortfalls;
(d) success of the actions taken;
(e)  passenger traffic in passengers and passenger-km;
(f) number of train delays, reasons for the delays grouped
in categories, actions taken by the appointed supervisor
and management to reduce delays and success of the actions
taken;
(g) availability of motive power and rolling stock on a type-
by-type basis (e.g. BB500, AAIO, tank wagons, coaches),
reasons for any default of agreed target availbility,
actions taken by the appointed supervisor and management,
success of the actions taken;
(h) line locomotive and railcar mileage per day and unit
available, ton-km performed by each line locomotive,
available pass-km performed by each railcar available,
actions taken by supervisors and management, success of
actions taken;
(i) wagon turnaround times for different types of wagons
used for main commodities, description and qualification
of reasons increasing this time, actions taken by the
appointed supervisor and management and success of actions
taken.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
4.        CFS agreed on the following targets to be achieved by fiscal year
1978/79 and 1980/81:
Targets                                Actual           ---Objectives----
1975/76          1978/79   1980/81
1. Availability of mainline
locomotives (%)
Types of locomotives
BB  500                           44               55         55
BB 1100                           54                65        65
BB 120D0                          79               80         80
BB 1600                            -               90         88
CC 2400                           45               50         45
Average                           55                66        66
2.  Locomotive breakdowns per
locomotive in stock                  9                 8         7
3.  LocomotiLve-km per day and
per locomotive available           293              322        338
4.  Ton-km per one available
locomotive horsepower
per year                        19,663           21,134    21,987
5.  Tons hauled by one available
locomotive horsepower per
year                                96               110       115
6.  Availability of railcars (%)        41                50         50
7.  Railcar-km per day and per
railcar available                  421              463        486
8.  Availability of wagons (%)         n.a.               80         85
9.  Average load per wagon in tons
(excluding phosphate traffic)       25               27         28
10. Turnaround time for oil tank
wagons (days)                      n.a.              10           9
11. Staff productivity in traffic
units per employee ('000)          165             181         198



ANNEX 5
Page 1
SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Transport Capacity
1.        CFS' capacity is limited mainly by:  operational inefficiency,
number of available locomotives and number of available wagons. The future
capacity of CFS has to be estimated to decide whether the forecast traffic
can be handled with the existing rolling stock or if new investments would
be necessary. The following investigation will consider target best and
conservative estimates.
2.        The estimate of the locomotive capacity is based on locomotive
performance in the past and assumptions for locomotive availability and
operational efficiency in the future. The performance indicators are
expressed in ton-km and ton per available horsepower (hp) and given in
Table 1 for the period 1970/71 - 1975/76. In average, 106 tons and 20,313
ton-km were produced per available horsepower per year. Locomotive avail-
ability is estimated on the basis of historical data and for three different
situations: without any improvement of locomotive performance, with a
yearly increase of 1%, and with a yearly increase of 2% in locomotive per-
formances. CFS can increase locomotive performance by improving commercial
activities, changing traffic pattern in favor of freight traffic, adjusting
timetables to use locomotives more efficiently and by improving locomotive
maintenance. The combination of comparable availability levels and efficiency
situations result in a conservative, a best and a target estimate for the
future capacity. These three capacity alternatives are shown in charts for
the period 1977/78 - 1981/82. These two charts also show the traffic forecast.
The forecast traffic can be handled by 1980/81 without investments in locomo-
tives. Under the assumption that all locomotives type BBIOO, BB500, BB600 and
CC2400 will be scrapped 1981/82 (for assumed schedule see Table 1) six new
locomotives (1500 hp) will be required; they will replace the old locomotives
and cover additional traffic demand in 1981/1982.
3.        CFS owns 716 wagons, 202 are allocated to international (Mali/Senegal)
wagon pool. The capacity of this pool was estimated under the Third Mali
Railway Project and was considered adequate. Under the same Project, financing
is provided for the purchase of 18 new tank wagons, which will bring tank
capacity to an adequate level. Tank wagon ownership, capacity and utilization
is listed in Table 2 of this Annex. Besides phosphate, which is transported
by mine-owned wagons, groundnuts are the main commodity for national traffic.
CFS has 278 special covered wagons to transport groundnuts, 141 of which
are more than 26 years old; 76 wagons will be replaced by 50 new wagons,
now being delivered. Total capacity will stay constant. Assuming an average
average availability of 90% for new and 85% for older wagons and a turnaround



ANNEX 5
Page 2
time of 9 days, 17,100 tons can be handled per month throughout the year.
Dluring the peak months of groundnut traffic, the operation of bloc trains
and advanced or delayed wagon maintenance can increase the monthly capa-
city up to 24,000 tons (100% and 90% availability for new and old wagons,
respectively, 7 days turnaround time). If operational conditions should
deteriorate the capacity can decrease to 13,200 tons/month (85% and 80% avail-
ability, 11 days turnaround time). However, the calculation proves that the
existing fleet of special covered cars is able to handle forecast groundnut
traffic till 1981/82. No new wagons are required.



SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimate of freight traffic capacity 1977/1978 - 1981/19d2
70/71         71/72         72/-3          7;/74       74/75           75j6           76/77                77'78          78/79           79/80           80/81         81/82
Locomotive availability                                                                                                        1/
Type       Horse Power    No. Avail.   No. Avail.   No. Avail.   No. Avail. No. Avail.   No. Avail.    No. Avail.                     No. Avail.    No. Avail.   No. Avail.          No. Avail.   No. Avail.
100           610           2    42       1      44     1    14        1    19    1    1          1    23         1    20             0    0
50               55            55               55
47               50            49                4S
500           740           8    65       7      55      7    58       7    52    7   36          7    44              45             7   44          7    43       7    42            7   40        0   0
600           800           3    63       3      47      3    35       3    33    3   58          3    23         3    30             0    0
60               65            (5               61            65
58               60            59               59            58
1100          1050          10    60      10      61    95    61        9    61    9   53          9    54         9    50            10   55        10    54       10    53          10   52       10    5.
80               en            80               80            78
78              77             76               75            73
1200          1100           -    -        -       -      3    81       6    71    6   78          6    79         6    77             6   75          6    74       6    73            6   70        6  68
90               90            88               88            85
85               85            83               82            79
1600          1500           -    -        _       _-    -       -            -     -   -          -    -          -    -           1,5   80           3    80       3    78            3   75        3  73
45               50            50               45
'4               45            44               41
2400          1950           4    65       4       55    4    61        4    51    4   44          4    45         4    45             4   43          4    41       4    19           4   37         0   0
19705           22900          22810             22420          22560
Available hp/year              17250          17003          17432         17942       16842           16783          16490              19018            21310          20920             20520          22110
184:5            19580         19110              18410         21660
Freight traffic
Ton  ('000)                    1,793          1,910          1,906        1,887        1,886           1,',06
Ton-km (mill)                    332            341            353           383         359             330
Performance/avail. hp
Ton/hp
103           1i '             09          105          112             96             106                108              110            112               115            117
107             108            i09                110           ill
106              106           106                la. 10Jo
Ton-km/hp                                                                                                                                2)719            21134          21556             21987          22427
23516            ?M721         20929              21138          21349
19246         20055           20250        21347        21116          19663           20313              20313            20313         20313              20313         20313
Estimated tralfic
capacity  ton ('000)                                                                                                                      2128             2519           2555              2578          2797
2035            2301           2280               2257         2454
1748               1959             2075          2026               1951         2155
Ton-km (mill)     406              484            492                493          526
Ton-km (mill)                                                                                                                              390              442            438               436           464
1/  estimate based on figures from 6 months.                                                                         335                375              398            388               374           406



SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Utllizntinn of Tank Cars
Allocated to               Capacity (m3)
Capacity                 International National  International National
Owner              (i3)         Number              Traffic
1.     SENEGAL
1.1      CFS                        20           5               0           5              0         100
23           6              4            2            92          46
25           7              4            3           100          75
46          lo0/           10            0           460           0
Subtotal                            28              18          10           652          221
1.2      CAT                        20           5               5           0           100            0
25           1              1            0            25           0
40           3               3           0           120            0
46          17             17            0           782            0
48           6              6            0           288            0
Subtotal                            32              32           0         1,315            0
1.3      BP, MOBIL, etc.            30          11               0          11              0         330
Total 1                             71              50          21         1,967          551
2.     MALI
2.1      CFM                        25           4               0           4              0         100
40           5              52/          0           200            0
46          20             20            0           920           0
48          183/           18            0           864           0
Subtotal                            47              43           4         1,984          100
2.2       Trans Import              46          __              10           0           460            0
(D X
Total 2                          57             53            4         2,444         100              t n
GRAND TOTAL                        128             103          25         4,411          651
1/  Ordered under CCCE Loan                              3/  Financing proposed under III Railway Project
2/  Allocated to groundnut oil traffic                   4/  Ordered, but supply delayed
March 1977



CAPACIZAY FOFICAST (lons)
tort (mil)                Carried traffic (tons)    _ -_    Capacity Forecast (tons)                   Altenlatives
2.9
2. 81                                              |                                       -  Target Estimate
2. 71
2.6                                                                                        J~
2.5;
Best Estinate
2.4~
2.31
2. 21
1Conservative Estiir.ate
2.1b 
2.011
1.9 1
1.8                                                       * \  t  Supply of 3    t Supply of 6 new
new locomotives       locomotives
1. 7
1.6~
Capacity forecast
l- ~-  ~~- Traffic forecast
77   77   7           7       7      7       7                I    7        0    8                                  I
70/71   71/72  72/73  73/74  74/75  75/76  76/77  77/78  78/79  79/80  80/81  81/82               Year           H  l



CAPACITY FORECAST (Ton-km)
ton-km                  Crarried Traffic (ton-km)             Capacity Forecast (ton-km)
(mil.)
Alternatives
500' .                                                                                           . Target Estimate
Best Estimate
Conservative Estimate
400
t Supply of 3 new           Supply of 6 new
locomotives             locomictives
-Capacity forecast
300                                                        _---        Traffic forecast                                     U-I
70 71  71:/72  72/73  73'/74   475  75 6          77 7;/78 7-/i9  79/80  80/817i82                     Year



ANNEX 6
Page 1
SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Freight Traffic Forecast
General
1.        The freight traffic carried by Senegal Railway can be put into the
following main categories: international traffic (Mali export and import
traffic), phosphate from Taiba and Thies mines, groundnuts, and miscellaneous
national traffic. The volume of freight traffic has varied widely during
the last ten years. During this period, traffic increased from 1.67 million
tons (304 million ton-km) in 1965/66 to a peak of 1.91 million tons in 1971/72
and 1972/73 (341 million ton-km and 359 million ton-km, respectively) and
dropped to 1.61 million tons (330 million ton-km) in 1975/76. Average growth
rates for freight traffic during the period 1964/65-1974/75 were 3% in tons
and 2.4% in ton-km. I/
2.        With a few exceptions, the level of railway traffic has been deter-
mined by the transport capacity the railway has been able to provide -- the
record traffic being achieved in 1971/72 and 1972/73, shortly after the
railway received six new BB-1200 locomotives. Throughout the ten-year period,
but particularly in the latest years, demand for railway traffic has largely
exceeded the traffic actually carried by the railway. Diversion to other
transport modes has taken place, at substantially higher transport costs,
in the case of: (a) phosphates, to road transport; (b) groundnuts, to road
transport; and (c) international Mali traffic, to Ivory Coast routes.
3.        The traffic forecast, discussed below, is presented in three levels:
"conservative", "best estimate " and "target". The conservative forecasts
assume that, on the whole, railway freight traffic will increase at the average
historical rate, and that locomotive availability will also follow historical
trends. Traffic under this forecast would reach 2.10 million tons and 412
million ton-km by 1981/82, with average annual growth rates of 2.5% in tons
and 2.1% in ton-km from 1976/77 traffic. The "best estimate" is based es-
sentially on utilization of the rolling stock and locomotives, taking into
account the new equipment (freight cars and locomotives) to be received by
Senegal railway in 1977, and assumes only a marginal increase in the overall
efficiency of railway operations; in this forecast, railway freight traffic,
would reach 2.35 million tons and 459 million ton-km in 1981/82 representing
annual average growth rates over 1976/77 traffic of 4.5% in tons and in
1/   A comparison to 1975/76 would be misleading because of the abnormally
low traffic that year.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
ton-km. the "target" forecast is based on existing potential railway traffic
clemand and in a substantial improvement in the railway's efficiency, allowing
it to carry this demand. Under this forecast, in 1981/82 freight traffic
would reach 2.6 million tons and 497 million ton-km, with average annual
growth rates of 6.5% in tons and 5.8% in ton-km. The best estinate forecast
is used in the project's economic evaluation and in the finances, and the
conservative used in the sensitivity analysis for both above; the target
forecast represents an objective to be met and therefore is the basis for
railway's operating efficiency targets.
Groundnuts
4.        Groundnuts constitute the main commodity carried over the Senegalese
transport system, accounting for some 800,000-1,000,000 tons a year over
distances of up to 460 km. Total groundnut transport costs amount to about
CFAF 2.7 billion (US$11 million) annually. Until 1967/78, the railway trans-
ported about 250,000 tons a year of groundnuts (41 million ton-km) and it was
the railway's mnain source of revenue. In the last ten years, railway ground-
nut traffic has steadily decreased, reaching a low of 50,000 tons (12 million
ton-km) in 1973/74; it picked up somewhat, and reached 105,000 tons with the
good crop in 1975/76. Total marketed production is around 950,000 tons
(around 1.1 miLlion tons total production) and is expected to remain at
this level.
5.        The transport of groundnuts is organized into (i) primary transport
from the production cooperatives to ONCAD collection centers located near the
railway or trunk roads, which is done by trucks, and (ii) secondary transport
from the ccllec:tion centers to the groundnuts processing (oil) plants, which
is done by roacl or rail. Of the five processing plants in the country in
Diourbel, Ziguinchor, Lyndiene and Dakar (2), the railway carries groudnuts
to the three latter plants.  Because of the distances involved, the volumes,
thie nature of the traffic (bulk) and the facilities for loading/unloading,
the railway is well placed to carry a substantial share of the total ground-
nut secondary transport. Further, because there is no direct transport
between cooperatives and the oil plants, the potential advantage of door-to-
door service that trucks could offer is annulled. Tariffs for transport of
groundnuts as set by ONCAD are about CFAF 15/ton-km either by truck or by
rail. 1/ These tariffs are estimated to barely cover trucks' operating costs
but to be well above rail marginal costs. Therefore, an increased share by
the railway in groudnut transport would represent net savings to Senegal. The
railway's participation could be substantially increased by: (a) better
ccordination between the railway and ONCAD; (b) improving the availability of
railway equipment, particularly during the peak periods; and (c) expanding the
storage capacity at the collecting centers, thereby spreading groundnut
transport over the year instead of over 6-8 months as at present.
1/   This figure, valid in February 1977, would apply for a 200 km haul,
which is an average distance for the transport of grounds by rail.
Road tariffs vary with distance. CFS has proposed making changes in
its tariffs which would reduce unit rates as volume increases.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
6.        The "best estimate" forecast assumes that the railway will be able
to increase groundnut traffic at a rate of 5% per year over the 1975/76 level.
This should be easily achieved given the existing demand and expanded railway
capacity resulting from the new locomotives and freight cars to be received
in 1977. The target forecast assumes that an additional 60,000 tons of
groundnuts could be transported by 1980/81; achieving this level would
require substantial but possible increases in efficiency together with
improvements in the organization of groundnut transport which could be
expected as a result of the study of groundnut marketing and transport to
be made under the proposed project by SONED. 1/ The conservative forecast
assumes groundnut traffic to remain constant in the future at the 1975/76
level.
Phosphate
7.        The railway carries phosphates from two mines, Taiba and Thies,
to the port of Dakar, at distances of 112 km and 91 km, respectively.
Taiba Phosphates
8.        During the period 1971-1975, the railway transported about 1.3
million tons per year from Taiba to Dakar port and this volume fell to about
1.1 million tons in 1975/76 as production dropped following the slump in the
world market for phosphate. Until 1971, the railway was able to transport
all Taiba production. With increases in mine production and decline in railway
capacity (low availability of locomotives) phosphate traffic has been partial-
ly diverted to the road since 1972. Volumes diverted were: 154,000 tons
in 1972, 265,000 tons in 1973, 311,000 tons in 1974, 94,000 tons in 1975, and
214,000 tons in 1976.
9.        The mine expects to increase its production gradually to about
1.7 million tons in 1981/82, and to remain in operation until around 1987,
when reserves will be depleted.
10.       There is a substantial difference between rail and road tariffs for
transport between the mine and Dakar port phosphate traffic. In early 1977,
Taiba paid CFAF 990/ton by truck and CFAF 588/ton by rail, the latter costs
excluding capital and maintenance costs of the phosphate wagons which are
owned by Taiba. These costs are estimated at about CFAF 30/ton. Therefore,
there is an increment of about CFAF 370/ton which the mine has to pay when
phosphate is carried by trucks rather than by rail.
11.       The conservative forecast assumes that by 1981/82 the last year
of the forecast, rail phosphate traffic will reach 1.5 million tons, in-
creasing gradually from the 1.3 million tons estimated for 1976/77. Under
this hypothesis, some 200,000 tons of phosphate would be diverted to road
transport in 1982/82 of the total expected production level of 1.7 million.
The "best estimate" forecast assumes gradual increase in phosphate rail
traffic, reaching 1.65 million tons in 1981/82, still leaving some 50,000 tons
1/   Societe Nationale des Etudes de Developpement.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
to road transport. The target forecast assumes that all phosphate traffic
would be carried by the railway.
Thies Phosphates
12.       The production of Thies aluminum phosphate was 200,000 tons in
1975 and is expected to increase to about 400,000 tons by, 1981/82. The
railway has been carrying in recent years about 50% of Thies, the remainder
being transported by truck. Diversion to road has been mainly caused by
unattractive rail tariffs, CFAF 770/ton between the mine and Dakar port,
compared to about CFAF 720/ton by truck. In addition, the mine pays for
capital and maintenance costs of phosphate railway wagons. CFS is preparing
a lower tariff for Thies to compete with trucks.
13.       In the conservative forecasts, the railway is assumed to carry
1.50,000 tons in 1981/82, only about 38% of Thies expected production that
year (400,000 tons), but 36% more than the rail transported in 1975/76.
The best estimate is slighly higher, 180,000 tons in 1981/82 and still below
50% of Thies production. The target forecast assumes a major improvement
in the quality of service and a reduction in tariffs, and foresees the railway
carrying 330,000 tons inl981/82, or about 80% of Thies expected production.
International Traffic
14.       The forecast of international traffic is based on the forecast
presented in the appraisal of Mali's Third Railway Project.  The figures of the
Mali report are adopted here as the "best estimate" for the Senegal railway;
according to thLese figures, international traffic will grow at average
arnual rates of 5% between 1976/77 and 1981/82 (see Table 1 to this Annex).
In the conservative estimate, traffic is assumed to be 90% of the best
estimate. The target forecast assumes that by 1981/82 the railway could carry
30,000 tons more petroleum than foreseen in the "best estimate", the difference
being due to improvements in operating efficiency; total petroleum transport
would in this case be 105,000 tons in 1981/82, still below the theoretical
capacity of the tank wagon fleet and below the optimal economic traffic for
Mali (total petroleum imports by Mali in 1982 are estimated at 170,000 tons,
and the Dakar route is the most economic for at least 70% of this traffic;
i.e., 119,000 tons). Long-term contracts for the transport of petroleum
products recently finalized between CFM, CFS and the oil companies operating
in. Mali and Senegal should help achieve a higher utilization of the Senegal-
Mali railways.
Other National Traffic
15.       National freight rail traffic, other than phosphates and ground-
nuts, has steadily decreased in the last year. It dropped from 178,000 tons
in 1971/72 to 146,000 tons in 1972/73, 104,000 tons in 1973/74, 90,000 tons
in 1974/75 and 42,000 tons in 1975/76. The main reason for this drop is the
competition from trucks, which offer door-to-door service, higher speed and
greater reliability, important advantages for small, high-value general cargo
shipments. In 1975/76, the main components of "other" national traffic were
petroleum products (18,000 tons) and firewood (10,000 tons).



ANNEX 6
Page 5
16.       The conservative, best estimate and target forecasts assume that
this traffic category will continue to decline in the future, particularly
as paving of the road to Tambacounda will be completed in 1978. A low level
of 30,000 tons of miscellaneous freight rail traffic is foreseen for 1981/82
under the three forecasts. Given the inherent disadvantages of the railway
in handling small shipments of miscellaneous traffic, it should not make
special effort to keep this traffic, except for petroleum which moves in
bulk, has a significant volume and is almost entirely destined for one
customer (Taiba phosphate mine).



SENEGAL
TOHCOO RAILWA-Y PROJE'CT
NTERATINAL  REIGT TRFFIC  ACTAL 1 71-7. FORECAST 1977-Ri-1
A CT U AL                                                                                                      FO0REFC A ST
1972                  1973                   1974                   1975                  1976                   1977                  1978                   1979                   1990                   1981
ton  Con-km  Con     ron-km       IonL.   to-km         ton       to-km       ton       to-km        ton       too-km      ton       Co-km        ton       to-km         o        to-kn        ton       ton-km
(500()    (mCi.)      (0005      (mCi.)      (0005     (nil.)      (0007      (mIt.)      (00 0      (mIt.)     (0001      (nl.)       (0001      (nil.)      (0007     (mu.)    (5001         (nil.)      (000)      (Intl.)
MALI EXCPORTS               00.0       31.3        50.4       2A.0        51.6      25.2        77.7       37.R         94       45.R         90        46.7        102       50.4        116        07.0        113        55.5        11 7       57.6
Cola nota                   7.7        4.5         7.0       4.6         9.R        5.7        17.3       10.1         14        8.2         15        R.R         16         9.k         17        19.0         SR        10.0         19         1.1
Contto  -mda                3.3        7.1         3.0       2.4           -         -          6.1        3.R          5        3.1          0         3.7          7        k.k          7         4.k         -           -          -           -
Cotton  Ekkmr  k            7.1        k.2         5.1       3.0         3.9        2.3         k.6        2.7          6        3.5          7        k.1         12         7.0         17         9.9         SR        10.6         1R       10.6
Otonodonts          7~~~0.5     8.1        13.3       4.0        12.3        3.7        20.k        6.3         22        6.8         19         5.9         29        6.2         22         6.8         72         6.B         22         6.R
G-onilnt nl                 1.3        1.0         2.9        1.9        S.R        0.)5        0.9        0.6          k        2.k          7         k.2          9        k.5           9        k.5          9         k.)          9         k.5
G-ondn-t noke              10.9        6.0         9.5       6.0         8.3        5.3         6.1        3.9         11        6.8         15         0.3         10        7.5         10         9.0         15         9.0         18         9.0
CarOm  Pr-d-tn              0.1        0,1          -         -           -          -          4.4       2.6           1        0.6          2         1.2         2         1.2          2         1.2          2         1.2          2         1.2
Cnroa_                       -           -                     -           -         -           -          -          18        81.7         5         2.9          7        4.1          0         0.3         10         5.8         12         7.0
Oilhr narl-d               17.7        4.5       10.0        4.7        16.3        7.7        17.9        7.8        13         5. 7        14        6.1         14         0. 1        15         6.3         16         7.0         17         7.k
MALI INFESTS               140.5       67.8       205.9     150.0       241.5      009.6       174.9       01.2       159        74.5        004        01.0        20-4      98.9        2 13      103.5        222       108.         230       111.6
Cm-mn                       3.1        2.0         2.8       0.7         0.0        7.9        14.0       8.0         12         6.9         13         7.5        15         6.6         10         9.2         10        10.3         19       10.8
tlatkim-Y, -hoklcl,         0.6        4.9         0.6       4.2         9.5        4.9        11.0        0.0         12        6.1         14         7.C        15         7.0         16         8.5         17         8.6         18         9.1
F-rtili-nr                 17.1        9.7         5.6       3.2         3.3        1.5         6.4        3.4        1k         7.)         15        8.0         16         8.k         17         9.1         18         9.0         19        10.2
FoodatnFfn                 46.0      20.4       127.7       60.4       162.1       72.1       05.k       27.0         35        14.0         50       21.1         50        21.1         50        21.1         50       21.1          50       21.1
Enttleo_    pronot         34.9      15.5        37.9       12.0        32.2       12.6        31.6      52.5         40        21.8         60       28.4         64        30.4         60        32.k         72       34.2          75       35.4
S.,C                       17.1        8.7        17.0       9.6        19.1        9.0        24.7      12.0         21         8.6         27         9.1        23        11.7         2k        12.2         25        12.8         26        13.3
Oth-r                      11.7        9.7       11.m0       5.3        10.3        5.8        21.0      10.0         17         8.0         20       10.4         21        10.9         22        11.4         22       11.4          23       11.9
F        0         R        U         C        A         S         T
1976/77              1977/78                 1978/79               1979/80               1980/81                1981/82
to       tn-kn        ton      to-km        to        Lo-km        ton       ton-km       ton       to-km        ton       t-kn
(00)      (nIl.)     (000)      (nil.)      (1005      (nil.)      (000)      (nIl.)      (000)     (nil.)      EOOO)       (nil.)
EXPORTS  (Mall  Inp-rto)                                                          177         114       199         120        209         134       718          140       226          145       230         148
IMPORTS (Mali Enpotta)                                                             92         59         96          02        109         70         114          7 3      115           74       115          74
1/  Fro  Molt Tkitd RalinnY Em-jmt  Appraisal    p-tt,  lay 1970, adopted an"koat mnito                    .Eroa t in tho p-op-sd Senml Third Railway Pt-j-t.
Soo 1977



ton-km
mdllion
SIEGEL RAILWAYS
Freight Traffic
600
---    -F 0 R E C A   T-----
5QO                                                                                             taerget
`est estiimiate
- / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~onservative
400                                                                                                             cal
projection
300
200
100                                                                                                                ,st
o
64/65       66/67        68/69       70/71        7Z/13       7475         76/77        78f79        80/81     year
historical projection based on minimum squares fi,t
a actual (moving averages)
A forecast



ANNEX 7
Page 1
SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Passenger Traffic Forecast
1.        Railway passenger traffic has continually decreased in the last
years and so has its contribution to the railway's revenues. In 1966/67,
the railway transported 3.8 million pass (295 million pass-km) and this
produced 25% oil the railways' total operating revenues. In 1975/76, this
traffic had declined to 1.8 million pass (158 million pass-km), and generated
only 20% of the railways' operating revenue.
2.        As shown by the figures below and Figure 1, the drop in passenger
traffic has been particularly acute on the main line Dakar-Kidira and, within
thlis line, short-distance traffic close to Dakar. In the 70 km Dakar-Thies
section this traffic dropped by more than 50%, from 961,000 passengers to
479,000 passengers, in the period 1971/72-1974/75. Passenger traffic has
remained relatively stable between Guinguineo and Kidira.  Passenger traffic
has also declined in most of the branch lines, although at a lower rate than
on the main line; the sections Diourbel-Touba and Louga-Linguere have escaped
this pattern and their traffic, although quite low compared to the other
branch lines, have either remained stable or made some small gains.
Thousand Passenger through Section
Year
Section                    1971/72    1972/73   1973/74    1974/75
]:. Main Line
Dakar-Thies                     961         815        686          479
Thies-Diourbel                  535         515        469          368
Diourbel-Guinguineo             613         623        528          430
Guinguineo-Tambacounda          144         165        208          184
Tambacounda-Kidira               79          89        113           49
II. Branch Lines
Thies-Tivdouane                 499         464        312          287
Tivouane-Louga                  603         590        449          352
Louga-St. Louis                 355         319        263          197
Louga-Linguere                  118          99        128          135
Diourbel-Touba                   89         108        104           96
Guinguineo-Kaolack              390         304        289          207



ANNEX 7
Page 2
3.        The decline in rail passenger traffic is due mainly to the increased
competition by the road following improvements in the condition of roads and
increased modernization and provision of road passenger vehicles, coupled
with a deterioration in railway service. Road services are faster, more
reliable, have a higher frequency and more in-town stops than the railway, and
these are main factors influencing choice of mode of inter-urban passengers.
Between Dakar and Thies, for example, there are several frequencies of buses/
mini-cars per hour, while there are about seven rail services a day; according
to train schedules, which are rarely met, the fastest train takes 1.5 hours
between these two cities, compared to about 1-1/4 hours for road service, but
delays over one hour in passenger trains are common. Rail fares between these
points are CPA 300 in first class and CFA 250 in second class, and comparable
road fares are CFA 325 in mini-cars CFA 300 in cars. Rail passenger fares are
therefore lower than buses. However, the differences in fares is relatively
small and the absolute level of the tariff is not a decisive factor in pas-
senger modal choice on short distances such as Dakar-Thies, and therefore the
railway cannot expect to attract traffic by its lower fares. A similar
situation exists on other sections of the railway exposed to road competition
where the road strongly attracts rail passengers. A fare comparison for other
sections is the following (in CFA):
Rail                 Road
1st Class       2nd Class      Minicars
Dakar-St. Louis.               1,080            840           1,100
Dakar-Kaolack                    720            600              750
Dakar-Tambacounda                 -           1,885           2,400
4.        Further decreases in rail passenger traffic should be expected in
the future as roads parallel to the railway continue to be paved. *The section
Guinguineo-Tambacounda (about 270 km) has been the only section along the
international line where passenger traffic has increased systematically in the
past 5 years, the trend on this section will certainly be reversed when the
road to Tambacounda is paved.
5.        Passenger rail traffic has therefore been forecast to continue
dropping in the coming years. From the 1.7 million passengers transported
in 1976/77, this traffic is expected to decrease gradually, reaching 1.3
million passengers in 1981/82 (see Figure 2 of this Annex). Within this
traffic, international passenger traffic, which has grown at a good pace in
the last years, is expected to continue this trend and to grow at a 5.5%
average annual rate between 1975 and 1981, based on the forecast made in the
appraisal of Mali's Third Railway Project.



SENiGAL  R  LAWAYS
Passenger traffic
International 3:ine                                                     Dranc- lines
No of passengers(OOO)                                         No of passengers (OOO)
Dakar-Thies
800            :\Boo0 E;00
Diou.rbel-%ingie       \       ,:
60C,:f;tf\L   060c:0:  
:T.v\uane-Louga
:  0  0  - = f 0 \\ - i 0 : ' :~~4M 
: 20C - .nguleo-Taviaondba                                            t        ;.-3
0  _         i:ldira     . -   ;-; - 0           kNP~Loug-,Liguere              
_    _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _  _ i   -772h3.    t          -                   Soubel-            tJ
year                                 ~~~~~~~~~~Year



SENEGAL RAILWAYS
National Passenger Traffic
pass. pass-km
million  million                HI-J  S  T  0  R  I  C                         I              FORECAST
3    300                        \
passenger
passenger-kms
2    200                                       X
674
65/66        67/68       69/7o        71/72        7t4~    75j76             77/78        79/80        81/82
y e ar



ANNEX 8
Page 1
SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Training Program
Background
1.        CFS ]has a staff of more than 3,000.  About US$70,000 was allocated
to training (to expand training facilities, purchase training equipment, and
finance short training programs abroad for Senegalese instructors and super-
visor personnel) under the Second Railway Project. However, only about
US$20,000 has been spent so far.
A.   Current Training Activities
2.        A 1974 OFERMAT Study (The Petit Report) emphasized that supervisors'
lack of authority, insufficient discipline among personnel, a high ratio of
absenteeism and poor labor relations, reduced the performance of CFS. It
also emphasized the need for an effective centralized training ulnit which
would (i) assess the personnel training needs; (ii) draw up a comprehensive
training plan; and (iii) carry out training programs to meet the Railway's
most urgent needs. Accordingly, CFS recruited from OFERMAT in mid-1975
a training adviser to assist in setting up a Training Division (TD) and
designing a training scheme. However, because of his limited experience in
training, and because of (a) lack of physical facilities; (b) training equip-
ment; (c) experienced instructors; and (d) poor collaboration between the TD
and the operating departments, the adviser has achieved only limited results.
3.        Until 1972, CFS relied on the Centre d'Apprentissage de Formation
Professionnelle (Railway Training School) to provide training for Operations
(0?) and Motive Power and Rolling Stock (MP&RS) personnel. Although many
st:aff attended the school, the programs were not geared to the railway's needs
and thus were riot effective. In early 1973, the school was taken over by the
Ministry of Education which currently runs two and three-year courses for
technicians.
4.         Between 1974 and 1976 informal training programs were carried
ouit by CFS with the occasional help of some technical assistants. Although
nc, official records exist, the Bank was able to piece together the results
of these programs which are shown on Table II.  Most of these activities
consisted of short training and retraining sessions often carried out
without the benefit of training equipment and materials and, in most
cases, without supervised practical application.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
5.        Although training facilities consist of a few semi-furnished class-
rooms, the TD can also count on one or two other classrooms located in the
former school, providing they are available. Training equipment is outdated
and inadequate.
6.        The training staff consists of one full-time technical assistant
instructor (MP&RS), who has been in Senegal for 18 years, and five part-time
instructors (three Senegalese and two technical assistants).  The capability
of instructors varies, and all need pedagogical and technical upgrading.
Efforts to improve and strengthen middle and high-level staff by requiring
technical assistants attached to CFS to train counterparts or to conduct
training courses have largely failed because the training function has been
subordinate to the operational nature of the assistants' other duties, or
because they lacked training experience. The TD is currently staffed as
follows:
1         -   Chief of TD (OFERMAT)
Vacant         -   Deputy Chief of TD (Senegalese)
1         -   Chief Instructor       -   MP&RS (OFERMAT)
1         -   Chief Instructor       -   OP (OFERMAT)
Vacant         -   Chief Instructor       -   W&W (Expatriate)
Vacant         -   Chief Instructor       -   GS (Expatriate/Senegalese)
3         -   Instructors            -   M4P&RS (Senegalese, part-time)
2         -   Technical Assistants -   W&W (OFERMAT, part-time)
B.   The Training Expansion Program
7.        Based on CFS and Bank joint effort, a comprehensive training scheme
has been agreed upon in principle consisting of:
(a) a short-term interim program, capable of being carried
out with resources presently available;
(b) a two-year priorty program to start as soon as Bank
funds can be utilized; and
(c) a three-year program which would follow and consolidate
action taken during the priority program.
Details of these programs are given in Tables III, IV and V of this Annex.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
8.        Programs which will eventually enable the training, retraining
and upgrading of about 300 skilled workers and low-level supervisors each
year, involves (a) the construction of additional classrooms, workshops,
demonstration rooms, stores, etc., (Table VI); (b) the purchase of
training equipment and materials (Table VII); (c) the recruitment of
one training adviser; two chief instructors and other short-term expatriate
instructors to conduct courses/seminars for middle and high-level managerial
staff; and (d) the training abroad of 10 Senegalese instructors and middle
and high-level staff. Funds have been included in the project to finance
these requirements. CFS would provide 10 Senegalese technicians to be
trained as instructors. The breakdown of the TD staff required is as follows:
TD      -   I Training Adviser (Expatriate)
-   I Deputy Chief (Senegalese)
MP&RS   -   I Chief Instructor (Expatriate) to replace the
present one who has been in Thies for 18 years.
OP      -   4 Instructors (Senegalese)
W&W     -   1 Chief Instructor (Expatriate) and
3 Instructors (Senegalese)
CS      -   1 Chief Instructor (Expatriate/Senegalese)
3 Instructors (Senegalese)
10.       The duration of the Senegalese instructors' assignments should last
about five years. At the end of their assignments they would return to their
respective units for practical experience and to learn any new technology.  By
the time they are transferred back to the departments, replacements with equal
training capability should be on the job. Instructors would be selected from
ariong experienced personnel fully versed in their respective fields, but they
should also demonstrate patience, the ability to communicate, and the desire
to teach for a few years. They should not be permanently assigned to TD but
rotated on a regular basis.
11.       Similarly, the assignments of expatriate instructors should not
last more than four to five years. Their recruitment would be based not
orLly on their knowledge of railway operations, but also on their training
experience in developed as well as developing countries.
12.       A Senegalese Deputy Chief of TD should be nominated as soon as
possible. The Deputy would initially fill a number of positions of increasing
responsibility leading to the position of Director of the TD. An engineer
with three- to five-years' responsible operational experience with CFS should
be selected. In addition to good technical knowledge of railway activities,
he should demonstrate a keen interest in training, empathy and ability to
organize and communicate. Once the approved candidate has had sufficient



ANNEX 8
Page 4
experience in Thies, he would be sent to various institutes and railways
in Europe and Canada to attend theoretical and practical programs. On
his return, assuming satisfactory completion of his own training, he would
be nominated Director of the TD. The expatriate Director of the TD in
office at the time would be requested to remain for a reasonable time as
an advisor to the new Director to ensure a smooth transition.
C.   Financing of Training
13.       The cost of strengthening TD and of implementing an expanded train-
ing program is estimated at about US$1.7 million plus US$0.3 million for
contingencies. The project will provide for:
CFAF             US$
(a) Construction of physical training
facilities at Thies                         84,770,000         346,000
(b)  Furniture and equipment for (a);            17,200,000          70,200
(c)  Training equipment and materials            52,100,000         212,700
(d)  Expatriate personnel, including
a training adviser                         195,265,000         797,000
(e)  Training abroad                             67,165,000         274,100
Total                         416,500,000       1,700,000
Details of estimated costs of a three-year training program are given in
Table VIII.
D.   Joint Training Effort by Senegal/Mali Railways
14.       Serious consideration has been given to unifying the training effort
of the Senegal and Mali Railways because this would be the best solution
for certain railway activities. Officially, the management of the two
Railways support this, but they also recognize the political and administra-
tive difficulties involved.
15.       This solution should not be pursued until the Senegalese Railway
has established a TD and completed implementation of the priority program.
lIowever, a dialogue should continue between the two Railways aimed at (a)
agreeing on possible areas of collaboration, such as (i) training of local
instructors, and (ii) seminars for middle and high-level managerial staff on
specific technical subjects as well as general principles of management; and
(b) plans to implement such programs.



SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
CFS PERSONNEL BROKEN DOWN BY CATEGORY, DEPARTMENT AND LEVEL
CCF                      HI                        H2              ,H4                                 H5                         Totals         Totals
Aux. Skilled              Skilled Workers           Low-level                 Medium-level              Directors  Ao        r         By             By
Category                          Workers                                             Staff                     Staff                   Department Heads                             Departments
Ad..  MP&RS  W&r  OP  Adm.  mp&k.  w&w .            Adm.   .p&Rg         OP  Adm.   P&RS           OP       1WWp                    C
W&WI                       W& W &                                  aegrW
Admin. Personnel                 80      13     17   15  31        18      9     7   25       8       4   4   17        1       1   2    6    -          _    I         259         159     40      31  29
Study and Research                -       1      1    -   -         -      -    -    -        3       -   -    -        2       5   -    -    -          _    _          12           -      6        6   -
Stores and Supplies              65       6      3     2  20        5      3    -   11        7       -   2    3        -           _    _                             127          99     18        6   4
Computer Section                  5       -      -    -   5         -      -    -    2        -       -   1    2        -                                 15                    14      -       -   1
Printing Shop                    12       -      -    -   4         -      -    -    3        -      _-    I     1      -_      _        -      -      -      -21                    20      -        -   I
Workshops                         3    376      74     1   3    355       65     1    -    95          5   -     1    72        9   _    -    4                      1,064            7   902      153    2
Loco Drivers                      -    132       -    -   1        26      -    -    -       54          - -    1    18         -          -        232                             2   230         -   -
Auto and Track Motor Car
Drivers             5       7    44      1   1        3     12     1    _-            -       -    -       -                              74                      6     10      56    2
Track Msintenance                 1       1   331      -   I        -   146      -    -       -      25   -      -      -      13   -    _       _       _    _         518           2      1    515   -
Teleconmmunications               -       -      6    -   -         -     10     -    -       -      11   -    -        -       2   -    _       _                       29           -      -      29   -
Train Personnel                   1       6      -   78   1         2      -   55    1        -       -10        -      -       -   2    -    -          _              156           3      8        -145
Station Personnel                 -       2      -  105   1         -      - 130. _40    6 .                                 .-12          1    -        _     2        299           8      2        - 289
Switchmen                      |  1       3      -  173   -         -      -   48    -                           _      _                                               225           1      3        -22t
S.T.   173      547   476  375  68    409    245  242   42   167             45  58   31    93         30  16      7    4         -    3      3,031         321 1,220       796 694
Police                           88       -      -    -   -         -      -    -    -        -       -   _      _      -       _   _    _    _                          88          88      -        -   -
Medical Personnel                23       _     _    _      I       -      -   _       3      -            _     2      -_            _|1                                30          30      -       -    _
TOTALS:   284       547   476  375  69    409   245  242   45   167              45  58   33    93         30  16    8    4          -    3      3,149 1/       439 1,220      796 694
237 2/
3,386
___                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
1/    As of January 31, 1977
2/     237 additional staff were recruited ss of February 28, 1977 as follows:
40 Adm.
80 MP&RS
47 W&W
70 OP
237



ANNEX 8
Table 2
SENEGAL
CFS Personnel Trained During 1974-1976
DEPARTMENT                 CATEGORY                          1974       1975   | 1976         TOTALS
W&W                        Section Chiefs                      11          -         -          11
Transport Chiefs                   23          -          -         23
Trackmen                           12          -          -         12
Chief Trackmen                     44                   15          59
Telecom. Staff (MEQLT)              -          8          -          8
O0                         DistrLct Chiefs-                               8          _           8
Station Masters                     -          8         _           8
Assistant Station Masters           -         25          -         25
Station Attendants                  -          -        21          21
Station Staff                       -          -         -
Switchmen.                                     -         -
Train Chiefs and Controllers        -          -          -           _
MP&RS                      Workshop Technicians                11        17          -          28
(Fitters, Electricians,
Section Chiefs, Foremen,
etc.,)
Chief Loco Drivers                  9          -          -          9
Loco Drivers                       12         54        29          95
GS                         Accountants                          -          -         -           _
Storekeepers                        -          -          -          _
TOTALS                122        120         65         307
/1 Average duration of courses three weeks.



ANNEX 8
SENEGTAL                                   Table 3
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
ESTIMATED INTERIM TRAINING PROGRAM
(February 1977 - March 1970)
Department/                  Retraining             UpgradLng       Training
Category                   Aux.  H-1  H-2  H-4   H-2  H-4         Aux.  H-1  H-2  H-4
Instructors
MP&RS(2) W&W(l) OP(l)         -      -    -    -      -    -          -     -    -
OP
Switchmen                    20      -    -    -      -    -                           -
Station Clerks                -      -    -    -      -    -        10
Station Inspectors            -      -    -    -      -    -          -
Station Chiefs                -      -    -    -      -    -         -      -    5    -
Station Masters               -      -    -    -      -    -         5      4    2    -
Sector Chiefs                 -      -    -    -      -    7         -      -    -    -
MP&RS
Drivers
Loco Drivers                  -      -    -    -      -    -        16      -    -    -
Sr. Loco Drivers              -    14    -    -       -    -         -      -    -    -
Chief Loco Drivers            -      -    -    -      -    -          -     -    -    -
Workshops
Thermal
Skilled Workers               -    51    -    -       -    -          -     -    -    -
Assistant Foremen             -      5    -    -      -    -          -     -    -    -
Electrical
Assistant Foremen             -      -    5    -      -    -          -     -    -    -
Skilled Wbrkers               -    32    -    -       -    -         -      -    -    -
Mechanical
Car Inspectors                -      -    5    -      -    -          -     -    -    -
Brakemen                      -      - _        -     -    -          -     -    -    -
Fitters                       -      -    5    -      -    -          -     -    -    -
Welders                       -      - _        -     -    -          -     -    -    -
New Skilled Workers           -      -    -    -      -    -         20     -    -    -
Section Chiefs                -      -    -   10      -    -          -     -    -    -
Group Chiefs                  -      -    -    -      -    -          -     -    -    -
Workshop Chiefs               -      -    -    -      -    5          -     -    -
W&W
Chief Trackmen                -    40    -    -       -    -          -    50    -
Linemen                       -      -    5    -
District Chiefs               -      -    -    -      -    -
Section Chiefs                -      -    -    -      _    _
I
Bookkeepers                   -      -    5    -      _    _
Stores and Supp:Lies Staff   -       -    6    -      -    _
Section Chiefs                -      -    -    -      -    1
Totals:    20   142   41   10        -   13        51    54    7
.=,  ..===.=m== ....................c==. =======c===t=s=  as................... ====t=
213            +      13   +          112
GT                             338



Table 4
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
ESTIMATED TWO-YEAR PRIORITY TRAINING PROGRAM
(April 1978 - March 1950)
Department/                     Retraining             Upgrading      Training
Category                     Aux. H-1  H-2  H-4   H-2  H-4          Aux.  H-1  H-2  H-4
Instructors
MP&RS(1) W&W(1) OP(l) GS(1)   -         -                                           -    4
OP
Switchmen                       50      -    -    -                                      -
Station Clerks                  18    18    -    -       -    -         -     -    -    -
Station Inspectors              30    45          -      -    -        -      -    _    _
Station Chiefs                   -    10   10    -       -    -         -     -    -    -
Station Masters                  -      -    -    -      8    3         -     -    -    -
MP&RS
Drivers
Loco Drivers                    34     _-    -        -        -      24      -    -    -
Sr. Loco Drivers                 -    11    -    -       -    -        -      -    -    -
Chief Loco Drivers               -      -   25    -      -    -         _     _    _    _
Workshops
Thermal
Skilled Workers                 21    15    -    -       -    -        -      _    _    _
Assistant Foremen                -      -    5    -      _    _         _     -       
Electrical
SkilleWorkers                   10    15    -    -       -    -         -     -    -    -
Assistant Foremen                -      -    5     -     -    -         -     -    -    -
Mechanical
Car Inspectors                  15     5    -    _       _    _         _     _    _    _
Brakemen                        15     5    -    -       -    _         _     _    _    _
Specialized Mechanics            5      5    -    -      -    -         -     -    -    -
Welders                          5      5    -    -      _    _                       
New Skilled Workers              -      -    -           -    -        60     -    -    -
Chief Mechanics                  -      -    -    7      -    8        -      -    -    -
Group Chiefs                     -     -          -    -  -    -        -     -    -    -
Section Chiefs                   -     -    -    8       -   13        -      -    -    -
Workshop Chiefs                  -     -    -   10       -    9        -      -    -    -
W&W
New Skilled Workers              -      -    -    -      -    -        10     -    -    -
Chief Trackmen                   -    10    -    _       5 /  -         _     _    _ 
Linemen                          -      -   15    -    11 "2 -          -     -    -         
District Chiefs                  -     -    -   20       -    -/           -     -          -
Section Chiefs                   -     -    -    -       -   10 -
GS
Bookkeepers                      -      -   10    -      -    -         -     -    -    -
Stores and Supplies Staff        -    12    6    -       -    -        _      _    _    _
Section Chiefs                   -     -    -    -       -    6        -      -    -    -
Totals:   203   156   1  45    24   49            94     -    -    4
485           +      73    +           98
GT                               656
/1 To become Linemen.
/T To become District Chiefs.
/7 To be trained abroad.
/i  To be trained by Expatriate Instructors.



ANNEX 8
Table 5
SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
ESTIMATED THRFE-YEAR TRAINING PROGRAM
(APRIL 1980 - MARCH 1983)
Department/                       RETRAINING           UPGRADING            TRAINING
Category                   Aux.  H-1  H-2  H-h        H-2  H-4    A:x.  H-1  H-2  H-4
Instructors W&W/GS               -      -    -    -         -    -       -      -    -    2
OP
Train Staff                     35    4O    5    --                                        -
Switchmen                      130      -    -    -         -    -       -      -    -    -
Station Clerks                  27    27    -           -       _     _     _      _      _
Station Chiefs                   -    15    5    -          -    -       -      -    -    -
Station Masters                  -      -    7    3         -    -       -      -    -    -
Sector Chief's                   -      -    -    8         -    -       -      -    -    -
MP&RS
Drivers
Loco Drivers                    56      -    -    _                     36      -    _    _
Sr. Loco Drivers                 -      -    -    -         -    -              -    -    -
Chief Loco Drivers               -      -    -    -         -    -       -      -    -    -
Workshops
Thermal
Skilled 'Workers                18      -    -    -         -    _       _      _    _    _
Assistant Foremen                -      -    6    -         _    -       _      _    _    -
Electrical
Skilled Workers                 18      5    -    -         -    -       -      -    -    -
Mechanical
Car Inspectors                   -      5    -    -         -    -       -      -    -    -
Specialized Mechanics            5      -    -    -         -    -       -      -    -    -
Brakemen                         -      5    -    -         -    -       -      -      
Welders                          5      -    -    -         -    -       -      -      
New Skilled Workers              -      -    -    -         -    -      90      -    -    -
Mechanical Chiefs                -      -    -   14         -   13       -      -    -    -
Group Chiefs                     -      -    -   32         -   32       _      _    _    _
Section Chief's                  -      -    -   17         -   12       -      -    -    -
Workshop Chiefs                  -      -    -    4         -    -              -    -    -
W&W
New Skilled Workers              -      -    -    -         -    -      15      -    -    -
Chief Trackmen                   -    75    -    -          -    -       -    65    -    -
Linemen                          -    10   1C    -          -    -       -      -    -    -
District Chiefs                  -      -   16    4         -    -       -      -    -    -
Section Chiefs                   -      -    -    9         -    -       -      -    -    -
GS
Stores & Supp:lies Staff         -    12    -    -          -    -       -      -    -    -
Bookkeepers                      -      -    5    -         -    -       -      -    -    -
Section Chiefs                   -      -    -   40         -   33       -      -    -    -
Totals   2914  19)4   54  1-1          -   90    1)1    (,5    -    -
673           +         90             206
GT                              969



ANNEX 8
Table 6
SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Details of Estimated Physical Training Facilities to be
Constructed at Thies %/  (Estimated Cost: CFAF 50,000/mr)
Description                                                     CFA (245)        IJS$
1. Training Division (TD) 2/
(a) Director's Office          12 m2  )
(b) Secretariat's Office       12 m2  )                    1,000,000         14,100
(c) Chief Instructors' Office  50 m2  )
7T m2
2. Training Center - Thies
(d) 1 Dormitory with Sanitary Facilities      200 m2
(20 Students)                                       14,o0o,o000        57,130
OP
(e) 1 Classroom, plus                          70 m2       3,500,000         14,300
2 small Rooms for Work Model               80 m2       4,ooo,ooo         16,300
Demonstration
MP&RS
(f) 1 Classroom, plus                          70 m2       3,500,000         1)4,300
1 Small Room for Work Model
Demonstration                            40 m2       2,000,000          8,160
(g) 1 Workshop (with partitions)                   2
(General Mechanics and Machinists)      200 m       10,000,000         4o,800
(h) 1 Workshop for Electricians                85 m2       4,270,000         17,350
(i) 1 Workshop for Diesel Engines             150 m2       7,500,000         30,600
(j) 1 Workshop for Welders                     80 m2       4,800,ooo         19,600
W&W
(k) 1 Classroom                                70 m2       3,500,000         14,300
(1) 1 Classroom-Telecom.                       48 m2       2,400,000          9,800
(m) Library/Conference/Projection Room        160 m2       8,ooo,ooo         32,660
with movable partitions
(n) 2 Storerooms, each 13 m2                   26 m2       1,300,000          5,300
69,770,000       26X,700
Plus Electricity (about 22% of total Cost)            15,000,000         61,230
Total      84,750,0001/      345,930 1/
1/  If the CFS' former training school is returned to the Railway by the Ministry
of Education most of the funds allocated for construction of training facilities
can be utilized for other purposes.
2/ Work for the TD facilities involves only minor structural changes.



ANNEX 8
Table 7
SFEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimated Costs of Furniture, Training Equipment and
Materials Required for the New Training Center, Thies
CFA (245)    ___US$
1.  Furniture and Equipment for TC
Dormitory, Classrooms, Workshops, Offices       17,200,000         70,200
2.  Audio-Visual Aids
2 Episcopes and Accessories
2 Slide Projectors
2 Film Projectors (1(! rmm  etc.,                4,oo0,0oo         10,330
3.  Printing and Reproductuion
Machines (,4)                                     4,600,000        18,780
4. Training Equipment for TC Workshops
(a)  Mechanical              $69,40G
(b)  Diesel                   35,5oo
(c)  Electrical               13,100                        1/
(d)  Welding                  10,90             31,O0,000 -    128,590
5. Models for Demonstration
(a)  OP                      $12,600
(b)  WfW                      12,600
(c)  MP&RS                    23,800            l2O00              19,000
69,30o,ooo       292,900
1/  Lathe, milling and grinding machines may be obtained fron
Operational workshops thus decreasjng substantially this amount.



ANNEX 6
Table 8
SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
ESTIMATED COST OF THREE YEAR TRAINING PROGRAM
Description                                                 CFAF           US$  (245)
1. Civil Works
(a)  Construction of 1 Dormitory, Classrooms,            84,770,000     346,ooo V/
lWorkshops, Offices, etc.,
2. Furniture and Equipment
for l(a) above                                          17,200,000       70,200 V
3. Training Equipment                                       52,100,000      212,700
4. Training Division
(a) Chief of Training $70,000 x year x 3 years          51,450,000      210,000 31
(b) 2 Chief instructors (MP&RS and W&W)                                          3/
$50,000 per year x 3 years                         73,5o00,0oo     300,000 -
(c) 5 Expatriate Instructors to train
medium-level management in Thies totalling
3 years at $50,000 per year, plus
preparatory work and travel to Thies
($50,000)                                          55,125,000      225,000
(d) 2 Expatriate Instructors to conduct one-month
executive seminars for high-level personnel
(Department Heads and Directors/twice
(1978-1980)) plus travel, etc.,                   15,190,000       62,000
5. Training Abroad
(a) 10 Senegalese Instructors 1,40 FF per month
($280) x 4 months (subsistence only)                2,744,ooo       11,200
(b) 6 to 8 Graduate Engineers to participate
in practical courses at suitable Railways
for periods of up to 12 months; and the Deputy   64,4Z1,000        262,900
Chief of TD for 12 to 14 months
Total          416,500,000   1,700,000
1/  If the  CFS' former training school is returned by the Ministry of Education,
this amount will be considerably reduced.
2/ This amount may need to be increased if certain workshop -machines cannot
be obtained from the main workshops.
3/  These estimates may have to be revised at a later stage.



ANNEX 9
Page 1
SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Investment Plan 1978/79 - 1980/81
1.        The investment plan is given in Table 7; details on the investment
packages are listed in Table 1 of this Annex.
2.        The :373 km of track between km 271 and the MIalian border is in
extremely poor condition thereby causing an increasing number of derailments
each year.   (The track is about 60 years old and weighs 25 and 26 kg/m).
About 60 km of this section will be renewed under the proposed project.
Material for this renewal will come from that purchased under the Second
Railway Project: (Credit 314-SE/Loan 835-SE) which called for the renewal
of 175 km of line. However, cost overruns necessitated deleting the purchase
of 25 km of rails and permitted the laying of only 28 km, leaving 122 km of
rails. Out of those, 20 km of rails were used to renew worn-out track between
Dakar and Thies; thus 102 km of rails are left. These rails will be used under
the proposed project for track renewal, track rehabilitation and for extension
oi- the Dakar-Bel Air marshalling yard.
3.        The efficiency of track maintenance gangs is hampered by both low
availability of old gang cars (34%) and small inspection cars (55%) and by
lack of adequate tools and small machinery. Worn-out switches cause derail-
ments and require severe speed limitations reducing operation efficiency.
The track maintenance package of the project includes gang cars, small in-
spection cars, tools, small machinery and 20 switches.
4.        The Dakar-Bel Air marshalling yard mainly serves phosphate and
groundnut traffic. It does not have the capacity to handle increasing phos-
phate traffic plus peak groundnut traffic. To increase the capacity, one new
track should be added, the maintenance should be improved, 8 new switches
should be installed and telecommunication equipment modernized. Provision is
made in the project to finance civil works and material required.
5.        Line locomotive and railcar availability reached a low of 50.3%
and 41.0% respectively, mainly caused by lack of costly spare components.
Wagon availability is reduced by lack of new wheel sets. To improve avail-
ability, the project includes spare parts for locomotives and railcars, as
well as wheel sets for wagons.
6.        The modernization of the Thies workshops was included in the
Second Railway Project. New tools and machinery are still required to improve
maintenance and are included in the proposed project.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
7.        Until 1972, CFS staff was trained in the Railway Training School
at Thies. In early 1973, this school was taken over by the Ministry Since
then only informal training programs have been carried out by CFS with the
occasional help of some technical assistance. The overall training standard
is low due to lack of physical facilities, training equipment and experienced
instructors. The comprehensive training component included in the project
consists of establishment of a new training center at Thies, purchase of
furniture and equipment, purchase of training equipment and material,
financing expatriate instructors and training abroad.
8.        The project would provide funds to finance consulting services for:
(a) a study of the organizational structure of CFS; and (b) a study of ground-
nut transportation to determine the least cost transport mode for various
traffic flows with recommendations for improving terminal operations and
distribution system.



SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
ANNEX 9
Table 1
Form of 2/
List of items included in the investment packages         CFAF Million 1/  Procurement
1.        Track renewal                                     1,077.0
1.1       Track renewal, 60 km                                702.0              FA
1.2       Ballast wagons, 10                                  108.0              ICB
1.3       Tamping machine, 1                                   81.0              ICB
1.4       Mobil gantries, 2                                    48.6              ICB
1.5       Ballast regulator                                    43.2              ICB
1.6       Gang cars, 2                                         38.9              ICB
1.7       Tools for track maintenance                          22.0              ICB
1.8       Trucks, 2                                            17.0              CBL
1.9       Alumino thermic welding units, 5(
1.10      Power wrenches, 10                 (                  6.8              ICB
1.11      Inspection cars, 2                                    5.4              ICB
1.12      Rail grinder, 6                                       3.8              ICB
2.        Track maintenance equipment and material            405.0
2.1       Gang cars, 8                                        155.9              ICB
2.2       Switches, 20                                        129.9              ICB
2.3       Tools                                                39.0              ICB, LSH
2.4       Spare parts for tamper                               32.5              POS
2.5       Trucks, 3                                            26.0              CBL
2.6       Inspection cars, 8                                   21.7              ICB
3.        Improvement of telecommunication facilities
track in Dakar area                                 254.0
3.1       Improvement of Bel Air yard                         160.0              FA/CBL
3.2       Switches, 8                                          51.9              ICB
3.3       Telecommunication                                    33.5              ICB
3.4       Truck, 1                                              8.6              CBL
4.        Spare parts for motive power and rolling stock  608.0                  POS, ICB
and workshop equipment
5.        Training                                            417.0
5.1       Construction of training center, Thies               85.0             CBL
5.2       Furniture and equipment                               17.0            CBL
5.3       Training equipment and material                      52.0             CBL
5.4       Expatriate advisers                                 196.0              -
5.5       Training abroad                                      67.0              -
6.        Studies                                              133.0
6.1       Structure and organizational study                  108.0              -
6.2       Contribution to Soned Study                           25.0             -
1/        Price level 1977, excluding contingencies.
2/        ICB - International Competitive Bidding, CBL - Competitive Bidding
advertised locally, ISH - International Shopping, LSH - Local
Shopping, 'POS - Purchase from Original Supplier, FA - Force Account.
December 1977



SENEGAL
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
1977/1978                  1978         /        1979                 1979         /         1980                 1980         /         1981
3          4        1          2           3         4         1           2         3           4          1           2          3           4
1.  Track renewal-60 Km                                        i
Bidding for equipment                                                 1E
Supply of equipment                                        '  *-.. -,-l
Mobilization                                               . _ _
Track renewal works
2.  Track maintenance equipment
material                              I
Bidding for equipment
Supply of equipment and material _
3.  Improvement in Dakar area
Bidding for equipment
Supply of equipment                                                                                                    -
Bidding for civil works
Rehabilitation wcrks
4.  Spare parts for motive Power
and rolling stock and
workshop equipment Bidding for
spare parts and equipment            II                     _
Supply of spare parts and
equipment
5.  Training &                                                                                                          l
Preparation of project                                                4
Implementation                                                          _                                                      _                     _                         -
6.- Studies etc.
Orga&izational Study                   l                                         i
SONED  Study                           Il
t~~~~~~~~~   - t-  X  l X- X                                                                                                                             -    J



ANNEX 10
Page 1
SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT
Details of Economic Evaluation
General
1.        The economic justification of the project as a whole and of its
individual components has been determined by computing economic costs and
benefits and the resulting rates of return.  The effect of changes of main
parameters on the component's return is tested through a sensitivity analysis.
2.        All costs and benefits are expressed in constant 1977 CFA francs.
Investment costs are net of taxes and include physical contingencies.  The
exchange rate with the dollar, whenever applicable, is taken at US$1 =
C;FAF 245. Benefits from investments resulting in savings in labor are eva-
luated at the shadow price of labor; for unskilled labor in Senegal the shadow
price is 0.60 of market wage rates. 1/ Shadow price for labor is not applied
to local costs of civil works; therefore, the rates of return may be somewhat
underestimated.
Track Renewal Program
3.        During the First and Second Railway Projects, 174 km of track were
renewed as part: of a long-term program aimed at the complete rehabilitation
of international line. At present, there are 373 km, between km 271 and
the Malian border which are about 60 years old and which are causing in-
creasing maintenance and operational problems to CFS. Under the Second
Railway Project 122 km of the 150 km bought were not laid and are now
available to continue rehabilitation of the line. It is estimated that
the 60 km included in the proposed project can be relaid in three years.
When these works are completed, the Regie is expected to find financing to
renew the remaining 313 km of old track.
4.        Due to the poor condition of the track, the Regie must re-lay
some 8 km of track yearly with used rails in sections where broken rails
require immediate replacement. The Regie has old rails in stock which
would allow it to continue with this emergency procedure until 1981. The
existing new rails cannot be utilized for this purpose as they are of dif-
ferent standards, 36 kg/m compared to 26 kg/m of the old rails.  The renewal
of 60 km would generate about 45 km of rails which would be needed to continue
making the emergency repairs. To avoid closing the line, the only alternative
to the renewal of the 60 km under this project would be to postpone these
1/   "Economic Incentive and Resource in Senegal," June 1975.  West African
Research Project, directed by B. Balassa.



ANNEX 10
Page 2
works until 1981. This would generate the needed 26 kg/m rail, the supply of
which would otherwise run out in that year. The additional suppliers will
still allow completion of renewal in time to avoid complete track deteriora-
tion and ensuing closure of the line.
5.        Table 1 shows the costs and benefits from the track renewal program.
The main benefit will be the reduction of derailments, which have increased
substantially in the section of old track. The number of derailments in this
section has increased from 10 in 1973, 11 in 1974, 9 in 1975, to 13 in 1976.
As the track deteriorates to a critical condition, the number of derailments
will grow exponentially in the future. The number of derailment in the 60-km
section, if rail renewal is not carried out, is projected as follows:
Year  1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Derailments      14       16      19      22        26
The costs of one derailment are estimated as follows:
US$
(a) Repair of 500 m of track material,
including rails, sleepers, fastenings and
ballast                                                  5,000
labor cost, utilization of machinery and
equipment                                                1,000
(b) repair of motive power and rolling stock
locomotives $600,000 x 2% x 4
(involved in 1 out of 4 accidents)                       3,000
wagons $30,000 x 2% x 2
(2 wagons involved in each accident)                     1,200
$10,200
or CFAF 249.9 million
6.        The second type of benefit quantified in the economic evaluation is
the savings in labor maintenance costs. CFS estimates that the differential
in track maintenance labor between the old track and the renewed section is
0.3 man/km/year. Wages for track maintenance labor are CFAF 480,000/man-
year. Evaluating the savings in labor costs at the shadow rate of salaries
(60% of market wages), annual savings are CFAF 288,000/man-year.
7.        The track renewal under the proposed project will make use of rails
and accessories purchased under the Second Project. As the economic evalua-
tion assumes that the alternative to doing the project now (i.e. the reference
case) would be to postpone it until 1981, the costs of the rails are omitted



ANNEX 10
Page 3
from the investment costs of the proposed solution and of the reference
case. Hypothetically, if track renewal is postponed, the rails could be
sold, possibly to another West African country, and purchased again later when
track renewal is executed. However, as there would be a difference between
the price CFS could get for its rails and new rails bought from manufacturers,
and as postponement of track renewal would only be for three years, this would
not be a convenient course of action.
8.        The rate of return for the track renewal program is 13%.  It should
be noted that at the rate of 30 km/year for track relaying, it would take
12.5 years to relay the 373 km which have old rails. The economic rate of
return does not: take into account high risk that if the proposed works are
not started now renewal of whole sections may not be completed before the
number of deraiLlments would increase to a level which would practically force
c:Losure of the line. The rate of return is not very sensitive to changes in:
(a) traffic because derailments are proportional to the number of trains,
and these do not vary directly with traffic as they are subject to fixed
t imetables and have excessive capacity, and (b) investment costs, as the
reference case includes the same investment costs with a time lag. The
economic return, of the project would drop to 12% under the lower international
traffic of the conservative estimate, or with investment costs 10% higher than
estimated, and to 11% with a combination of these two events. These results
are acceptable.
DaLkar-Bel Air Marshalling Yard
9.        This yard is used for marshalling operations of trains transporting:
(a.) groundnuts, between the collection centers in the production areas and the
groundnut oil processing plants in Dakar; (b) international traffic, between
Mali and Dakar port; and (c) phosphates, between the phosphate mines Taiba and
Thies and their unloading facilities at Dakar port. At present, there are two
tracks in the yard which are used only for phosphates. The yard's remaining
seven tracks are too short and light for phosphate trains. Trains carrying
phosphates from Taiba to the port need to be split at Bel Air due to physical
constraints at Dakar port's Taiba unloading facilities. Expansion of these
facilities woul,d be extremely expensive due to the lack of space in the
present layout.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
10.       The present practical capacity of the yard for phosphate traffic
is estimated at 3.66 phosphate trains/day, 1/ which at 1,150 tons/train and
355 days/year yields 1.5 million ton/year. Phosphate traffic (1971/72-
1975/76) through Bel Air is shown below:
(000 tons)
1971/72      1972/73      1973/74      1974/75      1975/76
Phosphates            1,420        1,459        1,430        1,469        1,196
In 1972/73 and in 1974/75 the yard's practical capacity was nearly reached,
but this happened when groundnut traffic, which normally greatly interferes
with access to the yard, was low. Due to a combination of lack of yard
capacity and shortage in motive power, phosphate from Taiba was diverted
to the road, at much higher costs. The magnitude of the diversion was the
following: 210,000 tons in 1972/73, 288,000 tons in 1973/74, 203,000 tons
in 1974/75, and 154,000 tons in 1975/76. 2/
11.       Under the proposed project, one new track would be built for phos-
phate traffic, eliminating the present capacity constraint. This, coupled
with rehabilitation of the existing tracks, will also allow faster handling
of tank wagons carrying petroleum products to Mali, better utilization of
rolling stock in the Dakar area, and better working conditions in the new
locomotive depot. On the basis of the best estimate forecast, the volumes
of phosphate traffic diverted to the road if the marshalling yard is not
expanded would be as follows: 1980, 135,000 tons; 1981, 225,000 tons;
1982-85, 280,000 tons/year.
12.       The economic evaluation of the proposed marshalling yard improve-
ment quantifies only the benefits from easing the capacity constraint for
phosphate and avoiding diversion to road transport. Total rail costs from
Taiba to Dakar port, including Taiba's costs for maintenance and depreciation
of wagons, were estimated by the consulting firm SOROS to be CFAF 4.0 per
ton-km in 1975. 3/ On the basis of annual inflation of 6% (International
Financial Statistics), the railway total cost in 1977 prices would be CFAF 4.5
per ton-km. Assuming a high ratio of marginal costs to fixed costs of 60/40
for phosphates (this ratio is normally reversed for other traffic), rail
1/   This means that, on average, due to congestion on the existing yard,
four trains per day cannot be regularly accommodated, and that one
train is foregone every three days.
2/   Data on the transport of phosphate by road are reported in calendar
years; data for railway fiscal years are derived by averaging calendar
year traffic.
3/   "Etude de factibilite du Port Petrolier et Mineralier, Port Sedar,"
SOROS Associates, November 1975.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
marginal costs for phosphates would be CFAF 2.7 per ton-km. The costs
cif road transport, CFAF 990/ton, are derived from actual truck rates
between the mine and the Port of Dakar. Considering the distance, this
rate is equivalent to CFAF 8.8/ton-km. This figure may somewhat underes-
timate actual economic costs but has been retained in the analysis as it
leads to a conservative assessment of the proposed investment. 1/ The dif-
ference between rail and road transport costs would then be CFAF 6.1/ton-km.
For the 112 km between Taiba and the port, the benefits from avoided diversion
to the road amount to CFAF 683 per ton. The rate of return for the proposed
improvement to Bel-Air yard is 39%. This rate would drop to 18% under the
conservative traffic forecast for phosphates, to 35% with 10% higher invest-
ment costs and to 16% with a combination of these two events. The costs and
benefit streams are presented in Table 2.
Spare Parts for Rolling Stock
13.       The main item in this project component is spare parts for the
following locomotives of the CFS fleet: 8 small locomotives BB-500 which
are 21 years of age in average but still with acceptable availability; 16
locomotives of medium size (type BB-1100 and BB-1200), about 11 years of
age on average, and which handle the international traffic; and 4 larger
locomotives (type CC-2400), about 10 years old, and which handle the phos-
phate trains exclusively.  Spare parts are needed to improve the availa-
bility of the locomotive fleet and allow it to carry forecast traffic.
14.       The economic evaluation is divided in two parts:  first, the rate
of return is calculated with respect to a do-nothing situation; second, a
comparison of investment and operating costs is made between the purchase
oi- spare parts and purchase of locomotives supplying an equivalent hauling
capacity as thaLt of existing equipment rehabilitated with the new spare
parts.
15.       The computation of the rate of return for the spare parts assumes
that if they are not purchased there would be a sharp drop in the avail-
ability of locomotives, reducing CFS transport capacity and causing some
railway traffic to divert to other modes with higher economic transport
costs. The benefit of the proposed investment is the avoidance of such
diversion. In estimating these benefits, only the increase in availability
of: locomotives carrying phosphates and international Mali traffic, the two
major traffic categories in CFS traffic are considered and therefore bene-
fits are somewhat underestimated.
1/   These costs are substantially lower than those calculated by the con-
sulting firm, A.D. Little: "Evaluation of the Cayar Refining and
Phosphate Rock Project," July 1975. A.D. Little estimated trucking costs
for phosphates, in big trucks and for a distance of 20 km, of CFAF 17.3
per ton-km in 1975 prices.



ANNEX 10
Page 6
16.        The difference between transport costs via CFS and the alternative
modes is CFAF 683/ton for phosphate and ranges from CFAF 733/ton to CFAF
10,200/ton for Mali international traffic depending on the product. 1/
For the present analysis, it is assumed diversion of international traffic
would take place first in products with lower transport cost differential,
such as cement, sugar, cotton, groundnuts, and based on this a figure of CFAF
2,740/ ton is assumed as the cost differential for international traffic.
Because phosphate traffic is especially suited to rail transport, it is also
assumed that in case of a shortfall in locomotives in the do-nothing case,
phosphate would be given priority over international traffic.
17.        The computation of benefits from avoided traffic diversion is sum-
marized in Table 3 to this Annex. For each type of locomotives (BB1100,
BB1200 and CC 2400) 2/ expected availability with and without the spare
parts is estimated, and the availability differential converted into tons
based on the indices calculated from recent years' experience. To express
potential diversion of phosphate traffic into equivalent international traf-
fic, a conversion factor between the two types of traffic is diverted (1%
availability of a BB-type locomotive carries 2,700 ton/year of phosphates
or 220 ton/year of international traffic).
18.       The rate of return for the spare parts investment is a high 57%.
This rate would decrease to 49% if the investment costs were 10% higher than
estimated. The return is not sensitive to variations in the traffic fore-
cast as it is based on today's traffic.
19.        The comparison between purchasing spare parts and buying new loco-
motives is made based on a net present cost analysis. The number of new
locomotives needed each year which would be able to carry the same traffic
as the locomotives rehabilitated with the spare parts is determined in
Table 4 to this Annex. This computation is made as follows: (i) the
availability differential with and without the spare parts (as calculated
in Table 3) is converted to equivalent horsepower by type of locomotive;
(ii) the total horsepower gain is used to determine the number of required
locomotives, assuming 1100 hp-locomotive and 80% availability; and (iii) in
years when there is a decrease in locomotive needs residual values are assumed
on a first-in first-out basis. The investment costs per locomotive are
assumed at US$800,000 per unit, assuming the same type of locomotive pres-
ently in CFS fleet.
20.        The lower maintenance costs of the new locomotives as compared to
the rehabilitated locomotives are also considered in this analysis. Computa-
tion of maintenance costs is summarized in Table 5. At a 12% discount rate,
1/   Appraisal of Third Railway Project, Mali (May 1977).
2/   This analysis focuses on the main traffic categories, i.e., interna-
tional traffic and phosphates, and therefore the BB 500 which handle
national traffic only, are not included.



AflNEX 10
Page 7
the net present value of all investment and operating costs of the new loco-
motives minus those of the spare parts and rehabilitated locomotives, i.e.,
the savings generated by purchasing spare parts instead of locomotives, ex-
pressed in today's money, is CFAF 217 million. The purchase of the spare
parts is, therefore, the best investment alternative.
Track Maintenance Equipment
21.       This component consists of urgently needed switches, gang cars
and other minor track maintenance equipment. Many existing switches are
worn out and are causing an increasing number of derailments in stations
and crossings. The 20 switches included in this component would be placed
in locations where most derailments occur. The benefits from the new
switches would be reducing the number of derailments and therefore gen-
erating savings in derailment costs. 1/ Unit derailment costs used in
this analysis are those described in para. 5 of this Annex. The eight
gang cars are needed to replace obsolete equipment and would supply one
niew gang car to each of CFS's eight maintenance districts. Given the con-
dition of existing equipment, track maintenance would be severely hampered
and routine maiintenance would have to be discontinued shortly if the gang
cars are not purchased; track would deteriorate at a higher than normal
speed, and it i's estimated that the 332 km of the international line which
have been renewed in the last ten years (including the 70 km double track
between Dakar cnd Thies) would reach the end of their economic life in
about 35 years instead of 50 years with normal maintenance. Rail renewal
oi- 332 km of track is estimated to cost CFAF 2.34 billion on the basis of
US$400 per ton of 36 kg/m rail.
22.       Taking into account the benefits from avoided derailments and
from eliminating the need for earlier rail renewal, the economic return
orn the proposed track maintenance equipment is 26%. The return would drop
to 24% with 10% higher investment costs, or with a decrease in traffic from
the best estimate to the conservative forecast (which would reduce slightly
the number of avoided derailments) and to 23% with a combination of the two
factors. These results, which omit potential benefits from preventing an
increase in locomotive and rolling stock operating costs if quality of
track maintenance deteriorated for lack of appropriate equipment, are sat-
isfactory.
Rate of Return of the Whole Project
23.       The rate of return for the whole project, including the track
renewal program, Dakar-Bel Air marshalling yard, spare parts for rolling stock
and track maintenance equipment, and the costs of training and consulting
services is 22%. The return would be 19% with 10% higher investment costs,
19% under the conservative traffic forecast, and 17% if both events occurred
together.
1/   Derailments counted in this analysis are those taking place in sta-
tions and crossings and therefore do not duplicate with the on-line
derailments quantified in the analysis of the track renewal program.



kANEX 10
Table 1
TRACK RENEWAL PROGRAM
COSTS AND BENEFITS
(CFA million)
Year         C1        C2       C3        C4        Bl        B2       B3        B4
1978                 374.9    12.3       24.5                         12.3      24.5
1979      384.7                12.3      34.3                         12.3      34.3
1980      384.7                 9.8      34.3                         12.3      51.5
1981      384.7                 4.9      26.9                         14.7      80.9
1982                -188.7                                            14.7    134.8
1983                                                        374.9    14.7    181.3
1984                                              384.7               17.2    235.2
1985                                               384.7              12.3    203.4
1986                                               384.7               7.4    1.32.3
1987                                                       -188.7
Cl =  civil works costs of track renewal;
C2 =  equipment costs for track renewal;
C3 =  labor maintenance costs (shadow priced) with track renewal;
C4 -  derailment costs with track renewal;
Bl =  civil works costs under reference case;
B2 =  equipment costs under reference case;
B3 =  labor maintenance costs (shadow priced) under reference case;
B4 =  derailment costs under reference case.
June 1977



ANNEX 10
Table 2
BEL-AIR MARSHALLING YARD
COSTS AND BENEFITS
(CFA million)
Benefits from
Avoided Diversion to Road
Year        Investment Costs             (000 tons)-            Savingst/
1978            178.9
1979             85.8
1980                                          135                92.2
1981                                          225               153.7
1982                                          280               191.2
1983                                          280               191.2
1984                                          280               191.2
19 5                                          280               191.2
1/ Based on the best estimate forecast and present average yard capacity
of 3.66 trains/day (1.5 million tons/year)
2/ Based on a cost differential between road and rail of CFAF 6.l/ton-km
or CFA 683/ton for the 112 km between Taiba mine and Dakar port
November 1977



ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF SPARE PARTS
COMPARED TO DO-NOTHING CASE
Benefits from avoided diversion                    Benefits and Costs
Difference in loco availability                  of international traffic    _                       CFA (million)
with/without spare parts (%)l/              Tons (000)                CFA (million)T 7                    Total costs
Year     BB500  BBllOO  BB1200  CC2400         BB1100-12003/  CC-24004/  BBl100/1200  CC-2400          Benefits   of spare parts
1978 2/      5     10        5        4            29.1           6.4         39. *9/        8.8         48.7          192.0
1979       10      14        6        8            39.4          12.8        107.9          35.1        143.0          288.0
1980        12     15        7       44            42.9          61.8        115.5         169.3        284.8          112.0
1981        13     17        8       41            48.7          65.8        133.4        180.3         313.7           16.0
1982        47     17        8       38            48.7          61.0        133.4        167.1         300.5
1983        46     17        9                     50.1                      137.2                      137.2          191.1
1984        45     17       10                     51.4                      140.8                      140.8
1985               51       12                    130.4                      356.4                      356.4
1986               49       12                    125.7                      344.4                      344.4
1987               47       13                    122.5                      335.6                      335.6
1988               45       17                    123.4                      338.1                      338.1            73.5
1989                        18                     24.2                       66.3                       66.3
1990                        20                     26.8                       73.4                       73.4
1991                        52                     69.8                      191.3                      191.3
1992                        49                     65.7                      180.8                      180.8
1/ Locomotives assumed scrapped when availability below 30%
2/ Benefits from spare parts assumed to start in second half of 1978
3/  Diverted tons calculated on the basis of:  (a) fleet of 10 BBllOO and 6 BB1200; (b) 150,434 ton-km performed
per 1% locomotive availability according to average during the last 5 years; (c) 644 km haul for international
traffic; (d) from (b) and (c), 223.6 tons/1% availability
4/  Diverted tons assuming that all phosphate traffic would be carried under do-nothing case, and that shortfall
in capacity by CC-2400 locomotives would be made up by BBIIOO's and BB1200's.  Potential phosphate diversion                 m M
calculated as follows: (a) fleet of 4 CC's; (b) 246 km round-trip; (c) 1,076 km/1% availability; (c) 1100 net                w 1
ton/trip.  Conversion of phosphate to international traffic (BBllOO and BB1200) based on:  995 km/1% availability,  o
yielding 4 round-trips
5/ At CFA 2,740/ton.
June 1977



ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF SPARE PARTS
COMPARED TO PURCHASING NEW LOCOMOTIVES
Costs and Benefits (CFA million)
Cl              C2 3/            B1               B2 3/
Horsepower gain    Equivalent no  of   Invest. costs   loco. mainte   Invest. costs  loco maint. costs
Year       with new spares-/    locomotives 2/           Spares       costs w/spares    new locos          (new locos)
1978             1955                 3                  192.0             36.8            588.0             27.0
1979             3015                 4                  288.0             63.7            192.0             39.2
1980             6099                 7                  112.0             93.1            588.0             80.9
1981             6194                 7                    16.0           100.5                              80.9
1982             7745                 9                                   174.0            384.0            102.9
1983             4794                 6                  191.1            149.5           -437.0             63.7
1984             4808                 6                                   154.4                               73.5
1985                                  7                                   139.7            192.0             95.6
1986                                  7                                   134.7                              93.1
1987                                  7                                   129.9                              98.0
1988                                  7                    73.5           132.3                              98.0
1989                                  2                                    24.5           -470.4             17.7
1990                                  2                                    27.0                              19.6
1991                                  4                                    68.6            384.0             53.9
1992                                  4                                    63.7                              49.0
1993                                                                                      -576.0
1/ Availability gain multiplied by installed hp, by type of locomotive
2/ Assumed 1100 hp/loco and 80% availability
3/  Maintenance costs assumed to vary from 6% to 10% of locomotive investment costs for locomotive age                   >
ranging from 0-5 to 20-25 years respectively.                                                                     & 
June 1977



ANNEA LU
Table 5
TRACK MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
COSTS AND BENEFITS
(CFA million)
Avoided Derailments
Year        Investment Costs            No.            Savings 1/
1979             454.0
1980                                   (2.9)             72.5
1981                                   (3.2              80.0
1982                                   (3.5)             87.5
1983                                   (3.9)             97.5
1984                                   (4.3)            107.5
1985                                   (4.7)            117.5
1986                                   (5.2)            130.0
1987                                   (5.7)            142.5
1988                                  (6.3)             157.5
1989                                   (6.9)            172.5
1990                                   (7.6)            190.0
1991                                  (8.4)             210.0
1992                                   (9.2)            230.0
1993                                 (10.1)             252.5
1994                                 (11.2)             280.0
1995                                 (12.3)             307.5
1996                                 (13.5)             337.5
1997                                  (14.9)            372.5
1998                                 (16.3)             407.5
1999                                 (17.9)             447.5
2000                                 (19.7)             492.5
2001                                  (21.7)            542.5
2002                                 (23.9)             597.5
2003                                 (26.3)             657.5
2004                                 (28.9)             722.5
2005                                 (31.8)             795.0
2006                                 (34.9)             872.5
2007                                  (38.4)            960.0
2008                                  (42.2)          1,055.0
2009
2010           - 2,3432/
2025             2,3432/
1! At CFA 249.9 million per derailment.
2/ Costs of rail renewal, needed in year 2025 with normal track maintenance and
in 2010 if track maintenance is hampered for lack of gang-cars.
June 1977






IBRD  13063
4i                                                                                                                               AUGUS
0-                                                  -Aq 6A_f                                                                                                                                                                                 T
z     :.r
M E 4) 1 T E R R   N jE A tJ   SEA
3D-                                                                                                  jp
F                7j
a;7   F
--A                                                                                                                                                                                                          i4-7          P?,
EL AIUN
C,                         vr  Fl,                                                             C    CjC:             J
L                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A
!j
int                -Cj,W     V.
AQ                       X:    c
AP
07, Cjv    j;P
P5,   A                                                                                                  6    ;A;P
-20                                                                                            Z_  r  n0k
"A
J,
j
jp
LF
j                                                                            31
j.                                   j
St. L.. i<                                                                                                           ;.e        A?          12   ;0F                                                             "N
ZV: 11 F
G A L                                                                                                                                                                                    n   F
F           e:2                                                                       f                                                   Z   ;f  _,:N:
ThiP,                                                                                                                                                                                             Jp-  2 - PVPAC
DAK                                 NPI             ;-                                                                                                 w                                                                            mg
K,dw                                                                                       C                  -A     Am
 F  4F          qi   C,
K-l..k
BANJULrr  0,                                                                                                                  ,Cd
GAMBIA---                                                                                                                       0,              0Z,
A                    Twk                                                                                               IM
SAU                                                                                                                                                     L                                                                          AA.
GUIM A                                                                                                                                          EF2  -  C                                                                                     A;   -                5     C.
-/Kouroaw  J 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                      nu-mvrm
Diov PM                                                                                                                                             F jA  g
A;N;                          -1, -1      .I  - VF,
-IOU
V7                                                                                                                                                                               AF   it                                  Fd,i-
4,                                                              j                                                                                                                                                    3  Au"  0'
AM- wZ_ F: V
x Y
7?J;                                                                                                                                                                                2,   jlk                                                                 A:
FREETOWN                                                                                                  ZA                                                            V                       J - A. I
AC-  Z                                                                                                F 44                          !!R
tbNe
CC
F                                                                                                                 _7
:0    O
qp                V C:                                                     P
MO                                                                                                        iio  6             -Ai:N   A:                                          V E M            Y: 40W    Pt
_Z,                                                                                                                                      M
6CRA
ot'to
Z7
%
!T
EQUATORIAL GUINE
... . . ....
RAtA                                                  I A.A






SENEGAL/                                                ho                     M  A  U Rt T A  NW'I A                                                          -[
T. Nwak6l
THIRD RAILWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                           N,A
-~R,6-,d lol                                                                                                MP"IPAAh
TRACK TO RE RENEWED                                    BethP PL                                                                                                            ADAO    I                   p~4
RAILROADS                              2t /                                                                                                                 - 
-e   EXiSTIS(I PAVED ROADS                                                                                                                                               to,  -I                           IPRR
- -   PAVD ROADS UDIIER 0ON5W P0UC0 0IOlN'
GRAVEL. ROAD$                                                                                                                                                             A  /ooT.
EARTI I ROADS                                                        0'PIooe4
iNTERNATIONALAIRPORTto,o
'1~ AIRFIELDS                                                                                                                                                                     o o
RIVERAS                             0                N../1p
INTERNATIONAL BOUANDARIES Rio"ogoo    I_-o                     .         or               n~r                                                                     
M%.y-ck                                   G-e ho Dy og
DAK   oNd-                                          OD'.g-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/    
IN-oo    DIAel I..                                                                                                                                                                                    TOI  / 
h,. d,.' y\1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kd1
A  r L A  N             J..,~~ (`                                                                                                     /                                                                      A
o/ ~ ~    ~ ~ -~P                         MI,eHoo -O            ~        ooo/0
F-d-g,,e~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                                                           Gor
#0~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~   N               , -      -                                      kI     
TO  2,(  3IO  40  Soooo    0  oooro                            o'oo'   --< 
-J~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tg
C  A       M           B~~~UI N              B                          \  0i                                            DtoAqoU
ibAr  ~~                                                                            Torroodolo     N.-.-
It  oP9                                                                                                       N,oPOP0'INDo~~~~~~~~~ 4P  OIA



