CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1518 SE
Loan Agreement
(Third Railway Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
REGIE DES CHEMINS DE FER DU SENEGAL
Dated March 17, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1518 SE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 17, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and REGIE DES CHEMINS DE FER DU SENEGAL, an agency of the Republic
of Senegal (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
(B) the Republic of Senegal (hereinafter called the Guaran-
tor), in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agree-
ment with the Borrower, has agreed to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower as set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "1966 Development Credit Agreement" means the develop-
ment credit agreement dated September 29, 1966 between the Guar-
antor and the Association, as the same may be amended from time to
time;


﻿-2-
(b) "1966 Project Agreement" means the project agreement
dated September 29, 1966 between the Association and the Borrower,
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c) "1972 Development Credit Agreement" means the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement dated June 23, 1972, between the Guarantor
and the Association, as such agreement may be amended from time to
time; and such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association dated January 31,
1969, as made applicable to such agreement, all agreements supple-
mental to the 1972 Development Credit Agreement and all schedules
to the 1972 Development Credit Agreement;
(d) "1972 Project Agreement" means the agreement dated
June 23, 1972, between the Association and the Borrower, as such
agreement may be amended from time to time; and such term includes
all agreements supplemental to the 1972 Project Agreement and all
schedules to the 1972 Project Agreement;
(e) "Prior Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement, dated
June 23, 1972, between the Borrower and the Bank, and "Prior
Guarantee Agreement" means the Guarantee Agreement of even date
therewith between the Guarantor and the Bank as such agreement may
be amended from time to time; and such term includes the General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated January 31, 1969, as made applicable to such agreement, all
agreements supplemental to the Prior Loan Agreement and all
schedules to the Prior Loan Agreement;
(f) "Railways" means the railways owned, operated or
administered by the Borrower and includes all railway property,
equipment and materials owned, operated or administered by the
Borrower;
(g) "International Traffic Agreement" means the agreement
dated1 June 8, 1963, as amended, between the Guarantor and the
Republic of Mali relating to international railway traffic, as the
same may be further amended from time to time;
(h) "Customs Agreement" means the Accord Douanier dated
June 8, 1963, between the Guarantor and the Republic of Mali, as
the same may be amended from time to time;
(i) "Railway Convention" means the Convention dated June 8,
1963, between the Borrower and the Rfgie des Chemins de Fer du
Mali, as the same may be amended from time to time;


﻿(j) "Statutes" means the Decree No. 76-146 of February 5,
1976, published in the Journal Officiel No. 4476 of February 28,
1976, of the Guarantor, relating to the organization and operation
of the Rfgie des Chemins de Fer du Sfnfgal; and
(k) "CFAF" means the currency of the Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2401. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven
million dollars ($11,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and ti be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
seven and forty-five hundredths per cent (7.45%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and railway practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to carry out Parts E and F of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ, an assistant general manager,
training advisors, and consultantc whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank.
(b)  For the purpose of carrying out Part E of the Project
the Borrower shall make available an appropriate number of expe-
rienced and qualified staff for training.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, under the authority of the
Guarantor, exchange views with the Rgie des Chemins de Fer du
Mali on the implementation of the recommendations affecting
railway operations in the Republic of Mali resulting from the
study carried out under Part F (i) of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out a program accept-
able to the Bank to recruit and retain qualified Senegalese
nationals through the introduction and maintenance of appropriate
incentives and adequate career development schemes. Such programs
shall include inter alia a timetable for gradual replacement of
expatriate technical assistants with qualified and experienced
Senegalese personnel. Without limitation or restriction upon the
generality of the foregoing provisions, the Borrower shall by
March 15 of each year, exchange views with the Bank on such
program and shall make such modifications in said program as shall
be mutually agreed between the Borrower and the Bank.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to t2e acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement sched-
ules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facil-
ities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.


﻿-6-
(d) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with sound
administrative, financial and engineering practices and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
qualified and competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree the Borrower shall:
(i) carry out its freight transport operations (A)
for the transportation of phosphates in accordance
with a phosphate transport plan acceptable to the
Bank and with the agreement dated November, 1977
between the Borrower and Companie Sfnfgalaise des
Phosphates de Taiba and (B) for the transportation
of other commodities such as groundnuts, petroleum
products, salt and fertilizer, in accordance with a
transport plan acceptable to the Bank; such plan to
include a determination of the required number of
trains, types of locomotive and types and number of
wagons for each commodity to be transported;
(ii) submit to the Bank as part of the information to be
provided pursuant to Section 3.06 of the Loan
Agreement, until December 31, 1981, at the end of


﻿-7-
each calendar month, a report in such scope and
in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request
including, but without limitation the information
listed in Schedule 6 to this Agreement as such
Schedule may be amended by agreement between
the Bank and the Borrower;
(iii) carry out its operations inter alia in accordance
with (A) locomotive and railcar maintenance sched-
ules including spare parts supply schedules, (B)
daily utilization plans for locomotives and rail-
cars, (C) priority lists for replacement of motive
power in case of their shortfall; and (D) an infor-
mation system identifying main wagon turnaround
bottlenecks, all to be acceptable to the Bank;
(iv) conduct its passenger operations in accordance
with a plan of action acceptable to the Bank;
(v) for the purpose of carrying out its obligations
under subparagraph (i) of this paragraph (b) of
this Section, employ qualified and experienced
staff in adequate numbers responsible for optimi-
zing commodities transport and exchange views
from time to time with the Bank on the plans
referred to in sa-d subparagraph (i); for the
purpose of the foregoing, such staff shall include,
inter alia, at least one supervisor assigned to
each of the Borrower's three main traffic cate-
gories - international traffic - phosphate traffic
- and groundnut traffic -, one staff member respon-
sible for achievement of rolling stock target
availability, and one staff member responsible for
the preparatior and updating of spare parts lists
and their timely ordering; and
(vi) to maintain at all times within its organization
qualified and experienced Directors and Deputy
Directors and head of the railway training divi-
sion and before replacing any of the individuals in
such position to afford the Bank a reasonable
opportunity to comment thereon.
(c) The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be
necessary on its part to meet the operational targets set forth


﻿-8-
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and
maintain the Railways and promptly make all necessary renewals
and repairs thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering
practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take such action as shall be
reasonable in the circumstances to facilitate railway operations
between the territories of the Guarantor and the territories of
the Republic of Mali, in accordance with the International Traffic
Agreement, the Customs Agreement and the Railway Convention.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall obtain title to all goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan free and clear of all encumbrances.
(c) The Borrower shall not, without prior consultation with
the Bank, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
its property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
operation of its business and undertaking.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
(b) The Borrower's accounts shall for each fiscal year be
maintained so as to include a detailed breakdown of income and
expenses by nature, and to provide cost data by types of railway
operations.


﻿- 9 -
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) cer-
tified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 5.03, (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on
any of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost
to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created
on any assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the
Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent
lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the prin-
cipal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided,
however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall
not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the
purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
Section 5.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not incur any debt unless the amount of its net
cash revenue for its fiscal year next precediig the date of such
incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the
date of such incurrence, whichever amount is the greater, shall be
not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements for


﻿- 10 -
any succeeding fiscal year on all its debt including the debt to
be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means all debt, except debt incurred in the
ordinary course of business and maturing by its terms on demand
or less than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan
contract or agreement, on the date and to the extent it is drawn
down and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or agreement;
and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the underlying debt is outstanding;
(c) the term "net cash revenue" means gross operating
revenue from all sources, (but excluding subsidies covering
operating losses of the Borrower to be provided by the Guarantor)
adjusted to take account of the Borrower's tariffs in effect at
the time of the incurrence of debt even though they were not in
effect during the entire fiscal year or twelve-month period to
which such revenues relate, less all operating expenses, includ-
ing adequate maintenance, taxes, if any, and administrative
expenses, but before provision for depreciation and debt service
requirements;
(d) the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any),
interest and other charges on debt; and
(e) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in the currency of the Borrower debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
rate of exchange at which such other currency is obtainable by the
Borrower, at the time such valuation is made, for the purposes of
servicing such debt or, if such other currency is not so obtain-
able, at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably determined
by the Bank.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall take all such steps as are
necessary to maintain its working capital at all times at a level
sufficient to cover starting on June 30, 1982 the aggregate of
1/6 of annual costs of personnel, 1/2 of annual expenses for
materials, excluding fuels and lubricants, 1/4 of annual expenses
for utilities and other contracted services and 1/4 of the debt


﻿- 11 -
service requirements (as defined in Section 5.04 of this Agree-
ment) of the Borrower for the following twelve months.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall by December 31, 1978, or
such other date as the Bank may agree, make an inventory of its
fixed assets and by no later than June 30, 1979, revise its books
in order to reflect separately the change in the values of its
fixed assets in service (including without limitation those
acquired under the Project) and in its accumulated provisions for
depreciation of those assets, as of June 30, 1979, and shall
thereafter in consultation with the Bank revise its books whenever
necessary, all to be in accordance with valuation and revaluation
principles and rates of depreciation acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.07. Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections
5.04, 5.05 and 5.09 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, when-
ever it shall fail to meet or whenever it is likely that it shall
fail to meet, the requirements therein set forth, promptly demand
that the Guarantor provide the Borrower, or cause the Borrower to
be provided, with such funds, as shall be necessary to enable the
Borrower to meet those requirements, all to be on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 5.08. By March 15 in each year until the completion
of the Project, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on
its estimated financial results for such year and on its draft
budget for the following year. Promptly thereafter and prior to
presentation of such budget to its Board of Directors, the Bor-
rower shall, in agreement with the Bank, take such steps as shall
be necessary or advisable to remedy any deficiency in such budget.
Section 5.09. The Borrower shall take such steps, including
adjustments in its tariffs, as shall be necessary to maintain
working ratios not exceeding 87% for the fiscal year 1977-1978,
83% for the fiscal year 1978-1979, 81% for the fiscal year 1979-
1980, 79% for the fiscal year 1980-1981, and 78% for the fiscal
year 1981-1982. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "working ratio" means the ratio of operating expenses
to gross operating revenue;
(b) "operating expenses" means the aggregate of operating
expenses and expenses of maintenance of fixed assets in operation
and taxes, if any, but excluding provisions for depreciation of
such assets and debt-service requirements; and


﻿- 12 -
(c)   "gross operating revenue" means gross revenue derived
from the services of the Borrower excluding subsidies against
operating losses provided by the Guarantor pursuant to the provi-
sions of paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 2.02 of the Guarantee
Agreement.
Section 5.10. If the completion of the Project is hindered
or delayed, or is threatened with hindrance or delay, because
the funds available to the Borrower are inadequate to insure its
completion, or if the funds available to the Borrower are insuf-
ficient to meet the requirements set forth in Sections 5.05 and
5.09 of this Agreement or to meet its debt service requirements,
as defined in Section 5.04 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
promptly demand the Guarantor to provide the Borrower, or cause
the Borrower to be provided, with the necessary funds on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank as and when required.
Section 5.11. The Borrower shall take all such action as
may be required to ensure that the proportion of its expenditures
in any fiscal year on account of salaries and other related costs
for its personnel shall be progressively reduced so as to reach by
June 30, 1982, or such other date as the Bank may agree not more
than 64% of its total operating expenses, excluding depreciation,
as defined in Section 5.09 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) A default shall occur under the 1972 Development Credit
Agreement, the 1966 Development Credit Agreement or under the
Prior Loan Agreement other than in respect of the payment of
principal, or interest, service charges or any other payment
required thereunder;
(b) The Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abro-
gated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the conduct of the Borrower's operations or its
financial condition, or the ability of the Guarantor or the
Borrower to carry out the covenants or agreements set forth in


﻿- 13 -
this Agreement, the Guarantee Agreement, the 1972 Development
Credit Agreement, the 1966 Development Credit Agreement, the 1972
Project Agreement, the 1966 Project Agreement or, the Prior Loan
Agreement or the Prior Guarantee Agreement;
(c) Railway traffic between the territories of the Guarantor
and the territories of the Republic of Mali shall have been sub-
stantially interrupted for other than technical reasons, unless
such reasons shall be manifestly beyonVd the Guarantor's control,
or such interruption is the result of necessary measures taken by
the Guarantor to safeguard its national independence or the
integrity of its territory; and
(d) Any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in
accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance
of maturity as pr.vided in the relative contractual instruments,
or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) or (d) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date July 17, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Amendment to the
Prior Loan Agreement
Section 8.01. The Prior Loan Agreement is hereby amended as
follows:


﻿- 14 -
(a) by deleting the words "and IV" in Section 3.02 of the
Prior Loan Agreement and by adding the word "and" between the
letters "II" and "III"; and
(b) by adding a new paragraph (c) in Section 3.02 of the
Prior Loan Agreement which reads as follows:
"The provisions of Article V of the Loan Agreement
(Third Railway Project) dated March 17, 1978 between
the Bank and the Borrower are hereby incorporated into
this Agreement with the same force and effect as if it
were originally fully set forth herein."
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
R&gie des Chemins de Fer
du Senegal
Thies
S&negal
Cable address:
FERSENEGAL
Thies
Senegal


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ X. de la Renaudiere
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa
REGIE DES CHEMINS DE FER DU SENEGAL
By /s/ Andre Coulbary
Authorized Representative


﻿-16-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) About 60 km of               2,538,000         100% of foreign
Track renewal                                 expenditures and
including pur-                                35% of local
chase of related                              expenditures
equipment and
materials
(2) Track mainte-                1,653,000         100% of foreign
nance equipment                               expenditures
and material
(3) Improvement of                 771,000         100% of foreign
railways facil-                               expenditures and
ities in the                                  35% of local
Dakar Area                                    expenditures
(4) Spare parts for              2,483,000         100% of foreign
motive power,                                 expenditures
rolling stock
and workshop
equipment
(5) Training                     1,431,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
35% of local
expenditures
(6) Consulting                     443,000         100% of foreign
services                                      expenditures


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(7) Groundnut study                100,000       75%
under Part F (ii)
of the Project
(8) Unallocated                  1,581,000
TOTAL       11,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Guarantor; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Guarantor is also ty-it of another country from the territory
of which goods or serices are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made: (i) for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (ii) for


﻿- 18 -
expenditures under Category (1) of the table of Allocation of
the Proceeds of the Loan set forth in paragraph 1 of this Sched-
ule until the Borrower has satisfied the Bank that it has made
improvements acceptable to the Bank to the tracks renewed under
the Project described in Schedule 2 to the 1972 Development Credit
Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's 1978/79-1980/81 invest-
ment plan aimed at improving its efficiency in carrying interna-
tional and national railways traffic and consists of the following
parts:
Part A:
Carrying out of a program of track renewal, involving about
60 km of track on its international line starting on km 271,and
including the purchase of necessary materials and equipment.
Part B:
Purchase of track maintenance equipment and materials.
Part C:
Improvement of railways facilities in the Dakar area includ-
ing the construction of additional track, rehabilitation of
existing track of the Bel Air Marshalling yard, and purchase
and installation of telecommunications equipment and eight
switches.
Part D:
Purchase of spare parts for motive power and rolling stock
and for workshop equipment.
Part E:
A training program aimed at improving the standard of rail-
way operation and maintenance by training and retraining about 300
laborers and selected middle and high level managers. Such program
shall include inter alia: (i) the establishment of a new training
center at Thies including inter alia, the purchase of equipment
and if need be the construction of buildings; (ii) the purchase of
related equipment; (iii) the training of ten to twelve Senegalese
technicians both in Thies and abroad to become instructors; and
(iv) the training of middle and high level management personnel in
Thies and abroad.


﻿- 20 -
Part F:
Carrying out of studies on:
(i) the organizational structure, legal status and ownership
of the Borrower; and
(ii) groundnut transport from production centers to the
oil processing plants and the role of the Railways in
such transport.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March l and September 1
beginning September 1, 1983
through   September 1, 1997                   365,000
On March 1, 1998                                   415,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.10%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                    2.25%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.10%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen years
before maturity                             5.95%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                             6.70%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                             7.45%


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B and/or C hereof, contracts
for the purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding under the Project, the Borrower shall
prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the proposed date of avail-
ability to the public of the first tender documents relating
thereto, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospect.v( bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. The
Borrower shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be pro-
cured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Contracts for similar items shall, to the extent practicable,
be grouped into one single bid.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph A.1 above:
(a) contracts for civil works (including the demolition and
reconstruction of the wagon repair shop at Bel Air under Part C of
the Project and works for the training center at Thies under Part
E of the Project), and contracts for goods (including provision of
furniture, equipment and trucks) may be awarded on the basis of
local advertising only and in accordance with competitive bidding
procedures of the Borrower; provided, however, that the aggregate
amount of all contracts to be so awarded shall not exceed the
equivalent of $1,200,000 and that such competitive bidding pro-
cedures of the Borrower are acceptable to the Bank;.


﻿- 24 -
(b) the Borrower may, pursuant to the provisions of para-
graph 4.2 (e) of the Guidelines and in order to achieve a reason-
able degree of standardization with existing equipment of the
Borrower, purchase, after approval of the Bank, directly critical
spare parts for tampers under Part B of the Project and for motive
power and rolling stock under Part D of the Project directly from
original suppliers; provided, however, that the aggregate amount
of all contracts to be so awarded shall not exceed the equivalent
of $3,000,000; and
(c) contracts for track maintenance equipment under Part B
of the Project and contracts for small tools and equipment under
Part D of the Project estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $10,000 each may be awarded directly to foreign or national
suppliers provided that awards so made are made with the approval
of the Bank and on the basis of local advertising only and in
accordance with local competitive bidding procedures of the
Borrower, or on the basis of at least three quotations from
foreign and national suppliers and further provided that the
amount of contracts to be so awarded shall not exceed the equiv-
alent of $380,000 in the aggregate.
C.   Procurement Without Contracting
Works carried out on account of track renewal under Part A of
the Project and of track construction and rehabilitation at the
Bel Air Yard under Part C of the Project may be carried out by
force account; provided, however, that the cost of works to
be so carried out shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent
of $3,800,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts to cost each the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 25 -
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 5
Operational Targets for the Borrower
The Borrower shall take all such action as may be needed to
meet the following annual targets.
Actual         ---- Objectives
Targets              Year            Year         Year
1975/76        1978/79      1980/81
1.   Availability of main-
line locomotives (%)
Types of locomotives
BB  500                     44             55           55
BB 1100                     54             65           65
BB 1200                     79             80           80
BB 1600                      -             90           88
CC 2400                     45             50           45
Average                      55            66           66
2.   Locomotive breakdowns
per year and per
locomotive in stock          9              8            7
3.   Locomotive-km per day
and per locomotive
available                  293            322          338
4.   Ton-km per one avail-
able locomotive horse-
power per year          19,663         21,134       21,987
5.   Tons hauled by one
available locomotive
horsepower per year         96            110          115
6.   Availability of rail-
cars (%)                    41             50           50
7.   Railcar-km per day
and per railcar
available                  421            463          486


﻿27 -
Actual         ---- Objectives ----
Targets              Year            Year         Year
1975/76        1978/79       1980/81
8.   Availability of
wagons (%)                  n.a.           80           85
9.   Average load per
wagon in tons
(excluding phosphate
traffic)                     25            27           28
10. Turnaround time for
oil tank wagons (days)        -            10            9
11. Staff productivity in
traffic units per
employee ('000)             165           181          198


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 6
Content of Monthly Reports to be submitted
pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.01
(b) (iii) of this Agreement
The following information shall be airmailed to the Bank
at the end of each month by the Borrower:
(a) freight traffic by commodity in tons and ton-km;
(b) reasons for traffic shortfalls per commodity in com-
parison with target traffic;
(c) actions taken by the appointed supervisor and manage-
ment to avoid such shortfalls;
(d) success of the actions taken;
(e) passenger traffic in passengers and pass-km;
(f) number of train delays, reasons for the delays grouped
in categories, actions taken by the appointed supervisor
and management to reduce delays and success of the
actions taken;
(g) availability of motive power and rolling stock on
a type-by-type basis (e.g. BB500, AA10, tank wagons,
coaches), reasons for any default of agreed target
availability, actions taken by the appointed super-
visor and management, success of the actions taken;
(h) line locomotive and railcar mileage per day and unit
available, ton-km performed by each line locomotive,
available pass-km performed by each railcar available,
actions taken by supervisors and management, success
of actions taken;
(i) number of locomotive failures per type of locomotive;
(j) workshop repairs of motive power and rolling stock
scheduled and actual; and


﻿- 29 -
(k) wagon turnaround times for different types of wagons
used for main commodities, description and qualification
of reasons increasing this time, actions taken by the
appointed supervisor and management, and success of
actions taken.


