CONFORMED COPY
LOAJN NUMBER 1518 SE
Guarantee Agreement
(Third Railway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 17, 1978


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1518 SE
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 17, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
(hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and R&gie des Chemins de Fer du Sen&gal (hereinafter
called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a
loan in various currencies equivalent to eleven million dollars
($11,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor


﻿-2-
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the
premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual
performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as
set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes:
(a) whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the
funds available to the Borrower will be inadequate to meet (i) the
estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the
Project, (ii) or the Borrower's debt service requirements, as
defined in Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement, to make arrange-
ments, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower
or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed
to meet such expenditures or such requirements;
(b) to maintain at all times within the Borrower's organiza-
tion a qualified and experienced General Manager and Assistant
General Manager; the qualifications and experience of the latter
shall be satisfactory to the Bank;
(c) to take all such action as may be required on its part
to carry out or cause to be carried out the Plan of Action set
forth in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement;
(d) to take all such action as may be required or appro-
priate on its part to enable the Borrower to carry out its obliga-
tions set forth in Sections 3.03 and 5.08 of the Loan Agreement;
(e) to take promptly as required, all necessary steps
(including without limitation the establishment and maintenance of
tariffs at the required levels and the provision of funds) on its
part to enable the Borrower to meet its obligations under Sections
5.05 and 5.09 of the Loan Agreement; and
(f) to maintain at all times the Borrower's organization in
a form satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. (a) the Guarantor shall take or cause the
Borrower to take such action as shall be reasonable to facilitate
railway operations between its territories and the territories of
the Republic of Mali, in accordance with the International Traffic


﻿-3-
Agreement, the Customs Agreement and the Railway Convention.
Neither of such Agreement shall be amended without the prior
approval of the Bank.
(b) The Guarantor shall carry out, in accordance with a
timetable acceptable to the Bank and in cooperation with the
Borrower, programs based on the recommendations of the studies
carried out under Parts F (i) and F (ii) of the Project and shall
exchange views with the Bank on the carrying out of such programs.
(c) In carrying out the provisions of paragraph (b) of this
Section and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Guaran-
tor shall reach a decision, on the allocation of groundnut traffic
within its territories between road transport and rail transport
through its Comit6 Directeur des Transports du Matfriel et des
Produits Agricoles on the basis of the recommendations of the
study carried out under Part F (ii) of the Project, as such
recommendations have been approved by the Guarantor in consulta-
tion with the Bank.
(d) The Guarantor shall exchange views with the Government
of the Republic of Mali on the implementation of those recommenda-
tions affecting railway operations in the Republic of Mali result-
ing from the study prepared under Part F (i) of the Project.
Section 2.04. Without limitation or restriction to the gen-
erality of the provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the
Guarantor shall take all such measures as may be necessary as
appropriate to enable the Borrower to meet its obligations under
Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek,
in normal circumstances, specific security from the member con-
cerned but to ensure that no other external debt shall have
priority over its loans in the allocation, realization or distri-
bution of foreign exchange held under the control or for the
benefit of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created
on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,


﻿-4-
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange
assets held by any institution performing the functions of a
central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions,
for the Guarantor.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor
is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministere des Finances et des
Affaires Economiques
Rue Charles Laing
B. P. 4017
Dakar, Sfn6gal


﻿-5-
Cable address:
MINIFINANCES
Dakar
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ Andre Coulbary
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ X. de la Renaudiere
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa


