Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY.
C--iZ1 2 tV+3 -- 
Report No. 11450-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MNDIA
KARNATAKA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
MARCH 31, 1993
?I    F  8:      f '    ' Fi.
Cu .' e                                       A         ;.t:- .Ii:       -? 
V,  t. I  I'% V .
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department II - India
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a resticed distdbuaon and may be used by reipiens only in the perfornman  of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authortion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS AND UNITS
Currency Unit     -     Indian Rupee (Rs.)
US$ 1.00          -     Rs. 31
Rs. 1.00                US$ 0.032
1 Lakh            =     Rs. 100 000
1 3rore           -     Rs. 10 Million
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
mm    -     millimeter (1 millimeter - 0.039 inches
m     -     meter (1 meter   3.28 feet)
km    c     kilometer (1 kilometer   0.62 miles)
km2   G     square kilometer (1 km2 = 0.386 square miles)
ha    -     hectare (1 hectare - 10,000 square meters - 2.47 acres)
1           liter (0.22 Imperial gallons or 0.264 US gallons)
lpcd  -     liters per capita per day
m3    -     cubic meters (220 Imperial gallons or 264.2 US gallons)
Ml    -     million liters
Mld   -     million liters per day (0.220 million Imperial gallons
per day or 0.264 million US gallons per day)
GOK FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DLDB        a     Dry Land Development Board
DOHFWS      -     Department of Health and Family Welfare Services
FY          =     Fiscal Year
GOI         -     Government of India
GOK         a     Government of Karnataka
ISTE        a     Indian Society for Technical Education
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
LCB         -     Local Competitive Bidding
Mm          -    Man months
MOA         -     Ministry of Agriculture and Horticulture
MOH               Ministry of Health
MP          a     Mandal Panchayats
MRD         a     Ministry of Rural Development of  OI
NDUM        a     National Drinking Water Mission
NGO         a     Non-Governmental Organization
O&M         a     Operation & Maintenance
PHED        -     Public Health Engineering Department
PPMU        -     Project Planning and Monitoring Unit
PWD         -     Public Works Department
RD&PR       a     Ministry of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj
SOE               Statement of Expenditure
SJCE        a     Sri Jayachamarajendra (College of Eng., Mysore)
5WDC        -     State Watershed Development Cell
VWSC              Village Water and Sanitation Committee
ZP                Zilla Parishad



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
KARNATAKA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Table og Co0tnts
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             iv
I.    Sectoral Context
A. Introduction.                                                         1
B.    Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Service Levels  . . .            1
C.    Institutional Responsibilities  . . . . . . . . . . . .            3
D. Sectoral Issues.                                                      4
E.    Government Policies and Programs  . . . . . . . . . . .            5
F.    External Financing of Rural Water Supply
& Environmental Sanitation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            7
G. Previous Bank Experience.                                             7
II.   The Proiect
A. Origins.                                                              9
B.    Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           10
C. Project Description .10
D.    Selection and Design Criteria, Service Standards and
Population Coverage .15
E. Area to be Served .16
F. Pilot Schemes .17
III. Project Costs. Financing and Inmlementation
A.    Costs and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           17
B.    Status of Project Preparation   . . . . . . . . . . . .           19
C. Project Management .20
D.    NGO Involvement and Community Participation                       21
E. Role of Women .22
P.    Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           22
G. Procurement .24
R.    Monitoring, Evaluation & Supervision  . . . . . . . . .           26
I. Accounts and Audits .27
This report is based on the findi  of an apprisl mission which visited KAutaka In October 1992. The
mission ceprised Mr. Karl Rleinr (Mitssi Leader), No. gllen Soeaengold (Social scientist), Messrs.
W. Roach (Financal Analyst), G.V. Abbyacker (WM59 Delhi) end M. Virdy (Procureuant AdvLsor). This report
was reviewed by Mr. Robert PanfIll, Chief, Infrastructure Divisio.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance
of their offcial duties. Its contents mnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizadon.



-ii-
1292 No.-
IV.  Financial-Analys * . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
A.   GOK Investment levels and Counterpart Financing . . . .       27
B.   Cost Recovery Policies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       28
C.   Affordability and Willingness to Pay  . . . . . . . . .       30
V.   Economic Analy8i6 and Environmental Ausegusent
A.   Economic Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         32
B.   Environmental Assessment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       32
VI.  Benefits and Risks
A.   Benefits  .                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       33
B.   Risks   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  33
VII. Agreements Reached and Recommendation . . . . . . . . . . . .       33
LIST OF AlNNEXES
Annex 1    Institutional Responsibility  . . . . . . . . . . . . .       36
AmusoR 2    Project Components - Detailed Description, Cost Estimates and
Procurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      39
Comonent 1: Rural Water SMMnly
Design Criteria for Rural Water Supply  . . . . . . . .      39
Piped Water Supply Schemes of Phase I   . . . . . . . .      41
Table 1:  Population, Water Demand, and Service Levels   44
Table 2: Technical Details   . . . . . . . . . .       45
Table 3:  Investment Cost Estimates   . . . . . .      46
Piped Water Supply Schemes Phase 2  . . . . . . . . . .      47
Piped Water Supply Schemes Phase 3  . . . . . . . . . .      48
Borewell Program, Hondpumps, Equipment  . . . . . . . .      49
Groundwater Recharge Measures   . . . . . . . . . . . .      52
Leak Detection Survey and Repair Works  . . . . . . .        56
Water Quality Monitoring  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      58
Component 2: Environmental SanitatIon
Drainage, Latrines, Washing Platforms, Cattle Troughs, Bathing
Cubicles, Street Bins, Biogas Pilot Plants  . . . . . .      61
Table 4: Investment for Drainage System Phase 1        66
Table 5: Investment for Environmental SaniLation
Phase  1    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  67
Comonent 3: Health Commnications   . . , . . . . . .         68



-iii-
CoMonen-t 4; Inatit1uto  Egilding ad Projeet Suoprt
Project Management:
Project Planning and Monitoring Unit  . . . . . .       73
PHED/ZP Strengthening . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       77
Community Participation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       79
Training  .....  .     .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    .  84
Project Support ........... .                                 88
Consultants for design and construction supervision.    88
Special studies . . .  . . . . . . . . . .    .         88
Office Equipment/Materials for PHED and ZPs . . .       95
Conmont 5: Retroactive Fianing   . . . . . . . . .
AM=U; 3     -    Project Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . .          97
Annex      -    Project Cost Schedule   . . . . . . . . . . . . .         98
annex       -    Schedule of IDA Disbursements   . . . . . . . . .       103
Annex 6     -    Project Monitoring Guidelines   ..104
Anxn        -    Financial Analysis                .                     107
Annex       -    Environmental Assessment  . . . . . . . . . . . .       109
Annex=9     -    Project Supervision Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . .       111
An    0    -    Community Participation
- Plans for Pilot Villages . . . . . . . . . . .       112
- Model Undertaking by VWSC  . . . . . . . . . .       116
- Guidelines for Planning Phase  . . . . . . . .       118
- Model Mandal Resolution  . . . . . . . . . . .       121
Annex: 11   -    Documents Available in the Project File . . . . .       122
IBRD No. 24219



-iv-
IND
KARNATAKA RURAL WATER SUPPLY & ENVIROXNENTAL §MN=ATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMARY
Ahrroyer:            India, acting by its President
Beneffi Xieiie:    State of Karnataka
Amount:              SDR 66.3 million (US$92.0 million)
TeVus:              Standard, with 35 years maturity, 10 years grace period
wrending            Government of India (001) to GOK:  As part of the central
Iuxmz.f              assistance to States for development projects on terms
and conditions applicable at the time.
Proiect             The project would be imple;aented in about twelve
DescriDtion:        districts in the state of Karnataka and include 1200
villages. It would raise the standard of living in rural
areas through improved health and productivity by
expanding access to potable rural water supply systems
and environmental sanitation facilities. Beneficiary
communities would assume full responsibility for
operation and maintenance including cost recovery and
also for capital cost sharing for environment sanitation
works. The project would comprise the following compo-
nents: (a) construction of new and rehabilitation of
existing water supply schemes in 1,200 villages including
leakage repair works, assistance for Public Health
Engineering Department's borewell program, a water qual-
ity monitoring program and measures for groundwater
recharge; (b) construction of environmental sanitation
facilities including sullage drainage and, on a demand
basis, pit latrines, washing platforms, cattle troughs,
bathing cubicles, street bins and biogas plants; (c)
health communication for creation of greater community
awareness and demand for improved hygiene and
environmental sanitation; and (d) institutional
strengthening through community development programs
(creation of village water supply and sanitation
committees) and comprehensive training programs. Due to
low rural income levels, there would be no capital cost
recovery for water supply facilities. NGOs would play a
key role in the planning and implementation of the
environmental sanitation and health communication
components.
Benefits:           Safe and reliable water supply, improved sanitation and
related health education under the project would be made
available to some 4.8 million persons. The project will
contribute to a considerable upgrading of the quality of
rural life, including improved health, time saved by



women In fetching water, positive environment impact and
lncreased rural productlvity. Because most benefits
carnot be quantified, an economic rate of return has not
been calculated.
Rlaks:              The main risks would be that:  (a) the environmental
sanitation and health communication components would be
given low priority during implementation; (b) the
willingness of the communities to accept technical and
financial responsibility for 06H may be slow to
materialize. The project addresses these risks through
upfront development and implementatiorn of - (i) health
communication and community participation programs in the
villages; and (ii) emphasis on strengthening the
administrative arrangements by which communities assume
responsibilities for O&N and upgrading of local skill
levels through training.
Estimated Csats                        Local       Foreign     Total
---   in US$ Million-------
Rural Water Supply                       53.5         9.4        62.9
Environmental Sanitation                24.7          1.4        26.1
Health Communication and
Institutional Strengthening            4.9          0.5         5.4
Project Support & Studies              _ 9.4          1.1        10.5
Base Cost                               92.5         12.4       104.9
Physical and Price Contingencies        10.3          2.6        12.9
Total Project Cost                     102.8         15.0       117.8
Einani9 Pi anlocal                                 Foreign     Total       in *
Government                               16.8          -         16.8       15
Communities                              9.0           -          9.0        7
IDA                                     77.0         15.0        92.0       78
Total                                   102.8        15.0       117.8      100
Note: The above costs include an estimated US$11 million in taxes and duties.
EfstiMatedDibrent
XDS FY   1294     1221     1996     1222      1228     1221      2QOO
Annual          8.2     16.0     20.5 -   21.3      18.6      6.1       1.3
Cumulative      8.2     24.2     44.7      66.0     84.6     90.7      92.0
EBB            Not applicable.



KARATAA URAL WATER SUPPY & GV1OMUAL MITATION PROJECT
1. 
A. Inrodution
1.01        Over the past ten years, India has made a major investment in
rural water supply. As a result, it is estimated that about 95% of all
villages in India now have access to at least one safe water source. This
supply of potable vater is not adequate to meet the demand within villages.
The rural population is stlll using unsafe water to a large extent. Much
smaller programs have been made available to promote latrine usage among the
lower income groups in rural areas. Insufficient public health education did
not create a ffliLent demand and these programs have been unsuccessful. Less
than 4% of the rural population use latrines, and public facilities for
drainage are poor.
1.02        Nevertheless, water related diseases are a major health problem,
affecting annually over 80% of infants and children. Infant mortality rates
in rural areas are about two-thirds higher than those in urban areas.
Providing reliable domestic water supply, linked to improved environmental
sanitation and health education, would be an important factor in improving
health standards and economic productivity in rural areas.
B. Rural Water Sunnlv and Sanitation Service Levelr
1.03        Because of the wide geographic diversity and range of incomes
among and within states, rural water supply services range from traditional
open wells and handpumps to urban-style piped water supply schemes with
treatment plants and a large proportion of private connections. Determining
the percentage of rural population with access to safe, reliable water depends
on such factors as distance to source, quantities available and water quality.
The Government of India (001) has established criteria that water sources
should be within a maximu 1.6 km and within 100 meters elevation in hilly
areas and should be free of contaminants, such as excessive salinity, iron,
fluorides and other toxic lements, and guinea worm. Using these criteria, it
is estimated that over 95% of all villages in India have access to at least
one safe water source. About 85% of those served have access to handpumps;
the remainder receive water through piped schemes. Due to poor power supply
and lack of water, piped water is only available during a few hours per day.
1.04        Utilization of safe water sources is much less than the 95%
coverage would suggest. Many Indian villages have small hamlets that are
located at some distance from the main village. Field studies indicate that
usage of safe water sources is minimal beyond about 150 meters, if alternative
water sources, even polluted ones, are available. Thus, even if a safe source
is provlded, because of distance to source or social factors such as caste
(members of high and lower castes may not share the same water source), a much
smaller population will actually utilize the safe source.



-2-
1.05        In addition to utilization, maintenance and water quality control
are a problem. About one-third of rural water sources are out of operation at
any one time. Taking into consideration the distance which persons are
willing to walk to obtain water, social factors, and likely down time, it is
estimated that possibly one-half or more of the rural population are still
using traditional, polluted sources of water.
1.06        Rural environmental sanitation facilities are defined in broad
terms to include: private and community latrines, public sullage anci storm
drainage systems, soak pits (private household disposal of sullage water),
washing platforms, bathing cubicles (for women), cattle troughs, garbage and
dung disposal, and tubewell apron construction. Water quality and water
quality monitoring systems are often inadequate. The levels of environmental
sanitation in rural India are extremely low. The lack of these facilities,
especially in larger villages (populations over 1,000), combined with
inadequate hygiene practices and polluted water sources, contributes toward
the spread of water-related diseases.
1.07        It is estimated that less than 3% of the rural population have
access to latrines. In many cases where latrines have been provided under
government sponsored programs, they are not utilized because of individual
preferences for open fields. Demand for latrines is increasing, however, in
more densely populated areas where privacy and security, particularly for
women, are a problem.
1.08        India has extremely high rate. of water-related diseases in both
urban and rural areas. Although infant mortality rates have fallen over the
last forty years, the rates in India remain among the highest in the world.
There are unofficial estimates that as many as 80% of all children have some
form of diarrheal disease (including common diarrhea) annually. In addition,
there are area-specific problems of water-related diseases such as guinea worm
and fluorosis, which can result in dental problems and crippling skeletal
diseases in children and adults.
1.09        Piped sewerage systems for villages are virtually nonexistent.
Sullage or storm drains have been constructed in a few areas, particularly
where there are piped water supply systems. In some cases, where
indiscriminate defecation is practiced (particularly by children), existing
drainage systems are used for excreta and other solid waste disposal.
Inadequate drainage during the monsoon season results in flooding, which
contributes to lower sanitation and health standards. Thus, the low levels of
service for human and other waste disposal in villages combined with poor
drainage create conditions for high rates of water-related diseases in rural
areas.
1.10        Karnatka.  The service levels for rural water supply in Karnataka
are higher than the national average in terms of coverage. However, water
consumption is still quite low, particularly during the dry seasons and there
are strong regional differences within the state. Karnataka was one of the
first states to provide at least one safe drinking water source for all
villages. According to the 1991 census, Karnataka has a total population of
about 45 million, out of which about 31 million live in rural areas. It has
27,000 villages. About 35% of the villages are partially served by borewells
with handpumps and open wells, 9% by mini-water supply schemes, consisting of



-3-
a cistern with four taps and handpumps; and 56S by a mix of piped water supply
schemes and handpumps. Piped water supply schemes usually supply water for
only some hours in the morning and evening; do not cover the whole village;
and need rehabilitation and extensions in order to cope with population
growth. It is estimated that about 40* of the rural population have
consumption levels below 20 liter per capita and day (lpcd) and another 20%
consume between 20 and 30 lped. GOI standard is 40 lped for standpost users
and 70 lped for house connections, including water consumption by animals.
Limited and decreasing groundwater resources are a major problem.
1.11        Sanitation levels are below the national average, with Lss than
2% of the population using latrines. Improved access to rural water supply
and drainage facilities is a high development priority among the rural
population. Diarrheal diseases and malaria are considered to be among the
main health problems. Some villages also have problems of fluorosis.
Provision of chlorination of the piped water supply system is negligible.
Water quality monitoring facilities are inadequate in terms of staffing and
equipment.
C. Institutional gesponsibilities
1.12        National Level.  Implementation of rural water supply and
environmental sanitation programs is the responsibility of state governments
in India. The central government plays an important role in setting
standards, providing supplementary funds and some technical assistance.
Responsibility for rural water supply and sanitation at the national level is
with the Ministry of Rural Development (MRD). The MRD operates a fund called
the Accelerated Rural Water Supply Program (ARWSP), which  provides about 40%
of the total funding for state rural water supply programs. In 1986, GOI set
up a Technology Mission (renamed the Rajiv Gandhi National Drinking Water
Mission) to provide scientific and cost effective content to the ARWS Program.
MRD also funds a small Central Rural Sanitation Program that has had little,
if any, impact.
1.13        Another central government agency involved in rural water supply
is the Central Groundwater Board which is under the Ministry of Water
Resources and has responsibility for the production of water resource
inventories and maps, and for the monitoring of groundwater levels and rates
of depletion. Also, the Ministry of Health supports a number of health
education programs, but the prevention of water-related diseases has not been
a priority during the past decade.
1.14        Karnataka. There are three ministries concerned with rural water
supply, sanitation, health education and watershed development in Karnataka:
the Ministry of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RD&PR), the Ministry of
Health and the Ministry of Agriculture and Horticulture. Under the RD&PR
Ministry, the Public Health Engineering Department (PHED), the Zilla Parishads
(ZPs) (district councils) and the Mandal Panchayats1 are the institutions
responsible for rural water supply and sanitation services. The ZPs and the
Mandal Panchayats were created in 1983 to decentralize powers and functions in
order to promote the development of democratic institutions and secure greater
1     A mandal is an administrative unit covering on average about 10 villages.



-4-
participation by the people in local and governmental affairs, and development
plans (see Annex 1 for more details). The Directorate of Health and Family
Welfare Ser-.,ces under the Ministry of Health is responsible for health
education. The health communication programs are implemented by Health Wings
of the respective ZPs. Under the Ministry of Agriculture and Horticulture,
the Director of the State Watershed Cell and the regional Dry Land Development
Boards (DLDB) are responsible for the watershed development program.
D.    Sectoral Issues
1.15        The main  problems and issues in the sector are poor community
participation, inadequate operation and maintenance (O&M) of rural water
supply schemes, inadequate design for private connections, low levels of
tariff and cost recovery and diminishing water resources. Those in Karnataka
are similar to those affecting the whole country.
1.16        Community Participation.  Experiences with community participation
in water supply and sanitation through the programs of other donors and NGOs
indicate that community involvement can improve the sustainability of
investments. Communities need to be given an opportunity to participate in
aspects of planning the water and sanitation facilities. Subsequently, their
responsibility for O&M and cost recovery is likely to be greater. Experiments
with the formation of local committees to deal with water and sanitation at
the village level are proving to be successful. Organizing community
participation on a large scale remains to be resolved. Karnataka introduced
in 1983 one of the most extensive decentralized administrative systems in
India. It has a well-developed NGO community that has been in the forefront
in India in developing participatory training techniques for community
participation in the development process. Pilot schemes in community
participation are being carried out as part of the preparation of the project,
and their findings are being used in designing this project.
1.17        O&M for Rural Water SuImly.  India has made significant efforts to
address the handpump maintenance problem. In the 1970s, alarming figures of
only 25-30% of pumps in operation were reported. These numbers have been
reversed to the extent that 70-75% of handpumps are operational today. Choice
of technology has been an important factor in improving maintenance, in
particular the development and standardization of the India Mark II handpump.
Further improvements are expected with the introduction of an improved model,
the India Mark III handpump. However, as coverage levels increase, so do the
maintenance burden and the associated institutional and financial demands.
1.18        The problem of 0&M for piped schemes is more severe, primarily
because of shortages of funds resulting in neglect of maintenance, government
commitment to cost recovery and the lack of skilled personnel at the local
level. Another reason for maintenance problems throughout India is the
irregular and fluctuating supply of electricity which often results in damaged
electrical equipment as well as problems with water distribution. In the
current transition stage of handing over responsibility for O&M to local
authorities, the main issues involve the need for adequate funding,
clarification of the technical and financial responsibilities for major and
minor repairs, training and creation of greater consumer awareness of their
role in O&M.  The proposed project will address O&M problems through
strengthening community participation and training. (paras. 2.17-2.23).



-5-
1.19        Private Connections. The Government of India has had a poliey of
discouraging private connections for piped schemes in rural areas in order to
provide more equitable service. Nevertheless, in recent years, the demand for
house connections has grown considerably. Because the schemes were designed
only for standposts, the installation of private connections (legally and
illegally) has in many cases seriously reduced the capability of the systems
to deliver adequate water to the entire community. Although water scarcity
remains a serious problem in many parts of India, there is also a need to
improve the quality of the designs and to allow for the increased supply
through private connections. The proposed project includes the design of
piped water supply schemes to meet the current and projected demand for
private connections.
1.20         ost Recovery. In most states in India, including Karnataka, cost
reco,vtry for the O&M of rural water supply schemes is unacceptably low. In
all of the states, capital investment costs are financed from central and
state funds. Lack of consumer affordability, poor water supply service, and
the notion that water is a "public good" have been used to explain political
resistance to more cost recovery. Handpumps and standposts, which are water
sources for the low income groups, have been provided on a grant basis by
central and state governments. Policies for cost recovery apply only to O&N
expenditures for piped schemes; revenues are collected primarily from private
connections and industrial and commercial users. The collection of water
charges in many states is undertaken by local government agencies and not by a
centralized state water authority. Thus, it is difficult to estimate the
actual levels of collection. A mber of states, including Karnataka, have
undertaken a new policy which fosters private connections in rural water
supply schemes and also encourages local governments to finance all of their
0614 expenditures for rural water supply schemes from their own resources. The
proposed project includes the requirement that local authorities (Mandals and
Village Water And Sanitation Committees) pass resolutions indicating their
agreement to set and collect adequate water and sanitation fees in order to
maintain their systems.
1.21        Groundwater.  Excessive mining of groundwater for irrigation has
led to reduced yields or drying up of wells in certain parts of India. The
reported number of failed wells in the entire country is over 14 million, and
the unplanned exploitation of groundwater may increase this number further in
the years to come. The watershed-based integrated management approach to
in-situ conservation of basic resources like soil and rain water has proved to
be a potential solution to the depletion of water sources and improvement in
groundwater recharge. The watershed development programs launched in
Karnataka since 1984-85 have shown that such interventions are extremely
productive. The proposed project would support the requisite groundwater
recharge measures to ensure sustainable yield from the water sources
identified for the drinking water supply schemes in the project villages
through an innovative program involving the State Watershed Development Cell
(paras. 2.11-2.13).
E. Government Policies and Programs
1.22        The Seventh Five Year Plan (1985-90) gave high priority to
providing safe water to villages that did not have a protected water supply
source within a reasonable distance. The target reached was aboult 95%. The
Plan called for greater attention to ensuring that scheduled castes and tribes



-6-
had access to safe water and to involving communities and NGOs in the program.
The Seventh Plan recognized that little had been done in the area of rural
sanitation and called for 25% coverage of latrine use among the rural
population; the actual coverage achieved was less than 3% due to less than
anticipated household demand.
1.23        Under the Eighth Five Year Plan (1992-97), highest priority would
be given to those villages without an adequate number of safe water sources.
However, equal importance would be given to increasing the service levels of
those villages covered with one water source under previous plans, and supply
levels of less than 40 lped. The plan also establishes the policy that local
bodies should be made responsible for O&M of the systems installed. As far as
water resources are concerned, the plan emphasizes the need to take timely
steps to see that water resources are recharged and rejuvenated and the need
for a comprehensive water management plan to balance competing demands for
water by irrigation, industry and domestic use.
1.24        For sanitation, the Eighth Plan would adopt a new strategy of
linking health education, sanitation and water supply, and develop a demand
based approach to promoting latrine use. The Eighth Plan would also widen the
definition of sanitation beyond latrine use to include the disposal of refuse
and waste water, and personal hygiene. Primary responsibility for the
environmental sanitation program would be given to district and village
authorities.
1.25        The total expenditures for rural water supply under the Seventh
Plan were Rs. 44.0 billion. The central government contributed 40%; the
remainder came from state budgetary sources with a small contribution (less
than 10%) from foreign funding. The central allocation for rural sanitation
was only Rs. 1.0 billion for the five-year period. Under the Eighth Plan, the
allocation for rural water supply and sanitation has been substantially
increased to Rs. 100.0 billion and Rs. 6.0 billion, respectively.
1.26        Karnataka. The Government of Karnataka identified almost 71% of
its villages as problem villages under the Sixth and Seventh Five Year Plan.
As a result, as of July, 1991, over 99.5% of villages were covered with at
least one safe water source. During the mid 1980s, the state experienced
three successive years of drought. This resulted in increased expenditures
for rural water supply under Seventh Five Year Plan, with additional funds
provided by GOI as part of its Jrought assistance program. Actual Seventh
Plan rural water supply expenditures were Rs. 2.07 billion. The state made
only minimal attempts to promote latrine usage in rural areas during the
Seventh Plan.
1.27        The rural water supply and environmental sanitation policies and
strategies in the Karnataka Eighth Five Year Plan follow closely those of the
central government. Priority is given to villages which have not been
previously provided with adequate safe water sources. The Government of
Karnataka has changed the criteria for distance from source from 1.6 km to 1.0
km and from 100 meters elevation to 50 meters elevation for hilly areas.
Recognizing the growing demand for house connections in rural areas, piped
water supply schemes would be designed to allow for service levels up to 70
lped. The state's program for environmental sanitation and related health
education would focus largely on the twelve districts covered under the
project as well as Danish and Dutch-assisted programs in other parts of the



-7-
state. The proposed allocation for rural water supply in Karnataka's Eighth
Five Year Plan is about Rs. 8.2 billion including funds from the state and
central governments, IDA under the proposed project and bilateral assistance
from The Netherlands and Denmark.
F. External Financing ogf RurAl Water Supnply & Environmental Sanitation
1.28        Numerous donors, (UNICEF, DANIDA, The Netherlands, UNDP, SIDA,
ODA, KFW and EEC) have assisted the development of rural water supply in
India. The amount of financing made available by these donors, however, has
been fairly small in terms of the overall investment program in the country.
UNICEF has been one of the most influential through its assistance for the
development of the India Mark II handpump and its maintenance system, and a
tubewell drilling program. Further research and development of the India Mark
II have resulted in an improved model, the India Mark III, which has been
developed by UNDP/World Bank Water and Sanitation Program together with
UNICEF.  In recent years, there has been a growing emphasis on linking rural
water supply, sanitation and health education programs in India, particularly
the development assistance programs of DANIDA and the Netherlands. Their
pioneering efforts in promoting this linkage have influenced both central and
state government policies. DANIDA and the Netherlands have recently approved
Integrated Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Programs in five
districts in Karnataka.
1.29        While it is too soon to evaluate fully the impact of the DANIDA
and Dutch-assisted projects, the lessons learned to date from their
implementation have been incorporated into the proposed Bank-financed project.
These lessons include: a) the necessity of bringing social scientists
together with engineers to strengthen the community participation and poverty
objectives; b) the importance of adequate mapping of social groups in the
design of water supply schemes; c) the benefits derived from the involvement
of women as a primary participant group; d) the need for close liaison with
local government leaders; and e) the need for close involvement of NGOs in
project planning and implementation.
G. Previous Bank ExRerience
1.30        The Bank has one ongoing project (the Maharashtra Rural Water
Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project (Credit 1643-IN)) which combines
rural water supply, health education and environmental sanitation in one
investment package. It became effective in July, 1991. While the Bank has
not financed any other free-standing rural water supply projects in India, it
has financed six urban water supply and sewerage projects in the states of
Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. The
projects in Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have been completed and
Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) have been prepared.2
1.31        In the Kerala and Gujarat Projects, the Bank has also financed
small components for rural low cost sanitation. In the Kerala Project,
2     Maharashtra Water Supply & Sewerage Project, PPAR Report No. 7202, March
1988; Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage Project, PPAR Report No. 8090,
September 1989; and Uttar Pradesh Water Supply & Sanitation Sewerage
Project, PPAR Report No. 6242, June 1986.



^8-
project preparation and procurement planning were not satisfactory and have
caused problems during implementation. In the Gujarat Project, the low cost
sanitation component has recently been given to NGOs for implementation. The
NGOs are combining health education and motivation campaigns with the
promotion of low cost sanitation. This program is relatively new, but early
indications are that it has exceeded its targets for installing latrines in
rural areas.
1.32        For the completed projects in Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Uttar
Pradesh, the Bank was working with newly established agencies. In the
Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh projects, major institutional changes were
included as part of the design. In both cases, it was found that the
institutional objectives were overly ambitious, taking into account the
Government committment and, thus, were not achieved. Financial objectives for
urban and rural areas were also not met. Local authorities were unwilling to
collect water charges and, thus, O&M suffered. The Rajasthan project
underwent a major restructuring due to a serious drought; resources were
shifted from urban to rural areas. Physical targets were achieved in both
projects although both projects required an extension of the closing date.
1.33        For the Maharashtra urban water supply project, price inflation,
design modifications and initial implementation delays resulted in substantial
cost overruns. The project had difficulties with inadequate preparation and
land acquisition, which resulted in implementation delays and cost overruns.
Institutional strengthening was not a problem in the Maharashtra project; the
Audit report referred to MWSSB as a strong and competent agency. Its overall
financial performance was also satisfactory, although problems occurred with
the benefiting municipalities which failed to increase tariffs.
1.34        The main lessons learned from the completed urban water supply and
the ongoing Maharashtra Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation
Project are summarized below:
Lessons Learned                           Design of New Project
a)  Adequate project preparation           Final designs and tender
before appraisal.                          documents for 250 phase 1
water supply schemes are
completed.
b)  Financial and institutional            O&  cost recovery policy for
strengthening targets need to be          rural water supply and the
realistic.                                delegation of the authority
from the NP to the VWSC is in
line with 001's and oOK's
policies.
c)  Number of works contracts should       Procurement for the 1,200
be reduced to simplify the                 village water supply schemes
procurement process.                      will be reduced to three or
four large procurement
processes.
d)  Contractors should be                  Contractors will be prequali-
prequalified and construction              fied and consultants will be



-9-
supervision improved in order to          used for construction
improve construction quality.             supervision.
e) The need for the establishment         An empowered committee will be
of an empowered committee in order        established as a condition of
to avoid delays in project awards         Board.
and other essential decisions.
f)  Innovative community                  These approaches are being
participation approaches should be         tested in 10 pilot villages.
tested on a pilot basis during
project preparation.
g)  The need to increase the subsidy       It has been agreed with GOK to
share for construction of sullage         subsidize 70% of the invest-
drainage from 50 (Maharashtra) to         ment cost for sullage
70% in order to reduce the risk that      drainage.
the component may be delayed or
fail.
h)  The need for making more use of        Consultants are used for
the private sector (consultants) in       preparation and implementation
project preparation and                    of almost all project
implementation in order to avoid          components including
delays and excessive Bank                  supervision of construction.
supervision input.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origins
2.01        The MRD requested IDA in 1989 to assist in developing the rural
water supply sector in India. At the same time, IDA prepared a strategy paper
for the sector. Essentially, the strategy comprised four main elements as
follows: (a) strengthening of the institutional capacity to carry out O&M;
(b) strengthening of the resource mobilization capacity of local government
and improved cost recovery performance for rural water supply; (c) improving
the coordination among government agencies to achieve an integration of water
supply and environmental sanitation programs; and (d) strengthening of
community participation.
2.02        The state of Karnataka was selected for the proposed project
because: (a) it has a strong local government and NGO base for developing
successful community participation approaches; (b) it has serious water supply
problems (particularly in the groundwater) in rural areas; (c) the state
government has given priority to developing complementary environmental
sanitation and health communications strategies; (d) the state government is
willing to strengthen and enforce cost recovery policies; and (e) there is
already an organization for water shed development and a Government commitment
for developing ground water resources. An identification mission visited
Karnataka in March, 1989. There were three pr-paration missions and the



-10-
project was appraised in October, 1992. Negotiations were held and completed
in March, 1993.
2.03        Rationale for IDA Involvement.  IDA support for the proposed
project would provide the opportunity for Karnataka to give higher priority to
community involvement in rural water supply and sanitation, to promote
environmental sanitation and ground water recharge and increase investment in
rural water supply and related health communications programs. It would aim
at providing replicable models for investments in combined rural water supply,
health communications and environmental programs elsewhere. Also IDA
involvement is likely to strengthen the state government's resolve on cost
recovery for O&M. In addition, it would encourage more NCO and women
involvement in the sector through their involvement in project planning and
implementation. Improved engineering design standards would result in better
distribution of water to meet the communities' needs. Although other donors
are involved in the sector, the scale of their financial investment is small
and IDA would promote coordination among donors.
B. Objectives
2.04        The main objectives of the project are to raise the standard of
living in rural areas through improved health and productivity, which would
result from improved access to potable rural water supply systems and
environmental sanitation facilities. The project would also develop
replicable models for coordinating water, environmental sanitation and health
communications programs elsewhere, village level planning, and strengthen the
local institutional capacity to promote improved environmental sanitation.
The improvement of health and productivity would be achieved through the
following specific objectives:
(a)   gromote more eguitable distribution of safe water through improved
design standards, taking into account residential patterns, and
community involvement, particularly of the rural poor, in the
identification of schemes and the siting of standposts and
bandpumps;
(b) improve sustainabilitv of water supply and drainage schemes
through an upgrading of skills of the community and government
officials at the local level, clarification of responsibilities
for 6M&, improved cost recovery for 06K to provide adequate
funding and increased involvement of the community in maintenance;
(c)  increase public and grivate investment in environmental sanitation
through programs to increase latrine usage, the provision of
sullage drains and improved solid waste management; and
(d)   create greater community awareness of the causes of water-related
health vroblems and the need for a cleaner environment through a
health communications program targeted mainly toward women,
adolescents, and children.
C.   Project Descrintion
2.05        The project would be implemented in about twelve districts in the
state of Karnataka and include about 1200 villages. The first phase would



-11-
cover 250 villages. Designs and tender documents for this phase are already
prepared. The second phase will cover 750 villages and the balance of about
200 willages will be covered in the third phase. A detailed description,
including cost estimates and procurement, for each project component is
contained in Annex 2.
2.06        The project would comprise the following four components:
(1) Rural Water SuImlv, including construction of new and
rehabilitation of existing water supply schemes in about 1,200
villages, assistance for PHED's borewell program, leakage repair
works, a water quality monitoring program and measures for
groundwater recharge;
(2)   &XiroMg       manitatio, including construction of environmental
sanitation facilities in all the project villages based on demand,
covering sullage drainage, pit latrines, washing platforms, cattle
troughs, bathing cubicles, street bins and biogas plants;
(3) Institution BuildinJg and Project Support, including community
development programs for creation of village water supply and
sanitation committees, comprehensive training programs and
strengthening of the project management, PHED and ZPs; and
(4) Health communication for creation of greater conmmnity awareness
and demand for improved hygiene and environmental sanitation.
2.07 (1) Rural Water SU%=Iy (Base Cost USS63 million) This component
includes five sub components: a) construction of water supply schemes, b) a
borewell program, c) leakage repair works, d) a water monitoring program and
d) measures for groundwater recharge. The rural water supply component is the
largest in terms of investment costs, accounting for 53% of the total project
costs. The component is expected to include a total of 1,200 piped water
supply schemes. A typical scheme consists of groundwater wells with
submersible pumps, which are operated about 12 hours per day, a rising main,
water storage facilities, distribution system, public standposts and/or
handpumps (for about 60% of the population), house connections (for about 40%
of the population) and drilling of wells and installation of hand pumps for
remote settlements.   About 175 villages will be covered by surface water
schemes.
2.08        The total handpump program would include drilling, installation of
about 2,400 new pumps, rejuvenation of 500 existing wells through
hydrofracturing and the replacement of about 1,000 India Mark II handpumps,
which are beyond repair, by India Mark III pumps. The project would also
support PHED's statewide well drilling and maintenance activities through
supply of drilling and hydrofracturing rigs and rehabilitation of existing
workshops.
2.09        Because of the high water losses in many existing rural water
supply systems, a leak detection survey and leak repair works would be
undertaken as part of this project for existing distribution systems which
will be included in the new schemes. It is estimated that about 800 of the
1,200 project villages have some existing distribution system and that about
350 of them would require leak repairs (water losses above 20%) in order to



-12-
reduce water losses to an acceptable level. Consultants would be used for the
survey and supervision of the repair works. Staff of PHED and ZPs will be
seconded to the consultant for on-the-job training.
2.10        The project also includes a program for strengthening of the water
quality monitoring system in rural areas. 'hile normal water quality control
would be carried out by the water supply agency, represented by PHED,
surveillance would be independent and rest with the Health Department. The
project would support the upgrading of existing laboratories, establishment of
new ones, supply of field test kits, laboratory equipment, materials and
vehicles. At present there is no regular system for water quality control and
surveillance. Water quality is checked only after receiving complaints or
during epidemics. During negotiations, assurances were provided that GOK will
appoint and maintain the necessary qualified staff and provide sufficient
funds to meet all recurrent costs to allow effective operation of the water
quality monitoring and surveillance system in the twelve project districts
(paras. 7.01 d and 7.03 b).
2.11        Groundwater recharge or watershed development programs are also
included in the project. The GOK launched its first program of this type in
1984. It has been thoroughly tried and tested through a series of integrated
watershed development projects funded by the World Bank, and the central and
state governments. Results have been very encouraging. Although increased
agricultural production was the primary target, considerable improvements in
conserving water and soil, thereby increasing the moisture regime and
groundwater recharge (yields in wells increased up to 30%), have been be
achieved. The objective of the measures proposed for financing under this
project is to conserve the rain water in-situ in areas of high dependence on
rain. The infiltration and recharge of groundwater would thus be improved in
order to maintain the water balance and at the same time reduce soil erosion
and siltation in reservoirs. Micro-watersheds to be treated in each village
or group of villages vary in size from about 100 to 400 ha.
2.12        The planning and selection of treatment for groundwater recharge
in the project villages will be highly site specific, depending on rainfall
patterns, soil condition, topography and location of the identified drinking
water source. It is estimated that about 700 project villages would require
groundwater recharge treatment. The planning is carried out in three phases:
a baseline survey followed up by a master plan and finally, an action plan.
The action plan is most important for the success of the project. In this
phase, group meetings with farmers take place in order to motivate them to
form their own informal voluntary group (Sangha).
2.13        The implementation of the groundwater recharge components would be
attended by the multi-disciplinary staff of the Watershed Development Team.
The team would engage locally available skilled and unskilled labor and small
local contractors. The Sanghas are formed with assistance from NGOs (para.
3.19). These activities would be monitored by officers of the Dry Land
Development Board (DLDB) and the State Watershed Development Cell (SWDC). It
was agreed to employ an independent consultant for an external evaluation of
the impact of the implemented works and for proposing mid-course corrections,
if necessary.
2.14  (2)   Environmental Sanitation (Base Cost USS26 million)      This
component would include small scale surface drains and disposal sites for



-13-
sullage, individual latrines, bath_ng cubicles for women, cattle troughs,
washing platforms, street bins and biogas pilot plants. Because of the low
demand for environmental sanitation facilities relative to water supply, this
component would be somewhat smaller in terms of investment costs (22% of total
project costs). Combined with the health communications and community
mobilization related components, it would have the objective of developing new
approaches to increase demand and usage, and to promote community involvement
in planning, construction and maintenance.
2.15        Surface drains to carry sullage in villages would be provided
where soak pits would not work due to soil conditions or in case of population
congestion. Washing platforms, cattle troughs and street bins would be
included in the main cont-act for construction of the water supply system.
The numbers and locations of these facilities would be determined through
village based planning (see Annex 10). Sullage drains and bathing cubicles
would also be provided on the basis of village planning. The village would be
required to contribute 30% to the cost of conrtruction of the sullage drains
and bathing cubicles. The remaining 70% share would be provided by the state
government.
2.16        Although the twin pit, pour flush latrine has been in use in India
for some time, the GOK has not previously had a significant program to promote
its use in rural areas. In many parts of the state, this low cost model is
virtually unknown. Thus, the main objectives are to ensure that a market
mechanism is in place in all twelve districts for individuals to purchase a
low cost latrine and that sufficient masons are trained to provide quality
control over construction. Under the project, low cost latrines would be
installed on a demand basis in all 1,200 villages. Because of the low demand
for latrines in Karnataka (para 1.11), there is a need to motivate households
to adopt the use of low cost models. This motivation would be provided
through a health communications campaign using NGOs, local women's groups and
field staff of the health department, and through subsidies provided by GOK
and the ZPs. Approaches for the promotion of latrines would be tested out
through the pilot schemes and guidelines prepared for implementation. The
latrines would be constructed by force account with the owners contributing
through labor, cash or in kind. The GOK would provide a subsidy of Rs 1,650
and R 1,200 for low income and higher income groups, respectively, which would
be administered by the ZP. First priority would be given to people below the
poverty line.
2.17   (3)  Health Communications Program (Base Cost USS1 million
Although this component is the smallest in terms of investment costs, it
constitutes one of the most important activities required to meet the project
objective of improving health conditions. Sanitation-related information
campaigns in rural areas in the past have been largely unsuccessful. The
delivery and effectiveness of the message are often hampered by the negative
perceptions of those targeted for behavioral change. Health communication
would be combined with community participation efforts to deliver a more
effective message under the project.
2.18        This component has four main objectives:  (a) to promote personal
and family hygiene; (b) to promote latrine usage; (c) to create greater
consumer awareness of the requirements and importance of 0&K of water supply
schemes; and (d) to create greater community awareness of their responsibility
for and the importance of the maintenance of drains. The component is



-14-
supported by strengthening the water quality monitoring and surveillance
system in rural areas (see para. 2.10).
2.19        Consultants would develop a health communication strategy, prepare
messages and ensure their delivery to the beneficiaries. The pilot schemes
would be used to test out approaches to delivery of the health communications
through interpersonal communications. Mass media would also be used in the
delivery strategy. The consultant would be responsible for all material
production and subcontracting with mass media, artists, etc.
2.20 (4) Institution Building and Prolect Suponrt (Base Cost USS14
million)    This component consists of three main subcomponents:  (a)
community development programs (see paras. 3.15-3.19), (b) training, and (c)
strengthening project management. Project management includes the employment
of consultants to support the Project Planning and Monitoring Unit (PPMU)
(para. 3.13). These consultants would be employed for scheme designs,
construction supervision, leak detection work, health communications,
community participation, training programs and special studies. As a
condition of effectiveness, the GOK agreed during negotiations to award the
consultant contracts for health communication, training (for first year of
project) and construction supervision (phase 1) (para. 7.02 b). GOK also
agreed to award (a) no later than September 30, 1993, contracts to consultants
and non-governmental organizations, for promoting community participation in
planning of water supply and environmental sanitation works to be carried in
the second phase of the project (para. 7.01 i); and (b) consultants contracts
for supervision of construction for the second phase of works to be undertaken
under the Project, prior to award of contracts for the commencement of said
works (para. 7.01 j). The strengthening of PHED, the ZPs, and RD&PR would be
through the provision of minimum additional staff, training and supply of
equipment and materials.
2.21        The training component of the project would cover personnel from
the PHED, ZP Engineering and Health Wings, Block and Mandal level officials,
DOHFWS, RD&PR and nongovernmental personnel such as village mechanics and
masons, members of the village water and sanitation committees and village
school teachers (see Annex 2). The training component would be managed and
monitored through a local consultant who would establish a Training Management
Unit. A Training Advisory Committee to provide advice and guidance on the
process of selecting candidates for training and the implementation and
monitoring of the component has already been established. The committee is
chaired by the Director of the Administrative Training Institute in Mysore.
The annual training plan for the project would be reviewed as part of the
annual action plan (para. 3.33).
2.22        The short term training program would consist of the following
courses: (a) training for creation of awareness of the project and its
objectives in the project villages; (b) training to ensure community
participation; (c) training of Village Water and Sanitation Committee members
in their roles and responsibilities in the project; (d) orientation of primary
school teachers; (e) awareness of project objectives for senior engineers;
(f) training in construction methods for assistant and junior engineers;
(g) tsaining of local masons for latrine and drainage construction;
(h) training of pipelayers, valvemen and helpers, and local accountants; and
(i) training of senior administrative personnel on the project and its



-15-
objectives. The component would also include long term training (3-6 weeks
and post-graduate courses) in India and overseas.
2.23        Local training would be carried out at the Administrative Training
Institute in Mysore, District Training Institutes, District Health
Laboratories, Sri Jayachamarajendra College of Engineering, Mysore, and other
engineering colleges in the state. The Training Management Unit would provide
a liaison officer to work with the PPMU to monitor the training component.
D. Selection and Design Criteria. Service Standards and Population CoveraLe
2.24        The 250 Phase 1 villages selected by the GOK/ZPs have less than 40
lped water supply and face acute water scarcity in the dry season. Piped
schemes are proposed for areas where handpumps are not feasible. Conditions
where piped schemes are required include: (a) where handpumps have failed
permanently or for several months during the dry season; (b) where groundwater
is polluted or the yield from handpumps is poor; and (c) where population
growth has resulted in piped schemes being the least cost solution. The
selection of 750 Phase 2 villages from the project districts is based on the
following selection criteria developed by the GOK and GOI:
(a)  villages with water consumption less than 20 lpcd would be given
priority with first priority given to villages with less than 10
lped;
(b)  villages with serious water-related health problems such as guinea
worm, fluorosis, hepatitis, cholera and gastroenteritis would be
given priority; and
(c)   villages without adequate groundwater sources which require
regional water supply schemes would be given equal priority.
The ZPs are also involved in the selection process in terms of identifying
their priority villages within the government criteria. The same criteria
will be used in selecting about 200 villages to be covered in Phase 3.
2.25        The rural water supply schemes selected for inclusion in the
project are based on agreed design criteria that are shown in Annex 2.   The
future water demand is based on a projected consumption of 40 lped for public
standposts and 70 lpcd for house connections, which includes water demand for
animals. The schemes are also designed to cope with power fluctuation and
limited hours of power supply. These criteria are being applied by the PRED
which has primary responsibility for the design of the piped water supply
schemes. IDA has appraised approximately 250 individual water supply schemes
in the ten districts for which designs are being completed. During
negotiations, assurances have been provided that water supply schemes to be
carried out under the project would be designed in accordance with criteria
satisfactory to IDA (para. 7.01 a). Consultants would be employed to prepare
the designs also for the remaining schemes from Phases 2 and 3. These designs
would be completed during the first two years of the project, and IDA would
review their suitability for inclusion in the project.
2.26        The rural water supply component is expected to cover 1,200
villages. The total population served is estimated at 4.8 million.
Population projections have been made in accordance with population growth



-16-
rates in the past years. At present, the majority of the population are using
water sources which may be polluted, dry up during the dry season, or situated
at an inconvenient distance. With the project, almost the entire population
covered by piped schemes will have access to a safe water supply, either
through public standposts (an average of 60%) or house connections (an average
of 40%). Handpumps will be provided on the basis of one for every 150
population. The total population covered by handpumps is estimated at 0.25
million.
2.27        Complementary environmental sanitation and health communication
component would be implemented in all villages. Otherwise the additional water
provided through piped schemes could result in inadequate sullage drainage.
Adequate water supply is required to promote latrine usage.
E. Area To Be Served
2.28        Geology. Hdrology and Water Resources.  Karnataka is mainly
composed of igneous and metamorphic rocks under a thick soil cover. The rock
types are granites, gneiss and schists of precambrian age. There are
basically four regions, each having its own distinctive geo-morphic evolution
and characteristics. The flat coastal regions with mainly laterite soil; the
adjacent hilly region with thick forests and altitudes from 150 to 900 m above
sea level; the northern region, a plateau between 300 to 600 m above sea level
and black cotton soils; and the southern region, also a plateau with altitudes
between 600 and 900 m above sea level with less fertile (red) soils.
2.29        Karnataka has a tropical monsoon type climate.  It is exposed to
the interplay of the southwest and northeast monsoons, which are opposing air
masses. Rains from the southwest monsoons may start in May and end in
September while rains from the northeast are from October to December.
Average rainfall is about 1,400 mm, but there are considerable regional
variations. The hilly areas adjacent to the west coast may receive up to
2,500 me, while the eastern areas of the state receive only about 500mm.
2.30        Except for two rivers, all major rivers in the state flow from
west to east. Groundwater occurrence is rather limited because the hard rock
formations have only secondary porosity, i.e., joints, fractures, shears and
weathering zones. 'Where groundwater sources have been developed, there has
been widespread mining whereby extraction exceeds the natural aquifer
recharge. As a result, groundwater levels have dropped and many wells have
gone dry. Although relatively small quantities of water are required for
domestic rural water supply, drought and soil conditions do not always allow
for the use of groundwater, which is normally the preferred choice. In some
cases, surface water, mainly from irrigation schemes, will be used. In order
to make the groundwater supply more stable, groundwater recharge measures are
included in the project.
2.31        Populatil .  The current population of Karnataka is about 45
million. About 69% of the total population live in rural areas. Within the
rural population, about 16% are scheduled castes and about 4% are scheduled
tribes, which are generally among the poorest groups in society. About 40% of
the rural population in the project area are below the poverty line and about
5S are tribal. The average size of present population in the villages is
about 4,000.



-17-
2.32        Project Districts.  Ten districts were initially selected to be
included in the proposed project. They were selected on the basis of
government criteria including acute drinking water problems. Seven of the ten
districts are in drought-prone areas. The districts are Bangalore (Rural),
Mandya, Mysore, Shimoga, Dakshina Kannada, Belgaum, Gulbarga, Bidar, Raichur,
and Bellary. During negotiations, IDA agreed to GOK's request to enlarge the
size of the project to cover 200 additional villages either from the same ten
districts and/or possibly from two additional districts, to be identified.
F. Pilot Scheme
2.33        During project preparation, local consultants were employed under
a Japanese Grant Agreement to develop a community participation strategy using
ten pilot villages, one in each of the ten districts. Strategies are being
developed for the planning, construction and O&f phases and for latrine
promotion/health communications. The planning phase was completed at the time
of appraisal and guidelines for this phase are contained in Annex 10 pages
7-9. The latrine promotion/health communication strategy would be prepared by
December, 1993. The construction and the O&M phase are expected to be
completed by mid 1994 and mid 1995 respectively. Preliminary guidelines for
these phases are contained in Annex 10 pages 1-4. During negotiations,
assurances have been provided that the community participation activities of
the project would be carried out according to an agreed set of guidelines,
based on the pilot villages (para. 7.01 c and 7.03 a).
2.34        The planning phase used participatory methods to involve the
communities in planning the location of standposts, the type of drainage
system and the number and location of bathing cubicles, cattle troughs,
washing platformb and dust bins. During this phase, Village Committees were
formed in each of the ten pilot villages. Village resolutions were passed and
signed by the Committee (see Annex 10), which set out the village's commitment
to the capital cost of the drainage system and bathing cubicles, the manner in
which this contribution would be made (cash, labor or materials), and the
village's commitment to operate and maintain the facilities constructed under
the project. The lessons learned from the pilot villages during the planning
phase are: (i) there is a strong desire to improve water supply and
environmental sanitation; and (ii) there is a willingness to contribute to the
capital cost and to assume responsibility for operation and maintenance if the
villagers are allowed to participate in the planning process and develop a
sense of ownership of the facilities. Based on work in the pilot schemes, the
GOK issued Mandal bye-laws for the project villages that establish Village
Water and Sanitation Committees under the Handals and provide them with the
powers and authority to carry out 06M for water and sanitation and maintain
the cleanliness and hygiene of the village.
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING ND IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Costs and Financing
3.01        The total cost of the project, including duties and taxes, is
estimated at Rs. 4.472 million or US$ 118 million equivalent. The total base
cost is estimated at Rs. 3,250 million or US$105 million. The total project



-18-
cost, net of duties and taxes, would be US$107 million. The estimated costs
by project component are summarized in Table 3.1.  Detailed costs are
presented in Annex 4.
Table 3.1 PROJECT CosT ESIMATE
DesCtiptLou                     TOT  PROJECT OST          OTAL PROJECT COST  PERCE
(La RS mulion)          (la US. mIllion)    BAS
XC      PC      TOAL    LC      FC      TOTAL  COST
WATER SUPPLY
PIPED VS PHASE 1           198.00   34.00    232.00    6.39   1.10   7.48    7.1X
PIPED VS PEASE8 2 & 3      829.00  151.00   980.00   26.74   4.87    31.61    30.2X
EWREWELL PROGRAM           252.92   74.88   327.80    8.16   2.42    10.57   10.12
GROUNDS. RECHARGE PROCR.   271.68   14.02   285.70    8.76   0.45    9.22    8.82
LEAAGE REP., V.QUAL.CONTR   60.29   13.02    73.31    1.94   0.42    2.36    2.32
ZRIROMGWL SAIIDAIOII
SULoAE DRAINAGE            512.40   27.60    540.00   16.53   0.89    17.42   16.61
PIT LATRINES               205.20   10.80   216.00    6.62   0.55    6.97    6.61
lTnER                       47.30    3.65    50.95    1.53   0.12    1.64    1.6X
PROJECT SUPPORT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT         100.56    9.17    109.73    3.24   0.30   3.54    3.4Z
8CHEHE DESIGN               63.15    3.65    67.00    2.04   0.12    2.16    2.12
CONSTRUCTION SUPERVISION    91.20    4.80    96.00    2.94   0.1S    S.10    3.0X
SURVEYS AND STUDIES         20.45   15.55    36.00    0.66   0.50    1.16    1.12
INSTITUTION BUILDING        125.40   12.20   157.60    4.05   0.39    4.44    4.22
XALTSH COMMUNICATION         26.50    3.50    30.00    0.85   0.11     0.97    0.92
NISCELLAOUS
LAND ACQUISITION            15.00    0.00    15.00    0.48   0.00    0.48    0.52
RETROACTIVE FINACING        47.03    4.97    52.00    1.52   0.16    1.68    1.62
DASE COST                  2,866.08  383.01  5,249.09   92.45  12.36   104.81   100.02
CONTINGENCIES              1,033.88  189.01  1,222.89   10.27   2.66    12.95
TOTAL PROJECT COST         3,9".96  572.02  4,471.98  102.73  15.02   117.74
3.02         Base Costs and Contigencgies.  Base costs are expressed in
beginning 1993 prices. Civil works costs are based on standard lists of works
and materials which are revised annually. Equipment costs are based on
detailed lists and on prices of similar imported or locally available items.
Costs of foreign and local experts were estimated on the basis of recent
experience in India. Consumable material costs are based on GOK estimates and
reflect current prices. Physical contingencies are US$ 8.8 million or 10% of
civil works. Price contingencies are US$ 4.1 million or 3.5% of total costs.
These contingencies are estimated on the basis of the implementation schedule,
expected annual price increases and were adjusted in accordance with projected
exchange rates. Assumptions for inflation rates are as follows:
a) local inflation rates of 7.50% in FY 1993, 6.50% in 1994, 5.80% in 1995,
5.30% in 1996, 5.0% in 1997, 1998 and 1999, and b) foreign inflation rates of
3.1% for 1993 through 1999. Total contingencies represent 12.3% of US$ base
costs, or 37.4% of Rs. base costs. Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
are estimated at about Rs. 572.0 million (US$ 15.0 million equivalent).
Identifiable taxes and duties are estimated at about Rs. 310 million (US$11
million equivalent).
3.03         An IDA Credit of US$92.0 million equivalent would finance 78% of
the estimated total costs of about US$118.0 million or 87% of the total costs
net of taxes and duties.



-19-
3.04       FEnancing Plan
Lecal       Foreign    Totwa       ln
--(US$ million)   -
Government            16.8           -         16.8      15
Communities            9.0           .          9.0        7
IDA                   7.0L          1.         92.Q      78
Total                102.8         15.0       117.8     100
The communities would finance 30% of the works for sullage drainage and
bathing cubicles either in cash, kind or labor and about 50% of the cost for
pit latrines.
B.    Status of Project PreDarati
3.05        Preparation missions reviewed about 60 detailed engineering
designs for phase 1 piped water supply schemes and found them satisfactory.
Draft bid documents and bid packaging were reviewed and agreed during the
appraisal mission. Consultants have completed a village health and sanitation
survey which has provided basic data for the environmental sanitation and
health communications components. These consultants have also completed the
planning phase of a pilot project covering ten villages, one each from 10
districts. A plan of action for completing the pilot schemes was agreed at
appraisal. Designs for all pilot villages have been finalized and
construction should begin by May 93.
3.06        Project NanageMent.  The GOK has established PPNU, PHED and ZP
project cells, and sanctioned staff positions and as a Condition of
Effectiveness, the GOK agreed during negotiations to appoint key staff of
PPMU, PHED and ZPs (para. 7.02 a).
3.07        Design and Construction.  Detailed engineering designs are
completed for 250 Phase 1 schemes, and the prequalification process for
contractors will be started. Consultants will be employed for detailed
designs for the remaining water supply schemes.  IDA has approved the TORs and
shortlist. As a condition of effectiveness, GOK agreed during negotiations to
award consultants contracts for final design for phase 2 water supply schemes
(para. 7.02 b).
3.08        Terms of Reference for Consultants.  Terms of reference for
consultants (a) to prepare health communications programs and community
participation programs; (b) to manage the implementation of the training
program for the initial three years of the project, beginning with a one-year
contract with SJCE; and (c) to carry out construction supervision including
material control for phase 1 villages, have been prepared. Outline terms of
reference are included in Annex 2.
3.09        Land Acquisition.  Land will be required for head works, water
works, pumping stations and balancing and service reservoirs. Since the
schemes are relatively small, only small pieces of land (approx. 200 sqm) are
required in each particular case. The required land belongs either to the GOK
or is privately owned. Land belonging to GOK is managed by the Handal



-20-
Panchayats. GOK has received letters from most of Mandal Panchayats
confirming the availability of public and private land for the phase 1
villages. Resettlement will not be required. At negotiations, GOK confirmed
that land acquisition for phase 1 (about 250 villages) for Government owned
land is secured, letters of consent for privately owned land have been
received, and adequate compensation (market rates) will be made (para. 7.03
d).
C.    Proiect Management
3.10        Project Organization and Management.  The main responsibility for
ensuring that the project is implemented according to agreed criteria would be
the RD&PR, through its role as lead agency. Other state level implementation
agencies are the SWDC and DOHFWS. A Project Planning and Monitoring Unit
(PPMU) would be established in RD&PR to manage project implementation. PPMU
would be assisted by consultants and project cells in PHED and in the 22 ZP
engineering divisions.
3.11        An Empowered Committee has been established.  (GOK Order No. 45 of
February 10, 1993 for setting up the Empowered Committee.) The Committee would
be chaired by the Development Commissioner and would include the Secretaries
from the main implementation agencies as well as the Secretary of Finance.
The Empowered Committee would give final approval of action plans and contract
award proposals. Thereby delays in project awards and other essential
decisions can be avoided (para. 1.34).
3.12        PHED/ZPs under RD&PR would have responsibility for the design and
construction of the piped water supply schemes, for borewell drilling,
installation of handpumps, and hydrofracturing programs. SWDC would be
responsible for the groundwater recharge program. The DOHFWS would be
responsible for water quality surveillance. Procurement would be the
responsibility of each implementing agency; the PPMU would have responsibility
for procurement monitoring.
3.13        A Director would head the PPMU, which would be under the
Secretary, RD&PR, and staffed by government officers and consultants. The
PPMU and project cells in PHED and ZPs have been established and key staff
sanctioned. Key staff (Director, Chief Engineer, Health Communications/
Community Participation Officer, Accountant) of PPMU and of the project cells
will be appointed as a condition of credit effectiveness para. 7.02 a).
Consultants would assist the PPMU in the implementation of the project. As a
condition of effectiveness, GOK agreed to employ consultants who would report
to the Director of the PPMU for the following activities (para. 7.02 b, and
7.03 a and b):
(i)      supervision of construction of water supply schemes and evaluation
on a regular basis of construction quality; and
(ii)      implementation of health communications, training and community
participation.
3.14        The main responsibilities of the PPMU would be to coordinate and
monitor the programs of the various implementing agencies and to act as a
secretariat to the Empowered Committee.  It would provide project planning
support, procurement monitoring, technical guidance to the implementing



-21-
agencies, and independent monitoring of project implementation to ensure high
technical standards. The PPMU would also provide support in the
implementation of health communications and environmental sanitation,
community participation, the involvement of NGOs and training through
management of the consultants employed to implement these components. PPMU
would also monitor the PHED and ZP World Bank project cells (Annex 2,
Component 4).
3.15        The Mandal Panchayats acting through the proposed Village Water
and Sanitation Committees would be responsible for the O&M of individual
village-based water supply schemes, handpumps and the maintenance of
environmental sanitation facilities. In each of the twelve districts,
coordination committees would be established that would be chaired by the
senior administrative officer in the district. All implementing agencies as
well as NGO representatives would be members of the district coordination
committee.
D.   NGO Involvement and Community Particigation
3.16        Based on pilot schemes in ten villages, a community participation
strategy is being developed (Annex 10). This strategy would involve village
based planning of the environmental sanitation component and the location of
standposts. The planning process would include the use of participatory rural
appraisal methods. Village Water and Sanitation Committees would be formed in
each village which would be responsible for collecting the local contributions
to the capital costs of the environmental sanitation component and for O&M of
the water supply and drainage schemes and monitoring the health communications
and latrine components. During negotiations agreement has been reached that
GOK would issue regulations satisfactory to IDA for establishment and
operation of Village Water and Sanitation Committees (WSC) and make
arrangements with Mandal and Village Panchayats for the establishment and
operation of WSCs (para. 7.01 h). As a condition of effectiveness, GOK
agreed during negotiations to issue guidelines, setting out procedures for the
establishment of WSCs (para. 7.02 c). Villages which do not agree to the
regulations would be excluded from the project.
3.17        The Village Water and Sanitation Committees would be present
during the supervision of the construction of the water supply facilities and
would participate in a joint supervision of the works prior to their
commissioning. The Committees would manage the village contributions for the
construction of drainage systems. In cases where the village offers material
and labor, the Committee would be responsible for organizing the delivery and
employing someone in the village to supervise the work. The Committee would
also assist in monitoring the construction of household latrines. During the
O&f phase, the villages follow the Mandal bye-laws, which are to be tested in
the pilot villages, for the collection of fees, supervision of the work of the
O&M staff, and assurance of a regular and satisfactory supply of water to the
village.
3.18        NGOs would work under PPMU (assisted by a consultant) who would be
responsible for the monitoring of their work and performance in accordance
with agreed upon terms of reference. An NGO would be appointed in each of the
twelve districts: (a) to assist in organizing Village Water and Sanitation
Committees and village planning; (b) to monitor the implementation of the
community participation aspects of the project; and (c) to undertake the



-22-
promotion of latrines and health communications. COK has already issued
Government Orders employing consultants/NGOs for community participation
activity in the 250 phase 1 villages and the agreements will be signed by end-
March 1993.
3.19        It is also proposed to use one NCO in each of the twelve project
districts to work with the watershed development staff on mobilizing informal
voluntary groups for the groundwater recharge efforts. They would support the
villages continuously for a period of five years until the village program is
firmly established. NGO's involvement would help to develop an element of
social monitoring in the project and spread the experience of groundwater
recharge measures to other areas of the state.
E.    Role gf Women
3.20        The PPMU would actively encourage women*s participation in the
project activities. The Village Water and Sanitation Committees will include
women as members. The pilot schemes include special studies for determining
the role women should play in the project. Women have the main responsibility
for the management of domestic water use, family hygiene, and maintenance of a
clean household. The time spent by women in collecting water averages about
1-2 hours per day. Because of their key role in the sector, the health
communications strategy will focus on women as a main target. This would
include training women as handpump caretakers, and using existing women's
groups to promote latrines and health communication messages. Informal
woments groups will be trained to deliver water-related health messages. It
is expected that women will be actively involved in the siting of standposts,
washing platforms, bathing cubicles and handpumps. Through a consultative
process with the women the hours of water supply will be decided. Women will
be trained for preventive maintenance of handpumps and will be provided with
appropriate tools (spanner, grease box, etc.). These caretakers will play a
key role in forming water point committees at the handpumps/cisterns/
standposts. These groups will seek the cooperation of the villagers in
keeping the area around the water points free from pools of stagnant water.
F.    Disbursements
3.21        Disbursements are based on the standard disbursement profile for
urban water supply projects in India. The credit will be disbursed over a
period of six years (Annex 5). Although it is expected that the water supply
component would be implemented in five years, an additional year for project
completion is required to allow sufficient time to meet the community
participation and sustainability objectives of the project. The closing date
is December 31, 1999. Disbursement excluding taxes and duties, will be made
against the following categories of expenditures: (a) civil works, 90%;
(b) equipment, materials and vehicles, 100% of foreign and local ex-factory
expenditures, and 80% of other local expenditures; and (c) consultant services
and training, 100%.
3.22        Soecial Accounts at G0I and G0K level.  In order to accelerate
disbursements and to allow for direct payment of eligible local and foreign
expenditures, a Special Account would be opened in the Reserve Bank of India
with an authorized allocation of US$4.0 million equivalent to cover four
months of expected requirements for Association-financed items. During
negotiations an understanding was reached that G0I, for the duration of this



-23-
project, would follow the procedure of releasing about three months
anticipated project expenditures in advance to Karnataka, to cover
expenditures under the Project, pursuant to the annual work program, and
subject to periodic adjustments for advances. GOK would, upon receipt,
together with Karnatakaos own quarterly allocation for the Project, transfer
such funds to the departments and ZP engineering divisions responsible for
carrying out the Project, to be used exclusively for eligible expenditures
under the Project and cause the participating departments and agencies to
create and maintain separate bank accounts for funds received and spent under
the project (para. 7.03 c).
3.23        Documentation of Expenditures.  Withdrawal applications for civil
works with a contract value of over US$500,000 and goods contract over
US$200,000, and all consultant services will be supported by full
documentation and contracts below these limits would be on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The PPHU will be responsible for
aggregating the eligible expenditures under each sub-project and preparing
withdrawal applications for submission to the Association. Documentation
supporting SOEs would be maintained by the PPMu and would be made available to
IDA during supervision missions.
3.24        Retroactive Financing up to US$1.7 million equivalent (2% of the
credit) has been included to cover eligible expenditures during the twelve
month period preceding credit signing (but not before April 30, 1992), for
costs incurred in implementing appraised rural water supply schemes and
consultants contracts.



-24-
G.      Procurement
3.25             The procurement arrangements  are summarized  in Table  3.2.
Tsble 3.2* Procurement Profile
(US$ million)
PROCURBENMT COMPONENTS                              Prccur ment Method                          TOTAL
ICB      LCB              OTH             NuP        COST
Water Supply                                  45.82               -                 -            45.82
(40.25)                                           (40.25)
Borevell Prgiu                                 2.86              5.29(1)            -             8.15
(2.40)           (4.30)                           (6.70)
Groundv Reebarge                  -              -              10.33(1)            -            10.33
(9.10)                           (9.10)
Env. Sanitation                   -           21.37              7.81(1)            -            29.18
(13.30)           (3.40)                          (16.70)
COWS:_                           5.40          1.22              0.41(2)            -             7.03
(4.00)        (0.90)            (0.32)                           (5.22)
5CT SW:PPT
Scheme Designs                                2.42               -                 -             2.42
(2. 10)                                           (2.10)
Mbnasement                        -              -               S.96(3)            -             3.96
(3.00)                           (3.00)
Construction
Supervision                       -            3.47                                               3.47
(3.20)                                            (3.20)
Leek DetectLon
Survey                           0.25          0.66               -                 -             0.91
(0.18)        (0. 55)                                            (0. 73)
Special Studies                  0.39           -        -                          -             0.39
(0.25)                                                           (0.25)
TZTUTM UUIDMI
BEALST CUUwRICATrW:
Tralilng Materialsllquipt         -            2.48               -                 _             2.48
(2.35)                                            (2.35)
Community Particlpation           -            1.95               -                 -             1.95
(1.60)                                            (1.60)
Health Communication              -             1.09              -                 -             1.09
(0.80)                                            (0.80)
PEED/ZP                           -              -                -               .02               .02
(.00)            (.00)
LU  A0QISTIS    :                 -              -                -               .54               .54
(.00)            (.00)
TOTAL                            6.04         83.34             27.80             .56           117.74
( 4.43)       (67.45)           (20.12)          (.00)           (92.00)
Note$   Fi8ures in parentheses are the  amounts to be financed by the credit. All other figures include
duties and taxes. physIcal and ptLee contingenles. NIP means not IDA financed.
'OTHER' includes (1)force account work orgn1zed wLth departmental labor or locally employed labor,
(2)1ecl or laternatIonal shopping and O9Government staff cost.



-25-
3.26        Works.  The total cost of the civil works under this project will
be about US$94.0 million. All contracts for works will be awarded under
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Association.
Contractors bidding for contracts to be included in these packages, for the
water supply component will be subject to prequalification. Borewell drilling
(worth about US$5.3 million), groundwater recharge measures (worth about
US$10.3 million) and several small components such as parts of leakage repair
and latrine construction and sullage drainage (worth about US$7.8 million),
will be carried out by force account. These works are widely scattered over
the life of the project over a large area and therefore competitive
contracting is not efficient. In addition, in the case of latrines and
sullage drainage, cash and labor contributions from the beneficiary households
are envisaged, making bulk contracting impractical.
3.27        The works for the water supply component, (1,200 villages) worth
about US$45.8 million (or 49% of total civil works) will be packaged in about
three to four large contracts and awarded over the initial three to four years
of project implementation following LCB procedures since no foreign
contractors are likely to be interested due to scattered nature of these
works. The first package, comprising the construction of about 250 piped
village water supply schemes, including the supply of all materials, would
consist of 18 slices, generally along ZP engineering division lines.
Contractors will be allowed to bid for one or several slices depending upon
their qualifications. The contract will be awarded on the basis of the lowest
evaluated bid or combination of bids. This procurement arrangement is being
tried for the first time in a rural water supply project in Karnataka where
traditionally numerous small contracts have been awarded to local, often not
well qualified contractors under LCB procedures. During negotiations, an
understanding was reached that a detailed review of the procurement
arrangements would be conducted jointly with the Association after the first
contract bid results are known, but before bids for the next package are
invited. Based on the results of that review, the procurement arrangements
for the subsequent packages will be revised, if necessary, with a view to
simplifying packaging, slicing and timing and making the procurement as
efficient, expeditious and economical as possible.
3.28        Goods.  The total value of goods to be procured under the project
would be about US$7.0 million. All contracts for goods costing US$200,000 or
more (about US$6.0 million) will be awarded after ICB. Other contracts (not
exceeding US$1.2 million equivalent in aggregate) will be awarded under LCB
procedures acceptable to the Association, with the exception of: (a) some
special groundwater survey devices and specialized testing devices for the
public health laboratories costing about US$0.2 million for which few
suppliers exist and which, therefore, would be procured under limited
international bidding; and (b) small contracts costing less than US$50,000
each and not exceeding in aggregate US$0.4 million, which will be procured
following local shopping procedures.
3.29        Project Support and Institution Building.  The project includes
approximately US$15 million for project support and institution building.
Approximately US$11.5 million of this would be used to employ consultants and
staff in project cells, i.e. designing, management and construction
supervision. Consultants will be procured in accordance with Association's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.



-26-
3.30        All contracts for works costing more than US$500,000; all
contracts for equipment costing more than US$200,000; and all consulting
contracts of more than US$100,000, will be subject to prior review and
approval by the Association. With respect to all consulting services,
regardless of value, however, prior review by the Bank will continue to be
required for: a) terms of reference for consultant contracts; b) single-source
contracts; c) consultant contracts for assignment of a critical nature, e.g.
because of environmental, safety, or public health considerations; and d)
contractual amendments at more than $100,000 equivalent, or those that raise
the total contract value above $100,000 equivalent. This will allow prior
review for approximately 50% of the procurement under the project. See Annex
3 for the main schedule of actions for procurement. Bidding and
prequalification documents drafted in line with the Association's sample
documents were reviewed and approved at appraisal. These documents would be
used as models for the goods and works and consultants to be procured under
ICB and LCB procedures.
3.31        In order to facilitate the implementation of the project, the
Government has proposed to use up to US$2.0 million (2% of the credit), for
retroactive financing (see Annex 2, component 5) of expenditures made after
April 30, 1992, on generally (1) ongoing works in pilot villages, (2) early
payments on the borewells program, and (3) project preparation consultant
contracts. The advanced procurement is being done in accordance with
procedures described above and is necessary in order not to delay critical
activities of project implementation.
R.   Monitoring. Evaluation and Supervision
3.32        To provide effective monitoring and reporting of the project, the
PPMU will regularly monitor project expenditures, implementation activities
and system performance. In addition to monitoring the physical and financial
progress of implementation, the PPMU would be required to undertake periodic
impact evaluations using such indicators as: (a) incidence of water-related
diseases, particularly in children; (b) awareness of health education
messages; and (c) use of new facilities (Annex 6). A mid-term review of
project progress would be undertaken at mid 1996. The mid-term review would
focus primarily on assessing the implementation progress, construction
quality, project objectives and the impact of the innovative aspects of the
project which include the environmental sanitation and health communications
components, the involvement of NGOs and the community participation aspects of
the project. The review would also evaluate the project's impact on low
income beneficiaries, tribals and women. During negotiations agreement shall
be reached that GOK would carry out a mid-term review with the Association by
mid 1996 (para. 7.01 b).
3.33        PPMU would also be required to establish annual action programs.
During negotiations, assurances have been provided that Karnataka would
furnish to IDA for review by December 31 of each year, beginning December 31,
1993, an annual action program for the following year for investments in rural
water supply, environmental sanitation, health education and training under
the project, and the status of land acquisition required for these investments
(para 7.01 b).
3.34        The monitoring system would include beneficiary assessments which
would be carried out by the PPMU in conjunction with selected NGOs in the



-27-
twelve districts. These beneficiary assessments would focus on the impact of
the project on health, community participation and woments activities, and the
effective use and sustainability of the facilities provided. In addition, the
Secretary, RD&PR would be expected to meet on a quarterly basis with the Chief
Executive Officers and ZP Chairmen from the participating districts to reviev
project implementation. Progress reports on project implementation would be
provided to the Association on a quarterly basis. The project is expected to
have above average supervision requirements (Annex 9). A major supervision
mission would be required for the mid-term evaluation.
I.    Accounts and Audits
3.35        The appraisal mission reviewed the proposed project accounting
system, developed by GOK with consultants, assistance, and found it
satisfactory. The system at the PPMU will provide for centralized accounting
and facilitate the centralized auditing of project expenditures, in addition
to providing clear audit trails to original transaction data at the various
implementing agencies. The GOK has also developed an accounting system to
record and report on cost recovery of operations and maintenance for village
water supply schemes, for inclusion in the quarterly progress reports.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that: (a) GOK would maintain, or
cause the PPMU to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations, resources and
expenditures with respect to the project (para. 7.01 e); and (b) GOK and GOI
would appoint independent auditors satisfactory to the Association to submit
audit reports for project accounts, SOEs and the Special Account (para. 7.01
f). The audit reports would be in conformity with Association guidelines, and
would be submitted to the Association not later than nine months after the end
of each financial year. The audits will cover all project expenditures until
such time as the credit has been closed.
IV. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. GOK Investment Levels and CgounterDart Financing
4.01        Total rural water supply investment of G0K, including the
financing for the IDA funded project, is forecasted at Rs. 8,160 million over
the VIII Five Year Plan period (FY 1993-FY 1997). GOK average annual funding
of past (FY 1986-FY 1992) and forecasted (FY 1993-FY 1997) investment for
rural water supply is shown in Table 4.1 below.
Table 4.1: GOK Average Annual Fundina of Rural Water SiMply Investment
Amount           % of Total
(Rs. mns.        Capital Investment
FY 1986-1990 (7th Plan)             396                     6
FY 1991-1992                        405                     4
FY 1993-1997 (8th Plan)
IDA Project Component     100
Other Rural Water Supply  674      774                    3



-28-
In addition, the government has been providing small amounts of rural water
supply maintenance grants (Rs. 9 million-15 million p.a.). Past funding of
sanitation, which has not been included in the above table, has been small,
running annually at about Rs. 20 million. The State has only recently adopted
a modest sullage drainage program. Limited funding, available under the
Jawahar Rozgar Yojana, a mandal level employment scheme, can be used to
construct sullage drains.
4.02        The GOK has assigned high priority to the rural water supply
sector and, in particular, the proposed project. Estimated average annual GOK
funding for rural water supply over FY 1993-FY 1997 including the proposed
project is projected at Rs. 774 million (30 of the total capital budget) as
compared with the approximate Rs. 400 million average annual GOK funding
(about 5% of the total capital budget) over the previous seven years. In terms
of average annual funding over the VIII Five Year Plan period, the GOK project
counterpart funding would amount to about Rs. 100 million, or some 13% of its
total forecasted rural water supply funding requirements. The additional GOK
funding for the project is feasible.
4.03        In addition, assurances have been obtained during negotiations
that the GOK would furnish to the Association for review by December 31 of
each calendar year, the proposed budget with counterpart funding for the
following year as part of the annual action program (para. 2.10).
B.    Cost Recovery Policies
4.04        Current GOK cost recovery practices for rural water supply and
environmental sanitation are as follows:
(a)  Water Aupp.  The government fully subsidizes the capital costs of
rural water supply schemes. Individuals pay for the construction costs of
private household connections, including a connection fee averaging about Rs.
200. The mandals are responsible for operations and maintenance costs. They
are empowered to levy water rates and taxes on the villagers. The water rates
are levied on households with private connections. These fees typically range
from Rs. 5.00/mo. to Rs. 10.00/mo. Standpost users are normally not charged a
water rate. In some villages there is a water tax on property; however, the
amounts collected are not significant. As the collected water charges are not
sufficient to cover the full operations and maintenance costs, the GOK
provides the mandals with an annual maintenance grant of Rs. 300/borewell
equipped with hand pump; Rs. 10,000/mini water supply scheme; and Rs.
30,000/piped water supply scheme.
(b)  Envirotmntal sanitatio.  For the recently adopted sullage
drainage component, the government provides financing of capital costs under
the Jawahai Rozyar Yojana. Mandals are responsible for maintenance costs;
however, there is no identified tax or rate for drainage maintenance. For
private pit latrines, the government provides a subsidy of Rs. 1,200 toward
the capital costs. This represents an approximate subsidy of 33% to 50% of
the total capital costs, depending on the type of latrine and superstructure
constructed. Individual households are responsible for pit latrine
maintenance.
4.05        Cost recovery policies under the proposed project take into
account:



-29-
(a) the importance of rural water supply and environmental sanitation
to public health;
(b)   the increased importance given to community participation, health
communication and training in the project;
(c)   the results of the project wide socio-economic survey carried out;
(d)   the work to date in the pilot villages; and
(e)   government financial needs.
4.06        The cost recovery policies to be adopted for the proposed project
are as follows:
(a) Zgter suply. GOK would fully grant fund the capital costs of rural
water supply schemes. Costs of domestic connections (ranging from Rs. 500 to
Rs. 600) and connection fees (averaging about Rs. 200) would be borne by the
household. The communities would finance 100% of operations and maintenance
costs of the schemes (including bulk water charges, where applicable) through
differentiated charges for households with connections and those using stand
posts and handpumps, with exception for cases of extreme village poverty or
because of technical reasons, prohibitively costly schemes to operate and
maintain (para. 4.07).
(b) Envirommental sanitation. GOK would grant fund 70% of capital costs
of sullage drainage and bathing cubicles and provide subsidies for latrine
construction of Rs. 1,650 and Rs. 1,200 for low income and higher income
groups, respectively. The amount of subsidy for pit latrines ranges from an
estimated 33% to 69% of capital costs, depending on the type of latrine and
superstructure adopted. The communities would finance 30% of the capital
costs of the drainage works and bathing cubicles in cash, materials and/or
labor, with individual households providing the remaining costs for latrine
construction. Exceptions to the 30% community contribution for drainage works
would be considered for cases of extreme village poverty (para. 4.07). The
communities would assume the maintenance charges for the drainage works, while
individual households would assume responsibility for maintenance of private
latrines.
4.07        During negotiations, agreement was reached that GOK shall make
arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, with the Mandals to apply a
policy on cost recovery for the project as presented in para. 4.06 above, to
set and collect water and drainage tariffs, upon completion of the water
supply schemes and drainage works, at levels sufficient to cover operations
and maintenance costs of the schemes and works (para. 7.01 g). Exceptional
cases of extreme village poverty and of prohibitively costly schemes to
operate and maintain would be limited to at most 5S-10% of villages. GOK has
already submitted lists of Nandal resolutions for about 250 villages, in which
the Msndals agree to assume technical and financial responsibility for O&M for
the water supply and drainage facilities.
4.08        The provision of government grants to cover the full capital costs
of rural water supply schemes and partial financing of the capital costs of
the environmental sanitation and latrine component can be justified by the
positive externalities associated with the project and the limited ability of



-30-
rural households to pay fully costed tariffs. The supply of potable water and
improvement in sanitation are essential to public health and should produce
substantial health benefits and savings. Poverty is widespread in the rural
areas and with capital costs often being relatively high given the small size
of villages served and insufficient industry in the rural areas to provide for
cross-subsidizing, rural households are not able to afford the full cost of
services.
C.    Affordability and Willingness to Pay
4.09        Past performance.  Lack of local Government commitment and funding
as well as lack of trained manpower has adversely affected the operations and
maintenance of rural water supply schemes. Estimated annual operations and
maintenance costs of the existing schemes in Karnataka are about Rs. 28
million. Present pricing and collection practices do not allow for recovery
of these costs. Collected water charges are estimated at about Rs. 10 million
(36% of estimated operations and maintenance costs), leaving a short fall of
some Rs. 18 million (64% of operations and maintenance costs). The GOK
budgets about Rs. 9 million (FY 1992-93 budget) to partially fill the
shortfall, leaving a balance of approximately Rs. 9 million, which is
presently needed to properly operate and maintain the systems. This has
resulted in a vicious cycle of poor service followed by a reluctance to pay on
the part of the consumers.
4.10        Ca_ital costs for dainage works and 2rivate latrines.  The
community response to cost sharing for drainage works has been highly
successful in the ten pilot villages. The pilot villages have agreed to fund
at least 30% of the capital costs, with pledged amounts of cash, materials and
labor of over Rs. 2 million (Annex 7) and have already contributed all or a
substantial portion of their pledged share of cash for the works. Based on
the socio-economic survey of 5,022 households in 30 villages situated in the
districts covered by the project, almost 90% of the sample households are
willing to contribute towards the cost of drainage works, with the preferred
contribution being in the form of cash. Demand for private latrines in the
pilot villages, based on a government subsidy of Rs. 1,200, is estimated at
about 20%. The socio-economic survey indicates that 35% of the sample
households are willing to share 25% of the costs of latrine construction,
while 9% are willing to share 50% of the costs.
4.11        Water supply and drainage operations and maintenance costs.
Estimated operations and maintenance costs have been calculated for 50
villages, based on detailed engineering reports (Annex 7). Estimates include
operation and maintenance costs for the existing water supply in the village
plus the proposed new systems. These annual costs range from Rs. 44,000 to
128,000/village, with costs/m3 running from Rs. 0.84 to Rs. 2.39. Estimated
annual maintenance costs for drainage works (1.5% of capital costs) are about
Rs. 10/household.
4.12        Various tariff proposals, involving cross subsidies between
household connections and standposts and handpump users, to fully recover
operations and maintenance costs have been put forward, based on estimated
costs for the 50 villages that have detailed engineering reports (Annex 7).
The most likely proposal provides for a house connection charge of Rs.
20.00/mo, with the stand post charge varying between Rs. 2.29/mo and Rs.



-31-
10.99/mo. In addition, annual maintenance charges for drainage works are
estimated at Rs. 0.83/household/mo. Actual tariffs would vary by village to
attempt to maintain the water charge for standpost users at a maximum of
Rs. 6.50/mo. An analysis of affordability, based on the tariff proposal and
income distribution data provided by the socio-economic survey, is presented
in Table 4.2, below.
Table 4.2: Analy8is of Affordability of Different Levels
of Monthly Payments by Rural Households
If expenditure on Water
& Sanitation O&M as             Then the % of Households That Can Afford
8 of Household Income is:             Monthly Payments below is:
RLs.6.50  R9s. 7L50 Rs. 11.00 Rs. 21.00
2                           84          80        62         30
3                           89         88         81         50
4                           92          91        87         65
A monthly water and sanitation charge of Rs. 7.50 would be affordable by
approximately 90% of the rural housebolds at the 3%-4% income affordability
level, which is reasonable.
4.13        The socio-economic survey indicates that 76% of the sample
households are willing to pay if they are provided with improved water supply;
3& are willing to pay Rs. 20.00/mo and 32% are willing to pay Rs. 10.00/mo.
Based on work carried out in the ten pilot villages, the demand for private
household connections is estimated at about 40%, assuming a connection fee of
Rs. 350 to Rs. 500. Improved water supply together with the strong emphasis
on community participation and health communications and training in the
project is expected to increase substantially the willingness of beneficiaries
to pay for the operation and maintenance of water supply services.
4.14        Each mandal village will be requested to fix and collect water and
drainage fees in accordance with the estimated O&M cost. The overall
responsibility for cost recovery will rest with GOK (para. 4.07) who is also
expected to issue regulations satisfactory to the Association for
establishment and operation of WSCs (para. 7.01 h). As a condition of
effectiveness, GOK would be required to issue regulations setting out
procedures for the establishment of VWSCs (para. 7.02 c).



-32-
V. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
A.    Economic Analysis
5.01        The proposed project would provide a basic level of safe water
supply and sanitation services to rural villages. Health benefits would be
central in the proposed project since a primary objective of the project is to
reduce the incidence of water-related diseases. A small impact evaluation of
health benefits in Bangladesh, covering a population of about 5000, indicated
that the combined inputs of water, sanitation and health education reduced the
prevalence of diarrhea in small children by half and ascaris infection by more
than one third. However, any attempt to select and quantify meaningful
benefits would likely be only approximate and incomplete. Moreover, the
methodology would be open to challenge. Similarly, using womenfs time as a
means of measuring economic benefits would represent only a small share of the
actual benefits expected. The calculation of women's time would be equally
incomplete and the methodology inexact. Water tariffs are often used as a
proxy for benefits in rural water supply projects. While this approach has
merit, it does not reflect any of the true benefits which are health related
or social in nature. Thus, an economic rate of return has not been calculated
for this project.3
B.    Envirgnmental Assessment
5.02        The provision of safe and reliable water supply and improved
environmental sanitation facilities and related health education and promoting
community awareness of the importance of a clean environment are expected to
have a positive environmental impact on the lives of people in the rural areas
of these districts. Also the project would strengthen the state's capacity to
monitor water quality for bacterial, mineral and chemical contamination. The
project is not expected to have any adverse impact on the environment.
5.03        Although the share of tribal population in the project is low (5%
of the population), an understanding was reached during negotiations that:
(a) as many tribals as possible are brought within the scope of the project;
and (b) special efforts are made by the social survey and community
participation consultant to consult with the tribal communities to seek their
active participation in the design and implementation of the project; (para.
7.03 e and Annex 8). Special attention will also be paid to the needs of
scheduled caste population in the project villages to ensure unrestricted
access of project facilities.
3     In cases where attempts have been made to calculate women's time, it has
been found that the economic rate of return has been about 14% (Pakistan).
Had the health benefits derived from safe water and complementary
investments in drainage, sanitation and hygiene education been
quantifiable for these projects, the economic rate of return would have
been much higher.



-33-
VI. B1NEFITS AND RISKS
A.   BenefLts
6.01        In addition to the environmental benefits noted above, the project
is expected to benefit about 1,200 villages or about 4.8 million persons.
About 40% of the population served would be below the poverty line. The main
benefit would be the reduction in the incidence of water-related diseases,
which would lead to reduced morbidity and mortality, higher productivity, and
more water available for day-to-day domestic use. The project would also
result in time saved by women in collecting water. The project would improve
the lives of the rural poor and give communities more responsibility for
services provided which is expected to result in better maintenance of the
facilities.
B.   Risk5
6.02        The construction of the water supply facilities in the villages
will not be problematic. One of the main risks to this project is that the
environmental sanitation and health communications components may be given
lower priority in implementation and, thus, will not have their full impact.
This risk has been minimized by "up-front" agreement reached with GOK covering
the strategies to be implemented and the monitoring role of the PPMU. Another
risk is that the lessons learned from the pilot schemes will not be fully
implemented. This will be minimized by the use of NGOs and consultants for
community development and health communication and the formation of the
village water and sanitation committees. The sustainability of investments in
rural water supply would be at risk if there were inadequate institutional and
funding arrangements for 0611. This risk would be minimized through measures
to: (a) upgrade local skill levels through training; (b) strengthen
administrative arrangements by which commnities assume responsibility for
06M; (c) maximize revenues through design improvements and provision of house
comnections; and (d) identify clearly subsidies required in the poorest areas.
VII. AGREEIXITS REACHED AND RECOIIDATION
7.01        During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a) GOK would ensure that water supply schemes to be financed under
the project will be designed according to criteria satisfactory to
IDA (para. 2.25);
(b)   GOK would prepare and furnish to the Association for review by
December 31 of each calendar year, commencing on Decenber 31,
1993, an anual action program for the following year for
investments in rural water supply, environmental sanitation,
health education, training and technical assistance, and the
status of land acquisition (para. 3.33) and would carry out a mid-
term review with the Association by mid 1996 (para. 3.32);



-34-
(c)   GOK would prepare guidelines, based on the experiences learned
from the pilot schemes, satisfactory to IDA, which would be used
for implementing the community participation activities of the
project (para. 2.33);
(d)   GOK would appoint and maintain necessary qualified staff and
provide funds to meet all recurrent costs of effectively operating
the water quality monitoring system in the 12 project districts
(para. 2.10);
(e)   GOK would maintain records and accounts in accordance with sound
eccounting practices (para. 3.35);
(f)   GOK and GOI would appoint independent auditors satisfactory to the
Association to submit audit reports, in conformity with
Association guidelines, for project accounts, SOEs and the Special
Account, for each financial year, to be supplied to the Associa-
tion no later than nine months after the close of each year (para.
3.35);
(g)   GOK shall make arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, with
the Mandals to set and collect water and drainage tariffs, upon
completion of the water supply schemes and drainage works, at
levels sufficient to cover operations and maintenance costs of the
schemes and works (para. 4.07).
(h)   GOK shall issue regulations satisfactory to IDA for establishment
and operation of Village Water and Sanitation Committees (WSC)
and make arrangements with Nandal and Village Panchayats for the
establishment and operation of WSCs (para. 3.16);
(i)   GOK would award, no later than September 30, 1993, contracts to
consultants and non-governmental organizations, for promoting
community participation in planning of water supply and
environmental sanitation works to be carried out in the second
phase of the Project (para. 2.20); and
(j)   GOK would award consultants contracts for supervision of
construction for the second phase of works to be undertaken under
the Project, prior to award of contracts for the commencement of
said works (para. 2.20).
7.02        As a Condition of Effectiveness, GOK agreed during negotiations to
(a) appoint Key Staff of PPMU, PHED and ZPs (para. 3.06); and (b) award
consultants contracts for health communication, training (for first year of
the project), final design (phase 2), and construction supervision (phase 1)
(paras. 2.20, 3.07 and 3.13); and (c) issue guidelines setting out procedures
for the establishment of VWSCs (para. 3.16).
7.03        Understandings reached.   Understandings were also reached on the
following matters -
(a)   guidelines, based on the experiences learned from the pilot
schemes will be prepared for the three phases: (i) planning, (ii)
implementation; and (iii) operation and maintenance. Since the
planning phase in the pilot villages is already completed, GOK may



-35-
make use of the guidelines included in the SAR. Guidelines for
the implementation phase would be prepared by mid-1994 and for the
O&H phase by mid-1995 (para. 2.33);
(b)   vacancies in the twelve water quality control laboratories and
three surveillance laboratories in the twelve project districts
and in the Central laboratory at Bangalore would be filled and
staff maintained. All other recurrent cost, estimated by the
consultant at about Rs 4.0 million per annum, for effectively
operating the water quality control and surveillance system will
be provided (para. 2.10);
(c)   GOI, for the duration of this project, would follow the procedure
of releasing about three months anticipated project expenditures
in advance to Karnataka, to cover expenditures under the Project,
pursuant to the annual work program and subject to periodic
adjustments for advances. GOK would, upon receipt, together with
Karnataka's own quarterly allocation for the Project, transfer
such funds to the departments and ZP engineering divisions
responsible for carrying out the Project, to be used exclusively
for eligible expenditures under the Project. Participating
departments and agencies will create and maintain separate bank
accounts for funds received and spent under the project (para.
3.22);
(d)   no resettlement of people or expropriation would be involved in
land acquisition. The responsible revenue officer will negotiate
a fair compensation (real market rate) with the landowners on an
individual basis. Similar procedures would be applied for
acquiring land for the remaining villages in the second phase of
the project (para. 3.09); and
(e)   special attention will be paid to the tribal population which is
included in the project. Special steps will be taken to ensure
that: (i) as many tribals from the project villages, as
possible, are brought within the scope of the project; (ii)
special efforts are made by the community participation and health
communication consultants/NGOs to consult with the tribal
communities to seek their active participation in the design and
implementation of the project; and (iii) the services are provided
free for them. The tribal population in the project villages
amounts to about 5% of total, of which only about 30% are
estimated to live in isolated habitations (para. 5.03).
7.04 Recommendation. Orn the basis of the above agreements, the proposed
project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$92 (SDR 66.3)
million to India at standard IDA terms with 35 years maturity.



-36-
Au 1
Page 1 of 3
KARNATACA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Institutional Responsibility
1.        There are three ministries concerned with rural water supply,
sanitation, health education and watershed development program in the State:
the Ministry of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RD&PR), the Ministry of
Health and the Ministry of Agriculture and Horticulture. Under RD&PR
Ministry, the Public Health Engineering Department (PHED), the Zilla Parishads
(ZPs or district councils) and the Mandal Panchayats (an administrative unit
covering about 10 villages) are the institutions responsible for rural water
supply and sanitation services in the State.  The Directorate of Health and
Family Welfare Services under the Ministry of Health is responsible for health
communication. The health communication programs are implemented by Health
Wings of the respective ZPs. Under the Ministry of Agriculture and
Horticulture, the Director of the State Watershed Cell and the regional Dry
Land Development Boards (DLDB) are responsible for the watershed development
program. The ZPs and the Mandal Panchayats have been set up to decentralize
powers and functions and to promote the development of democratic institutions
and the participation by the people in development plans and in local and
governmental affairs.
2.        PHED.  Since the establishment of the ZPs and Mandal Panchayats,
the role of PHED has been considerably reduced and is now limited to: (a)
preparing annual plans for rural water supply schemes; (b) drilling of
borewells for source development; (c) scrutiny and technical approval of
schemes prepared by the ZPs; (d) provision of technical support to ZP
engineering wings; and (e) inspection of construction works being implemented
by the ZPs. PHED is headed by an Engineer-in-Chief stationed at Bangalore.
He is supported by four Superintending Engineers, one each for the four
revenue divisions of the State (Bangalore, Mysore, Belgaum and Gulbarga).
Each Superintending Engineer is supported by one division and up to five
sub-divisions. PHED also has a design wing at Bangalore attached to the
office of the Engineer-in-Chief.
3.        Zilla Parishads.  The local government for each District has a
three tier structure consisting of a ZP, Taluk Panchayat Samitis and Mandal
Panchayats. There is one ZP per district, one Panchayat Samiti per Taluk and
one Mandal Panchayat for a group of about 10 villages (population between
10,000-15,000). ZPs and Nandal Panchayats have elected bodies and executive
powers. There are 19 ZPs, 175 Taluk Panchayats and over 2,500 Mandal
Panchayats in the state.
4.        The Administrative Head of the ZP is Chief Secretary (Indian
Administrative Service) and is equivalent to a Joint Secretary of the GOK.
The ZPs have various departments working under the Chief Secretary, including
an Engineering Department. ZPs normally have one or two Engineering Divisions
to look after their engineering activities. There are 36 ZP engineering
divisions in the State. A typical organizational set up of a ZP Engineering
Division comprise an Executive Engineer at Division-level, one Assistan



-37-
Annex I
Page 2 of 3
Executive Engineer at each Taluk, supported by 8 Assistant/Junior Engineers
working in the Mandal areas.
5.        The ZP engineering wing is responsible for construction and
augmentation of water supply schemes (Piped Water Supply, Mini Water Supply,
Handpumps) except for drilling of borewells which is done by the PHED. ZPs
also support the Randal Panchayats in undertaking major maintenance works at
cost on request by the Nandal Panchayats.
6.        In addition to water supply related functions, the ZP's engineering
wing is also responsible for other engineering works pertaining to roads,
buildings, minor irrigation and even drilling of irrigation tubewells (through
private contractors).
7.        After construction of piped water schemes, ZPs hand over these
schemes to Nandal Panchayats for O&M. In practice, the Mandal Panchayats only
operate the water supply systems and the maintenance and repairs work is
forced on the ZPs. The ZPs however recover the cost of maintenance and repair
works from the respective Mandal Panchayats. Responsibility for maintaining
the handpumps is with Mandal Panchayats, however in many Districts handpump
maintenance is performed by the ZPs.
8.        Mandal Pacxsats. Handal Panchayats are at present responsible
for 06M of water supply systems and maintenance of handpumps in all the
villages in the Mandal. They are empowered to fix and collect water charges
from the users and are required to pay electricity bills and salaries of staff
employed for O&M of the water supply systems. They also receive grants from
Government to meet part of the O&M cost. For major repairs they can obtain
assistance from the ZP. Village Water and Sanitation Committees would be
empowered under Nandal bye-laws to assist the Mandal Panchayats in the O&M of
water supply and sanitation facilities.
9.        The Director of Health and Family Welfare Services at the State
level, supported by Additional Director and Joint Directors, is responsible
for various health programs in the State. The Joint Director (Diarrheal
Disease Control and Commmnication Diseases Control) at the Directorate of
DH&FW is in-charge of control of communicable diseases viz, cholera,
gastroenteritis and other water-borne diseases in the state. At present,
health communication programs give little emphasis to water supply and
sanitation aspects. Programs at District level, Block (Taluk) level and
Village level are implemented by officers of the health wing under the
administrative control of ZPs. Junior Health Assistants work at village level
and, are responsible for carrying out the health program as a package.
10.       Director of State Watershed Develogment Cell is responsible for
planning and monitoring of the watershed projects/groundwater recharging
schemes. The Dry Land Development Boards (DLDBs), one in each revenue
division, under the administrative control of Divisional Commissioners, have
been constituted by GOK to implement dry land development/water recharging
schemes. Each of these DLDBs has a non-official Chairman and members from
farming commuity to promote active community participation in the projects.
The DLDBs have multi-disciplinary cells with officers from departments of



-38-
Page 3 of 3
Agriculture, Horticulture and Forest. The DLDBs have the responsibility of
monitoring the planning and implementation of watershed projects done by the
district/project teams and also encouraging the field staff to adopt
innovative approaches In watershed management.



-39-
Armex 2
Page 1 of 58
INDIA
KARNATAKA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Proiect Components 1-5 (Detailed Descrigtion., Cost Estimates and Procurement}
Component 1:  Rural Water SupIly
Design Criteria for Rural Water Supply
DLesign Period          15 years (up to year 2011)
Water Demand
Public standposts       40 lpcd (including water demand by animals)
House connection        70 lped
Allowances as appropriate should be made for institutional, conuercial
and industrial use. For small municipalities or rural centers with
populations larger than 10,000, a minimum of 100 lped should be assumed.
Service Levels
Handpumps               1 per 150 persons, maximum distance 250 m
Public standposts       1 per 150 persons
Svstem Losses
New systems             15% of gross demand
Mixed old/new systems   15% of gross demand. If losses in existing system
exceed 20% under continuous supply situation, leakage
repair shall be carried out.
Pumping Systems Standby Capacity
At borewells            No Standby
At other pumping stations
1 or 2 pumps            1 standby
more than 2 pumps       2 standbys
Vumling  winns
Villages with populations less than 1,000 - 8 hours minimum;
Villages with populations more than 1,000 - 12 hours minimuim;
Large individual and regional schemes - 16 hours
Daily Water SupIly Periods
It should be aimed at supplying water for 24 hours. Interrupted service
causes suction in the pipes which may lead to water contamination. Continuous
supply also eliminates the need for additional water supply installations at
each house.



-40-
Annex 2
Page 2 of 58
Water Treatmert
Groundwater       Di'-infection only (if within water quality standard).
Surface water    Aeration, flocculation, sedimentation, filtration and
disinfection. Plants should have a minimum of mechanical
equipment and power dependence.
Storage
Balancing clear water reservoir at treatment plant 1-2 hours; master balancing
reservoirs in regional schemes up to 6 hours; service reservoirs up to 50% of
daily demand. These are guidelines only. Actual capacities should be
determined by supply/demand analysis, especially for regional schemes.
Peak Fac=4s
Transmission mains -   not more than 2.0 depending on pumping hours and
storage
Distribution mains -   3.0 to 4.0 depending on scheme size and daily supply
times
Elow in Pipes (Distribution Systems)
Average velocity- 0.3 to 0.5 m/s
inimnum Pipe Size
Service connections to single private tap       - 12mm
Service connections to stand post,l or 2 taps   - 20/32mm
All other pipes minimum diameter                - 63mm
NAtgr Hammer
Water hammer analysis should be carried out on all transmission mains and the
appropriate pipe class and as an additional safety measure, adequate surge
protection devices should be provided.
S&stem Pressures
Minimum residual pressure at peak supply - 8m head for single story buildings
Maximum pressure in distribution system - 50m head in exceptional cases for
small low lying areas
Different pressure zones should be established where differences in topography
are extreme.
Systems LaYout
(a) systems layout should be designed following good engineering
practices, which include: air release valves at all high spots;
scour valves at all low spots; thrust/anchor blocks at all
horizontal and vertical bands; distribution system valves at all
major branches and a minimum cover of 80cm for mains less than 100mm



-41-
Annex 2
Page 3 of 58
bends; distribution system valves at all major branches and a
minimum cover of 80cm for mains less than 100mm dia and 90cm cover
for mains greater than 100 mm dia.
(b) Wherever possible standard designs should be used for treatment
plants, reservoirs, pumping stations and other structures.
(c) Adequate provision should be made for the disposal of spillage
water at standposts, by either providing soak pits or connection to
drains.
(d) Where house connections are provided, the house owner shall
construct a soak-away pit for sullage water.
Pipeline Materials
These should be chosen on the basis of satisfying performance criteria at the
least cost. Exceptions may apply in special cases. Cast iron, ductile iron
and steel pipes should have cement mortar linirg.
Specifications for plastic pipes shall include that the pipe performance (e.g.
elasticity, strength) shall not deteriorate n any way by storage of pipes in
the sun and by water temperatures in the pipes of up to 35sC.
Service Conmections
All service connections to distribution mains should I-t made using appropriate
saddles and connectors.
Metering
Bulk meters to be provided at the outlets of all treatment plants and inlets
of reservoirs for surface water/regional schemes.
Piped Water Sumly Schemes of Phase 1
Institutional Responsibilitv
1.        The Engineering Wings of Zilla Parishads (ZP) in each district are
responsible for implementation of all water supply schemes, but approval by
PHED is required for all schemes costing over Rs. 1.0 million (US$ 33000).
However, for the implementation of this project, comprising water supply
schemes for about 1200 villages (250 in Phase 1 and 750 in Phase 2 and about
200 in Phase 3), the Ministry of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RD&PR)
and the PHED have agreed to use consultants for project preparation and
construction supervision and centralized procurement by PHED. This
arrangement was made because of staff shortage in the ZP and PHED and in order
to implement the project in a five-year period. PHED and the ZPs will have
the function to monitor the consultants. Responsible for O&M of the water
supply systems are the Handal Panchayats (HP). However, RD&PR will make the
individual villages responsible for O&K, including cost recovery.



-42-
Page 4 of 58
Des cr ipt Xon
2.        Phase 1 will comprise water supply schemes for 250 villages with a
total present population of about 1.0 million (average 4,000 per village).
These villages are situated in 10 districts (see IBRD map).  All these
villages have inadequate water supply, either quantity or quality wise and
many of them face acute water shortage in the dry season. The project also
includes repair or replacement of existing facilities. All 250 villages will
have individual water schemes, based on groundwater sources. A typical scheme
consists of about three groundwater wells with submersible pumps which are
operated for about 8 to 12 hours per day, rising mains with diameter 75 to 200
mm, water storage facilities (mostly elevated reservoirs) from 50 to 250 cbm
capacity and distribution systems. Borewells with handpumps will be provided
in distant hamlets of a village. About 608 of the population will use stand
posts (or hand pumps) and 40% will have house connections. Water quality is
in accordance with Indian standards. Except for chlorination, water treatment
is not required. A summary of "Population, Water Demand and Service Levels"
for 200 villages of Phase 1 is provided in Table 1, and of "Proposed Worksn in
Table 2.
ImDlementation
3.        Design and tender documents for the Phase 1 water supply works are
completed. Contractors will be prequalified and it is expected that at the
effective date of the Credit, bids will be invited. It was agreed that all
works will be procured in one single contract package under ICB, but with 18
slices. One slice comprises all the project villages in a ZP Engineering
Division (part of a district). A contractor may bid on one or several slices.
Since all works and goods required for a scheme will be included in the
contract, only one contractor will be responsible for the timely completion of
a scheme. The contractor may have to subcontract mechanical/electrical works,
well drilling and will have to procure all materials. It is expected that all
works will be completed within a three-year period after award.
4.        An exception to the above will be made for the implementation of
water supply schemes in 10 pilot villages which have been selected for testing
innovative approaches (community motivation for taking responsibility for O&M
of water supply, environmental sanitation and cost sharing). These schemes
will be procured before credit signing under LCB by the respective ZP with
assistance from PHED. Works carried out up to one year prior to credit signing
will qualify for retroactive financing. Another exception is necessary for
the drilling of about 1,000 wells and test pumping for the identification of
the water sources for the 250 village water supplies of the first phase.
These works are carried out by the Drilling Wing of the PHED and will also
qualify for retroactive financing.
Base Cost Estimate/Procurement
5.        The cost estimates are based on the schedule of rates and final
designs (beginning 1993 price level) and include the supply of all materials.
A summary of the investment costs for 200 villages is provided in Table 3.



9~~~~~~~~~
Page 5 of 58
Share in
TaxesZ         Procure-
BescrlptiQu              Local      Foreign   Total Daales           mgnt ky
--------- in Rs. Million ---------
10 Pilot villages          8          1          9        0.90           LCB
Phase 1 village schemes 1M4                    221        2.80           LCB
Total (Civil Works)      202         35        237       23.70 (10% average)
(Retroactive financing
share)                   4          1          5        0.50
(Cost for well drilling and handpumps are included in the borevell program.)



SELB I
hUNATAKA RURAL WATU SUPPLY AND ENVIONETAL SANITATIO0 PROJBCT
DESIGN DATA - PMUE I (UATER SUPPLY)
POPULATION,  AUIn  DEMAD, SRVICE LEVELS FOR 200 VILLAGES OP PRASE I
SL DITRICT                NO. OF  POPULMATIO    GR0SS PER CAPITA   POPULATION OOVERAGE         WATER DUSUD       WATER       WATER SOURCE
RO.                       VILLA-  1991  2011  sUPPLY                YR. 2011                   YR. 2011         DEAND AT   -------------
CB8                   1991   2011          BC   SP   N$S  HP                         SOURCE    TSPE QUALm
lped    lpeA        X      2    X       X        CBOMD         CBMID       -------------
1    2                    3       4       5      6      7          8      9    10    11         12              13         14   15
___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
1 BEAGAWMR                23   62102  84952  24.2   58.0          36.3  56.4   3.8   3.5       4125.2          4822.4     BW    P
2 BELGAUM                 20   91015 128585  26.9   59.8          36.1  60.4   0.0   3.5       6498.5          7623.9      BW    P
3 BELLARY                 23  104402 142877  15.6   57.8          30.9  66.6   1.1   1.4       6968.6          8179.7     NW     P
4 BDIDR                   17   53251  74734  21.5   58.5          37.1  61.8   0.0   1.1       3690.8          4336.3     DW    P
5 D EXNADA                 7   29786  45595  38.0   49.7          28.3  46.1   0.0  25.6       1769.6          2041.1     BW     P
6 GUbLARGA                21   89909 125332  25.9   58.4          35.7 59.7   0.0   4.6        6199.0          7263.8     NW    P
7 FUNDYA                  23   93382 129494  21.1   57.7          36.2  57.6   2.6   3.7       6273.8          7348.9     Dv    P
8 )FfSORB                 26   96331  131141  21.9   58.0         57.4  38.4   0.9   3.4       6428.4          7529.9     BW    P                          .:
9 RACHUR                  20   74670 103339  20.1   61.9          42.5  56.7   0.0   0.7       5430.7          6386.1     NW    P
10  SHnIGA                 20   81697  117672  22.5   58.7         39.0  60.2   0.2   0.1       5791.3          6813.3     BW    P
------------------------------------------------------------------------__---__-------------------------------------------------_-----------
*      *          *    *       *      *
TOTAL/WBEIGTED AV.(*)    200  776545 1083721  24.5   57.9          38.0 56.4  0.9   4.8    53175.9            62345.4
-------------------------------------------------------------__--------------__------------------------------------------------.----------
NOTE * HC - ROUSE CORNECTIOB, SP - STAND PST , MWS a MINI WATER SUPPLY
HP - AND PUMP, VS - WITHI  STANDARDS
0
00



TAIKS 2
KAA?AKA SUSA. 2IATM 80011. AND UWI20UIUAI. GAMMON10  FDJICt
r2D00   NIKS  200 V1..2 00 nta    I Wta2ER   t1rn1)
#I     0143ct0    Me. 00   0_13C3 RISIS 151 M0 L43tMtl                                   AT 1001X    0oo005      0WA        330m809            01831111500 $V3  LstwS               SUEICIS 4it. 2"1t
I0.    _0133         YtI-    110M                TAI4    lie      go      7is                1ToT                 0tL                        "1#0    1       O0     is     4s          0        of  CU   a
0n                                 20       0         0          O 0                0.     CAAC1cV  30. CM66            20  c          U      mm     mm
of    M        i         M                 cmiu                   cows.                     IN    IN      M      me      M          SD eM.     e    s.  on.
1          2          S        4            5     *         7      0                t o0      U         12          is      14       is      14      17     to      1      20        21        22    2       24
I     1*03.0          2is      11      t    0    4.5       1.2     7.7    14.6      11       114.1       0         0.0      24      15MS    1.4      1.9    1.4    1.6    $1.1    4540         10      9     1s
a      UMUG           20       54    47    0    4.4        S.9    1S.5    22.0    514        40.5        9       244.7      26      250      .1      2.1    4.0    4.0    50.8    Ina          414    0      22
S     92.L13          Is       4?    is    0   22.2       2S.S    10.3    So.#      s0       $52.5       7       *21.3      2?      2125    2.1      2.2    4.5    4.4    1.0    499           44      2     12
4     s2la m                   20    *      0    0.0      15.7    10.6    21.1      it       274.0       4         1.0      19      1454    2.4      1.0    1.0    2.7    25.5       MS55      242    0       4
S     0. SAN"                  t 2    14    2    1.4       9.0     1.4      1.      I%        92.4       4        14.4       7       500    1.       2.0    5.1    4.        2.1    219"         M    0      42
8     0LINA "    21            40    U      0    0.0      15.0    25.1    57.1      47       231.2       a       140.0      21      S05     4.1      2.0    1.1    1.0    52.4    0201          292    0     21
7      n"             21       47    12    0    0.1       10.1     7.t    10.1      47       459.9       2        52.1      s0      2410    9.0      1.a    7.0    5.1    45.1    502          104    4      14
I     NVUS3            24      51    24    0    2.0        7.9    12.5    24.5      SO       479.0       2 a      44.       so      2075    2.0      1.2    1.4    8.4    01.2    5000         521 t         20      U
9     3C**             20e      5    Ia    0    4.0       10.2     9.7    21.0      4S       S".S        14      401.4      24      1       1.0      1.4      .0    1.5    40.4    4204         299    0      2
10       an             10      05    41    I    4.0       10.1     7.4    21.0      SO       101.1       0       2".4       ts    2Isi      4.1      5.4    S.$    4.0    70.5    4411          110    0      11
1O*           200      40    S"     S   11.01   101.4   17.9   2S1.1    425         SS50.4      5s      1477.4      219   2S0       27.S    11.    45.0   40.7   574.1   ss70          5042   24    147
0o73.  M - 046  03* Be   MM                  Mt *Wa - 03 IIUL, CIS * C01700  W  * IAID NS,           Is   * 0D    A  SOICR
as I   Was0 Bosom      111W3   5~3& OCIMw A    AIUS  mm1 13A0)l VA - WAG OSAILS
IA
I:  t8



TAML 3
KARNATAKA RURAL AOUR SWPLY ?AND EM UffIL SANIUfAOS  ROJCT
INVES5HEJ 0O0S - 200 VILAGES OF PEASE I (VA2XR SUPPLY)
(COS? in M=Ill RWUEE)
UL DISTRIC?     LO. OF    80003 WSIC WOR M , S                                                           amOSRIS  I UIII ST   D 1 0  D   AXR &
N0.                 VILLAES   + BODSTER PUHS                             SERVICE FACLITIES S OTR1-8 --  ------------           am?      DU1ES5
TaO            toDAL         Tom             Tom                 10   FUSWO  tomL                   SNARE
1     2               3              4              5            6              7                    8         9       10      11         12
1 BIAIALOI            21           3.794          3.106        5.666          7.069                0.00D     0.000   19.891   0.125      1.500
2 3LS*U3             20           3.359          8.131        5.637          8.9D0                0.000     0.000   28.308   0.110      2.6400
3 SXLLAR             23           4.208          6.216        6.245          8.223                0.000     0.0D0   25.138   0.120      1.800
4 sum*3               17           3.016          4.053        3.902          $.894     -          0.000     0.000   17.034   0.090      1.800
3 D ZAflADA            7           0.993          0.989        1.835          4.369                0.000     0.000    8.271   0.0"0      0.600
6 CULUARAA            21           2.876          5.702        6.959          8.53                 0.000     0.000   25.282   0.110      1.800
7 BNDTA               23           3.020          4.S30        ?."6           9.905                0.000     *.000   25.005   0.140      2.000
8 310m03              26           3.360          4.080        7.726          9.756                0.000     0.000   25.226   0.160      1.900
9 R41CHUR             20           5.316          4.762        4.222          9.255                0.000     0.000   23.745   0.090      2.100
10 S1)4OCA             20           2.123          2.790        5.68S          7.888                0.000     0.000   20.00D   0.111      1.542
?0?AL                200          B4.296          44.139      33.330          78.789               0.000     0.000  218.100   1.096     17.662           .
RT 8  SIERVICE FACILISIES INCLUDB BAN PUHWS CISTERBS & STAND POSTS
OTHERS INCLUD EWME PIPE AND 3*101*Y PUMP DOUSES, VALVE CHAHBERS DISINPVCTION a3*28*5M   L UTSI, PURLIC FOUNIUS. BARBED WID 128r13 AND THBUS? ILOCS
II'



-47-
Page 9 of 58
Pined Water Suogly Schemes of Phases2
InstiUtutonAl Resoonslbilitye
6.        The responsibilities for implementation of Phase 2 works will rest
on the same authorities as for the Phase 1 works (see Annex 2, para 1).
Adjustments may be made following experience under Phase 1 works.
Description
7.        Phase 2 will comprise water supply schemes for 750 villages with a
total population of about 3.0 million (average 4,000 per village). These
villages are situated in the same 10 districts as the Phase 1 villages (see
IBRD Map). The selection process for these villages is completed. All
villages have inadequate water supply, either quantity or quality wise and
many of them face acute water shortage in the dry season. The project also
includes repair or replacement of existing facilities. Besides individual
village water supply schemes using groundwater sources (about 685 schemes),
Phase 2 also includes about 25 schemes as well as about 10 regional schemes
for groups of villages which will have to use surface water sources.
8.        Facilities to be provided for the 685 individual schemes are the
same as described in Annex 2, para 2. For the surface water schemes, both
individual and regional, an intake structure at the source and a water
treatment plant will be necessary. The water treatment typically consists of
aeration, dosing of chemicals, clariflocculation, rapid gravity or slow sand
filtration and chlorination. Usually, long rising mains are necessary in
order to transmit the water to the reservoirs in the villages. In regional
schemes, intermediate booster stations and balancing reservoirs may be
required in order to equalize water distribution to the service reservoirs.
Iplementation
9.        It is expected that the final design work for phase 2 villages will
be awarded to consultants by June 1993, and all designs and tender documents
will be completed by June 1995. Procurement will be carried out in two large
contracts (with slices); the procurement arrangement may be modified in order
to include experience under Phase 1. Procurement for the first contract will
start in September M9v4 and for the second in September 1995 and works will be
completed by March 1998 and March 1999, respectively. (For more details about
procurement, see Annex 2, para 3.) Well drilling for groundwater source
development and test-pumping is not included in above-mentioned procurement
packages. These works will be carried out by the Drilling Wing of PHED or in
case PHED is committed otherwise, private drilling contractors will be used.
Base Cost Estimate/Procurement
10.       The cost estimates (beginning 1993 price level) are based on the
PWD schedule of rates and unit costs developed for Phase 1 works.



-48-
Annex 2
Page 10 of 58
Descrilption               Local  ErriMn  Tota1  Share In Taxes  Procure -
Duties       ment by
----^^------ in RS. Millions----------
685 individual schemes      550      100     650           65          LCB
(with groundwater
sources)
25 individual schemes        51        9      60            6          LCB
(with surface water
sources)
10 regional schemes          42        8      50            5          LCB
(40 villages, surface
water)                      -
Total                       643      117     760           76 (10% average)
(Costs for well drilling and handpumps are included in the borewell program)
Procurement for these works will be in two to three large contracts with about
20 slices. Each slice will comprise all works within a ZP Engineering
Division.
wined Water Suonly Schemes for Phase 3
InstitLutional RegnaM 1bili&X
11.       The responsibilities for implementation of Phase 3 works will rest on
the same authorities as for Phase 1 and 2 works (see Annex 2, paras. 1 and 6).
Adjustments may be made following experience of Phase 1 and 2 works.
Descri2tion
12.       Phase 3 will comprise water supply schemes for about 200 villages
with a total population of about 0.8 million (average 4,000 per village).
These villages will be identified by GOK using the same selection criteria as
used for Phase 1 and 2 villages. These may be from the same 10 districts
and/or possibly from two additional districts to be identified. The selection
process for these villages is expected to be completed by June 1993. About 50%
of the villages are expected to be served from groundwater sources and the
remaining 50% from surface water sources (either individual or regional piped
water schemes). The project also involves repair or replacement of existing
facilities.
13.       Facilities to be provided will be similar to those proposed for
groundwater and surface water schemes of Phases 1 and 2.



-49.
Anny 2
Page 11 of 58
Implementatio
14.       It is expected that contracts for engineering design consultants for
Phase 3 villages will be awarded by December 93 and all designs and tender
documents will be completed by December 94. Procurement will be clubbed
together with procurement of the second lot of Phase 2 schemes (see Annex 2,
paras. 9 and 10). Well-drilling for groundwater source development and test
pumping will be carried out by PHED as for Phases 1 and 2 (see para. 9).
Base Cost Estimates/Procurement
15.       Unit costs developed for Phase 1 works have been used to estimate
Phase 3 works.
Share in
Taxes/       Procure-
Description             Local   Foreig       Total      Duties        ent by.
-------      in Rs. Million-----------
100 individual schemes
(with groundwater
sources)                  81      14           95          9.5         LCB
Surface water schemes
(individual/regional)
for 100 villages                   Q12.50                              LCB
Total                    186      34          220       (10% average)
(Cost for well drilling and handpumps are included in the borewell program.)
Borewell Program. Handnumns. EguiDment
In£titutional Responsibility
16.       BorewellI drilling and installation of handpumps will be carried out
by the Public Health Engineering Department (PHED). PHED has its head office
in Bangalore and Circles, each headed by a Superintending Engineer (SE) in
Bangalore, Mysore, Belgaum and Gulbarga.The circles are supported by PHED
Divisions each he.aded by an Executive engineer. They are presently operating
67 drilling rigs and 23 flushing/cleaning rigs and have a capacity to drill
about 5,000 borevells per annum and to clean and flush about the same number of
wells. Rigs are being repaired in the two PHED workshops, but also private
workshops are used. PHED is likely to procure one hydrofracturing unit from
UNICEF under bilateral assistance for rejuvenating of existing borewells and
increasing groundwater yields.
Description
17.       The proposed program will cover all 12 project districts and will
consist of the following works:



-50-
Annex 2
Page 12 of 58
(a)  drilling of borewells (for installation of submersible pumps) and
test pumping for source Identification for the 250 villages included
in the first phase. About 1000 borewells, diameter 150 mm and at
average 75 m deep will have to be drilled. These works are almost
completed and qualify for retroactive financing;
(b)  as above, but for the about 685 villages of phase 2 which will use
groundwater sources. About 3,000 borewells will be necessary;
(c)  as above, but for about 100 villages of Phase 3 which will use
groundwater sources, About 400 borewells will be necessary;
(d)  drilling of about 500 wells, supply and installation of India Mark
III handpumps and platforms in the villages included in phase 1.
These works will not be carried out by PHED, but included in the main
contract for the water supply schemes and carried out by private
contractors;
(e)  as above, but 1,900 borewells in phase 2 and 3 villages;
(f)  rejuvenation of about 500 existing borewells by hydrofracturing;
(g)  replacing of about 1,000 handpumps with India Mark 3 handpumps; and
(h)  for supporting PHED's statewide drilling, hydrofracturing and
maintenance activities, the following goods will be procured:
(i) 3,500 India Mark 3 handpumps, including spare parts.
(ii) 6 borewell drilling rigs - 150 m diameter, medium duty,
hydraulically operated top drive DTH fast drilling rigs, truck
mounted and complete with compressors and all equipment and
tools along with support trucks.
(iii)  1 hydrofracturing rig, truck mounted, diesel powered units
capable of delivering at least 335 I/min at 170 bar for use in
wells up to 6-1/2a diameter and 60 m deep, complete with all
equipment and tools.
(iv) 10 yield testing units for borewells consisting of a truck,
submersible pump, hydraulic motor pump, hoist assembly and
measuring instruments.
(v) 3 Well Logger units for geophysical investigations to assist in
groundwater studies and identification.
(vi) strengthening and upgrading of the two existing workshops by
providing required tools and equipment and supply of spare parts
and building improvements/additions.



-51-
Ame 2
Page 13 of 58
iplemetation
18.       It is estimated that the main borewell drilling and rejuvenation
prograii (Activities para. 12, (a), (b), (d)) and procurement of goods will be
comples.ed within two years and all balance activities within a further two
years. It is anticipated that all works will be carried out by PHED; however,
private contractors procured under LCB may be used if necessary for the timely
completion of the works. Disbursements against force account works carried out
by PHED will be made on a lump sum basis per well completed, per well
hydrofractured and per handpump and platform installed. The lump sum will
include all costs for materials, fuel and depreciation for equipment used, and
staff cost.
Base Cost Estimate. Procurement
19.       The cost estimates are based on PHED's estimates (beginning 1993
price level) and include the supply of all materials.



-52-
Annex 2
Page 14 of 58
ILescriogion                 Local  Foreign   Total  Share in Taxes/  Procre-
--- in Rs million--     DutLs      amente by
Source development for
Phase 1, 1000 borevells      27.00    3.00     30.00        3.00       Force acc
Phase 2, 3000 borevells      81.00    9.00     90.00        9.00       Force acc
Phase 3, 400 borewells       10.80    1.20     12.00         1.20
Borewells for handpumps incl, install.
of handpumps and platforms
in Phase 1 villages - 500   15.00      1.50   16.50         1.60       LCB
in Phases 2 and 3
villages - 1900   57.00     5.70   62.70         6.27       LCB
Hydrofracturing - 500 wells    6.75    0.75      7.50         0.70      Force ace
Handpump replacement program
1000 pumps (works only)    l.S0    0.10        1.60        0.10       Force ace
Total for works              199.05    21.25   220.30        21.87
(9.9%)
Materials. egUI Mn t and others:
3500 India Mark 3 handpumps
and spare parts             38.00    4.00    42.00          4.20           ICB
6 Drilling rigs               23.00   44.50    67.50         23.00           ICB
1 Hydrofracturing rigs         0.37     0.63     1.00        0.37            ICB
10 Yield Testing Units         2.20     3.80     6.00         2.20           ICB
3 Well Logger Units            2.10     1.90     3.00         1.10           ICB
Workshop equipment, tools and
supply of spare parts        13.50     1.50    15.00         1.50           LCB
Workshop structural improvements
(Civil Works)                  2.70    0.30  , 3.00          0.30            LCB
Total for materials and
equipment                    80.87    56.63   137.50        32.67 (24%)
Noet:  or kshp equipmt, tools and wuply of spare parts will be proeurd Ln several smal packages iader LCB an
may also Lnlude local or LaternatLnal shppin.
Retroactive financing share for
source development          27.00    3.00    30.00           3.0
GroSqSbster ReSbAX&2 Measures
InUtitutional Responsiblly
20.       The GOK, under the MOA has constituted a athree-tier system  at
state, division and project levels to implement watershed development projects.



-53-
Page 15 of 58
The organization at each level involves multi-disciplinary departments under
unified leadership to ensure a team approach in project implementation. Except
for a few hydrogeologists and a project coordinator with an assistant at the
state level SWD Cell, no additional staff is required. The total staff in the
19 districts of the state amounts to about 3000.
21.       The Karnataka State Watershed Council (SWC) was established in 1984
to decide on major dryland development policies. Under the Council, various
committees steer the implementation of programs and identify, screen and select
officers for the programs. In addition, a State Watershed Development Cell
(SWDC) was constituted to coordinate the work of various donors, departments
and NGOs in implementation of watershed projects and for developing and
formulation of new projects.
22.       The actual planning, implementation and monitoring of watershed
development projects is carried out by the Dry Land Development Boards (DLDB),
one in each of the four revenue divisions of the State. The Revenue Division
Commissioner is the Administrator of the Board which is supported by a
multidisciplinary cell consisting of officers from forest, land use planning,
soil conservation, agriculture and by a monitoring and evaluation unit. The
Board is supported by non-official members including farmers, in order to get
feed-back from beneficiaries. At each project/district level, a multi-
disciplinary Watershed Development Team (UDT) is put in place to direct and
supervise project implementation by employing locally available skilled and
unskilled labor and their organizations. ZP geologists certify whether
treatment proposed by the WDT will lead to improved and sustained yield from
the borewells.
23.       Informal people's institutions (Sanghas) were set up, in the previous
World Bank financed Kabbalnala Watershed Development Project, in order to
encourage people's participation. The experience was very positive, and the
Sanghas now number 140 and are now considered as a means to achieve effective
participation. A similar informal voluntary group, called Micro-Watershed
wSanghass, would be required under the project to be involved in the
development and maintenance of the works. At the formation of a Sangha, each
member would have to contribute Rs. 100 to a common Bank account and the
project would contribute another Rs. 300. The Sanghas would meet every
fortnight and decide on what money should be spent or to whom lent and they
also would ensure the recovery of the money from the members. The maLn
objectives of the Sanghas are:
(a) to manage the common property resources developed by the project;
(b)  to meet the urgent and small financial needs of the members by
building up their own reserves with support from the project;
(c)  to participate in the planning process for the watershed development;
(d)  to encourage and motivate farmers to participate; and



-54-
Page 16 of 58
(e) to act as a medium between the farmers and Government for technical
and service assistance.
24.       It is also intended to use NGCs for mobilizing community
participation. There are about 128 NGOs in Karnataka registered under an
umbrella organiztion called FEVORD (Federation of Voluntary Organizations in
Rural Development). It is proposed to use one NCO in each of the 12 project
districts to work together with the watershed development staff on mobilizing
the people. They would extend their support to the villages over a period of
five years until the village community is fully stabilized. Each NCO would be
supported by approximately Rs. 10,000 per annum from the project. The
involvement of the NGOs would help to develop an element of social monitoring
in the project and spread the experience of groundwater recharge measures to
other areas of the State.
Description
25.       The GOK launched its watershed development program in 1984.  It has
been thoroughly tried and tested through a series of integrated watershed
development projects funded by the World Bank and state/central government
assistance. Results are very encouraging. Although increased agricultural
production was the primary target, considerable improvements in conserving
water and soil, thereby increasing the moisture regime and groundwater recharge
(yields in wells increased up to 30%), will also be achieved. The objective of
this project component is to conserve rain water in situ in areas of high
dependence on rain in order to improve the infiltration and recharge of
groundwater. In situ conservation would maintain the water balance and at the
same time reduce soil erosion and siltation in reservoirs. Measures which
benefit groundwater recharge are called ncorea measures and are mostly on non-
arable land in the upper catchment area and drainage courses. Other measures
which primarily benefit agricultural production are called non-core measures
and are mostly on arable land. The latter are not financed under this project.
Non-arable land usually belongs to Government, while arable land is usually
privately owned. Land in between is called marginal land and may be private or
public.
26.       Micro-watersheds to be treated in each village or group of villages
vary in size from about 100 to 400 ha. Measures to be carried out in the core
program are numerous and would begin from the uppermost reaches with
treatment specific to the land capability. These upper reaches are usually
devoid of top soil, sloping and boulder ridden. Catch pits of one cbm size or
V ditches along contours are constructed in these areas to harvest the rain
water and to facilitate for infiltration. In the pits and ditches, plants or
trees would be planted to stabilize the trenches and improve infiltration
through root holes. V ditches would also be constructed in the adjacent lower
regions on marginal land, and in this area economical horticulture species
would be planted. The cost of the plants and grafts will be borne by the
project with the people excavating the trenches and ditches and maintaining
them. The other major items in the core program are drainage line treatments,
which involve construction of diversion channels of 0.5 to 0.8 sq.m. section;
checks to control erosion, vegetative barriers to check the run-off velocity



-55-
Annex 2
Page 17 of 58
and for harvesting of silt which would facilitate infiltration. In the lower
regions of the water course, check dams at appropriate locations carried out
with locally available construction material will be provided.
27.       The planning and selection of treatment for groundwater recharge in
the project villages will be highly site specific, depending on rainfall
patterns, soil condition, topography and location of the identified drinking
water source. It is estimated that about 700 villages (60% of the 1,200
project villages) would qualify for groundwater recharge treatments.
Im2lementation
28.       Planning is carried out in three phases:  (a) a baseline survey; (b)
a master plan and finally, (c) an action plan. The action plan is most
important for the success of the project. In this phase, group meetings with
farmers take place in order to motivate them to form their own informal
voluntary group. Staff of the watershed development team and farmers then
survey the area, discuss all measures on site and get the farmers' approval.
They also agree on an implementation schedule, cost-sharing by farmers and a
monitoring plan. Thereafter, a final review and approval of the proposed
measures and cost would be carried out at the divisional and state level
watershed development authorities.
29.       The actual implementation of the groundwater recharge components
would be attended by the multidisciplinary staff of the Watershed Development
Team which would engage locally available skilled and unskilled labor. These
activities will be monitored by officers of the Dry Land Development Board
(DLB) and the State Watershed Development Cell (SWDC). It was also agreed to
employ an independent consultant for an external evaluation of the impact of
the implemented works (impact evaluation study) and for proposing mid-course
corrections if necessary. TOR have been prepared and approved by IDA.
30.       Surveys and designs for about 80 villages are already completed.  The
project would be implemented over a 4-5 year period. Activities would start
simultaneously. Surveys and planning would be completed in the first
year, production of planting material for upper catchment and diversion
channels would be carried out during the first three years, construction of
water harvesting structures and planting would be carried out between the
second and fifth years.
Cost Estimate and Procurement
31.       The cost estimates are based on beginning 1993 price level and on
designs carried out by DLDB.



-56-
nnex 2
Page 18 of 58
Description                  Local   Foreign total  Shre in         Procure-
---in Rs. Million---   TaxeI   tpuA  ment bX:
700 villages requiring
groundwater recharge measures
Core treatment only
(Civil Works)                219.33   11.67   231.0        2.30     Force acc
Establishment of farmers
association (Sanghas)        5.80    --        5.80       --      N/A
NOs' involvement               1.20    --       1.20       --      N/A
Impact evaluation study        1.0      --       1.0        --      Other
Planning and implementation
(Establishment cost, 20% of
project cost including
vehicles  & equipment)       44.35  _2.35    46.70         2.3     Other
Total                        271.68   14.02   285.70        4.6 (2%)
The works would be carried out by force account using local labor. For planning
and supervision of the implementation, IDA would agree to finance an amount
equal to 20* of the construction cost to cover GOK's expenditure for this
project component.
Leak Detection Survey and Repair Works
Is=titutional Responsibility
32.       The ZP Engineering Wings in each district would be responsible for
these works. However, as the required expertise for carrying out such works is
not available in the ZPs, the Ministry of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj
(RD&PR) and PHED have agreed to use consultants for the survey and supervision
of the repair works. PHED and the ZPs would monitor the consultants. Staff of
the ZPs is expected to participate both in the leakage survey and in
supervision of the repair works in order to gain experience.
Descriotion
33.       Water loss surveys carried out in some villages indicate that
existing rural water supply systems have high water losses. In order to reduce
these water losses, it is common practice in India to provide water for two
periods of maximum four hours per day. It is desirable to provide continuous
services. This would avoid the risk of inflow of contaminated water into the
water supply system when the pipes are not under pressure. It would also
remove the need for unnecessary private investments for underground and roof
storage tanks and booster pumps at each individual house in order to have 24
hours water supply. It is estimated that about 800 of the 1200 project
villages have some existing distribution system and that about 350 of them



-57-
Annex 2
Page 19 of 58
would require leakage repairs in order to reduce water losses to an acceptable
level.
34.       PHED intends to use the services of a specialized consultant who
would be responsible for:
- carrying out a leakage assessment in each project village;
(determining villages with water losses greater than 20%)
- carrying out of a leakage survey for identifying locations of all
major leakage points in all villages with high water losses;
- preparing of cost estimates for repair works and required material;
- preparation of standard tender documents, including specifications
and bill of quantities;
- training of ZP staff on the job; and
- management/supervision of the repair works carried out by local
contractors or by force account.
PHED has prepared TOR which have been approved by IDA.
Inulementation
35.       It is anticipated that the survey and assessment would be carried out
by a local consultant with some advisory input of a foreign expert, if
required. The leak detection equipment would be imported. Staff of FPEM and
ZPs would be seconded to the consultant for on-the-job training. Immediately
following the leak detection survey, the necessary repair works shall be
carried out by contractors who will be managed and supervised by the same
consultant. This has the advantage that additional leak detection can be
carried out during repair works if required in order to reduce the overall
losses to an acceptable level. The contractor will be required to bid for
works, including all required materials. Since the scope of work and required
materials are difficult to estimate, the contractors would be requested to bid
on a unit cost basis for various diameters of pipes, fittings and valves,
different types of materials and excavation depths. The required repair works
will involve:
-   replacing pipelines which are beyond repair;
-   replacing of leaking pipes, fittings and valves;
- repairing of leaking joints and valves;
- repairing house and public standpost connections; and
- repair/replacement of standpost taps, etc.
36.       The consultant and the contractors would be required to complete the
survey and repair works in approximately 4-5 years. About 12 consultant teams
and about 12 repair teams will be necessary (one in each district). As soon as
the consultant has gained some information about the scope of repair works and
materials required, he would prepare standard bid documents which would be used
throughout the project period. Bids for works would be invited for the total
works in each district (12 districts), but bidding for individual slices (one
slice may be a group of 5-10 villages) should be permitted. Leak detection and
repair work should be implemented almost at the same time. Repair works may
also be given to the contractor in the district who is constructing the main



-58-
Page 20 of 58
water supply systems, at rates comparable to those in his contract with PHED.
This would require that the leakage survey is coordinated with the contractorvs
activities.
Base Cost Estimates and Procurement
37.       Cost estimates are based on 1993 price levels.
D,esgrigtion               Local  ,Forigfl  Total  Share in Taxes  grocure-
& Dutiels       gent bv:
-in Rs. Million -----
A)  Leak detection assessment. survey
and repair supervision
Local consultant
600mm x Rs. 25,000, including
support staff and field allowance
for seconded staff and transport
cost                       15.00    --       15.00      1.00        LCB
Foreign advisor
6mm x US$15,000 and
flights                      --    5.00       5.00       --         IS
Leak detection equipment
(inml. duty)                2.50   2.50       5.00      2^QO        ICB
Total                      17.50   7.50      25.00    3.00 (12%)
B) Leakage Repair Works
Total (estimated)          42.50   7.50      50.00    5.00 (10%)   LCB
38.       The majority of the works will be carried out by local contractors on
the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB). Young contractors trained in
pipe fitting and plumbing under the TRYSEK system (Training for Rural Youth
for Self Employment) should be permitted and encouraged to participate in the
bidding. The availability of such young village contractors will be very
important for the further maintenance of the water supply system and laying of
house connections. Some urgent or minor works may also be carried out by force
account.
Water Ouality Monitoring
Insitutituonal Re1onsibIlt
39.       Consultants were employed by the Bank (through the Japanese Grant
Agreement) to assist GOK in developing this component and their draft report
has been received. This component will have two sub-components : (i) Water
Quality Control (WQC) on a routine basis by the respective supply agencies and



-59-
Annex 2
Page 21 of 58
Water Quality Surveillance (WQS) through periodic audit by an independent
agency. The PPNU will be responsible for monitoring the implementation of this
component including procurement of goods and supporting training programs.
40.       Implementation of the WQC Program related to strengthening of
infrastructure will be the responsibility of the Engineer-in-Chief, Public
Health Engineering Department. Responsibility for routine water quality control
will be that of the respective supply agencies (Village Committees, Mandal
Panchayats). The ZP engineering wings will operate the District WQC
laboratories, monitor the adequacy of WQC activities of the supply agencies in
the Districts and provide them technical support. ZPs will regularly report WQC
status in the District to PHED for review. PHED will be responsible for
arranging training programs, providing technical assistance to ZPs and
monitoring the WQC systems maintained by the ZPs and supply agencies.
41.       Implementation of the Water Quality Surveillance (WQS) program
(strengthening the infrastructure) will be the responsibility of the Director,
Health and Family Welfare Services (H&FWS) through District Health and Family
Welfare Officers in the ZPs. The Director (H&FWS) will be responsible for WQS
related training, providing technical support to ZPs, monitoring WQS systems
maintenance by ZPs and ensuring feedback to supply agencies for taking
corrective actions.
42.       It will be the responsibility of GOK to ensure that adequate budget
provision is made every year to meet the recurrent cost of the WQ monitoring
program in the 12 project districts. Presently, the responsibility for routine
WQ control rests with the supply agencies. However, testing of water samples or
chlorination is rarely done in any of the rural water systems in the state. VQ
surveillance is undertaken by the Health Department only during epidemics.
There is no comprehensive program for surveillance of all the water supply
systems in the state.
Desgri2tion
43.       The objective of this component is to support GOK*s efforts to ensure
that the drinking water supplied to the rural population in the state is safe
for human consumption at all times. To this end the project will support
strengthening of the decentralized system of WQ monitoring being jointly set up
by GOK and COI. The component will cover setting up or upgrading laboratories
in the 12 project districts. The laboratory for Bangalore (Rural) and
Bangalore (Urban) districts will be common.
44.       The component will include establishing six new laboratories and
upgrading the six existing laboratories for PHED. An additional central
laboratory will be set up at Bangalore and fully equipped to carry out full
water analyses. Three of the existing ten Health Department Laboratories would
be upgraded and provided with water testing equipment. This would cover civil
works and furniture, procurement of equipment, materials, glassware and
chemicals, portable water testing field kits and transport. Training of the
staff would be covered under the training component of the project. Management
information systems would be developed for monitoring the WQM systems when
functional. The project would finance only the investment costs of this



-60-
Anne,x 2
Page 22 of 58
component. The Association will need assurance from GOK, that it will appoint
and maintain necessary qualified staff and provide necessary funds every year
to meet all recurrent costs of effectively operating the WQM system in the
state (para 7.02 (c)).
45.       The consultants will develop detailed proposals for each laboratory
in respect of civil works and goods and prepare specifications and tender
documents for procurement. It is anticipated that civil works for the proposed
new laboratories for PHD and PHED will be procured under LCB procedure by the
ZP engineering wings who will also be responsible for construction supervision.
PHED will provide assistance and monitor the implementation. ICB will be
applied for procurement of all goods for both PHD and PHED through a single
contract. It is expected that all works and goods supply will be completed
within the first 3 years of the project.
Base cest Estimate/Drocurement
46.       The cost estimates are based on the consultants report.
Descri2tion                Local  Foreign  Total  Share in Taxes/ Pgocure-
& Duties        men
-Rs. Million --------
(a)WQ Control (PHED)
-Civil works- 6 new labs    5.04    0.56    5.60        0.56        LCB
and upgrading of 6 labs
-Equipment, Materials       7.90    3.00   10.90         1.65       ICB
-Vehicles                   2.51    1.00    3.51        0.90        LCB
(b)WQ Surveil. (DOHFWS)
-Civil works- 3 labs Upgr.  0.54    0.06    0.60        0.06        LCB
- Equipment, Materials      1.26    0.63    1.89        0.28        ICB
- Vehicles                  0.54   !)7Z   ,0.81         0.20        LCB
Total                    17.79    5.52   23.31         3.65 (15.5% average)



-61-
Annex 2
Page 23 of 58
Component 2 Environmental Sanitation
A. Drainagg
Institutional Resnonsibility
47.       Primary responsibility for implementing this component will be with
the Mandal Panchayats and the ZP project cells. The PPMU will provide policy
guidelines, funding for the state's share and arrange training programs.
Responsibility for planning and preparing engineering designs for the drainage
systems will rest with the engineering consultants employed by the PHED. The
plans will be discussed with the Village Water and Sanitation Committees by the
community participation (CP) consultants in order to incorporate the
community's demand for drainage and to establish their willingness to share in
investment costs and take responsibility for maintenance.
48.       Respective Mandal Panchayats will be responsible for the construction
of drainage systems as per approved plans with construction supervision by ZP
engineers.  Based on the results of the pilot villages, the PPKU/CP consultants
will prepare guidelines on implementation arrangements, cost-sharing and
financing mechanism to be followed for this component. Presently, the surface
drains are constructed by the Mandal Panchayats through their own funds and/or
through the JRY program of the GOI and with technical
support from ZP. Ad-hoc planning, inadequate coverage due to limitation of
funds, poor construction quality and poor maintenance (lack of community
participation) are the main issues.
Description
49.       The component would provide sullage drainage arrangements in the
project villages including: (a) soakpits at public water points, roadside
drains, road re-profiling and final sullage disposal sites. Where feasible,
soak-pits will be promoted for on-site disposal of sullage water from
households and public water points. Emphasis will be on developing low cost
solutions. The drainage system will consist of branch lines in by-lanes,
mainline drains, culverts and final disposal sites. The required re-profiling
of roads and by-lanes will be included to the extent required for proper
functioning of road side gutters. Disposal sites will be identified for safe
disposal of the sullage water drained from a village (e.g. watering of trees,
soakpits or drains.)
50.       The component will be implemented in those project villages where
there is a demand for drai*age, and the village is willing to share the capital
cost and provide for maintenance. The component will be financed on a cost-
sharing basis, with the state contributing 70% of the investment cost and the
village concributing the balance of 30%. Each Village Water and Sanitation
Committee would pass a village resolution which would indicate their
willingness to contribute, the amount of their contribution, the form (e.g.
cash and materials and/or labor), and a time frame for collection (see Annex
10). This resolution also obligates the village to maintain the system and all
other facilities provided under the project.



-62-
Annex 2
Page 24 of 58
B. Latrineg
Institutional Responsibility
51.       Primary responsibility for implementing this component will be with
the project cells of ZP engineering wings. The PPWU will provide policy
guidelines, technical assistance, training and funding for the state's share
(subsidies). The construction of private latrines will be the responsibility
of the house owners. Mandal Panchayats and WSCs will assist ZP project cells
in the implementation of this component.
52.       Based on the experience of the pilot villages, the PPMU will prepare
guidelines for the proposed implementation arrangements, subsidies and
financing mechanisms to be followed for this program. NGOs, local village
groups and/or the Village Water and Sanitation Committees would take primary
respinsibility for promoting latrines by interacting with individual families
and communities. As the demand for latrines in rural areas is generally low,
awareness regarding the benefits of using latrines (convenience, privacy,
health) has to be created.
Description
53.       The main objectives of this component are:  (a) to ensure that the
market mechanism is in place in all 12 districts for individuals to purchase a
low cost latrine model (primarily the twin pit pour flush model, but variations
in use of materials and type of superstructure will be permitted to suit the
local conditions and user preferences) and ensure that sufficient masons are
trained to provide for quality control in construction and (b) to install on a
demand basis latrines in all the project villages in the 10 districts. On an
average, about 10% of the households in all the project villages are expected
to have demand for a private latrine, though, the actual demand will vary among
the villages. About 90,000 units are expected to be constructed through the
project.
54.       The cost of a standard TPPF latrine model with superstructure (brick
construction for walls and GI sheets for door and roof) is estimated at Rs.
3,600. Because of the variations in cost of superstructures and the need to
promote latrines among higher income households as well as low income
households, a base cost of Rs. 2,400 will be adopted for a latrine unit. To
ensure use of a latrine, beneficiary contribution from their own resources will
be necessary. The state will offer the following subsidies to the households:
(a) Rs. 1,650 for SC/ST and economically weaker sections of the society (b)
Rs. 1,200 for all others. The subsidy would be administered jointly by the ZP
Junior Engineer and VWSCs. Fifty percent of the subsidy would be given after
completion of construction up to the plinth level and the remaining 50% after
completion of the superstructure. The full subsidy would be given to each
beneficiary regardless of the type of superstructure chosen or whether the
beneficiary contributes his/her own labor toward construction.
55.       Training of local masons would be organized by the training
management unit under the PPMU. Demonstration latrines in project villages
would be used for training purposes.



-63-
Annex f
Page 25 of 58
C. Washing Platforms. Cattle Troughs. Bathing Cubicles and Street Bins
Institutional ResDonsibility
56.       Responsibility for planning and developing this component will rest
with the PHED who would employ consultants to prepare standard designs,
construction drawings and cost estimates. The proposals will be discussed with
the Village Water and Sanitation Committees in order to assess the community's
demand for these facilities linked with willingness to share in investment
costs. Respective Nandal Panchayats will be responsible for construction of
the bathing cubicles as per approved plans with construction supervision by ZP
project cell. Washing platforms, cattle troughs and dust bins would be
included in the main contract for the construction of the water supply system.
Description
57.       The component (some or all of the above facilities) will be
implemented in those project villages where demand, linked with willingness to
share in investment costs, exists. It is estimated that this component will
include the following:
(a) Washing platforms (18,000 units) at the rate of 1 unit per
150 persons for the estimated 1996 population. These will be
near the public standpipe/handpumps. Estimated cost for a
standard design amounts to Rs. 700 per unit.
(b) Cattle troughs (4,800 units) at t ia rate of I unit per 1,000
persons for estimated 1996 population (assuming number of
cattle equal to human population in a village). These will
be generally close to the locations of the public water
points in a village but will not be provided with a piped
water connection. Estimated cost for a standard design
amounts to Rs. 1,200 per unit.
(c) Bathing cubicles (3,000 units) at the rate of 2 units per
- llage. These will be generally close to the locations of
a.ne overhead tanks in a village and will have a piped water
connection. Estimated cost for a standard design amounts to
Rs. 6,400 per unit.
(d) Street bins (12,000 units) at the rate of 10 units per
village. Locations will be decided by the village water and
sanitation committee. Estimated cost for a standard design
amounts to Rs. 700 per unit.
The bathing cubicles will be financed on a cost-sharing basis, with the
state sharing 70% of the investment cost and Village Committees sharing
the balance of 30%. Washing platforms, cattle troughs and dust bins
will be financed by the project. The project would require a village resolution
indicating an agreement on cost-sharing and assumption of full financial and
administrative responsibility for maintenance of the facilities. NPs/Village



-64-
Ane 2
Page 26 of 58
Committees will undertske to arrange for collection of garbage from the dust
bins, its conveyance and safe disposal.
D.  Pilot Plants for SolJ Waste and Cattle-dung Disgosal (Bio-Gas  Plants)
Intiutnl         egl
58.       The PPMU will be responsible for undertaking the pilot program and
will employ consultants for design and supervision of implementation. The
implementation of the pilot projects will be the responsibility of the
respective ZPs/Handal Panchayats/Village Committees. The maintenance of the
installed facilities will be the responsibility of the users. Presently, the
responsibility of disposal of the garbage along with cattle dung and leftover
fodder lies with the house owners. This waste is generally dumped into
individual manure pits provided in the backyards of the houses. The degraded
waste is used as fertilizer in the agricultural fields and is therefore an
important resource of the owner. However, as the manure pits are not
maintained properly, they become a serious health hazard (mosquito breeding,
fly nuisance) to the community.
59.       The Government of India, through the state government, has been
supporting construction of both individual as well as community bio-gas plants
(on a smaller scale) as a viable village based solid waste disposal strategy
and to encourage non-conventional energy production and its utilization.
Subsidy is provided for this purpose. However, due to inadequate funding,
physical progress has not been significant.
Dssr in
60.       With a view to find out practicable methods of safe solid waste
disposal, it is proposed to undertake a pilot project in about 10 villages that
have a large number of cattle. Consultants would be employed to propose
suitable types of plants to supervise the implementation and to monitor the
performance of the installed facilities. The component will include:
(a)  consultancy services for design, preparation of tender
documents, supervision of construction and monitoring of
performance;
(b)  civil works for about 10 pilot plants.
61.       The strategy would be to involve the community and NGOs in
planning, implementation, monitoring and make the community responsible for
O06 of the plants. The extent of capital cost sharing by the users and market
for the byproducts will be assessed by the consultant. The study would
include recommendations for large scale implementation.
S. ImDlementation of the Environmental Sanitation Program
62.       The PPMJ, using the lessons learned from the pilot schemes, will
prepare guidelines for implementing the environmental sanitation component.



-65-
A"2
Page 27 of 58
It Is estimated that the construction of the environmental sanitation
facilities for the 250 Phase I villages will be completed by 1995 and the
balance villages in Phases 2 and 3 by 1999. Proposed works and investment
costs for drainage and habitat development for the 200 villages of phase I are
presented in Tables 4 and 5.



TAKLE 4
LUZUATA RURAL WATR suPPLY AND  INt             SITAATIO  PROJECT
PROPOSED WMBRR AND INVESINTET PROPOSAL POR DR3iMSE 5SSTE - 200 VILLACES OF PHASE I
(COST IN MILLION RUPEES)
-----_-------_-----------------------------------------------__--------------__----------------------------------------------_-----
SL. DISTRICT         10. OF  POPULATION      NEw        CULVERT   BYLANE    D.SITE4            INV8STMENT CoST
J0.                  VILLA-  1991 2011       DRAINS      NEW        UEV        S.PIT            BASE COST            TAxES &
CES                     REUB.                PAVI                    ----------------------    DUTIES
IN         NO.        SQM.        NO.         LOCAL FORgDGN TOTAL    SEARE
1  2                  3        4      5       6          7           S          9           10    it       12        13
1 EANASLONE          23      62102   84952   71.3       468       32046         173         0.0    0.0  10.135    0.40
2 NELGAWI            20      91015  128585  113.2       671       11722         109         0.0    0.0  12.197    0.30
S SELJUAY            23    104402  142877  104.1        561       19"6          145         0.0    0.0  11.098    0.30
4 sIDAR              17      53251   74734   73.8       397        5087         83          0.0    0.0   7.036    1.10
5 D KANNADA           7      29786   .3595    0.0         0           0          8          0.0    0.0   0.070    0.00
6 OULRAMA            21      89909  125332  107.3       727       35255         129         0.0    0.0  10.901      0.30
7 KAMUMT             23      93382  129494  132.8       809       10804         194         0.0    0.0  13.562    0.s0
8  tNSEn             26      96331  131141  138.1    1601          8172         190         0.0    0.0  14.595    0.40
9 PAICoR             20      74670  103339   73.7       563       11770         113         0.0    0.0  10.261    0.40
10  SNIND5A           20      81697  117672   88.8       471        5945         89          0.0    0.0   7.773      0.20
TOTAL               200      776345 1083721  903.1    6268       140579        1309         0.0    0.0  97.628    3.70
NOTE : D. SITE 1S DISPOSAL SITE, S.PIT IS SOAK AND SrLT PIT
I".
co
0
tl'
CO



TAKLE 5
ARNATAIA IRMSS PROJECT
PROPOSED WOK  AND INVESTKST PROPOSAL POR HABITAl DEVELOPKe9T - 200 VILLAGES Of POA88 1
SL D1STRICT  N0. O  POPULATIOS               RUBITAT DEVELOIPET WOW8                             INVESiS(T COST                   5*S C06S           TAXES &
ND.            VILLA-  1991   2011                                                     -           - 
GES                   KUD?.    3U*3RC B1   H      DNIG  DUST CATTLE    lNDV.   WASHIG  BATHIN  DUST CATTLE                             DUTIES
LIARtIUS PIFATPOX  CUBICLE  BINS TROUCH  LATRINES PLATSYRM  CUBICLE BINS TROUGH   ------------------------  SNaRE
30.        30.      D0.    30.   DO.                                                 LOCAL FOREIGN TOTAL
1     2         3       4       5         6        7          8      9           10   11      12        is    14      15       16      17      18        19
I 1ARUUALOE    21      62102  £4952    1508    434          82    s11       8S    S.206   0.267        0.414  0.245   0.146   0.0   0.0   6.279         0.410
2  BELAUUUK     20      91015 128058    2263    697         94    474      130    7.946   0.452        0.544  0.377   0.147   0.0   0.0   9.466         0.612
3  EELJARY     23    104402 142857       2532    777       128    555      144    8.379   0.489        0.613 0.502   0.173    0.0   0.0  10.156         0.635
4  IDAM         17     53251  74734    1392    396          57    291       75    5.674   0.260        0.314  0.229   0.085   0.0   0.0   6.562         0.S69
5 D  AUU*1DA     7     29786  45593       534    182        30      98      30    1.99f   0.110        0.194  0.074   0.030    0.0   0.0   2.402        0.127
6 GULBAUGA      21     89909  125332    2221    866         97    469      126    8.523   0.431        0.565  0.371    0.205    0.0   0.0  10.116       0.544
7 MANtDYA      23      93382 129494    2275    656          91    478      126    7.620   0.406        0.701  0.382   0.141    0.0   0.0   9.251        0.011      a
8 MYSORE        26      96331 131141    2263    718        104    478      134    7.614    0.421       1.058  0.392   0.209   0.0   0.0   9.694         0.639
9 FAICHUR       20     74670 103339    1824    476         129    390      107    6.755   0.387        0.463  0.453   0.288    0.0   0.0   8.346        0.516
10 SHIM"OA      20     81697  117672    2252    645         84    441       27    8.110    0.404       0.467  0.353   0.131    0.0    0.0   8.875       0.595
_________________________________________________._______________________________________________________________________________________________________________-
TOTAL        200     776545 1083721   19064   5647       896   3985      984   67.82    3.627        5.353  3.378   1.555   0.0    0.0  81.147        5.058
Iof
tn
CO



-68-
Page 30 of 58
F.  Summary Cost Estimates and Procurement for  Evironmental Sanitation
Phases I and II
63.       Cost Estimates are based on consultants preliminary estimates.
Procurement
Local  Eoreig   Total  Duties   AY_
-in Rs. millions------------
Civil Works for:
Drainage                  512.40  27.60   540.00   27.00    LCB
Latrines                  205.20  10.80   216.00   10.80    Other
Washing platforms          12.00   0.60    12.60    0.60    LCB
Cattle troughs              5.50   0.25      5.75    0.30    LCB
Bathing cubicles           17.30   1.90    19.20    0.95    LCB
Dust bins                   8.00   0.40      8.40    0.40    LCB
Bio-gas plants              4.50    0.50     5.00    0.50    LCB
TOTAL                     764.90  42.05   806.95   40.55 (5% average)
COMPONENT 3:  Health Communications
Institutional Resgonsibilit.
64.       The PPMU, through assistance from local consultants, would have the
responsibility for developing and implementing the health communications
component. PPMU will employ HC Consultants for strategy development,
developing and pretesting implementation mechanism and for support and
supervision during full-scale implementation. PPMU would be assisted in
delivering messages to the villages through a number of different agencies
including the Directorate of Health and Family Welfare Services, the RD&PR,
the Village Water and Sanitation Committees, NOOs and other local groups, in
particular village-level womenws groups. The training management consultant
would also be responsible for assisting in the implementation of the component
through its training program.
Descriation/Obiectiyes
65.       This component has four main objectives:  (a) to promote personal
and family hygiene; (b) to promote latrine usage; (b) to increase consumer
awareness of the requirements and importance of 06M of water supply schemes;
and (d) to create greater community awareness of their responsibility for and
the importance of maintenance of drainage systems. The component includes the
development of a communications strategy, the development and testing of
priority messages in the above four areas and the delivery of those messages.
Implementation
66.       The component would be implemented through a consultant (TOR
below), employed by the RD&PR/PPMU. GOK has already invited bids from
shotlisted firms based on these TORs. The consultant would have



-69-
Anno 2
Page 31 of 58
responsibility for developing the communications strategy, preparing the
messages and ensuring their delivery to the beneficiaries. The communications
strategy would be completed by December 1993 and full scale implementation
would begin thereafter. Preliminary testing of health messages would begin in
the pilot villages. The first year of implementation would target the 250
first phase villages. The remaining villages would be covered on the basis of
an agreed annual plan. Japanese Grant Funds may be available for financing
the consultant costs.
Base Cost Estimate/Procurement
67.       The component would consist of one contract with a local
communications firm who would act as an agency and manage the implementation
and would also be responsible for all material production and subcontracting
with mass media, artists, etc. The PPMU would be responsible for procurement
of transport and minor equipment needs. The base costs of the component would
be Rs. 30 million.
DescriRtion                Local  Foreign  Total  Sharin            Procure-
--- in Rs million---    TaxesZDtieu    ment by:
Consultant fees
(inel. travel, etc.)       18.50    1.50   20.00      1.00          LCB
Transp., equipment          8.00    2_,Q    10.00      1_Q          LCB
TOTAL                      26.50    3.50   30.00       2.50 (8.3%)



-70-
Page 32 of 58
OUTLINE TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR HEALTH COMMUNICATIONS
1.   The RD&PR Department requests the services of a consultant(s) to develop
and support implementation of the health communications component of the World
Bank-financed Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation project. The
project would be implemented in about 1,200 villages in twelve districts in
Karnataka over a period of six years.
2.           The project consists of three major components: rural water
supply, environmental sanitation and health communications. While the first
two will be concerned with the design, installation and operation of project
hardware, the communications component will lead the software support to the
project. Such support is considered vital to widespread acceptance and
sustained utilization of project services.
3.          In addition to health conmmmications, the project will be
supported by a training program, as well as strategies for community
participation in the planning and implementation of the project. Pilot
schemes are being implemented in 11 villages in 10 districts to finalize the
approach for building and maintaining community involvement.
-Scgge of work
4.          The communications component will have four main objectives:  a)
to promote personal and family hygiene; b) to promote latrine usage; c) to
support community participation efforts by creating awareness of the
requirements for and importance of 0&K of water supply schemes; d) to create
greater community awareness of their responsibility for and importance of
maintenance of drains. The overriding concern will be to influence behavior
and encourage the adoption of practices and se vices that are conducive to.
healthy living.
5.          The agency appointed as consultant will be expected to rapidly
achieve a high level of familiarity with the project, including the broad
technical aspects. Detailed discussions should be conducted with officials of
RD&PR, particularly the PHED. The total package of services, including water
supply, environmental sanitation and latrine availability, should be
thoroughly understood so that opportunities for influencing beneficiary
behavior -- as well as possible sources of resistance -- can be identified.
6.          The agency will be expected to assemble and review all research
and other materials relating to the target groups, behavior with respect to
water, sanitation and health. The base line study, the experience with the
pilot villages with respect to community participation, the communication
study for the Bank-supported water and sanitation project in Maharashtra and
the research relating to message development conducted in UP will be directly
relevant. In addition, the experience and materials available with other
agencies, such as DANIDA (in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu), the Royal Netherlands



-71-
Annex2
Page 33 of 58
Embassy (for projects in UP, Andhra and Karnataka) and UNICEF, should be
obtained. This review should also include the nature of communication efforts
made and the results achieved in related areas such as immunization and guinea
worm eradication.
7.          The agency should supplement the briefing on the technical aspects
of the project and the review of available studies with at least two field
visits by key personnel who will be involved with this project. People
responsible for strategy development, creative work and media decisions should
all have first-hand knowledge of the target groups and field conditions before
they start producing ideas. Given the diversity within the state, it will be
necessary for the field visits to include north and south Karnataka. During
this field exposure the agency must be able to recognize the opportunities and
limitations in the field with respect to the possible role that staff of
departments such as Health and Family Welfare, and Social Welfare can play.
8.          The agency will be responsible for identifying the need for
additional research. It should be clearly understood that research needs
identified at this stage should relate directly to the development of
communication strategy. If there are important data gaps, the agency will be
expected to initiate, supervise and assess further research.
9.          The agency's next major task, following information gathering and
analysis, will be strategy formulation. This will include the identification
of specific target groups (e.g., young women, relatively better-off men,
village elders, etc.), behavioral and intermediate objectives for each group,
the creative approach, the mix of media to be used (mass, folk, interpersonal,
etc,), the indicators to be monitored for assessing impact and an approximate
cost and time schedule.
10.         It will be expected that the following areas are addressed by the
agency:
(a)   preparation of the community for participation in the project (in
coordination with the NGO responsible for this);
(b)   education on management of household water resources;
(c)   education on personal and environmental hygiene;
(d)   promotion of latrines; and
(e)   generating and reinforcing community involvement in proper
operation and maintenance of the water supply system and drainage.
11.         In each area, different methods may have to be used to deliver a
message to different groups. The agency will, therefore, be expected to test
alternative execution approaches before large scale dissemination is
initiated.
12.         The agency will be responsible for developing the media strategy.
While radio may be a possible medium, it is expected that substantial reliance



-72-
AnneX 2
Page 34 of 58
will be necessary on other media, such as folk theater and song, mobile video
vans and wall signs. Further, interpersonal comunication will be crucial for
ultimate persuasion and behavior change, and agency will be required to work
out methods for stimulating and supporting informal interpersonal
communication. A structured program for the effective -- and realistic --
utilization of personnel from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and
the Directorate of Social Services will have to be developed. In conjunction
with the training component, this program could include a capsule to be
utilized in the training of these functionaries in interpersonal communication
skills.
13.         A key concern in this project will be the delivery of
communication at the field level, as distinct from mass media. While field
personnel, such as those mentioned above, may be available, the agency will be
expected to play a major role in ensuring that field activity takes place as
planned and on schedule. To this extent, it may be desirable for the agency
to put together a team of field promoters who form a reliable and effective
resource for implementation. Costs incurred for this will be reimbursable by
the project.
Agency Oualification.
14.         The agency will be selected based on relevant experience in health
communications, capacity to service the project with strategic, research,
creative and media implementation capability, as well as cost.
15.         Health communication aimed at rural populations is not within the
normal span of experience of a communications agency. There must, therefore,
be demonstrated capability through campaigns and personnel. Familiarity with
and experience in handling non-mass media campaigns will be important in
demonstrating media selection and implementatlon skills.
,16.         The agency may submit its bid on a fminimum business expected"
basis. An annual fee should be indicated to cover agency services for
strategy, creative and media planning. Costs incurred for supervision and
implementation of field communication will be reimbursed and should be
indicated separately as per estimates.
17.         In carrying out this assignment, it will be vital that the agency
see itself as a partner in the project and not simply a supplier of
communication services. A commitment to bringing about behavioral changes
desired by the project will be expected.



*73-
Annex 2
Page 35 of 58
Copmonent 4: Institution Building and Project Support
Project Managemont
A. Project Planning and Monitorntg Unit (PPMHU
68.       The PPMU would be established under the Secretary, RD & PR, and
would be headquartered in Bangalore. The PPMU would act as a secretariat to
the Empowered Committee. PPMU would employ consultants for implementing the
community participation, health communication and training programs and would
be assisted by World Bank cells in PAED and ZPs who would all report to the
Director of PPHU. The Director would be at the rank of Joint Secretary and
would be employed full time for the project.
69.       The overall responsibility of the PPMW would be to coordinate and
provide guidance to the implementing agencies, monitor project implementation
and to ensure high technical standards and that the project achieves its
overall objectives. The PPMU would also provide support and coordinate
activities of the consultants in the areas of strategy development and
implementation for health communication and onvironmental sanitation,
community participation, the involvement of NGOs, and training. The PHED and
ZP Engineering Wings would have full responsibility for the implementation of
their respective components, but would report to PPMU.
70.       Project management would be coordinated and guided on a periodic
basis by the district level committees, chaired by the chief administrative
officers (Chief Secretary) of each district. The PPMU would be responsible
for independently assessing the quality of engineering work, ensuring that
World Bank procurement guidelines are followed, ensuring community
(beneficiary) involvement in implementation and monitoring, and assisting the
Secretary, RD & PR in ensuring that the project is implemented according to
the Credit Agreement signed with the World Bank.
71.       In terms of overall project implementation, the Secretary RD & PR,
as head of the nodal agency would have the main responsibility and authority.
Any serious matters involving project management, funding or implementation
identified by the PPMU Director would be referred to the Secretary, RD & PR
and the Empowered Committee.
PPMU Organlzatio
72.       The PPMU would consist of the following full-time key staff:
(a) a director;
(b) a senior and an assistant engineer;



-74-
Annex 2
Page 36 of 58
(c) an accountant; and
(4) a health communications/community participation expert
Job descriptions and responsibilities are as follows:
PPM Director,
As head of the PPMU, the overall responsibilities of the director would be to:
(a) plan, coordinate and monitor the programs of the implementing
agencies;
(b) provide advice to the Empowered Committee with regard to the timely
implementation of the project, effective control of costs and the
acceptable quality of the works; and
(c) act as secretariat to the Empowered Committee.
The director's specific responsibilities would include:
(a)  manage the preparation of annual action programs for the project
for review by the World Bank including annual investments in rural
water supply, environmental sanitation, health communication,
community participation, technical assistance and training;
(b) manage the implementation of the guidelines for community
participation, and also the implementation of the environmental
sanitation and health communication components;
(c) coordination of annual training plans for all implementing
agencies; and
(d) preparation of quarterly monitoring reports and of a project
completion report for the World Bank.
Eneineer
The main engineering responsibilities of the PPMU would be to:
(a) advise and monitor the activities of the implementing agencies
including ZPs;
(b) ensure designs of water supply and drainage schemes include
adequate mapping, consumer demand analysis and criteria and
standards as agreed with the World Bank;
(c) ensure acceptable standards of site supervision and construction
work of water supply and drainage schemes by actual, on-site
checking during various stages of construction up to and including
the final commissioning of the works; and



-75-
Annex 2
Page 37 of 58
(d) keep ^opies of records of all contracts and payments made against
them.
In terms of procurement, the engineers main responsibilities would be to:
'a) advise the implementing agencies on the standards, formats and
procedures required for procurement according to World Bank
guidelines and the Credit Agreement signed with the World Bank;
(b) ensure that tender documents prepared by various implementing
agencies, and bid evaluations and contract award recommendations
are in conformity with World Bank guidelines; and
(c) forward tender documents, bid evaluations, contract award
recommendations and contract agreements as indicated in the Credit
Agreement to the World Bank for review and approval.
HLealtrh CommunLcations&CggMuMiX ParticiRation
The main responsibilities for health communications and community
participation would be to:
(a) monitor consultants in the Implementation of the community
participation, health communication and envirolmental sanitation
activities of the project;
(b) monitor the implementation of the pilot villages, assist in the
preparation of guidelines which would be developed based on the
lessons learned from the pilot villages and ensure that the
community participation activities are implemented according to
the guidelines (see Annex 10);
(c) carry out periodic impact evaluation studies of the project using
participatory monitoring and evaluation to determine the vievs of
the project beneficiaries; and
(d) monitor the coordination between the community participation
aspects of the DLDB program and of the other components of the
project.
The main finance responsibilities of the PPKU would be to:
(a) ensure timely and adequate funds flow to the implementing agencies
and ensure that they maintain separate bank accounts for the
project;
(b) vouch and record monthly transaction summaries received from
various implementing agencies;



-76-
Anne. 2
Page 38 of 58
(c)  maintain adequate records and copies of support documentation for
project expenditures;
(c)  monitor expenditures on various schemes relative to scheme cost
estimates and physical progress;
(e)  generate various financial reports and analysis needed for the
continued planning and control of the project;
(f)  prepare withdrawal applications and Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) required for the drawdown of World Bank funds; and
(g)  ensure the timely audit of project expenditures.
Base Cost Estimates and Procurement
73.       PPMUss staff may consist of a mix of government employees and
individuals on contract from the private sector on short or long term basis.
Descrigtion                  Local   Foreign Total   Shares/  Procurement
-in Rs Millions-------
1) Full time & Short-term
PPMU Staff
(including Support Staff)    9.00             9.00     0.45      Other
2)  Office Equipment           0.80    0.20   1.00      0.10      LCB
3)  Office/Transp.O&M          1.35    0.15   1.50      0.15      Other
4)  Vehicle (3No)             _0.80    0.20   1.00      IM.3      LCB
TOTAL                       11.95    0.55  12.50      1.00 (8% average)



-77-
Annex 2
Page 39 of 58
B. PHED/ZP Strengthening
Introduction
1.          In order to implement this project, the PHED and 12 ZPs will
require additional staff. However, as the design and construction supervision
for water supply, community participation and health communications components
will be carried out by the consultants/NGOs, and the environmental sanitation
component will mainly be implemented by the MPs, the incremental work load
could be handled with few additional staff. Some additional office equipment
and materials will also be needed (computere. fax, furniture,etc).
Strengthening of PHED
2.          At the state level, a World Bank Cell will be set up in the office
of the Engineer-in-Chief in Bangalore to review the engineering designs and
tender documents prepared by the consultants and provide technical support to
the ZPs in engineering aspects of the project, as may be needed. This Cell
will be staffed with one Superintending Engineer and one assistant Executive
Engineer, whose responsibilities would be to:
(a)   review and approve the engineering designs prepared by the
consultants for Phases 2 and 3 water supply and environmental
sanitation schemes;
(b)   arrange for prequalification of contractors, preparation of bid
documents (with consultant assistance), invitation of bids, bid
evaluation and award of contracts for (a) phases 2 and 3 water
supply schemes, (b) leak detection and repair works, (c)
construfction supervision consultancy contracts, (d) procurement of
equipment for water quality monitoring component, and (e) for any
other special studies/procurement that may be needed for the
project;
(c)   provide technical support to the ZPs in the engineering aspects of
the project including through field visits as necessary;
(d)   coordinate with the State Watershed Development Cell as necessary;
(e)   arrange for procurement of works and goods for the borewell
program of the project;
(f)   assist the training management consultant in planning training
programs for engineers, technicians, operators and masons; and
(g)   assist the PPFU in preparing quarterly progress reports, annual
action plans etc. for the engineering components of the project.



-78-
Annex2
Page 40 of 58
Strengthening of ZP
3.          In the Districts, a Project-cell will be created in each of the 22
ZP divisions in the project area which will report to the Chief Secretary of
the ZP and the Director of the PNMU. This Cell will serve as a focal point for
satisfactory implementation of all the components of the project in that
Division, especially for the environmental sanitation components. The cell
will consist of one assistant executive engineer, one assistant engineer, one
accountant and support staff. The responsibility of the Cell will include:
For Water Sunly:
(a)   arranging for all administrative permissions needed by the
contractors (e.g. road cutting, handing over of land and rights of
way, etc.);
(b)   monitoring the work of consultants employed for construction
supervision and approving payments of the contractors, bills
certified by the consultant; and
(c)   participating in commissioning of the completed schemes and
providing technical assistance to the MPs in taking over the
completed schemes;
For Environmental Sanitation: (drainage, latrines, bathing cubicles)
(a)   assisting MPs in implementation;
(b)   monitoring construction supervision, certifying construction
quality and bills;
(c)   providing technical support to MPs in maintenance aspects; and
(d)   releasing subsidy smounts as per GOK guidelines.
For Other:
(a)   assisting consultants/NGOs in community participation and health
communication components;
(b)   arranging procurement of works for construction of water quality
monitoring lab buildings);
(c)   coordinating with the work of training management consultant and
of the district/project teams of the DLDBs for groundwater
recharge measures; and
(d)  monthly reporting to the Executive Engineer/Chief Secretary of the
ZP as well as to the Director PPMU.



-79-
Page 41 of 58
Base Cost Estimates/Procurement
6.          Costs are estimated as follows:
gsesriRtion                Local  ForJi    1        Share in Taxes  groue-
ad Duties       ment b
- in Rs. Nillion -------------
PHED State level cell
- Staff & Running cost      2.70    0.60    3.30      0.30          Force acc
- Goods-Cars                0.15    0.10    0.25      0.10          LCB
- Office equip.             0.24    0.06    0.30      0.06          LCB
ZP Division level Cells
- Staff & Running cost     77.56    4.28   81.84      7.36          Force ace
- Goods-Cars,Notor cycles   3.72    2.44    6.16      2.44          LCB
- Office equip.            4.24    1.14    5.38       120           LCB
Total                      88.61    8.62   97.23    11.46 (12%)
Annaex 2
Page  of
Community Particigation
Institutional Resnonsibility
74.       The PP4U will have the responsibility of employing and managing
local consultants/NGOs in developing and implementing the community
participation program in the tweleve project districts. Twelve teams (one for
each district) will be necessary and the consultant/NGO will be requested to
include at least two local NGO staff (one male and one female) in each team.
The teams will also include an engineer from the ZP engineering cell in each
district. The district teams will be assisted by a local NGO.
Objectives/Strategies
75.       One of the main objectives of the proposed project is to involve
the communities in planning the Rural Water Supply and Environmental
Sanitation facilities and, through the formation of Village Water and
Sanitation Committees, involve the communities in the construction and
operation and maintenance (06K). Under the project, the communities would
share in the capital costs of the environmental sanitation facilities and
would be expected to cover the O&M costs of both the rural water supply
schemes and the environmental sanitation facilities.
76.       In order to develop suitable strategies for community
participation, a pilot phase has been initiated in 10 villages, in 10 project
districts. This pilot phase for participatory planning is nearing completion
and preliminary findings are that:
(a) the communities are capable of participating in the planning
process provided an appropriate/suitable approach is adopted for
involving them;



-80-
nnmx 2
Page 42 of 58
(b) the commmnities are capable of and are willing to raise resources
to share the capital cost of the project; and
(c) the communities are willing to take up responsibilities for
operation and maintenance.
During the pilot phase, village committee have been formed in
consultation with the local villagers. In the case of hamlets, which have a
separate system of their own, committees have been formed at the hamlet level.
The village committees have mobilized cash contributions from community
towards capital costs and would be expected to take over the O06
responsibilities of assets created by the project.
77.       The experience gained in the pilot village phase has been used in
establishing guidelines for community participation approaches in planning
(see Annex 10). The pilot villages would also be used to develop guidelines
for community participation during the construction and 0&K phases, and for
developing implementation strategies for latrine promotion and health
communications. These guidelines would be used for implementing community
participation on a large scale, in 1,200 villages across twelve districts of
the state. The outline Terms of Reference for the community participation
consultants are given below.
vmnlementation
78.       The component would be implemented through consultants/NGOs
employed by the PPMU. The consultant's work program would have to be
coordinated with the work progress of the engineering consultants. First
priority will be the pilot villages and the villages of phase 1 (250 villages)
for which designs are already available. Full scale implementation which
would eventually cover all 1,200 villages is expected to be completed in 6
years. Implementation strategies and methods would be annually revised in
accordance with experience gained.
Base Cost Estimate/Procurement
79.       A consultant/NGO would be in charge of implementing this component.
LCB would be applied for recruiting the consultant(s)/NGO(s). They would
also be responsible for recruitment and payment of the necessary staff
including local NGOs, for providing training, transport and office.



-81-
Page 43 of 58
Description                Local  Forei    Total  Share in          Procurc-
Taxe-aLD els     ment DX
-----in Rs million-
12 teams each consisting
1 expert, 2 local NGO staff
members and support
staff, including
transport, office
expenses, per diems
Cost per team/year
Rs 0.75 million
Cost for 12 teams
over 6 years               37        3      40           2 (5%)     LCB
Outline Terms of Reference for Cgommuni   ParticatiWI
Introduction
1.          The RD&PR Department requests the services of a consultant(s) to
implement a strategy for community participation for the rural water supply
and environmental sanitation components of a World Bank financed project. The
project would be implemented in about 1,200 villages in 12 districts in
Karnataka. The project would have a six year implementation period.
2.          Pilot schemes are being carried out in villages in ten districts
which will result in a community participation   -ategy.  This strategy will
consist of four parts: planning, construction, operation and maintenance
(0g6), and latrine promotion/health communications. The strategy will consist
of guidelines for involving the communities in the planning and implementation
of the project. The main objective of community participation is to improve
the health of the project beneficiaries and ensure the sustaina..l1ity of the
facilities financed under the project. The planning guidelines have been
completed (Annex 10). The guidelines for the latrine promotion/health
communications should be available by December 1993, the guidelines for the
construction phase should be available by mid 1994 and the OM guidelines, by
mid 1995.
3.          The community participation strategy will utilize participatory
planning methods for involving communities in the planning for the project
facilities. Village Water and Sanitation Committees (VWSC) will be formed in
each village as part of the planning process. Each village will be required
to contribute 30% of the capital costs of the drainage system and bathing
cubicles constructed in the village. Each village committee will be required
to accept responsibility, in conjunction with the Mandal Panchayats, for the
O&M of the facilities constructed. This would include the collection of water
and drainage fees. The community participation strategy will include special
strategies for the involvement of women and NGOs. Special consideration will



-82-
Page 44 of 58
also be given to the needs of tribal communitles and scheduled caste people
covered by the project.
PScoWe of Wok
4.          The implementation of the community participation strategy will
require intensive efforts in participating in planning project facilities and
establishing the VWSC of phases 2 and 3 villages during the first 2-3 years of
the project. (The planning phase of the 250 villages of phase 1 will be
undertaken under another contract by consultants.) There will be a need for
continued interaction and monitoring of the VWSC during the construction phase
and then again during the period of 06K to ensure that the VWSC carry out its
responsibilities as specified under a Nandal Bye-Law for water and sanitation
06M. As stated above, guidelines for the specific steps to be followed will
be provided by the lessons learned from the ongoing pilot schemes. The pilot
villages will be used as demonstration villages.
5.          The implementation of the community participation strategy will
require close coordination between the community participation consultants and
the PHED, DLDB and the training management cell, particularly during the
planning and construction phases. Procedures for coordination and
consultation will be established by the PPHU for the guidance of the
consultants. The community participation consultant would be responsible for:
(a)   using participatory planning methods for involving the villages in
the planning for project facilities;
(b)   establishing the VWSC, ensuring that all commuities in a village
are represented (including tribals);
(c)  ensuring that women and tribal populations are involved in project
activities; and
(d)   ensuring that NGOs are given an important role in the project.
Consultants, Oualifications
6.          The consultants should have extensive experience in sociology,
anthropology or community organization and should have experience in using
participatory planning methodologies and some basic knowledge in water supply
and environmental sanitation. The consultant would be responsible for working
in all twelve districts according to a design schedule established by the PHED
during the first 2-3 years of the project. Staffing requirements should be
estimated on this basis. It may be that the consultants would need one
professional per district for the first 2-3 years of the project which could
be reduced substantially for the remaining period of implementation. The
consultant would be expected to utilize NGOs for their field work in all 12
districts for the duration of project implementation. Core teams would be
established in each district by the consultant consisting of consultant staff,
several NGO staff who vould work on contract with the consultant and the
engineer from the ZP project cell. The ZP engineer would be employed by the ZP
and would not be part of the consultant's contract.



-83-
Anmex 2
Page 45 of 58
7.          For the evaluation of bids, the experience of the firm, the
qualification of the proposed staff and the bid price would be considered. A
maximum of 25/50/25 points would be attached to the respective factors in
evaluating the bids.



-84-
Annex 2
Page 46 of 58
Trainin
Institutional Responsibility
80.       The planning and management of the training component would be the
responsibility of a training consultant (training management unit). The
consultant would establish a training management unit which would work under
the direction of the PPMU.  This unit would be headed by a Director and
support staff with short term consultants employed to assist in the management
of the training program. A Training Advisory Committee has been established
to provide advice and guidance on the process of selecting candidates and the
implementation and monitoring of the component. The committee is chaired by
the Director, Administrative Training Institute in Mysore and consists of the
following members: Secretary RD&PR, Director of Health and Family Welfare
Services, Director of Women and Children Welfare, Engineer-in-Chief of PHE,
Director of ISTE, Director of Health Section Medical College, a representative
of DANIDA, two NGOs, Director of the Training Management Unit. The training
management unit would be responsible for identifying experts to prepare course
materials, reproduction of the course materials, organizing the training of
trainers, overseeing the selection of participants, organizing the courses and
arranging their schedules. The training would take place in existing
government training institutes such as the Administrative Training Institute
in Mysore, training institutes located in each district, District Health
Laboratories, S.J. College of Engineering and other engineering colleges in
the state.
DesgrLRtion
81.       Training would be provided for personnel from PHED, ZP  Engineering
and Health Wings, Block and Handal level officials, DOHFWS, RD&PR personnel,
NGOs, and other nongovernmental personnel such as members of the Village Water
and Sanitation Committees, village mechanics and masons, and primary school
teachers. The short term training programs would consist of the following
courses: (a) local training for awareness creation of the project and its
objectives in the project villages; (b) training of project staff in community
participation;(c) training of Village Water and Sanitation Committee members
in their roles and responsibilities in the project; (d) orientation of primary
school teachers; (e) awareness of project objectives for senior engineers; (f)
training in construction methods for assistant and junior engineers; (g)
training of local masons for latrine and drainage construction; (h) training
of pump operators, pipelayers, hand pump mechanics, valvemen and helpers, and
local accountants; and (i) training of senior administrative personnel on the
project and its objectives. The component would include long term training
(3-6 weeks and post-graduate courses) in India and overseas.
Imilementation
82.       The training program would be implemented over the six year
implementation period. Annual training plans would be developed by the
training management unit and would be included in the annual action program



-85-
Annex 
Page 47 of 58
prepared by the PPMU and provided to the Bank for approval. Monitoring of the
training plans would be the responsibility of the PPMU. For the first three
years of the project, the component would initially be managed by a training
management consultsat. The SJCE in Mysore would initially be given a contract
to manage the training component for the first year. Outline Terms of
Reference are attached. G0K has invited a proposal from SJCE for management of
the first year's training program. The G0K has tentative plans to establish
an in-service training institute (Institute for Studies in Water Supply and
Environmental Sanitation) by the end of the third year of the project or even
earlier. Should this training institute be established, the management of the
training component for the remaining implementation period would be undertaken
by this lnstitute. IDA would finance the training and assist in establishing
the new institute by financing the required equipment and material which are
estimated at Rs 10 milLion (US$330000).
Base Cost IstimateLZrocurement
83.       Estimates are based on the report on aAssessment of Training
Needs", prepared by ISTE, Mysore.
RescrigtiO Local   FQrelu                     Total    Share in   Procurement
Taxes/      _  b
D-utLes_
Training Management Unit     13.90    0.25       14.15     0.60      other
Short Term Courses incl.
training material            48.50     0.95      49.45     2.00      other
Long Term Courses             3.00Q    2.0        5.00    0.2        other
Total                        65.40     3.20      68.60     2.85 (4% at average)
Retroactive Financing
Share:                        3.68     0.32       4.00



^86-
Armex 2
Page 48 of 58
Outline Terms go Reference for Training
Introduction
1.        The RD&PR Department requests the services of a consultant(s) to
manage the implementation of the training component of the World Bank-financed
Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation Project. The project would be
implemented in about 1,200 villages in twelve districts in Karnataka. The
project implementation period would be six years.
2.        The project consists of three main components:  rural water supply,
environmental sanitation and health communications. Community participation
is an important part of project implementation which affects all three
components. A training needs assessment was prepared during project
preparation. This needs assessment addresses the problems of the conceptual
gap between the communities and the implementing agencies, the need for
continued functioning and utilization of the facilities constructed under the
project and the needs for effective operation and maintenance. Pilot schemes
are being implemented in pilot villages which are testing out methodologies
and approaches for all project components to be utilized in the implementation
of the project. Training course materials are also being pre-tested in these
pilot villages. The results of the pilot training should be utilized in
implementing the project training component.
3.        The training materials are to be developed through local
institutions and agencies, and the training courses are to be carried out in
various local institutions such as the Administrative Training Institute in
Mysore, District Training Institutes located in each of the 12 districts, and
engineering colleges located at the district level in Karnataka. A Training
Advisory Committee has been established to provide guidance on the development
of the training component, to oversee the selection of candidates, especially
for long term training, and assist in monitoring the implementation of the
component.
Scoe of Work
4.        The consultant would manage the implementation of the training
component of the project through detailed annual planning of the project's
training needs, the employment of specialized institutions/agencies to prepare
course material, reproduction of this material and the organization of the
courses. Because of the amount of training which needs to be carried out
under the project of district personnel and local communities, and the
importance of having the training close to the communities which are
benefiting from the project, much of the training will be carried out at the
district level. The project would also include longer term courses in India
and overseas for a limited number of personnel.
5.        An overall training plan was developed during project preparation
which provides a listing of most of the courses which would be made available
under the project. Adjustments would be needed to this overall plan during



-87-
Annex 2
Page 49 of 58
implementation depending on the needs of the project. This training plan
consists of courses for skill training at the village, mandal, district and
state level for government and NGO officials, community leaders, and skilled
and unskilled laborers at the village level. A copy of this training plan
would be made available to the consultant for the preparation of bids.
6.        The consultant would establish a training management unit which
would report to the Director of the Project Planning and Monitoring Unit
established in the RD&PR Department of the Government of Karnataka. The
consultant would be employed by the RD&PR Department. The training unit would
need to coordinate its activities with the project implementation agencies
which are: Public Health Engineering Department, the ZPs of the 12 districts,
the Dry Land Development Boards and the Department of Health and Family
Welfare Services. Close coordination would also be required with the
consultants employed to carry out the community participation and health
communications components of the project. Responsibility for this
coordination would be with the health communications/community participation
expert in the PPMU.
Staff Oualifications
7.        The consultants should have extensive experience in managing
training programs, training of trainers, preparation of course material and
organizing courses. The contract for training would be in two phases. The
first contract would be for the first year of the project; the second contract
would be for the next two years. A third contract covering the remaining
three years of the project may be required. It is expected that the
consultants would establish a small training management unit which would
consist of a Director with support staff. The Director would be assisted by
short term consultants. The consultant contract would also include
subcontracting with other agencies to prepare course material and the training
of trainers; the contract would include the cost of reproducing materials,
minor equipment needs, and the cost of running short term courses using local
institutions.
8.        For the first year contract, it has been agreed that SJCE in Mysore
would be employed because of their knowledge of the project and their close
association in the production of the Training Needs Assessment prepared during
project preparation. This contract could be renewed should the World Bank and
the GOK agree.



-88-
Page 50 of 58
Pro3ect Supnort
Consultants for Design and Construction Supervision and Special Studies
Consultants for desgin and construction suDervision.
Institutional Resionsibility
84.       The ZP Engineering Divisions are responsible for preparation of
designs and construction supervision. However, for this project, the RD & PR
and PHED have agreed to use consultants and PHED will be responsible for
procurement.   PHED and ZP will monitor the consultants and be responsible for
the preparation of the TOR. PPMU will control these activities.
Descriltion
85.       For phase 1, preparation of designs and tender documents for water
supply schemes and environmental sanitation facilities for 250 villages, have
been entrusted to the National Industrial Development Corporation (NIDC), New
Delhi, and work is almost completed. NIDC sub-contracted most of the work to
SJCE, Mysore. For phase 2, (750 villages) the TOR for procurement of
consultants have been prepared and approved by the Bank. For 200 phase 3
villages GOK will invite bids from short listed consultants as soon as the
vil"Ites have been identified.  An outline TOR for the employment of
consultants for construction supervision is attached.
IlMROentntio
86.       Bids for consultants for preparation of designs and tender
documents of phase 2 water supply systems (750 villages) have been invited and
the work will be awarded by June 1993. The consultants will complete work by
June 1995. After 1-1/2 years, the consultant should have prepared designs and
tender documents for 375 villages so that bids for works can be invited.
Consultant contracts for Phase 3 design would be awarded by December 93 and
designs completed by December 94. It would be practicable to entrust the
consultant who carried out the design with the construction supervision.
Alternatively bids could be invited from shortlisted consultants.
Construction for phase 1 is expected to start in September 1993.
Special studies
Water sector golicy and management olan
87.       GOK proposes to develop a state wide plan which defines a policy
for the development, management and protection of Karnatakass ground and
surface water resources and a monitoring and control system for its
implementation. GOK is seeking bilateral assistance for this component. IDA,
through the project, will finance procurement of equipment of about RS 10
million. GOK will submit detailed proposals to IDA regarding the equipment to
be procured. An outline TOR for the development of the sector plan is
attached.



-89-
Annex 2
Page 51 of 58
Consultants for Design and Construction Supervision of Bio-gas Plants
88.       Consultants would be omployed to identify suitable pilot villages
with large cattle herds, propose suitable types of plants, prepare tender
documents and supervise construction. Priority should be given to villages
with strong community interest in such a plant, and where there is willingness
to contribute to capital costs and take responsibility for O&M. The
consultants will also have to monitor the performance of the plant and O&M for
at least one year after construction.
Cost Estimate/ProgUXWN=
89.       The cost for consultancies inelude transport, office and all
material costs.
DescriRtion                Local  Foreign  Total  Share in Taxes   rocure-
--- Rs Millions----    Duties           ment by
Phase 1 designs
(NIDC Retroactive
financing share only)       9.50   0.50      10.00         0.50      LCB
Phase 2 designs             52.00  3.00      55.00          2.75      _CB
Phase 3 desings             14.00  1.00      15.00          0.75      LCB
construction supervision
(Water supply)              91.20  4.80      96.00         4.80      LCB/Other
Special studies:
water policy and
management plan              2.00  8.00      10.00          2.00    ICB
Design/supervision
biogas plants                0.95  0.05       1.00          0.05    LCB
Total                      169.65 17.35    187.00          10.85  (average 6%)
Retroactive Financing:
Phase 1 designs            9.50  0.50      10.00           0.50
Phase 2 designs            2.85 0.15        3.00           0.15
Total                       12.35  0.65      13.00           0.65  (average 5%)
Note: The water policy and management plan may be financed by grants from
bilateral sources. The provision above is for procurement of equipment.



-90-
Annexi 2
Page 52 of 58
Outline Terms of Reference for Construction Sugervision
Introduction
1.          PHED under the RP6PR Department requests the services of a
consultant(s) for construction supervision for rural water supply facilities in
approximately 1,200 villages spread over 12 districts in Karnataka.
Procurement for these works will be carried out in three to four large contract
packages each with an implementation period of approximately 2-1/2 years. Each
contract will have approximately 15 to 20 slices and contractors may bid on one
or several slices. Therefore, each contract package may be executed by one or
a maximum of 20 contractors. One slice may consist of approximately 15-20
villages in a district or a special area. Construction costs for each contract
package may be between Rs. 300-400 million. Consultants are hereby invited to
submit bids for construction supervision for works for the first contract
package (250 villages).
Type/Scope of Work
2.          The type of works to be supervised include rural water supply
facilities such as source works, consisting of wells with submersible pumps or
handpumps, intake wells for surface water sources, switchboard and pumphouses,
power supply,rising mains, water treatment plants, ground or elevated
reservoirs, water distribution systems, public standposts, washing platforms,
cattle troughs and house connections. The objective of the consultant's
assignment will be to obtain high quality construction works. The scope of
work will include the following:-
(a) checking of all designs and tender documents for completeness and
comparison with local conditions, carrying out of additional
surveys and revisions in drawings if required;
(b) interpretation of drawings, specifications and other clarifications
sought by the contractor;
(c) day to day supervision of all construction activities including
participation in taking samples for concrete test cubes, testing
pipelines, leakage tests for reservoirs, test pumping, final
commissioning of works and identification of defects and steps
required for correction;
(d) ensuring observance of labor laws, safety standards, etc.;
(e) verification of measurements and bills submitted by ths contractor;
(f) monitoring of work progress and submission of monthly reports on
work progress and performance of contractor; and
(g) checking of as-built drawings prepared by the contractor.



-91-
Annex 2
Page 53 of 58
Staff Qoualification. Bid &valuation
3.          The consultant shall assign at least one senior engineer with at
least 10 years experience in design and construction supervision of water
supply facilities in each district. The assistant engineer should have at
least five years experience and should, if posslble, be seconded from the ZP
engineering wing. The consultant should submit his proposal to PHED in two
parts:
(a)   Part I should be the Otechnical proposal' jnd include information
about the flrm's experience in water supply sector, a proposal of
how the consultant would organize the construttlon supervlsion,
report writing etc., and the CVs of the proposed staff.
(b)   Part 2 would be the "price proposal" which shall be based on man-
month rates and shall include all expenses like overheads of the
firm, transport cost, accommodation and per diems, office costs,
etc.. The rates shall be valid for one year, thereafter an
increase in accordance with inflation can be negotiated. For the
evaluation of bids, three factors w'll be considered - the
experience of the firm, the qualification of the proposed staff and
the bid price. A maximum of 25/55/20 poLnts will be attached to
the respective factors in evaluating the bids.



-92-
Annx 2
Page 54 of 58
Outline Terms of Reference for Water Sector Policy and Management Study
IntrodM}tion
1.    Water resources in Karnataka are scarce because of uneven and erratic
rainfall patterns, difficult hydro-geological conditions and high water demand.
There is great competition for water use from urban areas, industry,
agriculture, hydropower and from rural villages. Furthermore, water is not
adequately conserved nor protected; gross pollution of water bodies and
aquifers is taking place, and water mining has become common in a number of
districts. A comprehensive state plan is nov, required which defiries a policy
for the development, management and protection of Karnataka's ground and
surface water resources, including legislative guidelines and a monitoring and
control system for its implementation. The GOK will create a nodal agency in
which all key stake-holders (Government department and private greups) in the
vater sector will participate. This agency will be responsible for
establishing this plan and procuring of consultants.
ObJectives
2.    The consultants shall derive a comprehensive state development strategy,
within which they will recommend appropriate policies on all important water
sector issues. This should result in recommendations and a plan for the
optimum development of water for the planning horizon 2015 which will satisfy
the different needs for water for agricultural, domestic and industrial use and
hydropower. The study shall be carried out in two stages: Stage 1 would
consist of the water resources inventory and Stage 2, the development of the
water sector plan.
agope of Wgrk
3.    Stage 1, the water sector assessment will include the preparation of an
inventory and identification and analysis of issues:
(a)   collection of meteorological, hydrological and hydro-geological
data;
(b)   assessment and present use of surface water resources, ground-water
resources, water quality and existing pollution of water resources
by domestic, agricultural and industrial effluent;
(c)   collation and assessment of data on existing and planned water
supply and irrigation schemes and on population and industrial
growth;
(d)   assessment of available funds for developing the water sector;
review of existing operation and maintenance practices and rules in
the water sector, tariff and cost recovery performance; and
assessment of potential for more efficient water use and soil and
water conservation;



-93-
Page 55 of 58
(e)   estimation of future water demand for urban and rural water supply
industry, irrigation, livestock, hydropower, etc;
(f)   establishment of a water balance plan (compare water demand and
availability); formulation of an overall strategy and priorities
for water allocation; and assessment of the possibilities for
regional water transfer;
(g)   review of existing institutional arrangements and efficiencies and
the Government's and private groups role in the water sector and
recommendation for improvements including information on treaties
between riparian states and performance of river basin
organizations, if any; and
(h)   establishment of a data bank of relevant and updatable information.
4.   Stage 2, the deve1npment of strategic options will include the generation
of alternative scenarios of water management and evaluation of strategic
options:
(a)   the necessary legal framework for water use, conservation,
protection and pollution control and a system of exercising and
monitoring its implementation as a prerequisite for a successful
development plan;
(b) an overall development strategy, including recommendations for a
long term rational exploitatior. of available water resources,
demand and allocation management, water pricing, interbasin
transfers and for appropriate conservation measures; In developing
this strategy, due consideration shall be given to environmental
and social implications, water rights and regional differences in
the availability and demand of water;
(c) a recommended development program. This would be derived from a
consideration of development alternatives for meeting Karnataka's
water demand to the year 2015. The consultants shall prepare
phased development programs for 5, 10 and 20 years planning
horizons;
(d)   estimates based on preliminary feasibility studies of the
development and recurrent costs over the plan period for the
different elements of the plan, and carrying out of sensitivity
analyses, focusing on the variability of planning results (e.g.
unit water demand, population and industrial growth, etc.); and
(e)   proposals for pilot studies/schemes for alternative models of water
sector organization, water allocation procedures and pricing
policies. It shall be tested whether less Government involvement



-94-
A=2,
Page 56 of 58
and more private sector inmolvement and whether introduction of
water marketing would lead to higher efficiency in the use of water
resources;
(f)   developing of appropriate computer software packages, so that
updating is essentially a question of feeding in new numbers every
year. This software should naturally interface with the proposed
data bank.
Phasing of Studv and Consultant's bids
5.   It is estimated that stage 1 will be completed within 16 months and stage
2 studies within six months. There will be a gap of four months between stages
1 and 2 for review by GOK and the Bank. The study will require a specialized
multi-disciplinary team to which Government employees from the various sectors
are seconded. The pre-qualified consultant should submit his proposal in two
parts:
(a)   Part 1 should be the technical proposal which should include the
consultant's approach and study program and CV's of proposed key
staff;
(b)  Part 2 would be the "price proposal" vhich shall be based on man-
month rates and shall include all expenses like overheads of the
firm, transport cost, accommodation and per diems, office cost,
etc. The rates shall be valid for one year, thereafter an increase
in accordance with inflation, can be negotiated.
6.    For the evaluation of the bids, three factors will be considered - the
suitability of the work program, the experience of the firm in this sector and
the qualification of the proposed Key Staff. A maximum of 30/25/45 points will
be attached to the respective factors in evaluating the bids.



-95-
Atmex 2
Page 57 of 58
Qffice RouiDment Materials for PHED and ZP
Intloduction
85.         The GOK has requested IDA to finance part of its special needs for
office equipment and materials and technical equipment. A detailed list of
required materials will be submitted for Bank approval by end 1993.
Cost Estimate and ProcureMent
86.         In preliminary discussions during project appraisal, a total amount
of Rs 15 million has been earmarked for this component. It is estimated that
the goods will be procured in several small packages over the project
implementation period.
DLescrigtion               Local  Foreign  Total  Shae              Procure-
--in Rs millions--      TaxesI Dties    ment bv:
Locally available goods     9.00  1.00      iC.00    1.50           LCB/LS
Imported goods               1QW    4.0     5.00L    1.5            ICB/IS
Total                      10.00  5.00      15.00    3.00 (20% at average)
Com=onent 5: Retroactive Financing
Introduction
87.         The following works and goods (and possibly other items which can
be completed prior to project effectiveness) would qualify for retroactive
financing (expenditure after April 30, 1992):
-     expenditure of the consultant NIDC for project design work for
phase 1
-    water resource development by PHED (drilling of wells)
-    civil works for water supply systems in 10 pilot villages procured
under LCB, tender documents already approved by IDA
-    expenditure of the consultants for project design work for phase 2
-    expenditure for training by SJCE



-96-
Annex 
Page 58 of 58
Base Cost Estimate
88.         This is a summary of "retroactive cost" as mentioned in the cost
estimates of the respective components.
DescriLptLn                     loal    Foreign    lotal   Share in
Taxes/Dutles
-----------in Rs Million-----------
for pilot villages             4.00       1.00       5.00      0.50
for water source development 27300                  30.00      3.
Sub-total:                    31.00       4.00      35.00      3.50 (108)
Consultancy Services:
for phase 1                    9.50       0.50      10.00      0.50
for phase 2                    2.85       0.15       3.00      0.15
Training                          3.68        34.0               0.16
Sub-total                      16.03       0.97      17.00      0.81 (5%)
Grand Total                    47.03       4.97       52.00



NTDIA
KARNATAKA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
IPLMENTATION SCEDULE
Activty                                     r-                                                      T                 r       = s       I 
St.-         1993              19W. I             9                1M               1997              1                  199
__   __  __  __    _     ___l_+_E_  *    _+_____ tw  Ca der ea+                   __    __ ____       _______   __s___ ____ ___ ___ __ c  Ve__+__     C_9
I-        -                       a   ,   a * ;   1  a 3         a   a   a     - 4                   a -        -            f
water  WYar            IS    A              *j*   *
WaterS.q2py phes I            D       A    0*
waterSpply rO.. 213                          1£010Z:I                                                                          V         T       7
(setw tat)                   **                                  A ii                           1           1-                                           11
Ph1,2n  st. |3  US                 |                         *  0* g0    ||*0*                       0  |"*g* f  *   
OCd  totl   ot                       A
IE pist   dte  roetfetvt                               "   °P/4lN4i
Om* I Vs~~~~~*                                                                              i                                    i
CDVTkjlo $M                     A I S           0*    *0 *** j *.*   0*1*1
LINUMN amin umna a                                                a                      a       sa          al
w pba e l. A vi g .          T     fA         A0  I  *  0  I  I  *     ~111                               jj  0    j   *   0   j    O    o      U 0
A    oUNMtrat RAMade                            IS       Finl dsimfleae do.  omee
S ABoaTrdE apAvl.   rdtP                                  rplpeae
C    doms Oat.                                  y     m iCt  Pr I   AeA
I  AsLamed dat. of project effectivemes           a000 Construct/zrpteamnt/sWtfy



-98-
Annex 4
page2 of S
KURNAMA RURAL VATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATIOI PROCT
PROJEC COST ESTIMATE
DESCRIPTION                   TOtAL PtOJCT cOsT                  TOAL PRJCTr CosT                         PRC
(in RSI  iian)                    (in USSm ditl )                TOTAL   UAS   FOREIGN
LC      PC      TOTAL             LC       Fe      toTAL              CosT    CosT    COST
......................................................................... .......................................................................................................... 
ATER SWPPLY
PIPED US PNAS-1   198.00   34.00  332.00               4.39    1.10    7.46                6.42    7.1X    14.JX
PIPED US PIUSE-2    W3.00   117.00  760.00             20.71    3.77   24.52              20.8X    23.4X    15.4"
PIPED us PWNSE3   186.00   34.00  220.00                6.00    1.10    7.10               6.02    6.62    15.52
LEAKAGE REP.MURKS   42.50     7.50   50.00              1.3     0.24    1.61               1.4X    1.5S   15.0%
ATER OLTY CONTROL  17.79    5.52   23.31                0.57    0.18    0.75               0.42    0.7X   23.7X
GROUNWI. RECHARGE  271.68   14.02  265.70              6.76    0.45    9.22                7.8X    8.82    4.9X
ROREVELLS & NPs    172.05   18.23  190.30              5.55    0.59    6.14                5.22    5.9X      9.6X
EGUIP.& WORKSNOPS   80.87   56.63   137.50             2.61     1.83    4.4                3.82    4.22   41.22
SUBTOTAL 1       1,611.89  286.92 1,696.81            52.00    9.26   61.25               52.02   S8.42    15.12
ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION
SULLAGE DRAINAGE   512.40   27.60  540.00              16.53    0.89    17.42             14.82   16.6X      5.12
PI? LATRINES       205.20    10.80  216.00             6.62    0.35    6.97                5.92    6.62    S.02
WISHIN¢ PLATFOMS   12.00    0.60   12.6C                0.39    0.02    0.41               0.32    0.4X      4.82
CATTLE TRWOHS        5.50    0.25     5.75             0.18    0.01    0.19                0.22    0.22    4.32
LATHING CUtICLS     17.30    1.90    19.20              0.56    0.06    0.42               0.5X     0.6"     9.92
STREET SINS          8.00    0.40    8.40              0.26    0.01    0.27                0.22    0.32    4.82
BIOGAS PILOT PL.     4.50    0.50    5.00              0.1S    0.02    0.16                0.1S    0.2X    10.01
SUBTOTAL 2         764.90   42.05  80f.ff             24.67    1.36   26.03               22.12   24.8%    5.22
PROJECT SUPPORT s
SCHEME DESIGN       63.15    3.85   67.00               2.04    0.12    2.16                1.82    2.1X    5.72
PROJECT "" T.    100.56    9.17  109.73                3.24    0.30    3.54                3.02    3.4X    8.42
CONST.SUPERVISION    91.20    4.80   96.00             2.94    0.15    3.10                2.42    3.02    3.02
LEAK DETECT SURVEY   17.50    7.50   25.00             0.56    0.24    0.81                0.72    0.8X   30.02
SECIAL STUDIES       2.95    8.05    11.00             0.10    0.26    0.35                0.32    0.32    73.2X
..............................................................................................................................
SBTOTAL 3          2?5.36   33.37  308.73              8.86     1.06    9.96               8.52    9.52    10.82
INSIV.SUILDG./EALTHCOMMUNIC.
TRAINING NAT./MUI  65.40    3.20   68.60               2.11    0.10    2.21                1.9X    2.12    4.7X
CWUWNITY PARTIC.   50.00    4.00   54.00                1.61    0.13     1.74              1.52    1.7X    7.4X
HELTH CoWNIC.    26.50    3.50   30.00                 0.85    0.11      0.97              0.82    0.92    11.72
PHED/ZP SoOOS       10.00    5.00   15.00              0.32    0.16    0.46                0.42    0.52   33.32
..............................................................................................................................
SUBTOTAL 4         1S1.90    15.70  167.60             4.90    0.51    5.41                4.6X     S.22    9.42
NISCELLANEOUS
LAND ACQUISITtON    15.00    0.00   15.00              0.48    0.00    0.48                0.42    0.52    0.02
RETROACTIVE PFIN1.
CIVIL hORKS         31.00    4.00   35.00               1.00    0.13    1.13                1.02    1.12    11.4"
CONSULTANTS         16.03    0.97   17.00              0.52    0.03    0.55                0.5X    0.52    5.72
.............................................. ;................................................................................
SUBTOTAL 5          62.03    4.9T   67.00              2.00    0.16    2.16                1.8X    2.1X    7.42
VASE COST                 2,866.08  383.01 3.249.09            92.45    12.36  104.81              69.02  100.02   11.82
CONTINGENCIES:
-PHYSICAL (IOXof clvit w) 240.78   33.30  214.08              7.77     1.07    8.84               7.TM            12.1X
PRICE Cinft./.xch. rate) 793.10  155.71   948.81             2.51     1.59    4.09               3.5X            38.72
..............................................................................................................................
SUBTOTAL 6       1,033.88  189.01 1,222.89             10.27    2.46    12.93              11.0X            50.9X
TOTAL PROJECT COST        3,899.96  572.02 4,472.0            102.73    15.02  117.74             100.02            12.82



-99-                                        ^Aex 4
Page s2 Iof5
XARNA1A  URL WATER  PPLY AM  EWINEMTAi  SNITATION PROJECT
IPLEMENTATION PROfILE,INFLATION RATES AND FACTORS,1XCHANCE RATES
DESCRIPTIoN                            YEAR 1  YEAR 2   YEA  3   YEAR 4   YER S   YEA  6   VW  7    TO0AL
fY    1994     199      1996     1997      1998     1999     2000      (1)
................................................. ................................................................................... ,,._   
WATER SUPPLY
PIPEM ISPs -1                     15X      40X      35X       102      0        OX       OX      100X
PIPEDIS PHASE.2                    OX      5       202      352       35S      S        oX      10U
PIPED US PHASE-3                   OX       5       202      35X       352       SX       OX      lOOX
LEAKAGE REP.WORKS                 102      20X      20X      202       202      lOX      O0       1002
WATER QLTY CONTROL                102      40X      402       102       02       OX       OX      1002
OROUNOW. RECHARGE                 10X      20X 202           20X       202      102       OX      10OX
SOREUELLS & HPs                   1S%      2        202      202       202       5X       OX      100
EQUIP.& WORKSHOPS                  O       40X      502       102       0X       OX       OX      1002
........ ......................................................
AVERAGE 1                          8X      24X      28X       202      16X       42       OX      100X
ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION
SULLAGE DRAIN                     102      202      202      202      1S       102       SX      1002
PIT LATRINES                      10X      202      20X      202       15X      102      5      lOOX
SHING PLATFORMS                    5X      202      202      25X       202      102       02      1002
CATTLE TROUGHS                     5X      202      202      252       202      102       OX    lOOX
aATHING CUSICI                    5       20X      202      202       202      102       SX      100X
STREET SINS                        52      202      202      252       20X      102       ox    lOX
SIOGAS PILOT PL.                   OX      20X      30X      302       202       02       OX      100
........... ........................................._..................
SUSTOTAL 2                         6X      202      212      242       192       92       2a      1002
PROJECT SUPPORT :
SCHIEM  DESIGN                    302      302      302      10X        02       02       02     1002
PROJECT MNGMNT.                   152      20X      20X      202       10X      102      S       100X
CONST.SUPERVISION                  5X      20X      20X      202       20X      10X       52      100X
LEAK DETECT SURVEY                 5X      202      202      20X       20X      152       OX      100X
SPECIAL STUDIES                    0X      202      402      402        02       02       02      100X
............................................................................................................
SUBTOTAL 3                        112      222      262      22X       10X       72       2X      1002
ISSTl.OUILD6./HEALTHOMUNIC.
TRAINING MAT./EQUIP.              102      20X      202      202       20X      10X       02      100%
COMUITY PARTIC.                   102      20X      20X      202       20X      102       OX      1002
HELTH CNlIC.                      102      202      202      202       202      10X       OX      1002
PHED/ZP G00DS                     202      20X      20X      202       202       02      0Q       100X
.............................................................. ..............................................
AVERAGE 4                         132      20X      202       202      202       ax      0o       1002
MtISCELLAEOUS
LAND ACOUISITION                  302      302      302       10X       02       02       OX      1002
RETROACTIVE FtAN.
CIVIL ORKS                       1002       ox       02       02        02       02       ox      1002
CONSULTANTS                      1002       0X       02        02       02       0X       02      100X
............................... ....................................................................  _...
AVERAGE 5                         ?7       10X 102             3X       OX       Os       OX      100X
INFLATION (FOREIGN)                      3.102    3.102    3.102    3.102    3.102    3.10X    3.102
INFLATION   (LOCAL)                      7.S0X    6.50X    5.802    5.302    5.00%    5.002    S.00X
............................................................................................................
INFLATION FACTORS
-LOCAL                                   1.08     1.15     1.22      1.29     1.35     1.42      1.49
-FOREIGN                                 1.04     1.07     1.10      1.14     1.17     1.21      1.25
............................................................................................................
EXCIAIE RATE (IUSS"X RS)          31       33       35       37        39       41       42        42
US1 APPRECIATION                1.06     1.13     1.19      1.26     1.32     1.35     1.35
RS  DEPRECIATION                0.94     0.89     0.84     0.79      0.76     0.74     0.74
............................................................................................................................................................................ .......... 



K&RRATAICA MUAL VAntE  UHYl AN mVIUIUEI9AL SUNITATIO M APUJC
gmS cost (in as mIllIan)
USESIPTISN                 VW  I               "EaR 2              Y"AN 3               WEM 4                YEA S                WMA 6               YVAR 7         TOTAL
P11994             IV 995              111996              FT I"?                11'1998FT 1999                           P12am
LC    PC   TOTAL  I.E   PC   MOAL   LC    IC   TOTAL  I.E  P19  TSOTAL  L.e    PC    TOTAL  I.E   PC   TOTAL   Le                 C    MOAL.
ViTm SUPPLY
PIPED WS PWASE.1    29.7   5.1   34.8  79.2  13.6  92.S   69.3  11.9   81.2   19.8    3.4   23.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0 0.      .     .      .0  232.0
PIPED WS PhASE.      0.0   0.0    0.0  32.2   5.9   38.0  128.6  23.4  t52.0  225.1   41.0  266.0  225.1   4026.           3.2 5.9   380         .   0.0      .    6.
PIE  usl PhASE-I     0.0   0.0    0.0   9.3   I.7   11.0   37.2   6.8   44.0  65.1   11.9   77.0  65.t   11.9   27.0    9 3   1.7   11.0   0.0   0.0    0.0  22.0
LEKATA  REP.DRCS     4.3   0.#    5.0   8.5   1.5   10.0    8.5   1.5   10.0   8.5    1.5   10.0    8.5    1.5   10.0    4.3   0.8    5.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   S0.0
WAVER 0S,T1 CONTROL  1.8   0.6    2.3   7.1   2.2    9.3    7.1   2.2    9.3    1.8    0.6    2.3    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   23.3
080150. "EEARGE     27.2   1.4   28.6  54.3   2.8   57.1   54.3   2.8   57.1   54.3    2.8   S7.1   54.3    2.8   57.1   27.2   1.4   28.6   0.0   0.0   0.0  285.7
904REMELLS S IWo    25.8   2.7   28.5  34.4   3.7   38.1   34.4   3.7   38.1  34.4    3.7   38.1   34.4    3.7  38.1    8.6   0.9    9.5   0.0   0.0   0.0  190.3
*aflp.& IORESUOP     0.0   9.0    0.0  32.3  22.7  $5.0   40.4  28.3   86.8   8.1    5.7   13.8    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0  137.
flTOTAL 1     88.7  105 9.w2745.   311i.3 7..    00.6  460.5  417.1   70.4  407.5  387.4  60.8  448.2   81.5  10.6   92.1    0.0   0.0   0.0189.
ERVtRONNETAL SANITATION
SULLAGE DRAINAGE    51.2   2.8   54.0 10.5   5.5  108.0  102.5   5.5  108.0  102.5    5.5  108.0  76.9   4.1   81.0   51.2   2.8   54.0   25.6   A4   27.0  540.0
PIT LATRINES        20.5   1.1   21.6  41.0   2.2   43.2   41.0   2.2   43.2   41.0    2.2   43.2   30.8    1.6   32.4   20.5   1.t   21.6  10.3   0.5   10.   216.0
VA81I10 PLATFOMS     0.6   0.0    0.6   2.4   0.1    2.5    2.4   0.1    2.5    3.0    0.2    3.2    2.4    0.1    2.5    1.2   0.1    1.3    0.0   0.0    0.0   12.6
CATTE TRoJEN         0.3   0.0    0.3   1.1   0.1    1.2    1.1   0.1    1.2   1.4    0.1    t.4   1.1    0.1    1.2    0.6   0.0    0.6    0.0   0.0    0.0    5.8
RAININGe OiSiELs     0.9   0.1    1.0   3.5   0.4    3.8   3.S   0.4    3.8   3.5    0.4    3.0    3.5    0.4    3.8    I.7   0.2    1.9    0.9  0.          1.0   19.2
STREE SINSl          0.4   0.0    0.4   1.6   0.1    .1.    1.6   0.1    1.7   2.0    0.1    2.1    1.6   0.1    I.?    0.8   0.0    0.8    0.0   0.0   0.0    8.4
BioCAS PILOT Pt..    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.9   0.t    1.0    1.4   0.2    1.5    1.4    0.2    1.5   0.9    0.1    1.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0    5.0 
SUBTOTAL 2  73.9   4.0   77.9 13.    .4  16.    534   6.    6.9147    85 163.2  117.1   6.5  123.6   76.0   4.2   80.2   36.7   2.0  38.   807.0 
PROJCT StPPOT s                                                                                                                                                                 . I
SCOWN DESIGN        18.9   1.2   20.1  18.9   1.2   20.1   18.9   1.2   20.1    6.3    0.4    6.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   67.0
PROJECT NOW4.       15.1   1.4   16.5  20.    1.8   21.9   20.1   1.8   21.9  20.1    1.0   21.9   10.1    0.9   11.0   10.1   0.9   11.0    5.0   0.5   5.5  109.7
CONSr.4UPERVISION    4.6   0.2    4.8  18.2   1.0   19.2   18.2   1.0   19.2  18.2    f.0   19.2   18.2    1.0   19.2    9.1   0.5    9.6    4.6   0.2   4.8   #6.0
LEAN 011tcC SURVEY   0.9   0.4    1.3   3.5   1.5    5.0    3.5   1.5    5.0   3.5    1.5    5.0    3.5    1.5    5.0    2.6   1.1    3.8    0.0   0.0    0.0   25.0
SPECIAL PRSECS       0.0   0.0    0.0   0.6   1.6   2.2    1.2   3.2    4.4    1.2    3.2    4.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   11.0
AlMIOTAI. 3  39.5   3.1   42.661.4   7.1   68.4   62.0   8.7   7.6  49.3    7.9   57.2   31.8    3.4  3S.2   21.8   2.5   24.3   9.6   0.7  10.3  308.7
TRAINING NAI./EG11   6.5   0.3    6.9  13.1   0.6   13.7  13. 1 0.6   13.7  13.1    0.6   13.7   13.1    0.6   13.7    6.5   0.3    6.9    0.0   0.0    0.0   68.6
CCOWNITY PARTIC.     5.0   0.4    5.4  10.0   0.8   10.8   10.0   0.8   10.8  10.0    0.8   10.   10.0   0.8   10.8    5.0   0.4    5.4    0.0   0.0    0.0   54.0
NEALIN COosiIC.      2.7   0.4    3.0   5.3   0.7   6.0    5.3   0.7    6.0    5.3    0.7    6.0    5.3   0.7    6.0    2.7   0.4    3.0     0.0   0.0    0.0   30.0
PED/Ze sow0s         2.0   1.0    3.0   2.0   1.0   3.0    2.0   1.0    3.0    2.0    1.0    3.0    2.0    1.0    3.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   15.0
SUBTOTAL 4  16.19  2.07  18.26 30.38        .14 33.52  30.38   3.14  33.5403  .43.2  30.38   3.14  33U.52  14.19  1.07  15.26   0.00  0.00   0.00 167.60
LAND AMRISITION      4.5   0.0    4.5   4.5   0.0   4.5    4.5   0.0    4.S   1.5    0.0    1.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   15.0
RETR0CT*ve fI"NA.
CIVIL WOR$          31.0   4.0   35.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   35.0
cORULTANTS          16.0   1.0   17.0   0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0   17.0
SUBTTAL       51.    5.0 56.    4.5   0.0    4.5   4.5   0.0   4.          1.    0.00.0          .0    .0 .0    0.  0       0.0    .0    0.0   0.0   0.      6.0
UKS COSTi            269.8  24.7  294.5 506.6  72.6  579.2  630.2 100.8  731.0  653.0   90.0  743.01  566.7  73.8  640.5  193.5  18.4  211.9  46.3   2.7  49.0 3,249.1
EOIITINGENCIESt                                                                                                                                                             0
.PIysJEA 4 (lOof C    19.4   1.9   21.2  41.0   6.2   47.3  53.3   6.9   62.2   57.2    7.9   65.1  SA.4    6.7   57.2   15.81  1.5   17.2    3.7  0.2    3.9  274.1   "
-PRICE (Inft./.xcb    23.1   2.8   26.0  82.1  16.   98.6  150.9  34.9  185.8  204.9   42.3  247.2  21.0  44.5  263.5   88.4  12.7  101.1   24.7   2.0  26.7  90.8   U
......            ;..      ...............................................................................
SUBTOTAL 6   42.5  ~4.7   47.2 123.2  22.7  145.9  204.2  43.8  248.0  262.0   50.2  312.2  269.4   51.2  320.6  104.2  14.2  118.3   28.4   2.2  30.6 1.222.9
MOAL PROJECT cOS     312.3  29.4  341.7 629.8  95.   725.   834.4 144.6  97.0  915.0  140.2 t.05S.2  036.   125.0  961.1  297.T  32.5  330.2   74.7   4.9  79.6 4,472.0



MaT45A 3300 3131  341t  _   An OS600SI*6 OStUttIO  90031
win Cur (<6 l  dott)
O0610113l 0l1 *                                       VW  a2                Vag 3                 V  1 4               Wm                    1 Wm 6                MA 7           tr  
1994                IT tsn                n1996                 n1 1"f               FT t9                 n "999               n2ue
LWCAL W310   TTAL   LOCAL 9011   OA    ULia 90    TOAL   LOAL PT 1995 Toa             LuL t8   TOMA    LOA               TOTALam 9o.8   WMTa
pipe Vs 90801    0.96   0.16   1.12   2.S    0.44   2.9   2.2L               2.62   04A    e.1    0.75   o.oo   0.00   0.o0   ooo   am 0 .00 o o.u   0.0    0.00   7.48
n891a  9m-2    0.00   0.00   0.00   1.01   O.9   1.23   4.5   0.?!   4.90   r.26   1.32   8.50   7.26   1.32  L88   1.0    0.9   1.23   0                   .00   0.00  2.52
VIM  W0U#83    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.30   0o.   0.M    1.20   0.22   1.42   2.10   0.38   24.    2.10   0.38   2.48    .30   0.5    .35   0.00   0A00   0                7.10
1145M 11.63    0.1    0.0    0.16   0.U    0.05   0.32   0.?   0.05   0.32   0?   0.05   0.32   02    0.05   O.32   0.14   0.02   0.16   0.00   o.00   0.o0   1.66
6310011 LIUOCan   0.06   0.02   0.08   0.2    0.07   0.30  0GM    0.07   0.30   0.06   0.02   0.08   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.0    0.75
snMo. um.aa    8G GAS   0.92   1.33   0.0    1.0G s15   0.0    1.so9     .0         1.     0.09   1."    .75   0.09 s.01,  0.08   00    0.92  80.0    0.00 0G.A    9.2
soUSL  8a         0 G.83   0.09   0.92"   1.11   .1    13   11   0.u    1.23   1.11   0.12   .23   M.    0.12   1.23   0.23   0.05   0.3    0.00   0a0   0.00   6.4
W .PA    I      o 0.00    .O0   0.00   1.04   0.73   1n    1.30   0."    2.22   0.26   0.10   0.4   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.e             0.00   4.4
JOTAL 1             .L6   0.34   3.20   030   1.74  10.04  12.25   2.82  14.    t3.45   2.27  1535  12.50   1.96  14.46   LaS          3    2.97   0.00   0.00   0.00  61.25
&W*IMMTAL UIITATt08
SlUM  00i8I0f      AS   0.09 1.7    3.31   0.*t          3.48   3.31   0.1    3.48   3.31   0.18 s.0   2.4    0.13   2.81   145   0.09    .74   0OJS   0.0"    0.0   17.42
Pit LAfItE        046   0.03   0.70   1.32   0.1   139   1.2   0.07   1.39   1.32   0.07   139   0.09   0.05   1.05    46   0.03   0.70   0.33   0.02   0.5   6.97
3053l ftATltS   0.02   0.00   0.02   0.00   0.00    am    0.e    0.00   0.es   0.10   0.00   e.to   0.00   0.00   0.08   0.01   0.00   0.01   0.00   0AO   0.00   0.41
CAtTu  tis         0A.    0.00   0.01   0.04   0.00   0.,  o0.0    0.00   0.0    0.04   0.00   0.es   0.01   0.00o  0.0    0.02   0.00   0.02   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.9
061123 093610     0.08   0.00   0.0    0.11   0.01   0.t2   0.11   0.0    0.62   0.1t   0.01   0.12   0.11   0.01   0.12   0.06   0.01   0.08   0.0   0a           0.08   0.02
ST lUT 001   0.00   0.01   0.0    0A.    0.05   0.05   0.00   0.0s   0.06   0.00   0.07   0.05   0.00   0.OS   0.03   0.00   0.03   0.00    .00   O.                      0.27
8S0 PK"  L.    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.03   0.0    0.S   0.01   0.00   0.0s   0.01   0.00   0.05   0.03   0.00   0.03   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0AO   0.00   0.16
stAL  2           2.38   0.1    2.51   4.93   0.2    .21   4.9    o.2    S.n    4.99   0.2r   S.27   3.78   0.21   3.99   2.45   0.13   2.59   1.19   0.07   M.2s  26.0
"WM WM I
SC I onto        0.61   0.01   04      041   0.01   0.65   0.61   0.1   0.65   0.20   0.0    0.22   0.00   0A.    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  O00   O00   2.16
PROM? Now16.      0.49   0.04   0.53   043   0.06   0.71   0.45   0.08   0.71   045   0.00   0.71   0.32   0.05   0.35   0.3    0.05   0.35   0.18   0.01   0.18   3.546
COM.PWI*VISSN!  0.15   0.01   0.15   0.59   0.03              0.59   0.05   0A2   O.59   0.03   0.e  2   0.59   0.03   042   0.2    0.02   0.38   0.15   0.01   0.g    3." g
LAt O 1 law    05   0.01   OA4   0.11   0.0    0.16   0.11   0.08   0.1    0.1   0.0    0.16   0.11   0.05    .1u   0.08   0.01   0.12   0.00   0.00   00    01 X
tlUm  s1et        0.0    0.00    .O0   0.02   0.e5   0.0'  0.0    0.10   0.14   O.1   0.te   0.14   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.0o   0.00   0O.    0.0    0.00   0.00   O                         I
............................... ................................................ e** ........... Zwv4........... ~*.^v***^*****s******~,..................................................................................... ,,,,.,. ...............,,,.,,,w*o**^^¢^Z**.v@**B**oe**ow  *
39010  I           1.V2   0.10   1.37   1.      0.23   2.     2.00   0.20   2.28   1.59   0.23   1.05   1AS   0.11   1.1    0.70   0.0G   0.78   0.31   0S         0.33   9.96
11111I8.SUILDLiIALUCO.IC.
tUt833 Nt.2Wl311  0.21   0       0.22    0.42   0.02    .4    043   0.02   0.4    0.42   0.2   0.4    0.42   0.0    O.4   02    0.0   0.2   0O.    0.00   0.e0   2.21
CSWUITV 9*tfc.   0.14   0.0    0.1t   0.32   0.05   0.35   0.32   0.03   0.35   0.32   0.03   0.35   0.32   0.03   0.35   0.16   0.01   0.t7  0O.    0.00   0.00   1.74
310t07 C00C.    0.00   0.01   0.10   0.1?   0.02   O.19   0.1   0.02   O.19   0.           0.02   0.19   0.3?   0.02   0.t9   0.e   0.01   0.00   0A.    0.00   0.00   0.97
"IS2  a00          0.06   0.03   0.10   0.06   0.05   .o1   0.06   0.05   0.to   0.06   0.03   0.10   0.06   0.03   0.10   0AO   0.00   0a.    0.00   0.00   0A.   O0S
.......................... . ................... ... ...................... . ,_   ......... ...,,,,................  .***,,*...................,..,,..... ......... . ......._ .........-^^v*  
0.52   0.0e   0.59   0.9S   0.1O   1.08   0.98   0.10   1.00   0.90   0.10   1.00   0.90   0.10   1.05   0.46   0.05   0.49   0O    0.00   0.00   5.41
LAW ACW35t710      .1S  0.00   0.15   0.1150.00   0.1    0.S   0.00   01    L.Os   0.00   0.05   0.08   0.0o   L.0   8.0    0.0   0 .0o    08   0.0    0.0e    GA
CIVIL Now83        1.00   0.13   1.13   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.OO   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   1.13
COSTAns           0.52   0.0s   0.s    0.00   0.0    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   00A   0.55
...................................... .............................................................. ...................................................................................... ,.........*e*e.*.....**** .............................^*s***^^^*o . ..............****
a30o1   5          I46   0.16   1.02 L03    0.0    0.15   0.15   0.00   0."    0.05   0.00   0.05   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   2.16
SWAm c                      .70    .O0   9.5M   16.3   2.3   1848  20.33   2.7  23.58  21.06   2.0  23.97  1t.28   2.38  20.46   6.2   0.59   6.03   1.49   0.09   1.5S  104.01
CONTIMMICless
*P5CML (10O1.  vith.)  *042    0.06   0.60   1.32   0.20   1.S2   1.n    0.2#   2.01   1.01  0.#    2.10   1.63   0.22   1.           .s    0.05   0.56   0.12   0.01   0.1  S0.01
-MICE (6n91.Iuctm. rote)  0.14   0.03   0.17   0.33   0.1    0.51   0.0   0.32   0.03   0.55   0.4    0.99   0.49   0.45   .94    .34   0.1    0.4?   0.17   0.02   0."9   4.09             00 -
S13Te110 6         0.76   0.09   0.8s   t.6s   0.3   2.03   2.22   0.57   2.03   2.40   0.69   3.09   2.11   0.6    2.78   0t ..    .  .05   0.18 1.es   0.31 t2.93
TOTAL 9131 CO              9.u    0.89  80.35   17.99   2.    20      2.5S   3.4   26.42  n3.4   3.59  27.06  20.39   3.05  23.44   7.09   0.77   7.6   1.78   0.12   1.98 t11.74
430



-102-
.                          ~~~~~Annex 4
Page 5 of S
KARAtAAKA RURAL WATEP SUPPLY AND EWVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
IORLBANK FINANCING SNARE$ (In USS uilifofs)
OSCRIPTIloN                 VORLDSK.    TAXES  YEAR I   YEAR 2   YEAR 3   YEAR 4   YEAR S   YEAR 6   YEAR 7         TOTAL
FINANCING     AND  t 1994       199f     1996     1997    199       1999     2000
SHARE X DUTIES
.....................................................................................................................
WATER SUPPLY
PIPEOD  S PHASE-1       90X    10.01    0.91      2.42      2.12     0.61     0.00      0.00     0.00     6.06
PIPED US PHASE-2        9S      10.01    0.00     0.99      3.9?     6.95     6.95     0.99      0.00    19.86
PIPED VS PHASE-3        90S    10.01    0.00      0.29      1.15     2.01     2.01      0.29     0.00     5.75
LEAKAGE REP.WORKS       901    10.01    0.13      0.26      0.26     0.26     0.26     0.13      0.00     1.31
WATER OLTY CONTROL      901    15.01    0.06      0.23      0.23     0.06     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.58
GROUNOV. RECHARGE       90X      2.01    0.81     1.63      1.63     1.63     1.63      0.81     0.00     8.13
BORE4ELLS & HPs         90X    10.01    0.73      O."9      O.9"     0.99     O.99      0.25     0.00     4.97
EQUIP.B VORKSHOPS       901    23.01    0.00      1.23      1.54     0.31     0.00      0.00     0.00     3.07
..................................................................................................................................................... 
SUBTOTAL 1                               2.6      8.05    11.89    12.81    11.84       2.47     0.00    49.72
ENVIRCONENTAL SANITATION
SULLAGE DRAINAGE        7ox      5.01    1.16     2.32      2.32     2.32     1.74      1.16     0.58    11.58
PIT LAtRINES             501    S.O     0.33     0.66      0.66     0.46     0.S0      0.33     0.1?     3.31
VASHING PLATFORMS       901      5.01    0.02     0.07      0.0?     0.09     0.o0      0.03     0.00      0.35
CATTLE TROU6HS          901      5.01    0.01     0.03      0.03     0.04     0.03      0.02     0.00     0.16
SATHING CUBICLS         501      5.01    C.01     0.06      0.06     0.06     0.06      0.03     0.01     0.29
STREET BINS             901      5.01    0.01     0.05      0.05     0.06     0.0      0.02     0.00     0.23
BIOGA8 PILOT PL.        90X    10.01    0.00      0.03      0.04     0.04     0.03      0.00     0.00     0.13
.....................................................................................................................
SUBTOTAL 2                               1.54     3.21      3.22     3.26     2.47      1.59     0.76    16.06
PROJECT SUPPORT s
SCHENE DESIGN          1001      5.01    0.62     0.62      0.62     0.21     0.00      0.00     0.00     2.05
PROJECT NIOTNN.        1001    11.01    0.47      0.63      0.63     0.63     0.32      0.32     0.16     3.15
CONST.SUPERVISIoN      1001      5.0X    0.15     0.59      0.59     0.59     0.59      0.29     0.1S     2.94
LEAK DETECT SURVEY     100X    12.01    0.04      0.14      0.14     0.14     0.14     0.11 .  0.00       0.71
SPECIAL STUDIES        100     19.0X    0.00     0.06      0.11     0.11     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.29
,.....................................................................................................................
SBTOTAL 3                                1.2?     2.03      2.09     1.68     1.05       o.n      .3o     9.14
INSTN.3UILDG./NEALTHCOSNUNIC.
TRAINING NAT./EQUI     1001      4.01    0.21     0.42      0.4      0.4      0.42      0.21     0.00     2.12
COSU(UItY PARTIC.       100X     S.OX    0.17     0.33      0.33     0.33     0.33      0.1?     0.00      1.65
HEALTH CONGWNIC.       1001      8.01    0.09     0.18      0.18     0.18     0.18      0.69     0.00     0.89
PHED/ZP GOODs           90X    20.0X    0.07      0.or    0.or       0.0?     0.0?      0.00     0.00     0.35
.....................................................................................................................
0.54     1.00     1.00      1.00     1.00     0.4?      0.00     5.02
NISCELLANEOUS
LAND ACQUISITION         01      S.OX    0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
RETROACTIVE FINAM.
CIVIL VORKS             901    10.01    0.91      0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.91
CONSULTANTS             1001     5.01    0.52     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.52
..,,..........,,,.......,,,....... ,,,..........,....,,,,,...................  ______  _  _ _ _.....................
SUBTOTAL 5                               1.44     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      1.44
BaSE COSt                                         T.44    14.29    18.21    18.76    16.36       S.25      1.06    81.38
CONTIGMENCIES:
-PHYSICAL (10Xf cfvilf.)       901    10.0X    0.55      1.24     1.63     1.70      1.49     0.45     0.10      7.16
-PRICE tinft.Iexch. rate)      901    10.01    0.14      0.41      0.67     0.80     0.76      0.38     0.15     3.32
............................................................................,,,,,,, ................. ............ --
SUBTOTAL 6                               0.69     1.65      2.30     2.50     2.2S      0.8      0.25    10.48
TOTAL WORDBANK FINANCING SHARES                   8.13    15.94    20.51    21.26    18.61       6.08     1.32    91.85
FIn ncong shar   n X of total cost       78
Ffnmncfng shter  fn X nst of taxes      8B
Anont of taxes  (in US$ mtltfon)         11



-103-
Annex 5
KARMATAIA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND EWVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED WORLD8ANK DISURSENENT SCHEDULE (in USS million)
BANK FINANCIAL YEAR       DISUURSENENT     CUMULATIVE       DISBURSEMENT       DISEURS.  SECTOR
CUARTER ENDING            IN QUARTER                        %OF TOTAL          PROFILE  PROFILE
(in X)   (1n X)
............. ........................... ....... .....................
1994 SEPT.30,1993        2.03              2.03             2.21 X
DEC. 31,1993         2.03             4.07              4.43 X
MARCH31,1994         2.03             6.10              6.64 X
JUNE 30,1994         2.03             8.13             8.85 X               92      0X
1995 SEPT.30,1994         3.99            12.12            13.19 X
DEC. 31.1994         3.99            16.10             17.53 X
NARCN31,1995         3.99            20.39             21.87 X
JUNE 30,1995         3.99            24.07             26.21 X             172      6S
1996 SEPT.30,1995         5.13            29.20            31.79 X
DEC. 31,1995         5.13            34.33             37.37 2
MARCH31,1996         5.13            39.45             42.95 X
JUIE 30,1996         5.13            44.58            48.53 2              222      ox
1997 SEP1.30,1996         5.32            49.90            54.32 X
DEC. 31,1996         5.32            55.21             60.11 2
PARCH31,1997         5.32            60.53             65.90 X
JUNE 30,199 7        5.32            65.84             71.68 2             232      122
1998 SEPT.30,1997         4.65            70.50            76.75 2
DEC. 31,1997         4.65            75.15             81.81 2
MARCH31,1998         4.65            79.80             86.88 X
JUNE 30,1998         4.65            84.46             91.95 2             20X      12X
1999 SEPT.30,1998         1.52            85.98            93.60 2
DEC. 31,1998         1.52            87.50             95.26 2
NARCH31,1999         1.52            89.02             96.91 2
JUNE 30,1999         1.52            90.54             98.57 2              72      122
2400 SEPT.30,1999         0.66            91.20            99.28 X
DEC. 31,1999         0.66            91.85            100.00 2              12      122
TOTAL                        91.85                                                 1002     622



-104-
Anne& 
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
KARNATAKA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIROMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Project Monitoring Guidelines
IntroductLon
1.          PPMU is requested to submit quarterly reports which would
monitor:-
(i)      the physical work progress of the water supply and environmental
sanitation program;
(ii)      the progress in community management, health communication and the
training program;
(iii)      the progress towards achieving project objectives.  This would
require field surveys whereby questionnaires would be used which
would lead to information on the impact of the project on the
people and on the sustainability of the facilities installed. The
ZPs or NGOs are expected to collect this information; and
(iv)      the availability of project funds and disbursement performance.
Monitoring of Phvsical Work Progress
2.          This section applies to all civil works components:
(i)     village and regional water supply schemes, leak detection works,
water quality testing facilities, groundwater recharge works,
drilling of wells with handpumps and equipment supply; and
(ii)      environmental sanitation works like sullage drainage, pit
latrines, washing platforms, cattle troughs, bathing cubicles,
street bins and biogas plants.
3.          Indicators to be monitored for all these components would be
compiled in lists:
(a)   a list of all contracts (for civil works, goods and consultants
involved in these works) which have been awarded, amounts of
contract and contractual completion date including information
about amounts spent in the past quarter and total amounts spent up
to the reporting date and percentage of works completed. Under
the heading uremarksa, information about implementation problems,
delays or changes should be provided;
(b)   lists per district for works which are carried out by force
account like the majority of the environmental sanitation works in
the villages (pit latrines, sullage drainage) and groundwater



-105-
Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
recharge works including information about total amount and number
of facilities anticipated, number of facilities constructed and
amounts spent in the past quarter and total number of facilities
constructed and amounts spent up to the reporting date and
percentage of works completed; and
(c)   a list with information about contracts under procurement (e.g.
prequalification, advertisement, bidding, bld evaluation and
awards).
Monitoring of progress in Community Nanag2ment. Health Communication and the
Training Program
4.          Functions to be monitored for these components would include:
(a)   numbers of Village Water Supply and Sanitation Committees
established per district as compared with the total number
required;
(b) work progress and expenditure of the community mobilization
consultant/NGO as compared with agreed targets, number of
villages, districts covered;
(C)  work progress and expenditure in the health communlcation program
as compared with agreed targets, number of villages, districts
covered, material produced and distributed; and
(d) work progress and expenditure of the trailning management
consultant as compared with agreed targets, number of staff
trained per skill type and total mandays and number of courses in
the past quarter and in total up to the reporting date.
Monitoring of Progress towards achievinag Project Objectives
5.          PPWU is expected to establish a questionnaire for use in the
villages which would lead to information on the following indicators:
(a)   use of new water supply facilities, water consumption, daily
supply periods, quality of water as perceived by the users, power
supply situation, etc.;
(b) water tariffs per consumer category (house connection, standpost
and handpump users), billing and collection performance, available
maintenance funds;
(c)   maintenance performance for water supply and drainage facilities
and availability of trained operation and maintenance staff;



-106-
Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
(d)   number of women involved in the village water supply and
sanitation committees and in the OSM;
(e)   degree of satisfaction of tribal people with the facilities and
services provided;
(f)   usage of pit latrines, street bins, bathing cubicles, washing
platforms and cattle troughs;
(g)   time saved by woman per village per year; and
(h)   health impact evaluation (reduction in water related diseases) and
awareness of health communication messages.
Availab&Ilitv of groiect Funds ^ad Disbursement Performance
6.          PPMU with Bank assistance will develop a computer program which
will at any time provide information about spent and remaining IDA project
funds against each project component and in total. With the same program the
disbursement performance would be monitored. This would enable the project
management to detect very early any shortfall or saving in available project
funds.
7.          The basic input data to this program would be the project
components and cost estimates as shown in the cost tables of Annex 4 of this
SAR, but costs should be inclusive physical contingencies. In another column,
revised cost estimates would be shown which would be updated whenever
revisions in a project component are required. Other columns would show the
amounts spent, percent spent as compared with revised estimates and amounts
of remaining project costs. Required price contingencies for the remaining
project costs would be calculated in accordance with updated information about
inflation and currency exchange rates (Rs, US$). Remaining IDA funds in US$
would be calculated by using the then valid SDR/US$ exchange rate.



-107-
Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
KARNATAKA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Financial Affordabilitv Analysis
Community Contribution to Draina8e Works in Pilot Villagos
------------Rs. (000)-----------
Name of Village                Cash      Labor    xatl's    Total
1 (a).  Seegavalu                 90         10         0       100
(b).  Kalamvanakoppalu          60         10         0        70
2.      A. Nagathihalli           70         10        73        153
3.      Kembliganahalli           98          0         0         98
4.      Santhekadur              225         25         0        250
5.      Lakhangaon               210         34       179       423
6.      malli                     84         40        76        200
7.      Ravihal                  250          0         0       250
8.      Arkera                   105          0       154       259
9.      Nadlur                   114         10        47        171
10.     Hombadimandadi              30         0         0         30
Total Community Contribution    1336         139       529       2004
Percentage community contribution to total drainage works is 50%



-108-
Armex 7
Page 2 of 2
Einancial Affordability Analysis
Table 2
Estimated Water Supplv 0&( Costs and Proposed Monthly Tariffs
Average 0&1           Monthlv Tariff to Cover 0&M Costs
Costs
in Rs.       Standpost (a Rs 6.50  ponnection ta Rs 20.00
Name of District      illag2 M3   Standpost Conn,ection ataDftpst       Connect2L
1.  Bangalore       51100   1.86       6.50    28.85       10.99       20.00
2.  Shimoga         68800   1.38       6.50    17.73         5.16      20.00
3.  Belgaum         89800   1.19       6.50    16.74        4.49       20.00
4.  Gulbarga        70900   0.90       6.50    10.50         2.29      20.00
5.  Nysore          71800   1.33       6.50    17.43        4.92       20.00
6.  Mandya          66200   1.33       6.50    19.00         5.66      20.00
7. Dakshina
Rannada         49100   1.99       6.50    23.79         8.70      20.00
8.  Bidar           75200   0.85       6.50      8.77       0.00       20.00
9.  Bellary         76200   1.32       6.50    15.52         3.60      20.00
10.  Raichur          N/A    N/A       N/A        N/A         N/A        N/A
Table 3
Rural Household Income Distribution
% of
Monthly Income Level               H'seholds
Rs. 100 and below                       4
Rs. 101 - Rs. 350                      13
Rs. 351 - Rs. 600                      26
Rs. 601 - Rs. 1,000                    27
Rs. 1,000 and above                    30
100



-109-
Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
INDZ
KARNATAKA RURAL  UATER SUPPLY AhN fMOl]MONKEN     SANITATION PROJECT
Environmental Assessamet
1ntrodMr,tion
1.          The project would contribute significantly to improving the
environment. It is rated under category u"B of the Bank's Environmental
Assessment Operational Guidelines. The provision of a safe and reliable water
supply and water quality monitoring, improved sanitation facilities, intensive
health and hygiene education and measures to augment groundwater resources and
thereby reduce soil erosion is expected to result in a substantial improvement
of the present situation and in the awareness of environmental quality. On
the institutional side, the formations of village water supply and sanitation
committees, which would be responsible for O&H of the water supply and
sanitation facilities, will give the villages a sense of ownership which is
expected to result in much better cost recovery and service performance than
in the past. The training program under the project would ensure that the
village O&M staff would be adequately trained for their duties.
2.          Although the project is expected to improve the environmental
conditions considerably as compared with the Ono projectu option, and although
there is no substitute or real alternative for the supply of water to people
(it is a necessary social service), possible negative impacts on the
environment of the communities are listed below:
(i)      increased wastewater quantities as a result of improved water
supply could have a negative impact on the environment of the
community. However, the quantities of water to be delivered from
yard taps, standposts and handpumps would generally be too small
to generate sufficient quantity of wastewater to pose
environmental problems. Sullage drainage and disposal facilities
would be constructed wherever wastewater quantities could pose a
problem;
(ii)      use of improperly protected tube wells could also be harmful to
the community. Design criteria for water source development would
ensure that adequate protection measures are taken. In addition,
water quality would be monitored to ensure compliance with
established water quality standards;
(iii)      construction of proper drainage aprons and soakaway pits at all
water drawing points and related user programs on water
collection, storage and disposal would reduce the incidence of
insect borne diseases;
(iv)      the hygiene education and the promotion of latrines would have
positive environmental impact by reducing the health hazard of
indiscriminate defecation in open areas and within domestic
households;



-110-
Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
(v)      the risk of groundwater contamination by pit latrines is
considered minimal. In almost all cases, groundwater is drawn
from deep wells. Also for handpumps, shallow groundwater
resources are usually not available. In addition, soil filtration
will render harmless the small quantities of waste water which may
seep into the ground;
(vi)      construction would not employ any methods or materials which would
be damaging to the environment. Earthworks would not cause any
risk or damage to the ecological system. On the contrary, the
proposed groundwater recharge works would reduce soil erosion and
increase vegetation; and
(vii)      operations and maintenance would not cause environmental damage.
The principal inputs would be electricity for pumping of water and
small quantities of chlorine powder for water disinfection.
Training would be provided for the staff in the proper handling
and dosing of such material.
3.          Resettlement of people is not required under the project.
However, there is some tribal population in the project (5%), and special
steps will be taken to ensure that: (a) as many tribals in the project
villages as possible are brought within the scope of the project; (b) special
efforts are made by the social survey and community participation consultant
to consult with the tribal communities to seek their active participation in
the design and implementation of the project; (c) the water supply services
are provided free for them.
4.          The main problems the tribal population in the project have are
related to nutrition, housing and the limited space for their activities.
5.    The project will also pay special attention to schedule caste population
in the project villages and if necessary additional facilities will be
provided to ensure unrestricted access of these facilities to the scheduled
caste population.



-111-
INDIA
IAWNATAKA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
Project Supervision Plan
1.          The nature of the project and geographical spread (1200 villages
spread over the whole statf of Karnataka) would normally require a very heavy
supervision input. However, the project has been designed to avoid excessive
Bank supervision input. It is expected that the project will be supervised,
monitored and coordinated by the borrower's agencies. In order to ensure
this, the project has been well prepared and qualified consultants will be
used to carry out all major activities such as design work, training, health
communication, community participation and construction supervision. The
consultants will be monitored and controlled by IDA financed Government cells
in the ZPs engineering divisions in the PHED head office and by the PPMU. An
empowered government committee will be established as a condition of Board in
order to avoid delays in decisions. As a condition of project effectiveness,
all major consultants contracts must be awarded and key staff in the cells and
PPWU employed.
2.          As far as the composition of Bank supervision teams is concerned,
it is intended to use, as far as possible, local consultants and staff from
our New Delhi offices. This local staff (a sanitary engineer and two social
scientists) has already gained experience and been tested during project
preparation. A typical Bank mission would consist of the task manager, a
local sanitary engineer and a local social scientist. Inputs of a financial
analyst and of a training expert would be required whenever the need arises.
Two missions per year, each of two weeks duration, will be necessary. The
local staff would carry out small follow-up missions in between, if the need
arises. At average about 16 staff weeks per year would be required for
project supervision.
3.          Project progress would also be monitored and controlled through
the quarterly progress reports, annual action plans which will be prepared by
PPMU in accordance with the project monitoring guidelines (Annex 6) and a mid-
term review through independent consultants. Auditors will prepare annual
audit reports of the project expenditure.



-112-
Annex 10
Page 1 of 10
INDI
KANRMTAKA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND EIRONKENTAI  SANITATION PROJECT
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
PLANS FOR PILOT VILLAGES
TESTING OF APPROACHES
1.          The planning phase for all ten pilot villages has been completed
with the experience now being recorded in guidelines. The next activities are
to develop approaches and methodologies for community participation during
construction and operation and maintenance of phases. The approaches and
methodologies to be tested during further implementation of the pilot schemes
are discussed below.
2.          The Mandal bye-laws for the Village Water and Sanitation
Committees (VWSC) have been finalized and sent to the mandals. The pilot
villages would be used for testing the implementation of these bye-laws.  The
first step would be to change the membership composition of the Village
Development Committees to comply with the bye-laws. The name of the Village
Development Committee would be changed to the VWSC.
YILL1LEITAL COQNTRIBUTI
3.          It has been agreed that the villages would be required to
contribute 30% to the capital cost of the sullage drainage systems and bathing
cubicles. A letter from the Government regarding the 30% contribution should
be sent immediately to all mandals participating in the project. The pilot
villages should be allowed to share responsibility with the Mandal for the
village's cash contribution until it is deposited with the ZP engineers for
use in construction. These funds could be placed in a separate account at the
mandal level. The government's contribution of 70% should also be transferred
to the village account at the same time. The Secretary of the VWSC should be
a co-signatory to this account along with the appropriate mandal authorities.
The pilot villages would test out the setting up and management of these
accounts for the capital contribution.
4.          For villages which have not met their 30% contribution, approaches
will need to be developed for obtaining the full amount. The pilot schemes
should also develop guidelines for collecting this contribution in terms of
when collections should begin, how long the process should take, how the
process might be linked to the harvest seasons and what procedures should be
followed. Procedures would also be tested for turning over the cash
contribution to the ZP engineers who would be responsible for supervising the
contractors employed to construct the drainage system or bathing cubicles.
5.          For pilot villages which have collected more than 30%, it was
agreed that the Mandal Panchayats should be given the opportunity to decide
how the additional funds would be spent. These villages should be encouraged



-113-
AMMe 10
Page 2 of 10
to use these funds for development activities or to deposit the extra funds in
an interest bearing account to be used for future O&M.
CONSTRUCTION OF WATER SUPPLY SIoEMES
6.          During the construction of the water supply schemes, the pilot
villages would test out the methodologies for having WSC members present
during the supervision of work by the project engineers. The copies of the
final designs of the schemes should be given to the VWSC prior to the
commencement of construction activities. There should be a joint inspection
which includes the WSC before the schemes are commissioned and the VWSC
should also sign off on the work of the contractor before his final payment is
made. The siting and construction of handpumps should also be undertaken,
including the replacement/repair of existing handpumps.
CONSTRUCTION OF DRAINAGE SYSTEMS AND BATHING GUBICLES
7.          Two of the pilot villages asked to make their 30% contribution in
the form of materials and/or local labor. The pilot schemes will be used to
test out the feasibility of using local materials and labor. Efficiency,
quality and economy should be used as criteria for evaluating these
approaches. All other pilot villages would use local contractors for
construction. For the two villages which use local material and labor, a
method will have to be adopted for including these costs in the contract to
ensure that they are properly accounted for.
8.          For villages which use local materials and labor, a village mason
or contractor should be identified to supervise the villagers contribution.
This individual should be paid by the village for this work. The pilot
schemes may also test out the approach of using the same contractor for both
the water supply scheme and the drainage system and the bathing cubicles. The
pilot schemes should also develop the methodologies for making payments to the
contractor in terms of using both government and the village cash
contributions. The construction of the drainage schemes should not begin
until the construction of the water supply schemes is well under way.
However, it should be completed within one year of the completion of the water
supply schemes.
LATRINE PROMOTION AND HEALTH COMMUNICATION
9.          During the construction phase of the pilot villages, activities
should begin on the promotion of latrines and health communications. The
health communications activities could be oriented primarily to the promotion
of latrines and personal hygiene. A minimum of one demonstration latrine
should be constructed in each pilot village. The results of the planning
phase suggest that there may be 20-25% household demand for private latrines
in the pilot villages. More latrines could be constructed depending on the
demand during the implementation period of the pilot schemes. The pilot
villages would test out the use of different local organizations to promote
latrines. The pilot villages should use the subsidies agreed upon during the
appraisal mission. There may be a need to train masons for these pilot



-114-
Am 1Q
Page 3 of 10
villages. Health communication material prepared by other programs, e.g.
UNICEF, should be used. Trainlng in interpersonal communications is needed
for the local organizations entrusted with the task.
10.    The list of local organizations for the pilot villages would be as
follows:
(i)     Seegavalu -- already covered under another program
(ii)     A. Nagathihalli -- health department staff
(iii)     Kembulinganahalli -- VWSC
(iv)     Hombadimandadi  -- NGO and informal women's group
(v)     Madlur  -- youth club
(vi)     Lahangaon- - VWSC
(vii)     Arkera -- mahila mandal
(viii)     Ravihal -- health department staff
(ix)     Malli -- youth club
(x)     Yelsangi -- NOO
WOMENWS PARTICIPATION
11.        A women's study would be carried out during the pilot schemes to
develop a strategy for their participation in the project. Approaches would
be tested for motivating women to form informal groups and actively
participate in the health communications activities and Q&M in three
districts. During the planning phase, it proved to be difficult to involve
women in the decision making process. Special efforts would be required
during the implementation of the pilot schemes to determine approaches for
involving women in the project activities.
OPERATION AN MAINTENANCE
12.        After the completion of construction, the pilot villages would
test the approaches needed for the VWSC to carry out their responsibilities as
indicated in the new Nandal bye-laws. Some of the activities would include
the collection of water and drainage fees, supervising the work of the O&M
staff, maintaining the cleanliness and hygiene of the village and ensuring a
satisfactory and regular supply of water to the village. The pilot villages
will need to test alternative approaches to community participation in
monitoring the maintenance of latrines, drainage and handpumps.
TRAINING
13.        Training programs would be developed for the project and pre-
tested during the implementation of the pilot schemes. The prlority courses
have been agreed and the appropriate course material would be developed.
These courses would include: project launch workshops for the village, local
NGOs and local level officials; training for the VWSC in water supply and
sanitation; orientation for primary school teachers in water and sanitation;
technical awareness workshops for project staff working on community
participation and health communications and social awareness workshops for the



-11S-
Page 4 of 10
engineering staff; treaiing in construction methods, particularly for drainage
and latrines; skill training for local masons, pipe layers and labor; training
in 06( for local mechanics, valvemen and helpers; and training of women as
handpump caretaker.



-116-
Annoy, 1
Page 5 of 10
MODEL UNDERTAKIG By VWSC
This undertaking given by Village Water and Sanitation Committee
of  -------------------------------  (village name) in -------          -     --
--- mandal, ------------------ taluk, ------------------------------ district
to the Government of Karnataka is made out on this day of -------------------
---- (date of undertaking).
1.    This is to confirm that the WSC ----------------------------
(villr.ge name) has agreed to participate through contribution of
cost sharing towards environmental sanitation, protect and
maintain the components and systems provided under Water Supply
and Environmental Sanitation of the Integrated Rural Water Supply
and Environmental Sanitation Project to be implemented in our
village.
2.    We  agree to contribute towards the project an amount of Rs.------
--------  (Rupees -------------------------------- only) which
constitutes 30% of the estimated Capital Cost towards
Environmental Sanitation works in the following forms.
Value in Rs.
1.   Cash
II. Materials *
III. Labour *
*     The values have to be estimated based on DSR and recorded.
We expect that the Government will contribute the remaining 70% of
the Capital Cost of this component; and fully bear the Capital
Costs of Water Supply component.
3.    The above mentioned cash contribution of Rs. ------------- (Rupees
-__------_--_ -------- .-----------) will be
mobilized and deposited in the WSC account of the Nandal
Panchayat, within ------------------ (date).
4.    We agree to provide the material and labour contribution as and
when required by the executing authority during the implementation
of the scheme.
5.    On behalf of the villagers, we agree to operate & maintain the
water supply systems, including handpumps, and work under the
guidance of the concerned authorities.
6.    We agree on behalf of the people of the village, that with their
co-operation to maintain roads, drainage, bathing cubicles, cattle
troughs, dustbins, washing platforms under environmental
sanitation components.
7.    We agree to convince the people to shift the existing manure pits
in the village to suitable places and maintain cleanliness in the
village.



-117-
A Lx 10
Page 6 of 10
8.    We agree to extend our full co-operation to the executing
authority throughout the project period to facilitate the
successful and timely implementation of the project.
Signature of the Office Bearers



-118-
Page 7 of 10
GUIDELINES FOR
COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION - PLANNING PHASE
Based on the lessons learned from the pilot villages, the
following draft guidelines are being proposed for scaling up the community
participation activities to cover all 1,200 project villages.
1.    Identification of a core planning group - consisting of
consultants, NGOs & ZP engineers.
2.    Workshop and training of core group and implementing officials, by
the Training Management Unit.
3.    PHED provides information on a quarterly basis to the PPMU/CP unit
on the status of the designs for project villages.
4.   Informing the Mandal Pradhans/Administrators/B.D.Os about the
project and schedule of visits with the Gram Sabha.
5.    The ZP engineers to be briefed about the designs and cost
estimates before attending the planning exercise.
6.   Village project launch (through Gram Sabha).
Core Group explains project objectives & components, people
involved & their role, time frame, importance of community
participation, commuity responsibilities & community
contributions (approximate amount of contributions to be mobilized
has to be informed). The project launch would be organized and
carried out in coordination with the training unit.
7.    Determine a time schedule for the planning exercise with the Gram
Sabha.
8.    Jr. Engineer who will be implementing the project should be
requested to participate in the planning exercise at the village
so as to facilitate his rapport with the users and understand
their perceptions, particularly in respect of drainage & other
environmental sanitation components.
9.    For villages where the DLDB component is involved,  DLDB should be
informed and involved in the planning exercise.
10.   Ensure Mandal Pradhans/Administrators participate in the planning
exercise.
11.   The span of the PRA exercise should be of 3 days, during which
period the core group & officials should stay in the village
including night halts to enable a good rapport to be built up, and
alse understand the local problems in detail.



-119-
Annex lQ
Page 8 of 10
12.   During the PRA exercise, the core group should ensure that the
total community participates (including hamlet populations). This
can be done through establishing prior formal/informal contacts
through village transact (a walk through the village) and using
traditional village methods of communication like "Danguran or
uThamateu (Drum beating).
13.   The project objectives and schedule of activities for the next 3
days should be explained in detail.
14.   Core group should have consultations with other informal groups in
the village such as women's groups (like Mahila Mandals) and Youth
Clubs.
15.   The actual day-to-day PRA exercise should follow the model given
below :
VILLAGE LEVEL PLANNING ACTIVITY
DAY I                                           DAY II                DAY III
MAPPING
PROJECT   PLAN   VILLAGE   MEASURE- NIGHT/    ESTIMATE FORMATION NEGOTIATIONS
CONMUNI- OF       TRAN-   MENT       EVENING
CATION ACTION SECT
WOMEN'S   MEETING   FINALIZATION OF      SIGNING OF
MEETING   TRIANGU- VWSCs                AGREEMENT
LATION
(CROSS
CHECKING)
16.   During the PRA exercise, designs, plans & cost estimates of all
the components must be explained to the people. This should be
presented on the first day itself. It should also be verified and
modified if needed based on the people's felt needs and
suggestions.
17.   The *Social Maps* generated on the ground during the Participatory
Planning exercise should be presented to the people for cross-
checking (triangulation), and thereafter transferred to paper for
permanent documentation.



-120-
Anmex 10
Page 9 of 10
18.   It must be understood that "Social Maps" are not made to scale,
but are meant to convey the appropriate village habitat realities,
as understood by the users. After use of these maps for
appropriate modifications in designs, if needed, they may be
deposited with VWSC.
19.   These social maps can be subsequently utilised for health
communication and sanitation promotion programmes.
20.   Revised cost estimates have to be carried out after incorporating
the people's felt needs. This has to be done by the ZP engineers
of the team.
21.   Village Water and Sanitation Committees have to be formed in
consultation with all social groups and local organisations as per
the bye-laws, to be formed.
22. Negotiations for people's contributions based on revised cost
estimates have to be done. Time required for the villagers to
mobilise the contribution amount has to be fixed based on the
project norms and the local situations.
23.  The mode of people's contributions (cash, labour and material)
have to be finalised and recorded during negotiations. The
donations and contributions collected by the committee initially
will be kept in a separate account in a local nationalised/co-
operative/regional rural bank branch.   The amount so kept shall
be drawn under the joint signature of the Chairman/Vice Chairman
and the Treasurer of the committee. The amount shall be drawn for
the purpose of remitting to the Mandal Panchayat Fund in the
Treasury towards the village share of the village water supply,
sanitation and habitat development scheme as and when required.
24.   A formal resolution detailing their commitments have to be passed
by the committee.
25.   Regular followup by the team/concerned officials to maintain the
tempo of the people's involvement in the project. During these
meetings, the following issues will be discussed
-    Review of the progress on the mobilisation of contributions
-    Keeping them informed about the progress on the project
activities
-    Training schedule for VWSC members
-    Health communication & latrine promotion measures
-    Co-operation in resource scheduling for construction and
timings of these inputs requirement
-    To communicate the O&M responsibilities to the WSC members.



-121-
Ann  10
Page 10 of 10
aHODEL MAD& RESOWTINU&
Resolution of the Mandal in respect of
village,                       Handal
taluk of                        District.
The Integrated Rural Water Supply & Environmental Sanitation
project with World Bank Assistance is taken up in Karnataka state. It is
gratifying to note that the village ----- in our Mandal has been included in
this project.
After the completion of the above said project, the operation and
maintenance of all the components and their repairs will be the responsibility
of Mandal Panchayat. In this direction, the Mandal Panchayat will form a
village water and sanitation committee consisting of the villagers of the
project village and this committee will be responsible for operation,
maintenance and repairs of the various components of the water supply, drains
and environmental sanitation works. In view of this, the following resolution
is adopted:-
1)    The Mandal Panchayat will bear 30% of the total cost of the
Community Development works, road repairs and environmental
sanitation works.
2)    After execution of the Integrated Rural Water Supply and
Environmental Sanitation Project components, the Mandal will take
the responsibility of operation, maintenance and repairs of the
following components of the project:-
a)    Water Supply facilities including handpumps;
b)    Culverts and drains; and
c)    Environmental Sanitation works.
3)    Mandal agree to take the responsibility of collecting necessary
amount from the beneficiaries of the village in a suitable manner
to meet the operation, maintenance and repairs works of the above
mentioned project.
Signature
Mandal Pradhan/
Village Water and Sanitation Committee
President
---------- Village
--------------------- Mandal
--------------------- Taluk
--------------------- District



-122-
Annex 11
Page 1 of 1
Documents Available in the Project File
The main documents which have been used for the preparation of
this appraisal report are listed below:
1)   Assessment of Training Needs, Final Report, May 1992 -
by Indian Society for Technical Education, Mysore.
2)   Pilot Phase on Community Participation  - Quarterly Progress
Report II, June 1992  - by OM Consultant, Bangalore.
3)   Water Quality Monitoring in the State of Karnataka, Final Report,
February 1993.
4)   Brief note on O&M of Rural WS Systems in Karnataka, Nov. 1991 - by
RWSG, New Delhi.
5)   Micro-Watershed Management for Groundwater Recharge, 1991 by State
Watershed Development Cell, GOK, Bangalore.
6)   Groundwater Recharge in Village Kambal, 1991 (Sample), by State
Watershed Development Cell, GOK, Bangalore.
7)   Engineering Study Report (for typical village water supply) Oct.
1992, by National Industrial Development Corporation, New
Delhi/Sri Jayachamarajendra College of Engineering, Mysore.
8)   Report on Financial Studies (Project Accounting system), October
1992 - by Consultants Krishna Moorthy in association with
S. Gopalaswami, Bangalore.
9)   O&M Cost of the Existing Rural Water Supply Schemes, April 1992 -
by PHED, Bangalore.
10) Socio-Economic Base Line Survey of Project Districts.



7W                                                           77to Asorsnood~dJ
INDIA                                              sodel   I         t
KARNATAKA RURAL WATER SUPPLY
AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT                                                                  J
W   | Project Districts                                      To ShoIo.ss
*    District Headquortersj
O Seleoded Townsosob_ 
55 , IsNbs tionasl Highways             7
Link Rosds\
Railroads                                _       )                      aRG   
--District Boundaries                     I ,i   _                                    It
--State or Union Territory Boundaries  \ Z,        t       
-*  nternotional Boundaries                                         A      Ik                 toHydmbod
g  vs)   e       - /  X GUL|                                                     Z
to Kapur.BIJ\                                                         z Siu8a  
10
~~' ~~~~s  Stohtt  God..o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~. d.
LLRY2-'X
>1~~~oisso                                                       a Koig 
KILOMAETKSS
(~  To Hyd-sotsd
ba~tsaI N.~*  *\                           A,           -TU                              (KOLA
U    TJT A\R A )    N          t,d-    t ~N '~JJ .
KjN S    NA D              H  AK          SSAN ^/  .                    BOAKlEOAIIEtERS
' ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~           URS ~~~~~~~~~~~To Mdod.
Ij T"                                 T.C.
u   \4    ttL         \          r    0 --.  \MANDY                     RUD Y  L         tolsbo Khngciri\ 
f<. nK WDAG.& 11S    I f
14'~~#;t                                          "s,tf~N       /         H'         - 
irb  d Tl,                                                               T.l 01.t_                  _d
i1z *                                              7<  t          To OotocomTorCmdso                             8                        ,



