Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22012
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-24830)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 66.3 million (US$ 92 million equivalent)
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF
INDIA
FOR A
KARNATAKA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
March 26, 2001
Rural Development Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = INR
I INR = US$ 0.032
US$1 = INR 31 (1993)
INR 45 (2000)
FISCAL YEAR
April March
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DPMU             District Project Management Unit
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
ESR              Engineering Study Report
GOI              Government of India
GOK              Government of Karnataka
GP               Gram Panchayat
GWR              Ground Water Recharge
HSHE             Health, Sanitation and Hygiene Education
ICR              Implementation Completion Report
IDA              International Development Association
IEC              Information, Education and Communication
M&E              Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS              Management Informnation System
NGO              Non Governmental Organization
O&M              Operation and Maintenance
PHED             Public Health Engineering Department
PPMU             Project Planning and Monitoring Unit
PRI              Panchayati Raj Institution
RDED             Rural Development and Engineering Department
RDPR             Rural Development and Panchayati Raj
RWSS             Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
SWDC             State Watershed Development Cell
VHF              Village Health Facilitator
VIP              Village Immersion Program
VWSC             Village Water and Sanitation Committee
WSP              Water and Sanitation Program - South Asia
ZP               Zilla Panchayat
ZPED             Zilla Panchayat Engineering Department
Vice President:    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:    Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager/Director:    Ridwan Ali
Team Leader/Task Leader:    Keith Oblitas/G.V. Abhyankar



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
KARNATAKA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECT
(IDA-24830)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    12
6. Sustainability                                                                        13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       16
9. Partner Comments                                                                      17
10. Additional Information                                                              19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   31
Annex 8. Sustainabilty Monitoring - The VIP way                                       32(a)
to (d)
Annex 9. Key Project Staff turnover                                                     33
Annex 10. Borrower's Evaluation                                                         34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P010418                                        Project Name: KARNATAKA WS & ENV/S
l Team Leader: Ghanasham V. Abhyankar                      TL Unit: SASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: March 19, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: KARNATAKA WS & ENV/S                           IJC/TF Number: IDA-24830
CountryIDepartment: INDIA                                                 Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: WR - Rural Water Supply & Sanitation
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  01/10/89                                 Effective:                    02/23/94
Appraisal:  10/08/92                                  MTR:                        09/15/96
Approval:  04/20/93                                 Closing: 12/31/99            09/30/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOI/Department of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj; Govemrnment of
Karnataka
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mieko Nishimizu                            Joseph D. Wood
Country Manager:     Edwin R. Lim                               Oktay Yenal
Sector Manager:      Ridwan Ali                                 Robert Panfil
Team Leader at ICR:   Ghanasham V. Abhyankar                    Karl Kleiner
ICR Primary Author:   R. R. Mohan; Ghanasham V.
Abhyankar
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL-Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN-Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU-Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
Note:
1. The project was reviewed by QAG under RSA/3 and project supervision was r ated as Highly
Satisfactory.
2. This was rated as a problem project duiring the period September 1995-Decenmber 1997.
3. ICR peer reviewed bv Vijay Jagannathan. Lead iater and Sanitation Specialist, EASUR.



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1  The main objective of the project was to raise the standard of living in rural areas through
improved (human) health and productivity which would result from improved access to potable water
supply and environmental sanitation facilities. The project was expected to develop replicable models for
coordinating water, environrnental sanitation and health communication programs elsewhere, village level
planning, and strengthen the local institutional capacity to promote improved environental sanitation. The
improvement of health and productivity was to be achieved through the following specific objectives:
(a)    promote more equitable distribution of safe water through improved design standards,
taking into account residential pattem, and community involvement, particularly of the
rural poor, in the identification of schemes and the siting of standposts and hand pumps;
(b)    improve sustainability of water supply and drainage schemes through an upgrading of
skills of the community and government officials at the local level, clarification of
responsibilities for operation and maintenance (O&M), improved cost recovery to provide
adequate funding, and increased involvement of the community in maintenance;
(c)    increase public and private investment in environmental sanitation through programs to
increase latrine usage, the provision of sullage drains, and improved solid waste
management; and
(d)    create greater community awareness of water related health problems and the need for
cleaner environment through a health communications program targeted mainly toward
women, adolescents and children.
3.1.2 The project objectives were consistent with the Bank strategy of promoting community
participation and cost recovery in the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS) sector and with the
national and state goais of according highest priority to providing safe water to villages lacking a protected
water supply source within a reasonable distance, and to increasing the service levels. The project was one
of the earliest in the rural sector in India to introduce several key elements such as integration of water with
environmental sanitation and health education, cost sharing of capital costs, community participation, user
financing of operation and maintenance costs, ground water recharge for improved source sustainability,
and attention to improving overall project sustainability. The project introduced capital cost sharing for the
first time in the RWSS sector in India by introducing the concept for environmental sanitation schemes. At
the tirme of preparation, political acceptability to cost sharing for water supply schemes was not there.
3.1.3  The objectives were appropriate and challenging in the context of the reality that water was
essentially treated as a public good. The project was one in a series of other projects (Maharashtra, Uttar
Pradesh and Kerala) fmanced by the Bank in the RWSS sector during 1 990s. Being one of the earliest
projects introducing sector reforms in the country, and given the limited experience available at the time of
project preparation, the risks for long term sustainability were not fully visualized. Problems did arise
during project implementation and interventions were initiated to overcome these to the extent possible.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not revised
-2 -



3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1  The project had four main components as follows:
(1)    Rural Water Supply, including construction of new and rehabilitation of existing water
supply schemes in about 1,200 villages, assistance to Public Health Engineering
Department (PHED)'s bore well program, leakage repair works, a water quality
monitoring program and measures for ground water recharge (GWR);
(2)    Environmental Sanitation, including construction of environmental sanitation facilities in
all the project villages based on demand covering sullage drainage, pit latrines, washing
platforms, cattle troughs, bathing cubicles, street bins and bio-gas plants;
(3)   Institutional Building and project support, including community development programs for
creation of Village Water Supply and Sanitation Committees (VWSCs), comprehensive
training programs and strengthening of project management within the Public Health
Engineering Department (PHED) and Zilla Panchayats (ZPs); and
(4)    Health Communication for creation of greater community awareness and demand for
improved hygiene and environmental sanitation.
3.3.2  These components were well suited to achieving the stated objectives of the project and within the
capacity of the implementing agency.
3.4 Revised Components:
None
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1   The project was identified in 1989 in response to the Ministry of Rural Development, GOI's request for
IDA assistance in developing the rural water supply sector in India. The project was prepared at a time when
there was little or no political acceptance of concepts such as capital cost sharing and user participation in
management of RWSS schemes. Project preparation started by drawing lessons learned mainly from the then
completed urban water supply projects and the on-going Maharashtra Rural Water Supply and Environmental
Sanitation Project (Cr. 2234-IN). Eventually, most of these lessons proved to be irrelevant to the Karnataka
project since these earlier generation projects were clearly supply-driven, top-down, government-implemented
projects adopting a purely engineering approach.
3.5.2  The project's preparatory efforts included participatory baseline socio-economic and willingness-to-pay
studies. The project prepared guidelines for community mobilization and formation of local institutions
involving participatory rural appraisal (PRA) methodologies. A pilot phase was planned to precede subsequent
phases with provision for continuous learning and feedback from each phase. Improved design standards and
provision of household water connections were aimed at more equitable distribution of safe water. The village
level skill building programs were emphasized. These training programs were to be implemented by the district
level engineering colleges aimed at building sustainable local institutional capacity. The project design
introduced the concept of government partnership with NGOs and village water and sanitation committees. This
was one of the most important project contributions to promoting community participation in RWSS service
delivery in the state. The overall Quality at Entry is therefore assessed as Satisfactory.
3.5.3   The quality at entry could have been rated higher but for some of the design limitations which became
clear during implementation. First, the design of project management structures at the state and district levels
had its limitations. The intended participatory processes and cost recovery approach required that the project
- 3 -



management units had commensurate leadership, skill mix, orientation, team building and a mindset to work
with communities as partners in project implementation. Second, pre-selection of villages by ZPs (instead of
self-selection by villages) which was done during the early stages of implementation was contradictory to the
intended cost recovery approach. Third, adopting large slices covering multiple scattered villages in single
contracts for procurement of water supply schemes in Phase I was inappropriate. Fourth, the capacity building
design did not adequately focus on managerial and team building aspects. Fifth, the project implementation plan
was not prepared and a "scheme cycle"' for synchronization/sequencing of activities was not developed. Finally,
no specific measures were built in the project design to ensure a gender-balanced approach.
3.5.4 The Bank team and GOK did well to address some of these limitations by modifying the project design
and rules during implementation, though such attempts could not fully compensate for the original design
limitations. Some examples of such interventions were:
Pre-MTR: (i) procurement procedure for sullage drainage works were modified to include local village
committees to undertake such works; (ii) cost sharing rules modified in January 1996, required upfront cash
contributions from the communities to make the project more demand responsive.
At MTR: (i) restructuring of the District Project Management Units (DPMUs) to strengthen their management,
health education and social development skills; (ii) reconstitution of the Empowered Commnittee to make it more
responsive to project needs and facilitate the acceleration of the decision making process; (iii) changing
procurement packaging and procedures by reducing the size of the water supply contract slices and adopting
post qualification procedures in Phase-2 (instead of pre-qualification adopted in Phase-i); (iv) downsizing the
ground water recharge component and leak detection survey considering their experimental nature; and (v)
increasing the involvement of NGOs in terms of the scope of their work and inputs.
Post MTR: (i) introduction of participatory sustainability monitoring (refer Annex 8) programs using village
immersion process (VIP) ; (ii) using local voluntary village health facilitators (VHF) in project villages (often
young women) for sanitation and hygiene promotion; (iii) capacity building of village level institutions for post
implementation phase operations; (iv) financing power line extension for water supply schemes from project
funds to expedite energizing of pumping stations; (v) introduction of Electronic Multiple Control Progiammable
Units (EMCPUs) to overcome irregular power supply and voltage fluctuations; and (vi) strengthening O&M
cost recovery through policy support and enhanced monitoring.
An important tool for planning and monitoring of project activities providing a unique calendar for all project partners (activities,
schedule, sequencing, responsibility, inter-dependence and tools).
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1  Overall outcome: Satisfactory. The project has by and large achieved its overall development
objective of raising the standard of living in rural areas through improved (human) health and productivity
as a result of improved access to potable rural water supply systems and environmental sanitation facilities
in villages where project activities have been completed. Preliminary findings from impact assessment
studies and Health, Sanitation and Hygiene Education completion reports indicate savings in water
collection time, improved awareness of the importance of safe water, and increase in the number and usage
of sanitary latrines. The achievement of the overall objective can be assessed from the significant capital
cost contributions by communities (about US$ 10 per family, or about 6% of the hardware cost). This was
facilitated by the strong NGO support to the communities. The impact evaluation sample study conducted
-4 -



by OED (report dated June 30, 1998) when Phase-I schemes were being commissioned, had identified
potential project impacts. This study, based on a sample of 25 project villages and 5 control (non-project)
villages, pointed out that: (1) users indicated improved health status (based on respondent reported health
data); (2) there is increased consumption of water; (3) there was reduction in average water collection time
of close to 4 hours per day; and (4) there was reduction in average distance traveled for collection of water
(from 2.5 kIn) to approximately 279 meters. The OED study also indicated that social interactions and
participation of households in community activities had increased after the project. The OED study rated
this project as better performing in comparison with the earlier Maharashtra project, but rated the
sustainability as uncertain.
4.1.2 The achievement of the first Development Objective (DO) of nromotinig more euuitable
distribution of safe water is satisfactory. By Credit closure, about 900 water supply schemes have been
commissioned out of a target of 1,100 schemes. Improved design standards (higher service levels, increased
distribution pressures and peak factors, computerized hydraulic designs) and hydraulic testing of over head
tanks, rising mains and distribution lines have led to better flow of water to all parts of the village.
Participatory processes in deciding the location of public stand posts have, by and large, ensured equity in
distribution. The project has also ensured coverage of areas where vulnerable sections of the community
such as Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes live. Conventional rural water systems in India did not
normally provide for private house connections and the public stand-post locations were often decided by
the village elite, resulting in poor access to vulnerable groups in the village. In addition, private connections
were often drawn from the distribution lines by the more influential households (for which the system was
not designed) leading to loss of system pressure and poor water supply at the standposts. In this project, by
providing the option of house connections in the design stage itself, the project has helped improve access
to water for all communities in the village. Some implementation limitations were: (i) old systems have not
been adequately rehabilitated (mainly in some Phase-I villages) and integrated with the new system and
distribution problems have been encountered (e.g. unsanitary conditions around old stand post/private
connections, leakage from old pipes, less pressure at stand posts etc); and (ii) chlorinators installed by the
project are still not being operated in many villages.
4.1.3 Achievement of the second DO of improvin2 the sustainabilitv of water supplv and drainage
schemes is satisfactory. Village Water and Sanitation Committees (VWSCs) have been forrned in all
project villages as sub-committees of Gram Panchayats (GPs) with representation of women, scheduled
caste/tribes and elected Panchayat representatives. The project has implemented village level capacity
building programs for O&M, introduced 100% O&M financing by the users, and the local GP
sub-committees (VWSCs) have taken over the responsibility for scheme operations and maintenance. O&M
expenses have been estimated and tariffs fixed in the project villages to fully cover the estimated O&M
expenses. Tariff collection has commenced in villages as the systems are being handed over to VWSCs and
shows a gradual improving trend. The tariff collected is deposited in a separate bank account opened for
that purpose. However, VWSCs are not yet displaying full vigor in enforcernent of tariff collection and this
laxity is compounded by non-receipt of electricity bills. The VWSC structure which served so well as an
instrument of inclusion in the planning and implementation phases of the project is at cross roads and its
role in the O&M phase is still evolving. Since the Bank is in the process of preparing a follow-on project,
there will be an opportunity for continued monitoring of VWSC's role.
4.1.4 The achievement of the third DO of increasing public and private investment in environmental
sanitation is 'highly satisfactory'. Not only physical targets (90,000 nos.) in respect of Individual Sanitary
Latrines (ISLs) have been met, but the facilities are also being used. Community contribution towards the
capital cost of constructing sullage drainage schemes was 30% with about Rs. 130 million being mobilized.
- 5-



This amounts to about Rs. 0.13 million per village (US$ 3,000 per village). Private household investment
in ISLs is estimated at around Rs. 150 million. Overall, community investments in environmental sanitation
amount to Rs. 280 million. The project has also had a positive demonstration effect. Government
investment in environmental sanitation outside the project villages has also increased. This positive
experience is reflected in GOK's strategy paper for the years 2000 to 2005 for improving village
environment under a new program called Swachcha Grama ("Clean Village"), with emphasis on the
following five components ("pancha sutras"): (1) construction and use of sanitary latrines, (2) drainage,
(3) solid waste management, (4) improved fuel efficient and smoke free stoves, and (5) village internal
roads. In this program, communities have to share 10% of the capital cost in cash which is to be collected
unfront.
4.1.5  The achievement of the fourth DO of creating areater awareness of the causes of water-related
health problems and the need for cleaner environment is rated as 'satisfactory'. GOK designed a good
capacity building-cum-communication strategy, developed a useful set of inter-personal and mass-media
information, education and communication (IEC) materials, and reached the communities, creating
increased demand for ISLs and improved awareness for cleaner environment and hygiene practices. A
private sector consultant provided commendable support to the project in strategy development, developing
communication materials, training of NGO staff and in monitoring and evaluation. Studies on assessment
of Health, Sanitation and Hygiene Education (HSHE) programs indicate an overall improvement in hygiene
awareness and practices in comparison with control (non-project) villages. The study (covering a sample of
221 project villages and 34 non-project villages) indicated 23% improvement in latrine coverage, better
maintenance of the constructed latrines, improved cleanliness of the houses and their surroundings
(measured by sweeping of houses and cleaning of drains in front of the houses), marginal reduction in
bathing activities by children near water sources, reduction in incidence of children defecating in the streets
and drains, reduction in stagnation of water in front of houses, improved daily bathing habits, increase in
proportion of households placing drinking water in elevated positions (as against keeping these at ground
level), marginal increase in use of ladles (rather than dipping the glasses) for accessing drinking water,
marginal increase in use of covered containers for storage of food and reduction in proportion of families
who suffered from diseases in the last one year. The increase in demand for household latrines and their use
is the most tangible inzicator of success. The full effectiveness of the program was not yet realized at
closing due to its late introduction and there is still room for improvement, particularly in relation to
cleaning of drains and operation of chlorinating equipment.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1  The status of implementation of various project components at Credit closure is as follows:
Rural Water Supply:
4.2.2  Water Supply: This component includes the following six sub-components: (a) Construction of
water supply schemes, (b) Bore well program for source development, (c) Leakage repair works, (d) Water
quality monitoring program, (e) Ground water recharge measures, and (f) Equipment and workshops.
4.2.3   Water supply schemes (mainly piped water supply schemes along with mini water supply schemes
and hand pumps), have been commissioned in over 900 villages, of which over 650 have been handed over
to the VWSCs for O&M. Most of the remaining ground water-based schemes are expected to be
commissioned and handed over by April 2001. Completion of the surface water schemes (about 5%
villages) may spill over to June 2001. Post-implementation support to VWSCs for about 6 months in
stabilizing scheme operations is to be continued by the project staff. An interesting innovation in the project
-6 -



has been the installation of Electronic Multiple Control Programmable Units (EMCPUs) which act as
automatic regulators (auto trip and auto start) and which can be programmed to operate the pump for a
specified number of hours in a day taking interruptions into account. The quality of construction of water
supply and sanitation schemes has been rated as generally good. However, the implementation progress has
been beset with substantial cost and time overruns.
4.2.4 Bore well program (including source development, procurement and installation of 4,500 India
Mark III hand pumps) has been completed. The project had to drill unplanned for additional borewells
under source development (5,025 borewells against a plan of 4,000 borewells) due to dwindling of yields in
the source bore wells.
4.2.5  Systematic leakage assessment, detection and control is practiced only in large urban water supply
systems in India. This project introduced these concepts in smaller rural water supply systems and this
experience will be important in the years to come. Leakage repair works were to be carried out based on the
fndings of a leak detection survey of already existing water supply systems in project villages. Due to high
cost of survey and relative inexperience in carrying out such studies in rural areas, RDED decided to
undertake leak detection only on a pilot scale in 10 villages. The pilot experiment confirmed that even in
small rural water supply schemes, the extent of leakage losses could be substantial and preventive
maintenance is extremely important for efficient scheme operations. Leakage due to insufficient earth-cover
over pipes, missing taps on private connections and street taps, and wastage due to overflowing tanks are
some of the other findings. The study consultant has recommended formation of a leak detection unit at the
state level to continue the work of leak assessment, detection and repairing.
4.2.6 The water quality monitoring program, formulated based on a detailed water quality study by a
consultant, was intended to support GOK's efforts to ensure supply of safe water to rural areas through a
routine water quality control program to be implemented by supply agencies (e.g. VWSCs) and an
independent water quality surveillance program to be implemented with the assistance of the RDED and
Health Departments. Specific support from the project comprised upgrading of the existing laboratories
and establishment of new ones, supply of testing equipment, materials and vehicles. Three laboratory
buildings have been constructed and three existing buildings have been upgraded. Laboratory equipment
has been procured and the required staff have been provided. There is still a long way to go to imbibe the
concept of routine water quality monitoring in rural water supply systems in Karnataka (and in India). It is
important for GOK to ensure that the facilities created are put to productive use and surveillance activities
are taken up on a systematic and regular basis.
4.2.7 Ground water recharge measures have been completed in about 328 villages. The original SAR
target was 720 villages. The activities were implemented by the State Watershed Development Cell
(SWDC). The institutional arrangement, in the absence of close and continuous coordination by PPMU,
meant that the ground water recharge activities were running parallel with the source
selection/development. As a result, part of the project borewells (about 8-10%) were outside the micro-
watersheds treated in the project (since the project source was changed after the recharge measures were
planned/started). External impact study conducted on a sample of 22 micro watersheds revealed that about
68% of the borewells had a positive impact (ranging from good to moderate) and about 32% of the
borewells had no or low impact. Experience pointed out the need for up-front linking of source location
with the planning of ground water recharge measures for getting optimal results. This sub-component
proved to be a good 'learning-by-doing' exercise for GOK, since recharge techniques for deep borewells in
rocky areas are quite different (e.g. point recharge) from the nornal watershed development programs
implemented to improve agricultural productivity.
-7-



4.2.8 Under the sub-component of workshops and equipment, buildings for workshops have been
constructed at Hassan, Dharwad, Gulbarga and Bangalore. RDED decided not to carry out procurement of
drilling rigs, hydro-fracturing and yield test units under the project considering the increased availability of
private sector entities to undertake source development, and equipment support that was available from
other bilateral projects.
Environmental sanitation
4.2.9  Sullage drainage works have been completed in 918 villages. It is significant that in nearly 90% of
the villages, the works were implemented by VWSCs. A tendency to unnecessarily construct large box
drains (considering the small volume of sullage normally experienced) by VWSCs indicates insufficient
guidance/monitoring by the DPMU engineers. There are cases where drainage has not been implemented
for the village as a whole. This is partly because of low community contributions and partly because of the
need to come to closure on the component in a reasonable time (as some small works stretched for 4
years!). To derive best benefits from the effort, it is essential that VWSCs/GPs complete the left-over
drainage works through their normal investment programs such as Jawahar Rozgar Yojana (JRY). The
SAR target of 90,000 household latrines has been achieved. Latrine coverage in project villages increased
from 2% to over 11% due to project interventions as intended at appraisal. Adoption of twin pit type pour
flush latrine over the single pit type has been less than targetted, though in the latter periods of the project,
twin pit type latrines constituted more than 70% of the latrines constructed. There was lesser demand for
bathing cubicles and dustbins than anticipated at appraisal. Usage and maintenance of washing plafforms
and cattle troughs was found to vary from low to moderate in different regions due to less demand.
Institutional Building and Project Support
4.2.10 Sub-components under this comprised (i) Project Management, (ii) Scheme Design, (iii)
Construction Supervision, (iv) Leak detection Survey, (vi) Special Studies, (vii) Community Participation,
(viii) Training, and (ix) PHED/ZP goods.
4.2.11 Under the sub-component ofproject management, a Project Planning and Monitoring Unit (PPMU)
and a cell in RDED (earlier under PHED) were created at the State level. District Project Management
Units (DPMUs - earlier called as ZP Cells) in each project district were also created as part of the project.
The original ZP cells created under the project were strengthened with multi-disciplinary staffing after the
MTR. The effectiveness of the institutional arrangement at the state and district levels has been less than
satisfactory. Lack of sufficient autonomy for PPMU and duplication of roles between RDED and PPMU
have contributed to delays and weakened the accountability. DPMU has been one of the weakest links in
the projectfs institutional structure. The project utilized, for the first time on a large scale, private sector
consultants in the RWSS sector. Scheme designs for all project villages have been completed with the help
of design consultants. Construction supervision was also entrusted to private sector agencies. Involvement
of private sector consultants in design and supervision yielded mixed results. They helped accelerate the
process of project preparation and implementation and helped maintain a lean project structure. However,
their effectiveness was limited partly because of the deployment of inappropriate staff who were not
famniliar with rural areas to difficult, scattered locations and partly because they were not managed well by
PPMU and DPMUs.
4.2.12 Community participation (CP), which was one of the important achievements of the project, was
carried out with NGO help supported by CP management consultants (CPMC). A locally selected youth
(mostly young women) was placed in each project village as a village health facilitator (VHF). This
partnership helped in mobilizing communities for group action and in effecting human and institutional
-8-



development at the village level. GOK utilized NGO services extensively (approximately 14,000 person
months' input over the project period) despite initial reluctance. The project witnessed overwhelming
participation by the benefiting communities. Community contribution towards the capital cost of
constructing sullage drainage (Rs. 130 million) is a substantial achievement, as it indicates not only the
community's interest, but also an endorsement of the project's cost sharing approach and participatory
strategies. As a result of the community participation efforts, sub-committees of the GP (VWSCs) have
been formed in all project villages and an O&M budget worked out. Water tariffs have been fixed
corresponding to the expenditures likely to be incurred and tariff collection has begun. A participation
review case study (August 1999) conducted by OED concludes that the benefits of participation in this
project include improved project design, improved construction quality, reduced corruption, improved
sustainability, growth of civil society and improved relationships between different village groups
(including between men and women). Involvement of NGOs helped in creating project awareness,
mobilizing communities and building more inclusive village level institutions. They helped lend credibility
to the sector reforms initiated by the project. The project and the NGOs mutually benefited from the
experience, though there were also cases of NGO failures when they walked out of the project at critical
times and the project had to make altemative arrangements through employment of individuals from NGOs
(NGIs). Some NGOs could not cope with the size and volume of work. Capacity building of NGOs under
the project was not adequate and much learning took place "hands on". The concept of VHF proved useful,
but NGOs (and hence the communities) had little say on hardware-related issues when it mattered. Most
NGOs reflected that this project, despite many odds, had been a challenging and satisfying experience.
They also feel that the knowledge gained from the project would assist them in other projects undertaken by
them.
4.2.13 During the project tenure, skill building and orientation training has been conducted for close to
25,000 persons covering teachers, care takers, masons, pipe layers, pump operators, VWSC members and
GP secretaries. Training management consultants carried out most of the technical training with the
assistance of district level technical institutions. Village level capacity building has been carried out with
NGO assistance and consultants as appropriate. Training of trainers program on O&M was conducted as
planned, based on which comprehensive O&M training at the village level was carried out by NGOs in
most villages (barring surface water schemes).
4.2.14 The project has pioneered the development of participatory approaches towards conducting a
Village Immersion Program (VIP)-based sustainability monitoring exercise, and an innovative exit policy
and plan to ensure post-implementation support to the VWSCs for improving sustainability. A
computerized management information system (MIS) was introduced as part of the project at the state and
districts levels. However, the full potential of the system could not be utilized, partly due to its late
introduction and partly because neither the key stakeholders appreciated the utility of the system nor were
the consultants able to develop user-friendly information systems.
Health, Sanitation and Hygiene Education (HSHE)
4.2.15 This component was carried out with NGO assistance and support from HSHE consultants. NGOs
conducted VWSC meetings, mother's meetings, shramadan campaigns (voluntary labor for village
cleaning), folklore programs, health camps and other village level campaigns. Village health facilitators
(mostly young women) were identified and trained from project villages. Health communication materials
were developed comprising wall paintings, audio-visuals and other printed materials for inter-personal and
mass communication. The effectiveness of the component is clearly visible on the number of household
sanitary latrines promoted, but less visible on community motivation to keep village drains clean. HSHE
was implemented rather late after the MTR, but for which the impact from the component could have been
-9-



more significant.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1   At appraisal, the conventional cost/benefit approach was considered not to be an appropriate
measure or criterion for evaluation of this project. The SAR justified the project on the basis of providing a
basic level of safe water supply and sanitation services to rural areas. Measurement of project benefits in
terms of health benefits (due to reduction of water related diseases) and time saved by women were
considered methodologically inexact and difficult to measure. Any such methodology can be challenged and
these, it was felt, do not in any case reflect the true benefits which are health related or social in nature. The
SAR drew on indicative experiences of benefits from studies on projects from Pakistan and Bangladesh in
concluding that economic rate of return need not be calculated.
4.3.2 This ICR has not attempted to estimate the Economic Rate of Return (ERR). The OED study
(report dated June 30, 1998) on the other hand assessed the economic impact of the project. Main findings
from the OED study indicate reduction in average water collection time of close to 4 hours per day and
reduction in average distance traveled for collection of water (from 2.5 Km) to approximately 279 meters,
in addition to perceived health benefits. In economic terms, the study measures the time saved as being
potentially equivalent to approximately 30% increase in household income. The economic rate of return of
such gain is estimated by OED at about 17%. Preliminary findings from the impact assessment study
commissioned by GOK show qualitatively similar results.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not carried out
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1  Substantial. Investments in RWSS have profound impact on the economic activity and quality of
life of the rural poor. In -he 1990s, the Bank supported three RWSS projects in the states of Maharashtra,
Kamataka and Uttar Pradesh. Under the overall objective of improving rural living standards, these
projects provided an integrated program of activities in rural water supply, health education and
environmental sanitation using a community participation approach. These projects and the sector work
carried out by the Bank in collaboration with GOI in 1998/99, clearly demonstrated the key strategic
approaches to improve sustainability (decentralized service delivery, demand responsive approaches,
participatory processes and cost recovery). Community support to these innovative approaches has been
strong. Similarly, the institutional model emerging from these projects (fundamentally a partnership
between user associations, NGOs and the project management entities, with support from private sector)
has proven to be viable and, with some modifications, replicable. The fourth and recently approved project
for Kerala state is a further step forward, in that it moves from a community participation approach to
community-driven development, and also strengthens the role of local govemments in RWSS management
by directly linking them with user associations.
4.5.2 The Karnataka project, through its demonstration of the benefits of community participation, had
helped in making progress towards sector reforms at the national and state levels. At the national level, the
Karnataka project has contributed towards an initial, but evolving framework for sustainable delivery of
RWSS services. At the state level, GOK introduced capital cost sharing in the project initially on
environmental sanitation cost and later linked it more directly to water supply. GOK has now incorporated
the reform agenda in its statewide RWSS sector strategy (2000-2005).
- 10-



4.5.3  A major contribution of the Karnataka project has been the development of more inclusive local
institutions in linkage with Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs). As a result of the community participation
efforts, VWSCs have been formed in all project villages. The VWSC structure in Karnataka is a composite
model containing elected GP members and other selected members as a sub-committee of the GP with
representation for women, S/Cs and S/Ts. The VWSCs' role and power structure has been changing over
the project cycle. In the initial community mobilization and planning phases, VWSCs served as a medium
for improved inclusiveness of user communities (including informal leaders and rural poor). In the
post-construction period, GP members assumed a more dominating role. After a series of political elections
at different levels, GP elections were held in January 2000. VWSCs, whose term is co-termninus with the
Panchayat, had to be re-formed to induct the newly elected members. The new committees tended to be
critical of the work done by the earlier committees and there were problems in handing over systems in
some villages. Despite these, the fact that: (i) the reform process could be completed in most villages, and
(ii) women representation, as well as participation, has increased significantly in the VWSCs indicate that
the VWSC structure is viable. An independent study conducted by a researcher from North Carolina
University confirmed this assessment through a survey of users and VWSC members. The study findings
indicate that communities view VWSC as the agency responsible for Operation & Maintenance of the
water supply systems and the VWSC members also consider it their responsibility to manage these
facilities. However, the VWSC is yet to mature as a manager of the system and is at cross roads as the
project enters the all-important O&M phase. It is not certain if it will display the same energy it displayed
during the mobilization and construction periods when a "common" need or interest bonded the members.
The requirements of post-construction period are somewhat different. Post-construction management
requires systematic day-to-day management, record keeping, monitoring and formulation and enforcement
of rules. The coming months will show if VWSCs would continue to be effective or, if GPs will need to
take over the O&M function.
4.5.4   The project witnessed the growing GOK partnership with NGOs for engaging community
participation activities. NGO involvement not only helped in carrying out community mobilization, but also
in lending credibility to the cost recovery and local institutional development efforts carried out for the first
time and on such a large scale in the state. NGOs also gained from this experience as the project provided
opportunities to build their capacity. The project also contributed by selecting and training a local village
health facilitator (VHF) in each project village, many of whom are women. These VHFs have demonstrated
good leadership abilities. Some of them have become members of VWSCs, some have been elected to the
GPs and some have even been elected to ZPs. The project witnessed some spin-off effects (community
initiatives to solve other problems in the village) in many project villages as could be gathered from the
anecdotal stories shared by NGOs during interviews. However, these have not been systematically
documented. The current situation has also underlined the need to empower communities from the very
beginning of the project so that in effect the communities feel that the system is "theirs" (obviating the need
for a formal 'handing-over-taking-over' process). An additional benefit from the project has been the
utilization of district level engineering colleges for technical capacity building activities. Trained trainers
and training materials are now available in these institutions to carry out training for masons, pump
operators, valve men and field staff of Zilla Panchayat Engineering Divisions (ZPED) who will continue to
be associated with the RWSS sector in the districts. In the case of HSHE, useful IEC materials and folklore
programs have been developed which are ready for use in other villages in the State. Full utilization of
these resources/institutions is dependent on GOK and the Zilla Panchayats (ZP). The project has also
helped in developing a body of technical professionals and contractors with greater understanding of the
rigorous construction and supervision standards for piped water supply schemes. Had GOK provided a
stable and user-responsive institutional structure at the district and state levels, the institutional
development impact of the project could have been even stronger.
- 11 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
None
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1   GOK could have exercised more attention to institutional arrangements and staffing. The empowered
committee (EC), for the first three years of the project, was not an effective decision making body. Institutional
arrangements at the state (PPMU and RDED) and district levels (DPM and EE) resulted in creation of two
power centres with consequent implications. Adequate powers were not delegated to the PPMU to discharge its
role effectively and it had no control over the quality and continuity of staff postings in PPMU and DPMUs
(refer Annex 9 on staff turnover). During the project period, the project had more than 8 Project Directors, over
25 district managers and about 60 district executive engineers. GOK could have also reduced delays in making
the credit effective (10-month delay) by complying speedily with effectiveness requirements (particularly
recruitment of construction supervision consultants).
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1  Project Management: The failure of DPMUs to perform as a strong coordination and management unit
at the district level was the single largest reason for most of the shortcomings in implementation. Some of the
critical shortcomings identified are related to: (a) institutional structure, (b) systems, and (c) skills and
mind-sets. Institutional weaknesses included: (i) inadequacy in selection/posting of staff and their lack of
continuity in critical positions; and (ii) lack of autonomy to PPMU/DPMUs. Neither the PPMU nor the DPMUs
had the authority to finalize consultancy or construction contracts; (iii) the overlap of roles between RDED and
PPMU at the state level added to duplication and delays and resulted in erosion of accountability; and (iv) as a
result of creating two power centers in the DPMUs, turf wars erupted between the DPM and the EE, team work
was absent and the coordination between software and hardware was not effective. Systems-related weaknesses
included: (i) lack of a well thought out strategy for sequencing of interventions from different actors in a
coordinated and meaningful way; (ii) very late initiation of computer-based MIS; and (iii) inadequate quality of
monitoring by PPMU. Weaknesses observed in relation to skills and mind sets related to: (i) lack of role clarity
of the incumbents in DPMUs. The project staff in the districts viewed support agencies (consultants, NGOs) as
adversaries, and not as partners (or not even as useful resources at their disposal); (ii) RDED failed to take
timely decisive actions on approvals, procurement and contract management; and (iii) capacity building
activities did not address team building, motivation and proactive contract management for RDED/DPMU staff.
5.3.2 Procurement and contract management: Procurement of water supply contracts was plagued by delays
at all stages (design, bid invitation, evaluation, award) which, in turn, added to the cost overrun. The overall
cost overrun in water supply is of the order of 90% over the Engineering Study Report (ESR) estimate and 24%
over the award prices. There has been, however, a general reduction in cost and time over runs in Phase-2
(which constituted 70% of the total water supply cost and about 80% of the total project villages) over Phase-1.
Based on the lessons from Phase-I experience, Phase-2 procurement processes were rationalized: 249 contracts
were awarded in Phase-2 for 856 villages which averaged to about 3 villages per contract as against the average
of 14 villages per contract in Phase-i. However, as the 249 contracts were awarded to only 68 firms, the
villages entrusted to each contractor/fium were still high (about 13 to 14). RDED delayed obtaining Bank's
concurrence in many cases where contracts exceeded 15% over the original contract value. The performance of
the contracts was less than satisfactory because: (a) milestones were not fixed and/or monitored properly, (b)
- 12 -



failure of contractors to perform, and (c) poor contract management by RDED and consultants (and
inexperience of RDED in managing such large contracts). The contractors who failed to perform in Phase-I
were again awarded contracts in Phase-2. Steps were not initiated in time to solve problems and take
penal/corrective actions on erring contractors and poor documentation (such as preparation of "as-built"
drawings, extra items rate lists, final bills, approval for variations and extension of time). DPMIU engineers were
not happy that their power to manage contractors was diluted due to appointment of construction supervision
consultants. Conflicts between DPMU and construction supervision consultants over their authority to.
supervise, take measurements and approve payments added to the problem.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1 At appraisal, total costs for the project were estimated at US$ 117.8 million. This was to be
financed by contributions of US$ 25.8 million from GOK/Beneficiaries and an IDA Credit of SDR 66.3
million (equivalent to US$ 92 million). The disbursement was slow to begin with (only 15% of the Credit
amount was disbursed in the first half of the original project period), but picked up substantially in the
latter periods. At Credit closure, the entire Credit amount disbursed. The revised project cost on completion
is estimated at Rs. 515 crores (inclusive of household contribution towards individual sanitary latrines of
approximately Rs. 150 million). The project costs are Rs. 68 crores, or 15.2% over the SAR estimate of
Rs. 447 crores. This is mainly on account of: (a) cost overruns in all water supply contracts; and (b)
additional project management and consultant support costs due to strengthening of PPMU and DPMUs at
MTR and extension of project closing date by 9 months. As the Bank financing has ceased, GOK has
provided its own funds to complete the remaining works.
5.4.2 The financial management arrangements for the project, reflected in timely submission of audit
reports and maintenance of proper accounting records at PPMU and DPMUs, was satisfactory. The audit
reports did not contain any significant adverse findings. However, the performance could have been much
better if the project had taken advantage of the computers made available for accounting and financial
reporting. This could have further improved effective analyses and consolidation of financial reports.
5.4.3  Counterpart funding was never a problem in the project. GOK also fulfilled its commitments of
opening separate bank accounts for the project at the districts and at the level of each VWSC. The project
successfully effected capital cost recovery towards drainage and latrine components and has initiated
O&M cost recovery from users. The financial management systems have been introduced at the village
level. All VWSCs are maintaining O&M pass books, receipt books, collection registers and expense books.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability
6.1.1  Likely. At the time of ICR, an assessment of sustainability of all the 1,100 water supply and sanitatioir
schemes financed from the project is not possible. Though a large number of schemes have been completed at
project closure, prospects of sustainability can be assessed only after the schemes have been in operation for a
reasonable period of time. To overcome this limitation, the November 1998 Bank mission initiated an
innovative sustainability monitoring exercise using village immersion process for some 30 schemes which were
then in operation for about 3 to 6 months. The main objective of that joint GOK-Bank exercise was to: (i)
develop and field test a methodology for measuring sustainability at the village level, (ii) obtain a better
appreciation of ground realities through a 24-hour long village immersion program in each village, (iii) bring
- 13-



together different project stakeholders in a grassroots level team building exercise, and (iv) identify key issues
and problems affecting sustainability, which needed to be urgently addressed. Since then, the project staff
institutionalized the process and carried out similar exercises for over 220 villages until project closing. The
results reveal that: sustainability is likely in 75% of the villages; uncertain in 24%; and unlikely in the
remaining 1% of the villages. Based on these results, the prospects of sustainability for the project-financed
ground water based schemes (done in 95% of project villages) is assessed as likely.
6.1.2 Threats to sustainability: However, the ICR mission and PPMU also identified a few operational issues
which may threaten sustainability of schemes. These are: (i) non-receipt of electricity bills from Karnataka
power transmission corporation limited (KPTCL) for periods in excess of 6 months. This has induced laxity on
the part of the VWSCs in recovering full O&M cost, though the benefits of higher service level were already
being enjoyed; (ii) unwillingness to charge (billing and collection) on the part of the VWSCs despite willingness
to pay by the end-users; (iii) wastage of water by the users since most users are not as yet required to pay; (iv)
inadequate operational management by the VWSCs (chlorinating, proper valve operations to ensure equity in
distribution of benefits, providing taps on private connections and standposts, preventing wastage); (v)
depletion of yields from selected drinking water wells due to inadequate management of local ground water
sources; and (vi) most importantly, poor process management by DPMUs resulting in unsatisfactory handing
over and follow-up actions.
6.1.3 Though the project is now closed, GOK has retained its emphasis on sustainability monitoring and is
providing the necessary staff, support services and funds to satisfactorily complete the process of consolidating
the scheme operations in all the 1,100 project villages. GOK and the ICR mission have also agreed to continue
sustainability monitoring of the closed project as a specific component of the proposed follow-on operation
(currently under preparation). Assuming that adequate post-implementation support to all project villages is
eventually provided, and the few threats to prospects of sustainability (mentioned above) are removed, the
prospects of sustainability are likely.
6.1.4 In the case of surface water multi-village schemes (5% of project villages), none of the schemes are yet
complete. Institutional arrangements and O&M plans are being firned up. Also, given that RDED does not have
previous experience of .nplementing and/or operating and maintaining multi-village schemes, the ICR has not
assessed the prospects of sustainability for these schemes. The proposed follow-on project will continue to
monitor operational performance of these schemes.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1 The project design envisaged handing over of completed schemes to VWSCs for O&M and
therefore no transitional arrangements are needed. What is necessary, however, is completion of remaining
activities mentioned in the ICR aide-memoire, particularly with reference to completion of remaining
physical works, handing over of completed schemes and provision of post implementation support to
VWSCs to stabilize scheme operations.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1 Satisfactory. The project was in line with the country assistance strategy of poverty alleviation and
bringing in sectoral reforms. Project identification process responded to the crucial sector reform issues and it
was inevitable that the initiative would face several challenges, particularly in a country like India with its
social, economic and political complexities. The project had to overcome resistance from several stakeholders,
- 14 -



as many innovations had to be introduced for the first time. Promoting this project with borrower ownership at
the state and central levels was a significant achievement. The Bank provided technical assistance in preparation
through a base line socio-economic survey, willingness-to-pay studies, engineering designs for Phase-I villages
and assisted in establishment of the PPMU. Bank staff also responded by facilitating a pilot phase to address
borrower concerns with support of Japanese Grant Funds (JGF) with a fornal commitment to incorporate
learning from the pilot in the project design. The project preparation team had the requisite blend of technical
and social expertise. Hindsight reveals the need for a more in-depth institutional and procurement analysis at the
time of project preparation. Overall, Bank's lending performance is rated as satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1  Satisfactory. In the initial three years, the project progress (Phase-1) was slow and beset with a
number of hurdles, the chief of which were: (i) poor understanding of demand-responsive approach/processes
among key stakeholders; (ii) delay in initiating HSHE component; (iii) serious shortcomings in project
management; and (iv) inappropriate procurement methods and delays in contract awards. Around the mid-term
review, the institutional structure was revised and the district level project management units (DPMUs) were
strengthened with necessary skill mix, empowered committee was re-constituted, procurement processes were
rationalized based on the lessons leamt during Phase- 1, HSHE was launched, and cost recovery rules were
changed to effect a more demand-responsive approach. (Bank had declared the project as a problem project
during late 1995, refer para 7.2.2 below). This resulted in substantial and quicker progress in Phase-2.
Participatory VIP-based monitoring approach, introduced by the Bank, has been acknowledged as highly
innovative and useful in assessing the results on the ground and introducing focus on sustainability. Intensive
supervision efforts by the Bank following MTR paid off. The Bank also involved the Water and Sanitation
Program (WSP) in project supervision which contributed to enhancing the project's capacity building and M&E
interventions. The task team also had regular exchanges with other donors (DANIDA, Dutch) active in the
RWSS Sector in Kamataka. QAG rated the project supervision as highly satisfactory under RSA/3 in FY99.
OED's review of participation rated the supervision efforts as "value for money". These ratings are confirmed
by borrower views (Refer para 50 of ICR mission aide memoire).
7.2.2 Bank management decisions were also appropriate. Declaration of the project in problem status during
the period 1995-97 was an important step. This proved to be beneficial, since it helped the GOK to re-focus its
attention on the fundamental institutional issues that were affecting the quality of implementation. Bank
management's decision for extension of the Credit by 9 months was essential to consolidate the village level
institutions created under the project, which is vital for the long-term sustainability of project operations. Project
implementation did not involve significant deviations from Bank policy.
7.3 OverallBankperformance:
7.3.1  Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank helped introduce sector reforms that are relevant not only to the
State of Karnataka, but also to the RWSS program in India. The rich experience and lessons gained from
the project have been put to productive use by the Bank, GOK and GOI in subsequent project initiatives.
The commitment and dedication of the Bank team in combination with the positive response from GOK
contributed towards an overall satisfactory outcome from the project. Overall Bank performance is
therefore rated as satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1  The performance of the borrower (more specifically GOK and PPMU as the implementing
- 15 -



agencies) during preparation is rated as Satisfactory. The project represented a bold and courageous shift
from conventional approaches. Challenges and difficulties were envisaged in political acceptance and
implementation. Still the borrower took a long term view of the sector in preparing the project with active
collaboration and participation of key stakeholders.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1 GOK's implementation performance showed considerable improvement after difficulties and delays
in decision making during the early stages of the project. Reconstitution of the empowered committee
helped speed up the decision making and approval processes. Borrower ownership at the state level was
consistent. GOK considered the suggestions from Bank missions and demonstrated its willingness to be
flexible by changing the project rules and processes to move it towards a more demand-based approach.
Examples of such flexibility include: (i) requiring upfront cash contributions from communities in Phase II
villages (nearly 80% of the project villages) as a condition for inviting bids for water supply schemes; (ii)
expanding the scope and extending the services of NGOs beyond the provisions made at appraisal; (iii)
modifying the project institutional structure and changing the skill mix at MTR so as to shift from a purely
engineering approach to participatory and management approaches; (iv) empowering VWSCs to manage
implementation of drainage schemes; (v) encouraging NGOs to handle implementation of latrines
component; (vi) extensively using private sector in project implementation; and (vii) focusing on
sustainability monitoring. The one area where the government performance was below par was in the area
of ensuring selection, posting and ensuring staff continuity. The counterpart funding was never a problem
in the project. GOK's decision to scale up sector reforms as part of their overall sector strategy is an
indicator of its commitment to reforms. Considering all these factors, overall the Government
implementation performance is assessed as Satisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1 Unsatisfactory. The performance of the implementing agency (comprising PPMU, DPMUs and
RDED under RD&PR department) is considered unsatisfactory, the main reasons being unsatisfactory
project management practices and poor management of both consultancy and works contracts. These are
discussed in detail under 'major factors affecting implementation and outcome' (refer section 5). The
project management team was definitely handicapped, though, by the lack of autonomy and sufficient
control and authority over staffing issues.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
7.7.1. Despite weaknesses in project management, the project has largely achieved both its physical
targets and development objectives. Therefore, the borrower's overall performance is rated Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
In India, the GOI and the Bank partnership over the past decade has made impressive progress in successively_
developing and implementing innovative strategies to improve sector performance. These are in line with the
global consensus on the principle of "management at the lowest appropriate level", an important pre-requisite
for sustainability. Thus, the strategy changed from fully government-implemented, top-down approach in
Maharashtra (Cr. 2234-IN) to a community participation approach in Karnataka (Cr. 2483-IN) to a
demand-responsive approach in partnership with NGOs and user groups in UP (Ln. 4056-IN) and finally to
community-driven development in Kerala (Cr. 3431 -IN). These successive projects also show the evolution of
the key strategies needed to improve sustainability. The key lessons learned from the Karnataka project are:
- 16-



(a) Policy: Ownership of the project design, at the political, bureaucratic and operational levels is a pre-requisite
for project success. A conducive policy environment and willingness to learn by doing are equally vital for
success. Project design should respond to village aspirations for high service standards. Sustainable provision of
services is possible only when services are provided on the basis of what people want, and are willing to pay for.
Project experience indicates that tariff recovery is better in private house connections. With rising incomes, the
demand for private connections is likely to increase as more and more households demand increased level of
services. Design standards must consider such a possibility and accordingly provide, for increased service levels
over the operational period. Villages should be selected based on their felt need and an expression of the demand
through a self-selection process rather than being sponsored by government based on unreliable secondary data.
(b) Institutional arrangements: The state level institutions should have the appropriate mandate and functional
autonomy to play an effective facilitating role. The excessive turnover of key project staff has been a serious
problem. With frequent transfers of the project's key staff, the implementing agency's share of ownership of the
project design, institutional memory and accountability for success or failure are all lost. Suitable incentives
should be built in for the project staff to remain in place. The design of project management structures should be
amenable to eventual scaling up and the Panchayati Raj Institutions should be well integrated into the project's
institutional design. Organic links between the VWSCs and the GPs are essential for institutional sustainability.
NGOs seem to be the best initial option available to build beneficiary capacity, generally due to their better
credibility with the communities. Careful NGO selection and their capacity building in project-specific needs
and approaches is vital. Beneficiary participation takes time, and this should be factored into project design and
implementation. Beneficiary capacity has to be built before they can meaningfully participate in the project.
(c ) Implementation: Changing mandates and mindsets of state agencies, capacity building of all stakeholders
through providing resources and quality time need to be at the core of project design. Capacity building efforts
for project staff should address motivation, team building and managerial aspects. Implementation arrangements
and procurement procedures should be in line with community errmpowerment principles in participatory projects.
Concurrent monitoring and evaluation, innovating and experimenting, learning from experiences and adapting
these into implementation strategies contribute positively to improving the project performance. The concept of
"scheme cycle" and correct activity sequencing has to be fully developed and well entrenched in project design.
Project experience has pointed out the difficulties in linking existing systems with new investments. Careful
consideration is therefore necessary at the design stage to identify rehabilitation needs of existing schemes
vis-a-vis provision of new schemes in consultation with the community. Women's active participation improve
local ownership and quality of implementation. Imaginative approaches rooted in their needs and socio-cultural
environment have to be thought of and vigorously implemented to draw women into project activities. Project
staff should be capacitated in latest management concepts and decision making. Groundwater recharge measures
should be planned together with development of groundwater sources .
(d) Financial: Partial financing of capital cost by the users has proved a viable development concept;
however, the cost recovery rules should be simple and their administration user-friendly. User management
and financing of operations and maintenance has also proved to be viable. Even though rural water projects
have made great strides in getting rural villagers to cover most of the operating costs of their systems, they
are not yet ready to cover the costs of a major overhaul and/or the complete replacement of the most
expensive components of their systems after only one project. Achieving financial self-reliance may not be
a 'one-project' exercise.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
- 17 -



Comments on the Draft ICR from Mr. M.R. Sreenivasa Murthy, Secretary, Rural Development and
Panchayati Raj, Government of Karnataka
We acknowledge the finalised draft ICR for the above Credit attached to your letter cited under
reference above. The same has been reviewed and our comments are as under:
Performance of Borrower (Para 7.6.1) :-
Assessment of Development Objectives and Design, and of Quality at Entry, Achievement of Objective
and Outputs, Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome, Sustainability, Lessons Learned, etc.
appear to be factual and acceptable to us.
In the ICR, it is mentioned that the performance of the Implementing Agency (Comprising PPMU &
RDED under RD & PR Department) is considered unsatisfactory. (Para 7.6.1 of the ICR). It is also
mentioned that the centralised management of contracts and consultancies led to weak DPMUs which,
in-turn, made PPMU perform an implementing role rather than its designated planning and monitoring role.
In this regard, we would like to draw your attention to the following facts:
i)    Centralised Management of Contracts :- In the SAR of March 31st, 1993, it is mentioned that
all contracts for works will be awarded following the procedures acceptable to the Association. Further, it
is also stated that the works for the water supply component will be packaged in about 3 to 4 large
contracts and awarded over the initial 3 to 4 years of project implementation. Accordingly, contract bids
were invited and clearance of the World Bank was obtained in all cases (Para 3.26 and 3.27 of SAR).
Contract Agreements have been signed between the Contractors and the Executive Engineers. The contract
management rests with the Executive Engineers concerned who have conducted monthly contract
management meetings. However, due to the initial delays in completing the procedures relating to the
procurement of civil works and the difficulties involved in trying out a new participatory and demand
driven approach to rural water supply, the actual construction of water supply works began only towards
the end of 1995 in resp"ct of 238 villages included in Phase-I of the project. The contracts for water
supply civil works in respect of over 800 villages in the Phase-II could be awarded only during the year
1998. This was brought to the notice of the Bank and extension of the project period was sought.
Considering the ground realities, the Bank was pleased to extend the project period by 9 months i.e. from
January to September, 2000. (Message dated August 11, 1999 of the Bank).
The RDED (erstwhile PHED) and PPMU have been performing their designated duty of planning
and monitoring the work by obtaining progress reports and conducting periodical review meetings,
inspecting the works etc. Necessary guidelines and directions were also issued from time to time.
ii)    Centralised Management of Consultancies:- The Procurement Guidelines issued by the World
Bank for Selection and Employment of Consultants have been followed. Further, as the Bank is aware the
KIRWS & ESP was taken up in more than one district. The following consultants, who covered more than
one district, were appointed with prior clearance from the Bank. Monitoring of their services by the PPMU
was inevitable and it need not be termed as centralised management.
a)    CPMC (Community Participation and Management Consultancy.
b)    TMC (Training Management Consultancy
c)    HSHE (Health Sanitation & Hygiene Education)
d)    MIS (Management Information System)
- 18 -



e)    External Impact Evaluation of Ground Water Recharge Component under IRWS & ES.
f)    Design Consultancy
g)    CS & MQS (Construction Supervision and Material Quality Control Consultancy)
In view of the above facts and also that all the Development Objectives have been achieved and
assessed as satisfactory, the overall performance of the Implementing Agency may have to be rated as
satisfactory.
Points like introduction of capital cost sharing for the first time in the RWSS sector in India (Para
3.1.2 of the ICR), the first - time nature of the project regarding involvement of Participatory Rural
Appraisal (PRA) methodologies also need to be given due weightage in assessing the impact of the project.
The OED study rating of the project as better performning in comparison with the earlier Maharashtra
project (Para 4.11 of the ICR), mobilisation of 93% of the agreed community contribution for investment
in environmental sanitation (Para 4.14 of the ICR) which is considered as a record for any project
implemented in the country, demonstration of the benefits of comnmunity participation which helped
shaping sector reforms at the National and State levels are also to be taken into account in this regard.
Other significant achievements of the project like the development of a body of technical professionals and
contractors with greater understanding of rigorous construction and supervision standards for water supply
systems (Para 4.5.3 of the ICR), and introduction of Financial Management Systems at the village-level i.e.
maintenance of O&M Pass Books, Receipt Books, Collection Registers by all the VWSCs (Para.5.4.3 of
the ICR), were taken into account by the World Bank Final Supervision-cum- ICR Mission of August 26 -
September 8, 2000 and it was communicated that the overall project implementation has been satisfactory.
(Aide Memoire dated August 26- September 8, 2000).
The above mentioned facts may be taken into account while preparing the final ICR.
Sd/- (M.R. Sreenivasa Murthy)
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None
10. Additional Information
None
- 19 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                 As per SARO                 Actual/Latest estimate
(September 2000)
Promote more equitable
distribution of safe water
Percentage of households spending  More than 90%                More than 90%
less than I hour for fetching water
Increase public and private
investment in environmental
sanitation
(i) No. of households contributing to (i) More than 70%         (i) About 70%
public drainage system
(ii) GoK annual investment in   (ii) More than 20%              (ii) More than 100%
environmental sanitation schemes
compared to pre-project years
Create community awareness of
the causes of water and sanitation
related health problems
% of project villages having clean   More than 70%              About 50-60%
and healthy environment                                         (100% of project villages report
improvement in condition compared
with pre-project situation)
Improve sustainability of water
supply and drainage schemes
(i) % of project villages in which    (i) More than 90%         (i) More than 90%
water supply down time is less than
15 days                        (ii) More than 80%              (ii) As of Credit closure, collections
(ii) % of project villages recovering                           are about 30% of target. In almost all
100% O&M cost from user charges                                exited villages actual current
expenses are being fully met through
user fees. Main constraint to full cost
recovery is non-receipt of electricity
bills by VWSCs.
Note: @ SAR does not specify quantitative indicators. These indicators were introduced during supervision
missions.
- 20 -



Output Indicators
S. No             Indicator                Unit    As per SAR   Revised target  Actual/Latest
estimate
I   Works Water Supply - Piped water
Supply Schemes
Total Villages                       No.         1200          1,100            1,111
Schemes under construction           No.          0              0              218
Water supply commissioned            No.         1200          1,100            893
Of which schemes handed over         No.         1200          1,100            659
Borewells drilled                    No.         4000          5,000            5,025
Handpumps, workshop, Equipments     Percent       100           100              90
Water Quality Control               Percent       100           100              100
Ground water Recharge
First year & second year treatment    No. villages  700         328             328
II  Drainage
Schemes completed                 No. villages    1,200        1,100            918
Latrines
Household latrines constructed     Number       90,000        90,000           87,304
in1  Project Support
Engineering Designs
Engineering reports completed        No.         1200          1,100            1,111
Construction Supervision
Hydraulic testing - pipelines Ph-ll    Kilo Meters  NA         3545             2795
Hydraulic testing - Overhead Tanks   No.         NA             805             476
Leak detection and Repairs (Pilot)  No. villages  700           10               10
Special Studies                     Percent      100            100              75
MIS consultant Resources used    Pers. months    320            642             654
Project management cost             Percent      100            100             167
PHED ZP Goods                       Percent      100            100              *
IV  Institutional building
Training Management Consultants
Skills training (village based)   No. persons    7,200        10,500           10,794
Skills training (Other)          No. persons    461            700              687
Orientation and Other Training   No. persons    2,820          3,000           3,224
Training by NGOs, CPMC, HSHE   No. persons    NA              10,000           10,000
Consultants
Community participation
NGO staff resources used         Pers. months    8,000        15,390           14,301
Consultant Resources Used        Pers. months    800            834             819
Health, Sanitation & Hygiene
Education
NGO staff resources used         Pers. months    800          36,872           36,802
Consultant resources used        Pers. months    300            216             213
Cleanliness Campaigns                No.         NA            4,200            8,137
campaigns
V   Miscellaneous - Land
Compensation paid for Plots        No. Plots     NA            259              216
* PHED/ZP goods were financed under project management; NA: Not available
-21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2. Project Costs & Financing
Annex 2a
Project Component     Appraisal   Appraisal    Latest      Latest    Percent  Percent
Estimate    Estimate    Estimate   Estimate   of App.   of App.
(Rs.       (USS        (Rs.       (USS      in Rs.   in US$
million)   million )    million)    million)
Water Supply               2672.87       70.36    3705.58       91.44     138.6    130.0
Phase I                     377.26        9.93    1073.08       28.49     284.4    286.9
Phase II                   1384.69        36.45    2290.00      53.90     165.4    147.9
Borewell programme          148.38         3.91     209.50       5.66     141.2    144.8
Ground water recharge       396.51        10.44     105.50       2.76      26.6      26.4
Leakage, W. Quality         366.03        9.63       27.50       0.63       7.5       6.5
Environmental sanitation   1092.35       28.76      771.00      19.02      56.8      66.1
Drainage
Household latrines          755.45        19.89     516.00      12.76      68.3      64.2
336.90        8.87     255.00       6.26      75.9      70.6
Project Support &           650.69       17.15      636.30      15.69      97.8      91.5
Institutional Building
Project Management          126.81        3.34      225.40       5.58     177.7    167.1
Scheme Design                92.33        2.43       60.00       1.68      65.0      69.1
Construction Supervsn       124.46        3.28      180.00       4.24     144.6    129.3
Surveys & Studies           118.70        3.13        1.60       0.04       1.3       1.3
Institution building        158.58        4.18      155.30       3.83      97.9      91.6
PHED/ZP Goods                18.81        0.50         @           @         !        @
MIS Consultancy              11.00        0.29       14.00       0.32     127.3    110.3
Health Communication         38.53        1.01       29.00       0.72      75.3      71.3
Miscellaneous                17.46        0.46       10.00       0.23      57.3      50.0
Land Acquisition             17.46        0.46       10.00       0.23      57.3      50.0
Grand Total                4471.90       117.74    5151.88     127.10     115.2    107.9
@ some expenses incurred - financed under project management
- 22 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Appraisal Estimate
Annex 2b (1)     (Rs. million equvalent)
Expenditure                     Procurement Method                    Total Cost
category        ICB          NCB           Other         N.B.F
1. Works              0.00       2660.58        889.90           0.00     3550.48
(0.00)    (2125.05)       (638.08)        (0.00)   (2763.13)
2. Goods            205.09          46.34         15.57          0.00       267.76
(151.93)        (34.18)      (12.15)         (0.00)    (198.26)
3. Services          24.31         458.43        150.41          0.00       633.15
(16.33)      (402.60)      (113.94)        (0.00)    (532.87)
4. Miscellaneous       0.00          0.00          0.00         20.51        20.51
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total          229.40       3165.35       1055.88         21.27      4471.90
(168.26)    (2561.83)       (764.17)         (0.00)   (3494.26)
Note: Figures in parenthesis () denote Bank financing
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Appraisal Estimate
Annex 2b (1)     (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure                     Procurement Method                    Total Cost
category        ICB          NCB           Other         N.B.F
1. Works              0.00          70.05         23.43          0.00        93.48
(0.00)       (55.95)       (16.80)        (0.00)      (72.75)
2. Goods               5.40          1.22          0.41          0.00         7.03
(4.00)        (0.90)        (0.32)        (0.00)       (5.22)
3. Services            0.64         12.07          3.96          0.00        16.67
(0.43)       (10.60)        (3.00)        (0.00)      (14.03)
4. Miscellaneous       0.00          0.00          0.00          0.56         0.56
(0.00)        (0.0          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total            6.04          83.34         27.80          0.56       117.74
(4.43)       (67.45        (20.12)        (0.00)      (92.00)
Note: Figures in parenthesis ( ) denote Bank financing
- 23 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Actual/latest Estimate (as of September 2000)
Annex 2b (2)         (Rs. million equivalent)
Expenditure                      Procurement Method                     Total Cost
category         ICB          NCB           Other         N.B.F
0.00       3360.50       1092.58           0.00      4453.08
1. Works             (0.00)    (2420.92)        (787.10)         (0.00)   (3208.02)
2. Goods               6.50          17.00           0.00          0.00        23.50
(4.68)       (12.25)         (0.00)        (0.00)      (16.93)
3. Services            0.00         275.16        390.14           0.00       665.30
(0.00)      (198.22)      (281.06)         (0.00)    (479.28)
4. Miscellaneous       0.00           0.00           0.00         10.00        10.00
.(0-00)(0-00)                                   (0-(0.00)  (0.00)  (   (0.00)
Total             6.50       3652.66       1482.72          10.00      5151.88
(4.68)    (2631.39)    (1068.16)           (0.00)   (3704.23)
Note: Figures in parenthesis ( ) denote Bank financing
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Actual/latest Estimate (as of September 2000)
Annex 2b (2)          (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure                      Procurement Method                     Total Cost
category         ICB          NCB           Other         N.B.F
0.00         82.91          26.95          0.00       109.86
1. Works             (0.00)        (59.72)       (19.42)         (0.00)      (79.14)
2. Goods               0.16           0.42           0.00          0.00         0.58
(0.12)         (0.30)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.42)
3. Services            0.00           6.79           9.62          0.00        16.41
(0.00)         (4.89)        (6.93)        (0.00)      (11.82)
4. Miscellaneous       0.00           0.00           0.00          0.25         0.25
(0.00)         (0.00)                      (0.00)        (0.00)
Total             0.16          90.12         36.57          0.25       127.10
_ _(0.12)      (64.91)       (26.35)         (0.00)      (91.38)
Note: Figures in parenthesis ( ) denote Bank financing
-24 -



Project Financing by Category
Annex 2c
(in Rs. millions)
Appraisal_Estimate   Actual/Latest Estimate    Percentage of Appraisal
Bank  Gov  Comm-  Bank   Govt.  Comm   Bank   Govt.  Comm-
_ _____       unity                   unity                  unity
Land         0   21        0    0         10    0       0      59       0
Acquisition
Civil Works   2763  446     342   3208     965      280    116   216      82
Equipment    198   71        0      17       7       0    9       10      0
& Vehicles
Training,    532  100        0    479     186        0   90    103       0
TA,
Consultants,
Project
Management               _                       _        .
Total     3493  638      342  3704   1168    280    106    183         82
Project Financing by Category
Annex 2c
in US$ millions)
Appraisal_Estirate   Actual/Latest Estimate    Percentage of A praisal
Bank  Gov  Cornm-  Bank   Govt.  Comm   Bank  Govt.  Comm-
______   __ _ unity           I unity                   unity
Land         0    1        0       0     0.3       0    0      30       0
Acquisition
Civil Works    73   11        9     79      24        7    108   218      78
Equipment      5    2        0    0.4      0.2       0    8       10      0
& Vehicles                                     I         _
Training,     14    3        0   11.8      4.6       0   84    153       0
TA,
Consultants,
Project
Management
Total       92 ; 17        9      91      29       7      99    171       78
-25 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not calculated
- 26 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project CycIe             No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating   0
(e.g. 2 Economists, I EMS, etc.)  Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                       Progress         Objective
Identification/Preparation
September 1991               4   Sociologist, Economist, Sanitary
Engineer
March 1992                   3   Sanitary Engineer, Sociologist
June 1992                    5   Sociologist, Sanitary Engineer,
Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
October 1992                 5   Sociologist, Sanitary
Engineer, Financial
Analyst, Procurement
Specialist
Supervision
Aug-93                           PSR Update                          HS               HS
Feb-94                        4  Sanitary Engineer, Sociologist      HS               HS
May-94                        4  Sanitary Engineer, Urban            HS               HS
Planner, Training Advisor,
Sociologist
Aug-94                           PSR Update                          HS                HS
Nov-94                        3  Sanitary Engineer, Urban             S                S
Planner
Mar-95                        5  Sanitary Engineer, Training         S                 S
Advisor, Urban Planner,
Environmental Engineer
Aug-95                        3  Sanitary Engineer, Urban            U                 U
Planner, Environmental
Engineer
Jan-96                        4  Sanitary Engineer, Procurement      U                 U
Specialist, Sociologist, HRD
Specialist
Jun-96                           PSR Update                          U                 U
Sep-96                        7  Sanitary Engineer, Financial        U                 U
Analyst, Sociologist, Irrigation
Engineer, Procurement Engineer,
Disbursement Specialist
Jun-97                        4  Sanitary Engineer, Sociologist,     U                 U
Institutional Specialist
Operations Advisor (NDO)
Oct-97                        6  Sanitation Specialist, Financial    U                 U
Management Specialist,
Procurement Specialist, Water
Supply Engineer, Sanitary
Engineer, Sociologist
Jan-98                           PSR Update                          S                 S
- 27 -



Jun-98                         6  Sanitary Engineer, Sociologist,       S                 S
Procurement Specialist,
Sanitation Specialist, Water
Supply Engineer, Training &
M&E Specialist
Nov-98                         7  Sanitary Engineer, Sociologist,       S                 S
Procurement Specialist, Training
& M&E Specialist, Water Supply
Engineer, Financial Management
Specialist, Sanitation Specialist
Feb-99                         3  Sanitary Engineer, Training &         S                 S
M&E Specialist, Water Supply
Engineer
Jul-99                         6  Sanitary Engineer, Training &         S                 S
M&E Specialist, Water Supply
Engineer, Procurement
Specialist, Sanitation Specialist,
Sociologist
Nov-99                         5  Sanitary Engineer, Training &         S                 S
M&E Specialist, Water Supply
Engineer, Financial Management
Specialist, Sociologist
May-00                         7  Sanitary Engineer, Sociologist,       S                 S
Water Supply Engineer,
Procurement Specialist,
Financial Management
Specialist, Institutional
Specialist, M&E and Training
Specialist
ICR
Sep-00                        7   Sanitary Engineer, Training          S                  S
& M&E Specialist, Water
Supply Engineer,
Procurement Specialist,
Financial Management
Specialist, Social
Development Specialist (2)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   ActualLae Estimate
:ji L    7 ;:LL No. Stafl'weeks  .      USS (,O('.
Identification/Preparation               69.1                       219.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                    28.7                        83.3
Supervision                             179.2                       312.2
ICR                                       29                           50
Total                                    306                        665.2
- 28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Z Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM  * N  3 NA
ZSector Policies                        O H  * SU O M  O N  D NA
Z Physical                              O H  *SUOM  O N  3 NA
Z Financial                             O H  * SU O M  O N  D NA
I Institutional Development             0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  3 NA
XEnvironmental                          O H  *SUOM  O N  D NA
Social
N Poverty Reduction               O H  * SU O M  O N  D NA
Z Gender                          O H  O SU * M  O N  3 NA
0 Other (Please specify)          O H  O SU O M  O N  D NA
Z Private sector development            0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
2 Public sector management              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
OOther (Please specify)                 O H  OSUOM  O N  D NA
-29 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
* Lending                                             OHS*S OU OHU
* Supervision                                         OHS OS  OLU  OHU
* Overall                                             OHS  S  O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
2 Preparation                                         OHS OS   O  U  O HU
Z  Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
2 Implementation agency performance                   O HS O s  0  U  0 HU
Z Overall                                             OHS OS O U O HU
- 30 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Sr. No                              Title                                 Prepared By         Date
1 ICR mission aide memoire                                       ICR mission       September 2000
2 Participation process review case study                         OED              August 1999
3 Impact Evaluation Study - Final Pretesting & Interim Report     Tata Consultancy  August 2000
Services
4 India Impact Evaluation report - Comparative review of rural water systems OED   June 1998
experience in India
5 Impact Evaluation of Training Programmes                        CDS, Nainital, UP December 1998
6 External Impact Evaluation of Groundwater Recharge Component Under   ORG         October 1999
IRWS & ES - Final report
7 Monthly & Quarterly progress reports                            PPMU             Various dates
8 Exit policy implementation progress reports, 0 & M Progress reports  PPMU        Various dates
9 Staff Appraisal Report                                          World Bank       March 31, 1993
10 India Water Resources Management Sector Work: Rural Water Supply and World Bank  1998
Sanitation
11 Rapid Supervision Assessment (RSA/3)                            QAG, World Bank 1999
12 Study of VWSCs in Karnataka and UP                              North Carolina    February ,2000
University
13 Self Assessment of Health Sanitation & Hygiene Education - HSHE &  STEM Consultants January 2000
related components
14 Consultancy for Construction Supervision & Material Quality Control -    Globe   August 2000
Presentations by Construction Supervision Consultants           Consultants/ICT
15 Report on Evaluation of the Usage of Household Latrines in the Project    PPMU   August 2000
districts
16 Final Report on Training Programmes                             JSS Consultants  June 2000
17 A Study on Experience in Capital Cost Sharing (Mobilisation of 30%  Prof. Abdul Aziz, August 2000
community contribution from local resources) by Institute for Social &
Economic Change (ISEC), Bangalore
18 Details of Cost Overrun & Time Overrun under Pkg-11 as on end-June, 2000 ICT(P) Ltd  August 2000
19 Details of Cost Overrun & Time Overrun as on end-June, 2000     Globe Consultants August 2000
20 Anecdotes of HSHE Experience - Views From the Field & ICR on HSHE   STEM Consultants March/August,
(Nov '97 - June '00)                                                             2000
21 VWSC Reformation Process & Training                             JSS Consultants   August 2000
22 Operation & Maintenance Performance Assessment                  JSS Consultants  July 2000
23 Report on State Level Convention of VWSC                        STEM & JSS       June, 2000
Consultants
24 Convention of VWSC: Gram Panchayats & VWSC: A Functional        PPMU & JSS       November, 1999
relationship                                                    Consultants
25 Sustainability Monitoring                                       Excel-Soft       April, 2000
26 Brief Report on Community Participation & Management Consultancy  JSS Consultants   August, 2000
activities
27 Report on Water Quality Monitoring in the State of Karnataka    AIC (India) Pvt   February, 1993
Ltd
28 Project Completion Report (Extension of MIS Consultancy)        Excel-Soft       June, 2000
29 IRWS&ESP Karnataka Follow-on Project: Per-Capita Capital Cost Analysis PPMU      July, 2000
30 Progress reports on Community Participation Activities          PPMU/JSS         Various dates
Consultants
31 1ICR: Maharashtra RWS&ESP - Report No. 18745                    World Bank       December, 1998
32 Karnataka IRWS&ES - Status report                               RDED             July, 2000
- 31 -






'With schemes commissioned in  i31  31__
Kanaak (Ida Rua Water 
- Supplkngwersupy and Eniomna
Sanitatondt P eire            :                 2Frms rojects the 2483-INf
-  supervision misswiton? mad  a                                     ibreetsjuttebgnigo
(:reslt n teg roundl h interms .of,                             cem   prto.Hwd   e
capacity Deeloing    and prospects of - . -           .    ,,    however,assthp          etfo
long-   neimd? upotv                        >        ?[term sustainability. In thelwae
sessul iyFn  rdsnitiated th  prowdwckoetasteshsia
of ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~s2 mantemn the Villagestucur  rete
Imerioni PiiiiM#>rogralomunte (ViP) cninu toafnkto
This ?fgield nogte decie                               efetvltadefcetlhvrteeniedsg
umethodo?log, roes s20 andid   uh  usin   sulyrmi
Banik exercise (in^ measuringtinunseesicnowl-rdodtsedol
--Pro   9319exssfrmauigsustainability of ruralwtean
sanitation ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~wae indvestmentservces
- .
. `veAVM,,1& 'Cwapooemiftr                                                     LIC 4*
Drnking water supply and
groundwate recharge                                              For most projects, the end of
Environmenta sonit"otir                     9                  disbursements is just the beginning of
(drainage and latrines)                                        scheme operations. How do we,
,Developing repIkable                               ,"7J       however, assess the prospects of lonlg-
imp$ementation model supportive                                term sustainability of rural water
of a demand-respansive approach                                supply and sanitation service delivery?
ir- Hygiene and safnitotiafn                                    How do we know that the physical
awareneSs programs                            ~~~~~~~~and social infrastructure created in
rural communities will continue to function
effectively and efficiently over the entire design
Number of vi%lges: 1,200                                 period? Such questions usually remain
Bonik ssistanco (IDA): US $92 million                    unanswered since no well-tried arid tested tool
Period: 199341999                                        exists for measuring sustainability of rural
water and sanitation services.



The main objectives of the joint government-Bank exercise were:
In an attempt to address these                    to develop and field test a methodology for measuring
dic    q       i      the B      t     *             sustainability at the village level;
with full participation of the protect            * to obtain a better appreciation of the ground realities through a
staff, conultants,   GOs and    ~24-hour long Village Immersion Program;
underti000 3* to bring together different project stakeholders in a grassroots-
commun00 it;:; :0000St000i,,i i ities 3 ,Xii iipgithlevel team building exercise; and
sustaf0inability measuring exercise ifl 1$           to identify key issues and problems affecting sustainability.
visiting t*Seams  t06ayed 24hur  yle si  in                  ep aii
hevill'ages and asse:sse
perfomancein patnersip wih th~The exercise was based on the broad conceptual framework
uise  commntes   h   vetw                         provided byte   PoA(prtcipatory learning assessment guide
:Xp;   sucgessful atj d -           ,    g        developed by the UNDP-World Bank Water and Sanitation Program.
highly$U?i i$$$9i..,00XtfThe framework was modified to suit project-specific needs. It was
experience for all t; 0 cthe stB hlde. malso decided to focus on measurement of sustainability indicators at
ftSViThe: uiwiiffiliser comu nitiestrongfiFXty ithe community level, leaving out factors external to the communities
supported the exegdse and keenl~                  (such as implementing agency effectiveness and policy environment).
participated 0                                    The four key parameters (see box below) were further divided into 71
at~.in'~rdI99lan~        discrete indicators for recording in the field and subsequent analysis.
evaluaion pocess Apar fromteoni       Each indicator was assigned a score on a scale of 0 to 2 (in some
buddin, the output isotested                      .cases, the scale range is wider).
s0$  u stain03Z3Uabillal ty monitoring  tool foruse  The 71 indicators capture the key aspects of sustainability as
sciienies        ~~follows:
by theX3a: z d staff fo      Iinfrastructure funct oning and use: Quantity, quality,
that are progressively being p;t                  reliability, equitable access and user perceptions
into operation.                                      Institutional: Effectiveness of village-level institutions in service
delivery and management
Financial: Adequacy of cost recovery far scheme operations
and sustenance
Social: Participation in benefits and management by women and
gg:iii;q;VC   S :3033SQ3AtjtejW3li33ni3::         socially disadvantaged groups
RC                                        4 i  4                                                             # :3.
i ~   ~      FNCIM~ it RgPN~N '0t I;hgl,iuc3SuXja3d33Xr;j3ii3n33i   eeoe   ytetNPW dBn    ae nd Sanittin   Pog
i:~~US OF EVICES                           OP$ERVIcE                     ,                         a 9* GA3 :3'  (i l  fT_tI IZA'0NN  .4
:  !jj:i;:      :+gg:        :j;: iti;  :i i13s3;><iiis3  '33 iiiiiiiii :zz;33jj     i      rm w r   w sm a    lat   sl r.etse  4cn es.I  a
4 34T3 0    pe3ne33r   i 3              0     S    ii 0i3ias   eie  ofcso    esrmn   fssonblt  niaosa
tt;t 0 i;gSj$j3t3,3se                             :0tecmuiylvl evn   u  atr  xe lt  h   omnte
: ag   3 0  i g S i     E   j                3      .     . .c os imlmnigoec   fetvnesadplc   niomn)
jaS?SUg   :. jUf   JiiitaiiiiSSti3il:ilI!Ii3                                    ~       4    33373 ;1113 RD"")i    )Ai
iii ~  ~      NICTR :i*:4;i i                 YIticAe nra9Rs                                         lt4PiCA neTurOy aomtrs(eeox  eow    er  urhr iiddsno7
: ncorMn Sysem              l      AFsfeets   ;iieICiiss3   iiS                     i.........................r, ge3  S>  . . .. u-,u , *ii0L  . -..........................   
; ujj ;e;;XiiX4*_;  3Effef3r!3j lye3i433E3?_'jj3' Use?i3iii (2s$%eJ  InJclr                     ,.. reoan  m  n   eaaasDeun  nls
j~~~~ EfiEe  b3jJijj UjgiLsen{40%1 ??  3va  t3wl3.<1t    Ec  niatrwsasindasor   nasal  fOt 2(nsm
bcShu;    L  ?   ?.i?3!.Q?: , { i?EitiEE   e3dE    l I  SEiES4t
0 un:; ?3093t3b3Wirgilaei3?(tl3p3 l?s3 3'i5ai5E>??iii33 D  aj  caes, thescale ange i wider
;;:f!Lf :  iidfii af ,.NSi:l ;?3W;:Sj?ll3?3et!i333 3
Ca    ?aSASS?UsdAg?g   ?;DDl  j;  fC  ii  :?SC?::l:?:?,llfi:::  !i R ) 51::  ............................................................... ?'t'e:.:. ...._,_..  .
00;L;l?;X;;;lssbl?azf3tsa3mo?3to3alg3Wi34l*?rRi333ei  3i3 In  /1 Ialatrs apur te ky  spctsofsutombYo t a
0 jS 000 j; 0 j 0 j j0000i    W i 3 s 3 ? 3 S  follows:                              t~niy~2O%
gLQ003 n??0  Ri( Source:i   3333333 SptA3S Metodoog G i3a333? UNP.We   Si3  Inrrnr   fueinr 3n    ?eQatt   ul



The Prnns The village viit
generated great enthusiasm amongst the.
villoge community as well as 1he teh m
mtembers. Unused to the id*o of pro>jeft '.-;  Prv-field: A total of 15 villages were visited; an average of three
staff stoying for more than a few  hours, -the  villages by each of the five teams set up for the exercise. Every team
communities were ouched it tis display<.    stayed a full 24-hour cycle in each village and consisted of project
of sincerity in otterrpting to understand ':-  staff, partner consultants and NGOs. One Bank mission member
them better, and delighied to host the      participated in each team and mainly acted as a facilitator. A one-
teams for a day and.a night. In the         day preparatory workshop was held for the teams to brainstorm
process, a great deal of informnaton-and    -   about the concept and the methodology as well as to thoroughly
knowledge was shared by both side  In'      understand (and modify wherever necessary) the questionnaires
most meetings, there was good- :-:---:
participation from women and girls.  .
Debates went on late invto the evenings,
and the degree of excitement and:
community involement was so high thatl
-the event assumed a camivolKlkie--- f s-t,_  r,l 
::atmosphere.
cultural programs and, in one case,a          '
volleyball mattch also took place between
visitors, and the community. Needless to
say, the community wonl Such informal
events helped in breakirng the ie ni*-
improving commnwication between:
"outsiders" and the "inskders~ Apart from:
this, the village immersion and th night-_
stay also served as a good bonding
exercise amongst the team memler       --   specially designed for the field visit. A set of nine questionnaires
themnselves, most of whom did no. ~were used for this purpose (see box). A variety of survey instruments
each other well prior tos this VIP  - - -:  (field observations, general meetings, focus group discussions,
household surveys and public tapstand monitoring) were used for
the exercise. The data from the filled in questionnaires was to be
Karnatuka k     alr  Water                analyzed and converted into points, on the basis of which an overall
Supply and Smintation Projet-    sustainability index would be derived for each village.
.Swdftsi nn ,                 -1   .-
tcMg.'ts      g s'    eField: In the field, the teams first had a general meeting with the
Village Water and Sanitation Committees (VWSCs), where they
finalized the 24-hour schedule of activities and formed task teams,
Qeestleonir*e         Tltl                each with community representatives. The different task teams
Questionnaire 1 Village Socio-economic    obtained information simultaneously from their respective target
-   Profile           -    audiences such as women's groups and households. The technical
Questionnaire 2 Technicol: WaterSupply   task teom systematically visited and studied each of the water and
-             t~~~~~Asset Condition
:.eand Profile)            sanitation system installations (tubewells, pumphouses, overhead
Questionnaire 3 Technicl: Sanitation     tanks, water supply pipes and taps, drains and household latrines).
(Droinage, Soak-Pits       The event in which there was maximum community participation,
And Dust-Bins)             however, was the tapstand monitoring exercise. The exercise, which
Questionnoire 4 Technicol: Sanitation  -   was preceded by a training session, involved a team of about 20
(Household Latrines)
Questionnaire 5 Financial (Costs, Tariff,  persons, including community members, each setting out at the same
Billing andCollections)    time during water supply hours to monitor quantity, quality, reliability
Questionnaire 6 Institutional VWSC        and equitable access, by observation as well as by talking to the
Composition, Functions, .  villagers collecting water from the tapstands. The environmental
Effediveness)              conditions around the tapstands, the number of men, women and
Questionnaire 7 Household Questionnaire   children fetching water and the number of pots of water collected
(Facts and Perception of
Demand Met)                were also studied. After all the sub-teams hod completed their tasks
Questionnaire 8 Social (Participation by  and surveys, a final 'wrap-up' meeting was held with the VWSCs.
Women and Poor)            Here, each of the 71 parameters were awarded a score (on the
Questionnoire 9 TapstandMonitaring        predetermined scale for each) by a voice vote from all those present,
... ...   both outsiders and VWSC members.



Post-field: On return from the field,Thsienvevlaebedutaaiiymotrngxrce
all the data collected through the field      led to identiicaion1 by.both the commnunities as well as by~
qiuestionnaires and scores of the 71           ousdr,o    aneo  suswi6h col advreyfecth
indicators were converted into asutibltyfwaeadsattoneris.Tesus
sustainability index for each village. The     common toMOSt vllages were:.
analysis revealed that nine out of the 15        Tdna    ntbeeetia  upyafcigpm
villacges visited fell into the 'likely to beoprtnsadelbityfwtrsrvc
sustainable' category (score of above            IntwlmI  WC  e otk  ulcag f9                 shm
0.65), five into the "uncertain" categorymaaeetndheedtolriyeglpvsos
(between 0.50 and 0.64) and one in the         empoweringYWSCs i--i  rmpnhyt
"unlikely' category (below 0.50)                 FnmelkFl costo&   no yet beneovere
from usersd 6ta                 m       dt
Uncertain
Likely                   Institutionalizing 'vwrap-up' with VWSC: The business-like
Unl~~~~~~ly ~~~final wrap-up meeting with the VWSC, stipulating actions to be
W    g~~~~~~~apr ~~~~taken and by whom, increased their sense of responsibility and
IW              determination to overcome the shortcomings discovered during the
exercise. The task team felt that this should become a standard
feature of supervision by the project staff.
Repeat exercise: The sustainability monitoring exercise needs
to be repeated in the same village to confirm that the issues
CTM identified in the earlier exercise have been satisfactorily resolved.
Scoring system: The range of values assigned to the 71 primary
indicators and relative weightage given while aggregating scores for
each of the four main parameters need to be revisited and, if
Name                 miwt        ~~~~~~~~necessary, modified to better correlate them to ground realities.
otwfllae  Index su.taIabilhiyMeasuring water quantity: Quantifying the water received
at the user end was found the most difficult to estimate. The
Sdhoragadu    AMPL                           methodology used (number of pots, size of storage vessels and
Kinnala  0.66     1              ~~~~~tanks) for estimating the amount of water received by private
B.fara             .7                           connections and public tapstands was not very accurate and
DMG Halli     0.165          i.needs to be improved.
Udigala     06                               Mainstreaming sustainability monitoring: Inspired by this
Ga6bbur       0.5L                           pMilot venture, the Karnataka project staff have now started
Belekero  0.71                   ~~~~~independently undertaking the exercise as a part of regular
MArkund       0.65~           L
Sovena HaIli   0.64  UNC         imp~lementation supervision. The additional spin-off is that this
Shantigamia    0.62         UNC              exercise is also being undertaken in the other Bank-assisted project
Carl Gunji    055           UNC              in India (Uttar Pradesh Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project).
Bailujr       0.2UNC                           Bakoeain   n    I:The exercise demonstrated the
Kambalu  0.62    UNC             ~~~~benefits of using VIP as means of achieving greater development
Adki  0.49       UNL             ~~~~~~impact. It could also be a useful tool in seeking participation of the
communities in designing projects which more accurately reflect their
L: Likt~  UNC tJncet~,in  NL~ Unikob'needs and aspirations.
Farfuthe ifomaton plas cntat .4 Ahhyanikor, WorldSBank, 70,
adi sae Ne Deh  103(ah~krwrldbaik.org) or



Annex 9. Key Staff Turnover
PPMU
S.No.              Designation               No.of Post       No. of Incumbents worked in
Sanctioned               the Project
1     Director                                 1                         8
2     AddI. Director (from October-98          1                         2
3     a) Superintendent Engineer               1                         4
upto March-99
b) Addl Director (T)                    1                         1
from April-99
4     Joint Controller of Accounts             1                         4
5     Accounts Officer                         1                         1
6     Asst. Executive Engineer                 1                         1
(from October-98)
7     Asst. Engineers                          3                         4
8     Social Scientist                         1                         1
9     HSHE                                     1                         1
WORLD BANK CELL RDED. BANGALORE
I     Superintendent Engineer                  1                         6
2     Asst. Executive Engineer                  11
3     Asst. Engineers,                         2                         2
DISTRICT PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
1     DPMU (after MTR)                        12                        24
2     Executive Engineers                      12                       63
3     Asst. Executive Engineer                 12                       42
4     Asst. Engineers.                        70                        64
5     CPHEs (after MTR)                       12                        12
STATE WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT CELL
I     Project Co-ordinator                     I
2     Technical Assistant                      1                         2
3     Hydrogeologists                          3                         1
- 33 -



Annex 10: Borrower's Evaluation
A. Introduction
The World Bank-assisted Karnataka Integrated Rural Water Supply and Environmental Sanitation
Project (KIRWS&ESP) has been implemented in 1105 villages of 12 erstwhile districts (16 present
districts) of Karnataka namely Bangalore (R), Tumkur, Hassan, Mandya, Mysore (Chamarajanagar),
Dakshina Kannada (Udupi), Shimoga (Davanagere), Belgaum, Bidar, Gulbarga, Raichur (Koppal) and
Bellary (Davangere).
The project agreement and the development credit agreement were signed on 4th June 1993 and the
credit became effective from 23rd February 1994. The credit closing date as per the agreement was 31st
December 1999. At the request of State Government the Bank extended the credit closing date upto 30th
September 2000. The project cost as per SAR is shared as given below:
Sl No                 Source                     Amount          Amount         % to total
(Rs in Crores)   (million USD)     cost
I    World Bank Loan                            349.20          92.00            78
2    State Government Share                     67.00            16.80           15
3    Community    Contribution    towards       31.00            9.00            7
Environmental Sanitation
Total                     447.20           117.80          100
The component wise outlay is as detailed below:
SI No                 Component                     Amount            Amount
(Rs in Crores)   (million USD)
1     Water Supply                                 256.30            67.51
2     Environrnental Sanitation                    106.10            27.95
3     Ground Water Recharge, etc                    39.40            10.38
4     Software and Project Support                  45.40             11.96
Total                       447.20            117.80
As against the SAR outlay of Rs 447.20 crore, the likely project completion cost is expected to be
Rs 500.19 crore. The cumulative expenditure incurred as on 30th September 2000 (credit closing date) is
Rs 463.82 crore. Reimbursement claims for a cumulative amount of Rs 386.796 crores have been
submitted to Govt of India / World Bank. An amount of Rs 366.178 crore have been reimbursed so far.
- 34 -



The project aimed at promoting more equitable distribution of safe water, improving sustainability
of water supply and drainage systems, increasing public and private investment in environmental sanitation
and creating greater commnunity awareness of causes of water related health problems and the need for a
cleaner environment. The project has achieved its overall development objectives in most villages where
works have been physically completed and handed over to village community for Operation and
Maintenance (O&M). The ongoing works as on the credit closing date are likely to be completed
progressively by March 2001.
B. Project Achievements
The project has not only achieved its overall development objectives but it has also registered
important and significant achievements in influencing State Policy on Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
in Karnataka. Important project achievemnents are:
1.    The Govermment of Karnataka has formulated a Strategy Paper 2000-2005 for the rural water
supply and sanitation sector in Kamataka outlining the policies to be followed in the sector in the next five
years. The paper sets the goal to achieve the basic minimum supply norm of 55 Ipcd of safe water supply in
all habitations of rural areas of Kamataka by the year 2005. The policies enunciated in the Strategy Paper
were largely influenced by the outcomes of the experiments piloted in the project towards a sector reforms
strategy.
2.    The project aimed at providing safe water as a means to the end objective of improving quality of
life and health and hygiene status of the people in project villages. Hitherto, providing water was considered
as an end itself and implementation strategy was designed for making this service available. The project
made an attempt to ensure good quality construction so as to deliver sustained water supply. The role of the
government shifted from provider to facilitator.
3.    The project introduced Automatic Chlorinators for protection from bacteriological and viral
contamination and making the water safe for drinking purposes. Chlorination is known to destroy harmful
water borne bacteria such as cholera, dysentery, typhoid, etc. The Automatic Chlorinator employs a
hydraulic injector cum venturi system for creating a vacuum inside the unit, which in turn, sucks up the
bleaching powder solution from the solution container and feeds accurately controlled dosage into the water
supply.
4.    Water Quality Monitoring and surveillance gained importance as part of project implementation.
Influenced by the project strategy of water quality monitoring in project villages, the Government for the
first time undertook water quality testing of all public sources of drinking water in Karnataka. Such survey
in case of project districts was taken up under the project. This has generated a very important database for
the State to properly target the investments in future.
5.    Electronic Multiple Control Programmable Units (EMCPU) were introduced for the first time
in Rural Water Supply systems. It meets the challenges of better management of water resources and
reduced operation and maintenance cost with protective solutions. Shortage of water, shortage and bad
quality of power supply and high labour cost requires that the submersible pump sets for water supply
schemes are turned on at specific time for a specific duration on every day. Manual switching of pump sets
and monitoring require continuous attention by an operator. EMCPU continuously watches the time,
switches the pump set on and switches it off after a set duration of pumping. The salient features are:
It always displays real time of the day.
It starts the motor in healthy conditions only.
- 35 -



It monitors the healthy conditions of power (single phase, reverse phase, high / low voltage)
even while running the motor.
Provision for setting number of sessions per day from I to 8 sessions.
If any sessions are overlapped, then previous sessions are neglected and current sessions will
be completed. This avoids over running of the motor.
The system can be programmed at any time.
Provision for setting 'Delay Start' and 'ON Push Button' press periods in seconds.
Provision for setting High Voltage / Low Voltage cutoff levels.
If motor is ON then the remaining duration of that session can be read.
6.    Hydraulic testing of pipe line (Rising Main and distribution line) to check leakage and capacity of
the pipeline to withstand pressure was done in the project.
7.    Leak assessment and leak detection survey was carried out in 5 villages in Mandya and 5 villages
in Bangalore (R) as sample external technical assistance to check old systems being integrated with the new
systems. Rural Development Engineering Department staff has been trained to carry out such leak detection
tests.
8.    The project was implemented in two phases. Phase I and the Pilot phase was implemented in 247
villages, whereas the Phase II was implemented in 858 villages. Phase I contracts were awarded to
pre-qualified contractors in slices of more than 10 villages. In Phase II, the procedure was changed with
concurrence of the Bank and contracts in smaller packages of 3 to 4 villages were awarded with
post-qualification criteria. This not only resulted in substantial reduction in tender premium in Phase II as
compared to Phase I but also speeded up the pace of implementation enabling large number of works to be
completed as per schedule.
9.    A Management Information System (MIS) was introduced in the project. Such comprehensive MIS
was unique for project implementation of any rural development project and the experience gained could be
useful in Monitoring and Evaluation.
10.   The rural water supply schemes have been primarily ground water based. However, the project
also took up Surface Source Regional (SSR) / Surface Source Individual (SSI) village schemes in hard
core problematic area suffering from acute scarcity or quality problem. Introduction of Regional Schemes
influenced the formation of policy of Operation & Maintenance of such schemes by a Scheme Level
Committee, to be constituted out of participation of Village Water Supply and Sanitation Committees
(VWSCs) coming under the jurisdiction of the regional scheme.
11.   Creation of Village Water Supply and Sanitation Committees (VWSCs) as the lowest appropriate
level institution for managing water and sanitation system in the project villages is a major breakthrough in
Karnataka. The Karnataka Panchayat Raj Act, 1993 was amended and a provision under section 6 1A was
made to facilitate constitution of VWSCs as a committee of the Gram Panchayat so as to enable them a
legal status. These VWSCs are to be responsible for Operation and Maintenance of the scheme by meeting
100 % of the O&M charges through collection of user charges. These stipulations and the experiments in
project villages regarding Operation and Maintenance of water supply schemes by VWSCs largely
influenced the policy of the Govenmuent. Now, the Operation and Maintenance of all water supply
schemes, hitherto being done by Zilla Panchayats, are handed over to the Gram Panchayats.
12.   The project encouraged the participation of the Private Sector and the NGOs in project
implementation. The project engaged consultants not only for designing the scheme but also for concurrent
- 36 -



supervision. In addition, consultants were engaged for training management, community participation,
health and hygiene education, etc. Inputs from such external expertise improved the delivery system,
ensured better participation of stakeholders and enhanced sustainability of the schemes. The Rural
Development Engineering Department (RDED) worked with private sector consultants and was exposed to
modem methods of design, quality control, procurement, contract management, etc. The process was a
capacity building exercise for the department in management of community oriented schemes executed with
partnership of the community, the consultants, the NGOs and the Bank.
13.   There is a change in the perception of user community towards water use and water management.
Introduction of participatory development approaches with NGO interventions has enabled the user
community to gain control over investment facilities in the project villages.
14.   Mobilisation of Rs 130 million as community share towards partial capital cost of the project is a
unique achievement directed towards development initiatives of the user community. Users are paying
towards water use and VWSCs are maintaining O&M account on their own. Even the users of public stand
posts in project villages are paying towards water charges, which is a unique achievement.
15.   Adequacy and equity of service delivery has improved in the project villages. Women have saved
considerable time in the project villages due to improved service levels. Time saved is utilised for
supplementing the household income and child-care. Enhanced women participation has improved the
management of schemes.
16.   Community has revealed demand for household latrines in the project villages. This is a unique
example of change in the mind-set of the people. The household latrines constructed in the project villages
are largely in use.
17.   The project emphasised that availability of safe and adequate water may not be enough to provide
sustained health benefits. Unless the users are educated to properly handle the good quality water and also
to look after its safe disposal, making the water available may not minimise serious health hazards.
Therefore, the project also aimed at educating people about the importance of personal hygiene and need
for better sanitation. An evident manifestation of the benefits derived was declining water-related diseases,
resulting in reducing the medical expenditure of households in some of the project villages.
18.   Capacity building at various levels was an important component of the project. It was designed to
improve the capacity and capabilities of village community and project personnel for the efficient
implementation and operation & maintenance of the facilities created in the project villages. In additions to
the VWSC members, the categories of persons trained include primary school teachers, caretakers, masons,
pipe-layer / valve-men, engineers, accounts personnel, senior administrative personnel, etc.
19.   Sustainability monitoring exercise through Village Immersion Process (VIP) - a participatory tool
for accessing sustainability of completed schemes in terms of physical, financial and institutional aspects is
an innovative dimension of the project. This has been introduced as part of the exit policy of the project for
monitoring sustainability of the schemes. The analysis of the exercises conducted so far has revealed that a
majority of the schemes (74%) are likely to be sustainable. 24 % schemes fall in the category of uncertain
sustainability and 2% are unlikely to be sustainable.
20.   In addition to the operational sustainability of the schemes, the project experimented with ground
water recharge measures for sustainability of ground water sources in 328 villages. The study conducted to
monitor the impact of recharge on ground water for the sources of water supply has been positive and has
- 37 -



reaffirned faith in such measures to make the sources more sustainable.
21.   Apart from triggering a series of reforms in the sector, the project brought about a high level of
political commitment to the sector. The project never faced any problem of availability of fund. The project
also triggered higher allocation for the sector in general and investments went up substantially for
non-project areas also.
C. Project Constraints
I .    The Project was implemented through a large number of agencies. PPMU at the State level was in
charge of project implementation. NGOs were engaged to ensure community participation. Separate
consultants were engaged for design, construction supervision, community participation management, etc.
The department was responsible for settlemnent of sources. Though the project envisaged an integrated
approach, the multiplicity of implementing agencies made its achievements somewhat difficult. None of the
agencies owned the project.
2.     The project implementation structure was independent of existing Panchayat Raj System.
Operationally independent project structure might have facilitated a better implementation, but it has failed
in providing a replicable model for scaling up. Further, the capacities built during project implementation
were not intemalised within the existing delivery system of the Government at district level and below.
3.    Independent project implementation structure has also led to serious difficulties of contract
management after the closure of project offices. Zilla Panchayats, who is to take over from the project
offices, may face serious handicap in contract management, contract closure, etc.
4.     The PPMU was to act as a nodal agency at the state level to monitor project implementation and
coordinate the functions of large number of agencies. Ideally, PPMU should have been a highly result
oriented. But, it functioned more like a typical government office, which faced many handicaps. The Rural
Development Engineering Department (RDED) was primarily responsible for construction and contract
monitoring. In the absence of single agency accountability, contract management in respect of civil
contractors and engineering consultancy services was found to be inadequate and less efficient than
desirable.
5.    The District Project Monitoring Units (DPMUs) were the weakest link in the project. Lack of
experience of working with the NGOs made it difficult for the DPMUs to get the best out of the NGOs.
There was a certain level of distrust between Government staffand NGOs in some district. In few districts,
the project staff failed to appreciate their role in the project. Project implementation with community
participation and support from NGOs and private sector partners required a different mind-set to produce
desired results. In some districts the officers within the DPMUs did not work in proper team spirit and
more bothered about their powers over others than the project objectives.
6.     Frequent transfer of the staff further complicated the matter. On one hand, the capacities built were
lost frequently because of transfer of the staff. On the other hand, continuity in implementation and
advantages of past information was lost causing unnecessary delays and bottlenecks in project
implementation.
7.    DPMUs also failed to coordinate the activities of various consultants and agencies at the district
level properly. The project activities could not be put in proper sequence and consultants and agencies
worked independently for related activities.
- 38 -



8.    The Community could not be involved at all stages of construction of water supply system
construction. Community consultation was limited to passing resolutions, capital cost contribution,
planning, taking over the scheme, etc. Participation of the community right from planning through design,
scheme selection, implementation and till final execution would have ensured timely completion of schemes.
9.    The State witnessed a series of election to various bodies at the end of project period in the year
1999-2000. The VWSCs were reformed. Changed political scenario at the village level and changed
composition of VWSCs could not translate into logical and generally beneficial processes. Further, the role
of VWSCs vis-a-vis the Gram Panchayats did create some confusion initially, making one realise that the
Gram Panchayats should have been natural partners in the process.
10.   The selection of villages was done in a top-down manner based on available data of water supply
levels in the villages. The selection was not a demand driven process. Therefore, community participation,
cost recovery, handing over of schemes, etc was not a natural process in many cases.
11.   Inter departmental delays also added up. Permission from irrigation and other departments,
availing power connection, etc was delayed in many cases.
12.   The project districts were spread over the state and did not form a contiguous area of operation.
13.   The complexities involved in regional water supply schemes were appreciated very late. The area
of such schemes spread over more than one Gram Panchayat and an amendment to the Act was done to
facilitate formation of Scheme Level Conmmittees. The system of Operation and Maintenance of such
schemes could not be finalised before the credit closing date.
14.   The Phase I of the project adopted a complicated and elaborate procurement procedure for award
of contracts with pre-qualification criteria. The contract documents heavily favoured the contractors and
created more legal impediments in implementation than expected quality construction of such procurement
at high premium. The project changed the procedure for Phase II, which faced much less hassles than the
first phase.
15.   The project monitoring generated / consumed more paper than desirable.
D. Areas of Concern
1.    The projects are designed with the assumption of availability of Quality Power Supply. Lack of
quality power, fluctuation of power supply, short supply, etc has threatened the adequacy and reliability of
water supply in many rural areas.
2.    The project envisages 100% Operation and Maintenance of the schemes by VWSCs through
payment of user charges. The major component of the expenditure in O&M of the scheme is towards
electricity charges. The KPTCL has not serviced the bills for electricity charges in most cases. As a result,
there is no pressure on the VWSCs to collect user charges though the people are willing to pay regularly. A
cumulative bill may be heavy and VWSCs may not be able to pay by way of user charges. Non-receipt of
KPTCL bills is therefore a cause of concem and is threatening the operational sustainability of the scheme.
3.    The O&M cost in respect of SSR / SSI schemes and multi-village schemes are expected to be high
compared to simple ground water based schemes. Full O&M cost recovery in respect of SSR / SSI
- 39 -



schemes are an area of concern.
4.    The financing of 100% O&M cost through user charges is limited to extemally aided project
villages. The O&M of water supply schemes in respect of other villages are the responsibility of the GPs
and only a portion of the expenditure is being met by user charges. The contagious effect of non-payment
of water tariff in non-project villages threatens the operational sustainability of the scheme.
5.    It is noticed that the design of the water supply schemes in project villages did not address the issue
of integration of old systems with the new systems. Ideally the project should have included full restoration
of the old system.
6.    Sustainability of sources has posed a major problem to the water user particularly for drinking
water ever since the water tables have been observed to fall heavily in many areas due to excess and
indiscriminate withdrawal of ground water. Depletion of water table has resulted in either non-functioning
of large number of bore wells or very low yield. Excess withdrawal has also been considered responsible
for geo-chernical changes resulting in wide spread chemical contamination of ground water not observed in
the past. The project also witnessed dwindling of sources alanringly in some villages during the project
implementation period.
E. Lessons Learnt
1.    The project should aim at a perfect Contract Management. The project staff should be properly
trained in all aspects of contract management. Tendering procedure should be simplified and normal
Government procedures may be adopted for better management and use of experience of the staff in the
said field. Specific departures from nornal procedures may be limited and adopted only if specifically
suitable to the project.
2.    The consultancies related to construction of the scheme should not be split and as far as possible it
should be clubbed and awarded to one consultant for better coordination of activities. Multiplicity of
agencies should be strictly avoided. Source settlement, design and construction supervision responsibility
should lie with single agency.
3.    There should not be any ambiguity in the Terms of References of consultants, contract documents,
etc. The payment conditions should be stricter providing for better control and in addition to payment on
the basis of man-months, etc, final payment should be based upon a final report in respect of consultants. A
'success fee' may be provided for achievement of the objectives, which should be denied for dismal
performances.
4.    The Project also should consider procuring services of legal advisor as an expert of such
specialised field, on a regular basis to advice in legal matters.
5.    SSR / SSI schemes and Multi-village schemes should be taken up for implementation at the
beginning of the project.
6.    Ground water recharge measures for point recharge of ground water sources of water supply
systems should be made integral part of water supply projects. Provision should be made in the design and
estimate itself for such scientific structures.
7.    Delays between source settlement and design & implemnentation of the scheme should be better
-40 -



avoided.
8.     The Sanitation works can be effective only if water is available in adequate quantity. Therefore,
Environmental Sanitation Works should be taken up only after water supply systems are complete or at the
end of the scheme cycle so that both water supply and sanitation works are completed simultaneously.
9.     All other activities such as training, capacity building, HSHE, etc should follow prescribed scheme
cycle and the sequence should be maintained for better and effective results.
10.   As per the provisions of Karnataka Panchayat Raj Act 1993, creation, operation and maintenance
of water supply and sanitation facilities are the responsibility of Panchayat Raj Institutions. The
Implementation model of the project and the delivery system should therefore be properly integrated with
Panchayat Raj Institutions at all levels. This is essential post-project support and scaling up.
11.   A single line command in project implementation with adequate autonomy as well as proper
accountability is desirable. Multiplicity of units, working at cross-purposes, without being accountable to
each other diffuses the control within project implementation. The project staff may be given suitable
incentives for stay in the project for longer minimum period. Only willing, motivated and dedicated project
staff from government as well as private sector be taken under the project and they should not be
transferable.
12.   Community should be fully involved in planning, designing and monitoring of the project. Their
participation should not be limited to capital cost contribution and operation and maintenance of the scheme
only. For better community ownership of the schemes and to avoid delays in project execution, the
community needs to be in the forefront of project implementation. Elected people's representatives should
also be given orientation about the scheme and their involvement should be encouraged. Project should not
function in isolation.
13.   The project should also aim at institutionalising mechanism for post-implementation support to
VWSCs. Sustainability monitoring of the schemes adopting VIP can be followed by adequate monitoring
by Panchayat Raj institutions.
14.   A demand responsive approach may be followed for better response from the community in the
project villages. GPs / Villages be self selected to ensure that project rules are acceptable to the community
during project implementation as well as in the post-implementation period.
15.   The Project Monitoring be fully computerised and a simplified procedure be followed to avoid
unnecessary paper consumption and unproductive work.
F. Looldng Forward
There is no subject more important than water. Water is life and if we have no water, the life is
miserable. Access to water distinguishes the poor from the non-poor. If the water supply systems are not
managed properly, it is the poor who suffer the most. It is the poor who must fetch water from long
distances from traditional sources. Higher level of water supply with adequate reliability and equitable
distribution is therefore socially desirable. The Government has also realised that water can not be treated
any more as a commodity for charity. Proper management of water supply systems needs treating water as
an economic good rather than conventional thinking that it is natural gift.
- 41 -



The Government of Karnataka is committed to provide a basic minimum service level of 55 Ipcd of
safe water to all habitations in rural areas of Karnataka by the year 2005 following a demand responsive
approach. The Government is expecting the Bank to be a partner in achieving this goal. The Government
had approached the World Bank for assistance for a Follow-On project. The Bank had indicated a project
size of USD 200 million (Rs 900 crores approximately) with an assistance of USD 150 million from the
Bank. The November 1999 Review Missions from the Bank for the current project outlined requirements
for the proposed Follow-On project.
The lessons learnt from this project are expected to launch the Follow-On project on a very firm
ground so as to realise the goals and objectives of the Government as stated in the Strategy Paper
2000-2005 for Rural Water Supply and Sanitation in Karnataka.
- 42 -



