CREDIT NUMBER 2483 IN
Project Agreement
(Karnataka Rural Water Supply and
Environmental Sanitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF KARNATAKA
Dated                              , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2483 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        JUKE. 4             , 1993, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and STATE OF
KARNATAKA acting by its Governor (Karnataka).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty- six
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR
66,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Karnataka
agree t. undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS Karnataka, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Karnataka declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and Karnataka shall


﻿-2-
otherwise agree, Karnataka shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.C. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and tr be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Karnataka shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Karnataka shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b)   Karnataka shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by Karnataka of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Karnataka shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of Karnataka responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   Karnataka shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by


﻿-3-
independent   auditors   acceptable   to   the
Association.
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish    to  the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records and accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination,
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Karnataka thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)    the  date  on which   the  Development  Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii)   the date 25 years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Karnataka of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
7or the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Karnataka:
Secretary to the Government of Karnataka
Department of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj
M.S. Building
Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Marg
Bangalore 560001, India
Telex:
0845-2239 CSGK-IN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Karnataka may be taken or executed by a
Secretary to the Government of Karnataka or such other person or


﻿-5-
persons as Karnataka shall designate in writing, and Karnataka shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, .and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By OACTG Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF KARNATAKA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRO Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the
invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines
shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will
be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into
account in bid evaluation.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Prequalification
Bidders for works related to the water supply schemes to be
carried out under the Project shall be prequalified as provided in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Specialized groundwater survey and testing devices for the
public health laboratories up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded through limited
international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and
comparison of bids obtained from at least three qualified suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set


﻿-7-
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs
2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $1,200,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
4.    Subject to the provisions of paragraph 5 below, civil works
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding  advertised   locally,  in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
5.    Works relating to: (a) borewell drilling; (b) groundwater
recharge measures, (c) leakage repair, (d) latrine construction, and
(e) sullage drainage may be carried out by force account.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part C hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for civil works and goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 and $200,000 or more,
respectively, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to


﻿-8-
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist Karnataka in carrying out the Project,
Karnataka shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultapt Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review of approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to single source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.    Karnataka shall ensure that the water supply schemes to be
carried out under Part A of the Project shall be designed in
accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Karnataka shall: (a) furnish to the Association for review by
December 31 each year, commencing December 31, 1993, an annual
action program for the following year for investments in rural water
supply environmental sanitation, health education, training and
technical assistance under the Project and the status of land
acquisition required for such investments; and (b) not later than
June 30, 1996, carry out a mid-term review of the Project in
consultation with the Association.
3.    Karnataka shall prepare guidelines satisfactory to the
Association based on experience learned from the pilot-schemes being
carried out by Karnataka, which shall be used for implementing the
community participation activities under the Project.
4.    Karnataka shall appoint and maintain necessary qualified staff
in adequate numbers to effectively operate the water quality control
and surveillance system in not less than ten districts in Karnataka,
and shall. make adequate provision of funds to meet all recurrent
costs of such system.
5.    Karnataka  shall make   arrangements  satisfactory  to   the
Association with Mandal Panchayats through the Zilla Parishads to
set and collect water and drainage tariffs, upon completion of the
water supply schemes and drainage works under the Project, at levels
sufficient to cover operations and maintenance costs of said schemes
and works.
6.    Karnakata shall establish and maintain an Empowered Committee
under the chairmanship of the Development Commissioner, Karnataka
with membership and    terms of reference    satisfactory to the
Association.
7.    Karnataka  shall establish:   (a) a Project    Planning and
Monitoring Unit; (b) a Project Cell in its Department of Public
Health Engineering; and (c) a Project Cell in each Engineering
Division of the Zilla Parishads participating in the Project, and
shall appoint and maintain key staff in said Unit and Cells.


﻿- 10 -
8.    Karnataka  shall  issue  regulations  satisfactory  to the
Association, setting out procedures for the establishment by the
Mandal Panchayats of Village Water and Sanitation Committees in the
villages where the Project is to be carried out.
9.    Karnataka shall, in a manner satisfactory to the Association,
make arrangements:   (a) with the Mandal Panchayats desirous of
participating in the Project to ensure that the Village Water and
Sanitation Committees are duly established in the Villages;   (b)
with Mandal Panchayats covering such Villages to delegate their
responsibility for operation and maintenance of facilities under the
Project to said Committees; (c) with such Committees to enable them
to undertake responsibility for operation and maintenance of the
Project facilities, as well as for the recovery of water and
drainage charges from the users; and (d) to ensure that only such
Villages participate in the Project which have complied with the
foregoing provisions of this paragraph 9.
10.   Karnataka shall award, no later than September 30, 1993,
contracts to consultants and non-governmental organizations, for
promoting community participation in planning of water supply and
environmental sanitation works to be carried out in the second phase
of the Project.
11.   Karnataka shall award consultants contracts for supervision of
construction for the second phase of works to be undertaken under
the Project, prior to award of contracts for the commencement of
said works.
12.   For the purposes of Part C (iv) of the Project, Karnataka
shall carry out a training program agreed upon between the
Association and Karnataka.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


