Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6929-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 62.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
SECOND ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
JUNE 25, 1996
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Zambia Kwacha (K)
US$1=1240.93
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOZ                Bank of Zambia
CBI                Cross Border Initiative
CEM                Country Economic Memorandum
CG                 Consultative Group for Zambia
CIR                Country Implementation Review
CPPR               Country Portfolio Performance Review
DBZ                Development Bank of Zambia
ERC                Economic Recovery Credit
ERIP               Economic Recovery and Investment Credit
ESAC               Economic and Social Adjustment Credit
ESAF               Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
IRBD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                International Development Association
LUSA               Lusaka Stock Exchange
MMD                Movement for Multiparty Democracy
NEAP               National Environmental Action Plan
PER                Public Expenditure Review
PFP                Policy Framework Paper
PIRC               Privatization and Industrial Reform Credits
PTA                Preferential Trade Agreement
RAP                Rights Accumulation Program
RPED               Regional Project for Enterprise Development
SCC                Systematic Client Consultation
VAT                Value Added T ax
ZCCM               Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
ZESCO              Zambia Electricity Supply Company
ZIMCO              Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
ZPA                Zambia Privatization Agency
ZRA                Zambia Revenue Authority



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
SECOND ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY
PART  I. THE  ECONOMY  .............................................1
A. Background ............................................1
B. Recent Economic Developmens and Prospects ............................................3
PART 1I. ZAMBIA'S ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM                                        .         ..............................5
A. Macroeconomic Management ...........................................6
B. Privatization and Parastatal Management .............................................8
C. Fostering Private Sector Growth .............................................9
D. Investing in Human Resources and other Social Services                        .        .11......................... 1
E. Poverty Reduction and Alleviation  ........................................... 12
F. Medium  Term  Prospects and Financing Plan .....................                   ....................... 13
PART III. THE PROPOSED CREDIT                                   ......................................... 13
A. Macroeconomic Management ...........................................                                      14
B. Fostering Private Sector Growth ............................................ 15
C. Investing in Human Resources and Other Social Services ......................................  18
D. Poverty Impact ........................................... .                                             20
E. Environmental Impact ........................................... 21
F. Specific Agreements ........................................... 21
G. Implementation Arrangements .............................................                                 22
H. Implementation Assistance ............................................ 23
I.  Cofinancing ............................................ 24
J.  Program  Benefits and Risk ...........................................                                  24
PART IV. BANK OPERATIONS ...........................................                                        24
PART V. COLLABORATION WITH IMF ............................................                                 26
PART VI. RECOMMENDATION ...........................................                                          26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|0oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
A:   Zambia - Social Indicators of Development ............         ....................... 27
B.   Key Macroeconomic Indicators ................................... 29
C:   Balance of Payments ...................................                             30
D:   Status of Bank Group Operations ................................... 32
E:   Matrix of Policy Agreement ................................... 36
F:   Zambia at a Glance ................................... 38
G:   Evolution of Policy Reform Agreements ...................................           40
H:   Proposed Economic and Social Adjustment Credit ...................................   47
I:    Supplementary Data ...................................                             49
J:   Letter of Development Policy ...................................                    50
This Operation was prepared by a team consisting of John E. Todd (Principal
Country Economist and Task Manager, AFIMI); Lemma Merid (Economist, AF1MI);
Lloyd McKay (Senior Economist, AF 1 MI); Eliezer Orbach (Education and Training
Specialist, AF1HR); Peter Moll (Economist, AF1AE); Arthur Fields (Procurement
Specialist, AFIDS); Sara Gonzalez-Flavell (Senior Counsel, LEGAF); Ellah Chembe
(Economist, AF1ZM); George Sikazwe (Disbursement and Procurement Analyst,
AIF1ZM) Peggy Chibuye(AFlZM) and Maria Teresa Benito (Research Analyst, AFIMI).
Secretarial support was provided by Ms. Ligia Murphy (AFIMI). Ms. Phyllis Pomerantz,
(AF1C2) is the Country Operations Manager, and Ms. Katherine Marshall is the
managing Department Director.



ZAMBIA
SECOND ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Zambia
Executing Agency:     Ministry of Finance
Amount and Terms:   SDR 62.4 Million (US$90 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms with 40 years maturity.
Description:          The proposed adjustment Credit would support Zambia's
economic reform program designed to address the serious
levels of poverty through promoting widely shared, private
sector-led economic growth and improving the delivery of
vitally needed social services. In particular, the proposed
Credit would support measures that would: (a) more firmly
establish a stable macro economic environment; (b) improve
the competitive position of exporters and rationalize the
structure of effective protection by revising the tariff structure;
(b) strengthen markets, in particular by accelerating the
implementation of land market reforms approved by
Parliament in 1995; and (d) improve the delivery of vital social
services by strengthening budget priorities for and within the
social sector ministries and by further development and
implementation of policy reforms in these areas.
Benefits:             The main benefits of this Credit will be increased economic
growth, employment, and poverty reduction arising from a
more competitive private sector (trade and land market
reforms), a more efficient public sector (improved budget
allocations and procurement reforms), sustained human
resource investments, and more effective safety net provisions.
These changes should not only increase income and
employment opportunities for all groups, they should also lead
to increased private savings and investment and expanded non-
mining exports in order to increase Zambia's prospects for self
reliance and to increased investment in human resources in
order to increase Zambia's prospects for sustainable, longer-
term economic growth.



- ii -
Risks:               Most of the risks are due to factors external to the specific
reforms supported by this Credit. First, there is always the risk
in Zambia of major external shocks, particularly a major drop
in copper revenues or another serious drought. Therefore,
policies to improve the efficiency of ZCCM, to expand non-
mining exports, and to diversify the agricultural sector into
more drought-resistant crops are all vital to the long-term
success of Zambia's program. More immediately, there is the
prospect that deteriorating policy performance in an election
year coupled with donor disaffection over issues of political
governance could result in a break in external support that
could threaten the economic recovery. Economic and political
developments will be closely monitored, and the Bank and the
other CG members will maintain an active dialogue throughout
the year.
Disbursement:        The proposed credit will be disbursed through the Bank of
Zambia. Disbursement will be in two tranches. The first
tranche (US$45 million) will be released at effectiveness. The
remaining tranche (US$45 million) will be released and
disbursed when the conditions of Second Tranche release are
satisfied which is expected to be in early 1997.
Project ID Number:   ZM-PA-3224



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
SECOND ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed development credit to the Republic of Zambia for SDR 62.4 million (US $90
million equivalent) in support of its economic reform and structural adjustment program.
The Credit would be on standard IDA terms, with an amortization period of 40 years,
including a grace period of 10 years.
2.    The proposed Second Economic and Social Adjustment Credit (ESAC II) would
be the sixth structural adjustment credit to Zambia since the clearance of Zambia's arrears
to the Bank in March 1991. Zambia has very large external financing needs due to its
high debt service requirements and limited short-term prospects for copper production,
Zambia's principal export. In recognition of this need and of the impressive
accomplishments of Zambia's economic reform program, the international conimunity
has provided exceptional levels of balance of payments support over the past five years.
The objective of this Credit is to continue IDA's support of Zambia's program of
economic reform. The primary purpose of the Government's economic program is to
address the serious levels of poverty in Zambia through measures aimed at promoting
widely-shared economic growth and improving the delivery of vitally needed social
services. In particular, the proposed credit would support measures that would: (a) more
firmly establish a stable macro economic environment; (b) improve the competitive
position of exporters and rationalize the structure of effective protection by revising the
tariff structure; (c) strengthen markets, in particular by accelerating the implementation
of land market reforms approved by Parliament in 1995; and (d) improve the delivery of
vital social services by strengthening budget priorities for and within the social sector
ministries and by further development and implementation of policy reforms in these
areas.
I. THE ECONOMY
A. Background
3.    From Independence in 1964 through the 1980s, Zambia under President Kaunda
relied excessively on centralized planning, parastatal enterprises, and international
borrowing. The economy's performance was also adversely affected throughout this
period by a heavy dependence on copper whose real price and production levels were
declining, the latter largely as a result of insufficient investment to increase productivity
and output. Zambia undertook several partial economic reform programs during the
1980s, but these had little lasting effect. When elections were called for late 1991,
Zambia was suffering from a very large external debt overhang (over US$7 billion), an



- 2-
inefficient and highly protected parastatal sector that dominated the economy, continued
dependence on copper, steady declines in per capita income (declining by half since
1975), and an unwillingness on the part of Government to take and hold to the policy
decisions necessary to change the course of the economy. The election of the opposition
party, the Movement for Multiparty Democracy (MMD), was seen as an overwhelming
endorsement of MMD's economic reform program. Its objectives were to restore internal
and external economic stability, to get the Government and parastatals out of business
activity, to promote the private sector, and to focus Government efforts on the creation of
a positive enabling environment for the private sector and on the provision of necessary
infrastructure and social services.
4.    Zambia's overall economic policy performance has been good, though uneven,
over the past four and one half years. In particular, the pace of liberalization has been
impressive. Prices have been decontrolled and subsidies eliminated; the exchange rate
and interest rates are market determined; quantitative restrictions on imports have been
eliminated; and the tariff structure has been compressed and simplified. Parastatal
monopolies have ended, crop marketing has been liberalized, and an ambitious
privatization program is underway. Not everything has gone smoothly, however. In
particular, it took several years before the high rates of inflation could be brought down,
and macroeconomic stability is still to be fully achieved. Structural reforms are not yet
complete, and some institutional aspects of the program have proven particularly difficult
to implement, such as civil service reform. In addition, the private sector has been hard
hit by high real interest rates, some sharp drops in the levels of protection from
competing imports, deteriorating performance in the copper mines, the difficult transition
from public to private sector marketing of maize, and several serious droughts. More
fundamentally, the Zambian economy continues to suffer from serious structural
problems owing to the legacy of excessive government intervention, a high dependence
on copper, an exceptional level of external debt, and vulnerability to drought. As a result,
overall economic growth is only just beginning to recover. The economic program has
remained on track, however. Despite numerous challenges over the past four years, the
Government has consistently demonstrated a firm commitment to the program. This
commitment was recognized when Zambia successfully completed a three year Rights
Accumulation Program with the IMF in December 1995, and the IMF Board approved a
three year ESAF program to continue its support of Zambia's Economic Recovery
Program. This was followed in February 1996 by a successful negotiation of a three-year
rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club on "Naples terms".
5.    The incidence of poverty in Zambia is very high and has been exacerbated by the
collapse of the copper industry and the poor economic policies of the 1970s and 1980s.
In 1991, about 68 percent of all Zambians were living in households with expenditures
below a level sufficient to provide basic needs, and 55 percent of the population did not
have sufficient income even to meet basic nutritional needs. Hunger is still reported by
the poor as the greatest problem they face. Rural poverty is more prevalent and more
severe than urban poverty, but the incidence of urban poverty has increased from 4
percent in 1975 to just under 50 percent in 1994. Unfortunately, the extent of poverty has



- 3-
not been reduced and may well have increased since 1991. During the last four years,
economic policies have improved the longer-term prospects for growth, but the short-
term impact on the economy has been mixed. Some policy changes, for example, the
removal of producer and consumer subsidies, have had adverse effects on some of the
poor. Many social indicators have worsened over this period. Infant mortality is up from
108 per thousand live births in 1990 to 113 in 1995. Adult illiteracy increased from 25
percent in 1990 to 27 percent in 1995. The level of stunting increased from 41 percent in
1991 to 48 percent in 1993. Moreover, the poor's capacity to improve their own situation
is diminished by malnutrition, poor health, and low levels of education. In addition, the
prevalence of AIDS has exacerbated the poverty situation and threatens the prospects for
economic growth and poverty reduction in the medium-to the long-term.
B. Recent Economic Developments and Prospects
6.    Several serious problems emerged in 1995 which adversely affected economic
performance. The first was the pressure on the financial system associated with the
insolvency and eventual closure of Meridien BIAO Ltd., one of the largest commercial
banks. The second was the general decline in revenue at Zambia Consolidated Copper
Mines (ZCCM) due in part to deteriorating operating performance. And the third was the
pressure on the budget due to overspending on defense and government salaries that arose
in the second quarter, along with difficulties in tax collection. Two additional problems
compounded the already difficult situation. Initial delays in addressing these problems
led to substantial delays and shortfalls in donor assistance, and the harvest was once again
disappointing due to the premature end of the rains and the reduced plantings by many
farmers.
7.    The Government did begin to address these policy problems, however. In
particular, the Government established tight control over the overall budget and managed
eventually to begin rebuilding reserves in the second half of 1995. This helped to restore
confidence and encouraged asset holders to stay in local currency, as demonstrated by the
overall stability of the real exchange rate and the subsequent decline in interest rates.
8.    Some key economic variables for 1994 and 1995 are shown below. Gross
domestic product continued to decline in 1995, due primarily to reduced output in
agriculture and mining. Inflation remained troubling at near 40 percent, but still well
below the levels of 1990-1993. The total budget deficit (including foreign debt service
and grants) was 9.7 percent of GDP in 1995. Government spending declined as a
percentage of GDP (and in real terms) while the share of spending on the social sectors
increased from 28 percent of non-interest domestic spending in 1993 to 35 percent in
1995. Non-traditional exports continued their strong growth, but the current account
deficit widened in 1995 due to the disappointing levels of copper production and the
increase in imports, caused in part by the need for US$100 million in maize imports.



-4-
1994      1995
GDP Growth                                      -3.1        -3.9
Inflation Rate (Average Yearly)                  53.4       34.6
Gross Domestic Investment/GDP                    6.9        11.7
Primary Fiscal Surplus/GDP*                      -0.3        0.7
Government Spending/GDP                         28.7        25.1
Current Account Deficit (US$M)**                167.8      371.6
Growth of Non-Metal Exports                     51.3        32.5
(% change in current US$)
Annualized Nominal T-Bill Interest Rate (91 days)  72.7     41.5
* Excluding grants and external interest payments
** Excluding grants and all interest payments
9.    The Government is facing several serious macroeconomic challenges again in
1996. First, fiscal problems again arose in the first two months due to higher than
expected domestic interest charges and the front loading of several spending categories,
including the cost of national elections. Strong spending cuts were made in March to get
the projected fiscal program back in balance, but the IMF postponed the ESAF review
discussions in order to allow the time needed for the adjustment to take effect and to be
able to then base its review on a full half-year performance. Second, the Govermnent is
dealing with the twin challenges of ZCCM, instituting the emergency action plan in order
to turn around short-term operating performance and putting in an action plan for the
urgently needed privatization. Third, bilateral donors are closely monitoring the
Government's actions with respect to macro-economic management, the management and
privatization of ZCCM, and governance. The availability of a steady and sufficient
supply of balance of payments assistance will depend on the Government's performance
in these areas, particularly challenging in an election year.
10.  If these challenges are met, the prospects for renewed economic growth in 1996
are good. The growth in GDP is expected to be 6 to 9 percent in 1996, depending on
performance in agriculture and mining. (Based on plantings and rainfall to date,
preliminary estimates suggest crop production will increase by over 40 percent in 1996.)
The government's domestic balance (comparing domestic revenues without grants to
domestic expenditure without interest on the external debt and donor financed capital
spending) is projected to be in balance or to achieve a small surplus. With strong fiscal
and monetary control and with maize prices projected to decline after May, inflation
should fall to 10 percent (annualized) by end-1996. Revenue is projected to be
maintained at about 16 percent of GDP in 1996, with improvements in tax administration
and some broadening of tax base permitting some lowering of tax rates. The improved
macro environment, resumption in economic growth, and declining domestic debt service
payments will permit larger budget allocations for capital expenditures and social sector



- 5-
spending. (Detailed projections are presented in the Key Indicators Table at Annex C.)
This general macro framework is described in the recent Policy Framework Paper
distributed to the Bank and Fund Boards in December 1995.
11.   A critical ingredient for attaining sustaining growth in the medium-term will be
the rapid expansion of non-copper exports, both because of the need to reduce
dependence on international aid and because export expansion is the most promising
source of increased demand to stimulate the growth process in Zambia. Therefore,
Zambia's prospects for sustainable economic growth in the medium-term will depend on
facilitating expansion in those sectors with good export potential, notably agriculture,
agri-business, and tourism, while sustaining the domestic base in other manufacturing.
Developments in the mining sector will continue to be important in determining
Zambia's prospects for sustainable growth, however, both because of the mining sector's
importance as an exporter and because the large size of the mining sector means it will
continue to be a key determinant of employment, fiscal revenues, and the growth in
demand for domestic goods and services. Restoring health to copper mining will entail
both improving the efficiency of existing mines and attracting large quantities of private
investment to develop new mines. Privatization of ZCCM will be essential to achieving
both of these objectives. Privatization of ZCCM will be neither simple nor easy,
however. This is a large and complicated company with a complex arrangement between
the Government and the major private minority shareholder (Anglo-American). Many
public services in the copperbelt are currently owned and managed by ZCCM. It has also
been the flagship of the economy for a long time, and the process of transferring such a
large and visible part of the economy to private and foreign shareholders will have to be
managed carefully.
12.   Overall, Zambia has the advantages of ample arable land and rainfall, significant
raw materials, and a liberalized, pro-private sector economic environment. However, it
also suffers from the structural imbalances brought on by two decades of economic
mismanagement, and a deteriorating infrastructure and human resource base. As a result,
even with good policies, increasing investment, rapid privatization (including the mines),
and strong donor support, domestic output is projected to grow at only about 4.5 percent
per year over the decade following drought recovery in 1996 and 1997. This will permit
only modest growth in per capita consumption. Accelerated debt relief and forgiveness
could release more resources to be directed towards growth, but sustainable economic
growth and poverty reduction will mainly come about through steady policies and
consistent action over a number of years.I
II. ZAMBIA 'SADJUSTMENTPROGRAM
13.   The aim of Zambia's economic program is to achieve a significant improvement
in the living standard of all Zambians. The Government recognizes that this will depend
l  More details on the opportunities for growth and the policies needed to achieve it are discussed in the
Prospects for Sustainable Growth in Zambia, scheduled for Gray Cover distribution in late June 1995.



-6-
on setting Zambia on a path to sustainable, private sector-led growth. This in turn will
depend on achieving and maintaining a stable macroeconomic environment, moving
Zambia toward long-term external viability, and substantially upgrading the investment in
Zambia's human resources and physical infrastructure.
14.   Zambia has already accomplished most of the liberalization necessary to establish
a sound economic environment for private sector growth and is well along in its efforts to
privatize the parastatals and to redirect government to support private sector growth
through more efficient provision of infrastructure and social services (para. 4). Many of
these reforms were supported by the previous IDA adjustment operations as detailed in
Annex G, including market reforms supported by the Economic Reform Credit (1991);
privatization and business related legislation changes supported by the two Privatization
and Industrial Reform Credits (1992 and 1993); social spending increases, land market
legislation, and the cessation of budgetary outlays for Zambia Airways in the 1994
Economic and Social Adjustment Credit (ESAC); and reforms in mining and social
security and the establishment of a VAT in the 1995 Economic Recovery and Investment
Project (ERIP). As a result, within the fiscal area, most of the policy measures are in
place, and the emphasis is shifting to administrative strengthening in revenue collection
and expenditure management with the support of the IMF and several bilateral donors. In
the financial area, most policy measures have been taken, and the focus is shifting to
initiating a market in term finance and strengthening domestic financial institutions (areas
to be supported by a forthcoming Enterprise Development Credit). Reforms in the
mining sector are being supported under the existing adjustment credit (ERIP), an
existing Mining TA credit, and a recently approved technical assistance operation.
Continuing policy reforms in many key sectors are increasingly being supported under
sector investment programs (SIPs). Health and agriculture SIPs are under
implementation, and roads and education SIPs are being prepared.
15.   The current economic reform program builds on these accomplishments. The
current status of Zambia's economic reform program, along with future actions, is
summarized below under four general headings: a) macroeconomic management; b)
privatization and parastatal management; c) initiatives to foster private sector growth; and
d) investment in human resources and other social sector initiatives.
A. Macroeconomic Management
16.   The domestic fiscal deficit (comparing revenue without grants to expenditure
without external interest and foreign financed capital) has continued to fall since 1992,
and it will be essential to sustain this achievement and to strive for greater efficiencies in
the use of fiscal resources. Over the next three years (1996-98), the Government aims to
achieve a continued decline in the total deficit (comparing revenue inclusive of grants to
expenditures inclusive of foreign debt service and foreign financed capital expenditures),
bringing it down from 2.7 percent in 1995 to a near balance in 1996, and then
maintaining modest surpluses in 1997 and 1998. This will be achieved by pursuing tight
expenditure policies while broadening the tax base and reducing distortions in the tax



- 7-
system. Donor assistance is expected to be sufficient to cover all expected scheduled
external debt service obligations and a large share of capital expenditures. This will
permit the Government to reduce its stock of domestic debt, thereby allowing an
expansion in private sector credit.
17.   The Government's objective is to increase revenue to about 17 percent of GDP in
1997 (and eventually to 18 percent after the year 2000), while at the same time continuing
to reduce distortions in the tax system. The major tax policy change in 1995 was the
introduction of a value-added tax (VAT) on July 1. During 1996 to 1998, policies will be
considered to broaden the tax base and to reduce evasion. The personal income tax will
include non-cash benefits in the base. Most customs duty exemptions, including for
Government purchases, have been eliminated as part of the 1996 Budget. The
Government will continue to strengthen the Zambia Revenue Authority in order to
increase the effective tax yield.
18.   The share of total government expenditure in GDP is projected to drop from 28.7
percent in 1994 to below 20 percent in 1998, primarily because of reductions in interest
payments. The structure of public expenditure is undergoing a fundamental
transformation as Zambia redefines the role of government in light of the previous failed
efforts at government intervention, declining resources, and the deterioration in Zambia's
infrastructure and human resource base. Therefore, despite the overall reduction in the
share of GDP going to government, the real level of expenditure for social services and
infrastructure will increase, in part because of projected economic growth. The
expenditure program will be designed in such a way as to facilitate the implementation of
the Sector Investment Programs (SIPs) and therefore to make more effective use of
external project assistance. The allocations within the social sectors will change in favor
of those activities and operations that most effectively reach the poor, thus building on
actions supported by the 1994 adjustment operation (ESAC). The Government will
continue to improve expenditure management through strict monitoring of expenditure
commitments by ministries and departments. A system is also being put in place which
will make monthly budget releases more predictable, and an action plan to strengthen the
public procurement process is being implemented.
19.   The objectives for monetary policy are to build on the achievements in reducing
inflation and to maintain a stable financial environment conducive to financial deepening.
Inflation is expected to fall below 10 percent by 1997. As macroeconomic stability is
consolidated and the economy recovers, there will be a growth in demand for real
balances, and this should permit real growth in the money supply without re-igniting
inflation.
20.   With import and foreign exchange controls removed (with support from previous
adjustment operations), focus on the external sector is shifting to establishing a viable
long-term balance of payments position. This requires developing the capacity to
withstand external shocks from fluctuations in such variables as the weather and copper
prices, as well as reducing Zambia's dependence on copper receipts and donor assistance



- 8-
through strengthening non-copper exports (for which trade policy reforms discussed in
paras. 40 to 42 below will be important). Building external reserves will be a key
element of this strategy along with the maintenance of a market-determined exchange
rate. Bank of Zambia operations in the exchange market will be aimed at achieving the
desired accumulation of reserves and smoothing sharp short-term fluctuations in the
exchange rate. Reserves will not be used to defend an exchange rate which appears out of
line with market fundamentals and the longer-term goal of external viability.
B. Privatization and Parastatal Management
21.   Zambia is making rapid progress on the privatization program which will
eventually transfer all 160 parastatal companies to private ownership. More than half of
those are scheduled for sale by the end of 1996. As of end March 1996, 40 companies
had been sold or liquidated, and total receipts were at US $43 million. As part of the
program, the Government has enacted a sound legal framework, established a semi-
autonomous privatization agency, and closed the previous parastatal management holding
companies (with support from two IDA adjustment operations and bilateral sources).
Companies, while they are being privatized, have full autonomy on operational matters
and pricing policies, but they are only allowed to undertake emergency rehabilitation or
quick pay-back investments that will be fully funded out of earnings prior to divestiture.
They are not permitted to enter new lines of business, and the Government is not
providing them any financial support. The Government is also moving to reform those
parastatals, mainly the public utilities (such as electric power, telephone, and the oil
pipeline and marketing companies), that will remain in the public sector for the next few
years. These enterprises are to remain autonomous in their pricing policies and
management decisions, and the Government has withdrawn all financial support. The
Government has established regulatory agencies and has concluded negotiating
performance contracts with these utilities. The Government has requested IDA's
continued support for this privatization program to prepare companies, including ZCCM,
for sale. A new IDA credit (ERIP TA) approved by the Board in early June will provide
about US$16 million to support ZPA's activities and the privatization of ZCCM.
22.   Mining remains a critical sector. Private sector capital and management will be
essential to improving efficiency and maintaining production of existing mines and to
replacing these mines with new ones and thus to moving Zambia to a more self-reliant
external position (para. 11). The process of privatizing ZCCM is underway with the
appointment of the Government Mining Privatization Team and the appointment of legal
and merchant banking advisors. (These efforts are a major focus of the current
adjustment operation, ERIP.) A specific action plan to privatize ZCCM, a condition of
Second Tranche Release under ERIP, has been adopted by Government. Rapid progress
in implementing that plan will be essential. In the interim, improving the operating
efficiency and production levels at ZCCM will be a vital determinant of economic
performance in 1996.



- 9-
C. Fostering Private Sector Growth
23.   Zambia's business climate has improved markedly over the past four years in
response to liberalization, deregulation, and the beginnings of privatization, but overall
economic growth has not yet accelerated. In a survey of manufacturing firms as part of
the Bank's Regional Program for Enterprise Development in July and August 1994, very
few firms mentioned government regulations, uncertainty about government policies, or
access to foreign exchange as priority concerns. The problems they did mention most
frequently were access to credit, poor and overpriced infrastructure, and competition from
imports. In particular, the survey revealed that the trade regime was still an obstacle to
potential exporters and to many producers for the domestic market. The Government
addressed these problems by a general reduction in customs duties, coupled with the
removal of most exemptions, as part of the 1996 Budget, including payment of customs
duties by government itself.
24.   There has been considerable progress in reforming Zambia's rmancial system.
Consistent with the policy of relying on the private sector for capital formation and credit
decisions, specialized financial institutions currently owned by the Government are being
privatized or liquidated, and no new budget funds are being provided to them. The
Development Bank of Zambia is being converted to an apex institution to on-lend to the
private sector through commercial banking institutions external funds available on a
concessional basis to the Zambian Government. These initiatives are being supported
under previous adjustment operations and through a proposed Enterprise Development
Project which is was appraised in June 1996. The next steps include further
modernization to the banking legislation, strengthening the income position of the Bank
of Zambia (BOZ), and increasing the capacity of BOZ to supervise the operations of
commercial banks and other financial institutions.
25.  Increased reliance on private markets for the efficient allocation of resources
requires that the Government promote and facilitate the development of deep and well
functioning private markets. Improved supervision of financial institutions is one key
aspect of this. For another, the Government will implement by the end of 1996 all
aspects of the 1995 Land Act, including setting up of the Land Tribunal, in order to
provide an active and efficient market in land already under leasehold, to make unused
land available to new investors, and to provide a quick and fair process for the conversion
of customary land to leasehold status. Similarly, the process of granting legal recognition
to informal urban settlements will be resumed in order to increase the security of
inhabitants and to stimulate new investment. In a related area, Government will begin the
implementation of the National Housing Policy adopted in 1995, including getting
Government, currently a major owner of residential housing, out of the housing business;
working to reduce the legal requirement for the private sector to provide housing to
employees; facilitating the creation of savings co-operatives; and reviewing the
regulations covering housing standards regulations.



- 10-
26.   Since 1991, the Government has introduced several policy changes affecting the
labor market. In 1991, Zambia amended the article in the Employment of Women,
Young Persons and Children Act to allow night work by women in industrial
undertakings, thereby reducing discrimination against women in the labor market. It has
also started a process to repeal the article prohibiting women from working underground
in the mines, the main formal sector employer in Zambia. In 1992, as part of the
privatization program, the Government addressed issues relating to redundancy and
retrenchment in firms subject to privatization, payment of redundancy packages, and
establishing social safety nets, including training in entrepreneurship and business
development. In 1995, it introduced regulations regarding pension funds and selected a
management company to administer the public pension fund. However, there are still
legal issues that inhibit smooth functioning of the labor market. Because of the existence
of several legally mandated fringe benefits and allowances, including the provision of
housing or housing allowances, labor cost in Zambia is relatively high. This has stifled
job creation and restricted the competitiveness of Zambian firms. In addition, laws
hinder the employment of labor for casual work because such employment becomes
permanent, with all the attendant benefits, if it exceeds three days. Where collective
bargaining is the rule for determining wages and other benefits, agreement reached at the
sectoral level applies to all enterprises in the sector, regardless of size and capacity to pay.
To address these problems, the Government has started a process to amend the
Employment and the Industrial and Labor Relations Acts.
27.   Infrastructural weaknesses have become a major deterrent to private sector
growth and investment in Zambia. Zambia has a fairly extensive trunk road network, but
maintenance has been poor, and the smaller feeder roads are in particularly bad shape. To
address this issue, the Government has launched a major program to rehabilitate the road
system. A Task Force on Maintenance and Rehabilitation, established in 1992 as a stop
gap measure, has succeeded in focusing attention on road rehabilitation throughout the
country. Public spending is being allocated to avoid further deterioration and to improve
those components of the road network shown to be economically justifiable. The
Government has also adopted a sustainable long-term roads financing plan based on
increased contributions from road users and has set up a Roads Fund. The National
Roads Board, with members from the private sector, administers these funds and sets the
priorities for road maintenance. As part of the 1995 Budget, the Fuel Levy was increased
to K30 per liter to help finance the Roads Fund, and this has been increased to K40 (about
3 US cents) in 1996. To support the Government in these reforms, a Road Sector
Investment Program, supported by IDA and several other donors, is under preparation.
28.   Zambia's geographic isolation and long-standing inward orientation have
inhibited the country's ability to integrate in new ways into the international economy.
Information gaps, plus other weaknesses in specific key markets, argue for prudent public
sector initiatives to facilitate private sector development in Zambia. However, it is
essential that these approaches be driven by private sector demand, as free as possible
from political interference, and modest in their administrative requirements. Within the
Ministry of Agriculture, the emphasis will be on research and extension, feeder roads, and



- 11-
a new Rural Development Fund designed to help finance new investments for small-
holders (all supported by aid partners as part of the Agricultural Sector Investment
Program). Some other specific options which are being explored are: programs to
accelerate private participation in agricultural marketing; initiatives to encourage out-
grower operations by agri-business and commercial farmers; matching grant programs to
encourage upgrading by industrial firms; consolidation of existing agencies whose
purpose is to support private sector development (e.g., combining the Export Board of
Zambia and the Zambia Investment Center); and the provision of term finance (at market
rates of interest), with the funds retailed through commercial banks via an apex
institution.
D. Investing in Human Resources and other Social Services
29.  Improving the delivery of social services has a positive impact not only on
people's current standard of living, but also on their ability to contribute to long-term
growth. The Government's objective is to reverse the decline of the past 15-20 years in
the delivery of social services and thus to achieve this double impact. However, the
Government's ability to do so has been constrained by unclear policies, shrinking
financial resources, and poor institutional mechanisms. Newer and clearer policy
directions are now required -- in part in order to match the profound changes taking place
in the country's economy. The Government has begun to formulate the necessary
policies and guidelines in these areas and to put in place the required mechanisms. This
work is being supported in part under the Health Sector Investment Program. A similar
program is under preparation for the education sector.
30.   Overall budget provision to the social sectors is improving, although still not
adequate. Increased resources for the social sectors will not achieve the desired objective,
however, if the institutions delivering social services are weak and inefficient. Many of
these institutions require increased administrative capacity. The Governnent has begun
addressing this issue through the Public Service Reform Program and through
decentralization in some ministries. Sector investment operations are being developed in
key sectors both to coordinate donor assistance more effectively and to focus internal and
external support on building strong and effective domestic institutions capable of
delivering vital public services. Technical assistance is being provided to the Public
Sector Reform Program, mostly from bilateral sources. Once the Government's plans are
firmed up, additional IDA assistance could be made available.
31.   The Government has made remarkable achievements in mitigating the adverse
impacts of a series of droughts since 1992 and has initiated several social safety net
programs addressing the needs of vulnerable groups and those exposed to adverse
economic shocks. In the future, the Government will concentrate on: (i) sustaining the
process of devolution of program design and implementation to local community-based
groups; (ii) increasing the financial and technical support to existing programs; (iii)
expanding labor-based infrastructure maintenance in urban and rural areas; and (iv)
reforming the Public Welfare Assistance Scheme to gain greater community and non-



- 12-
Governmental involvement. The Ministries of Community Development and Social
Services, Health, and Education are working together to introduce health and education
cost support for children coming from poor households.
E. Poverty Reduction and Alleviation
32.   The most powerful mechanism for the reduction of poverty in the long-term
continues to be achieving broad-based economic growth. Consequently, there is a need
to foster economic growth generally while at the same time addressing poverty reduction
objectives whenever possible. Zambia's development strategy will thus emphasize
adopting a growth and macroeconomic strategy that includes expanded opportunities for
all income levels and facilitates the poor's response to those reforms, with a particular
emphasis on investing in human resources and improving safety net programs.
33.   Some of the specific elements of this pro-poor growth strategy are: (i)
improving the real returns to agriculture by sustaining terms of trade improvement; (ii)
ensuring better market access for small farmers by improving market information systems
and accelerating the feeder roads program; (iii) improving agricultural productivity by
reducing women's time constraint (e.g., by improving their access to clean water); (iv)
facilitating the linkage between the commercial and emergent farming sector and the
smallholder sector through out-grower schemes and better focused research and extension
programs; (v) promoting labor-based public works in road maintenance and
rehabilitation; and (vi) improving beneficiary participation in program design and
implementation (as was done in the development of the urban water supply project and
the health and agriculture investment operations). Investing in human resources by
providing more adequate and reliable social services, as discussed above, will contribute
to Zambia's long-term prospects for growth and will also immediately improve the
quality of life for recipients. Zambia can improve social services primarily by putting
sound policies, sufficient funding, and appropriate delivery mechanisms in place. A
Poverty Alleviation Task Force has been established to improve the coordination and
implementation of poverty-related activities and to act as an infornation resource center.
F. Medium Term Prospects and Financing Plan
34.   One of the most challenging aspects of Zambia's economic reform program is to
establish a viable and self-reliant balance of payments that is compatible with Zambia
meeting its external obligations and achieving modest economic growth. This is
particularly difficult because Zambia faces both a deteriorating current account deficit
due to the limited short-term prospects for copper exports as well as an exceptional level
of external debt, nearly half of which is multilateral. Mining exports (which account for
about 85 percent of Zambia's total exports) are likely to be lower in real terms (i.e., in
terms of the ability to purchase imports) in the year 2000 than they are now, even with
good policy implementation and successful privatization (although copper exports could
recover after 2005 with sufficient new investment). Thus, even with maximum efforts to
expand other exports and to limit the growth in the demand for imports, modest levels of



- 13-
economic growth will mean an increase in the current account deficit during the coming
decade. At the same time, Zambia's external debt of nearly twice annual GDP will
require substantial payments even with successful negotiations with creditors. Zambia is
a severely indebted low income country and a prime candidate for exceptional debt relief
both to provide more resources to growth and to reduce Zambia's excessive reliance on
external assistance. Thus achieving both economic growth and an eventual movement
towards greater self-reliance will require extraordinary levels of donor grant assistance
and debt forgiveness for some considerable time, which will in turn require a particularly
close partnership with the international community.
35.   Zambia's external financing needs for 1996 were discussed at the Consultative
Group (CG) Meeting held in Bournemouth, U.K. in December 1995. The need for
balance of payments assistance in 1996 was estimated to be about US$450 million, less
whatever rescheduling assistance Zambia might receive from the Paris Club. Based on
preliminary indications of carry-over and possible new assistance, the meeting concluded
that Zambia's external financing needs could be met in 1996, provided policy
performance was sound. In particular, new donor assistance was quite clearly and
strongly predicated on good governance performance as well as sound economic policies.
Those concerns were reiterated at an informal donors meeting in Paris on April 19, 1996.
Improvements in the performance of ZCCM, a fair and open election process, and
vigorous actions to combat corruption are considered to be key actions by the
international aid community. Recent decisions by the Government, most particularly the
adoption of constitutional changes that would prohibit the previous President from
contesting this year's elections, have resulted in the withholding of most bilateral balance
of payments assistance. In the short-term, the program can be maintained with existing
resources, but a positive relationship with the bilateral donors will need to be
reestablished if the continuing financial requirements of the program are to be met.
III THE PROPOSED CREDIT
36.   This proposed Credit would be the sixth adjustment operation for Zambia in the
past six years. Zambia's economic reform program is mature and well advanced. As a
result, many key reforms have been accomplished, and many are being supported by
other investment and adjustment operations. The emphasis now is on consolidation and
implementation of these reformns. The central theme of the proposed operation is the
reduction of poverty through widely-shared economic growth and the alleviation of
poverty through enhanced delivery of social services. It will follow up on many of the
elements supported in the (first) Economic and Social Adjustment Credit (1994). It will
explicitly support important actions in three of the four parts of Zambia's Adjustment
Program described above -- macroeconomic management, fostering private sector
growth, and investing in human resources and other social services. The fourth,
privatization and parastatal management, has been supported by previous adjustment
operations (PIRCs in 1992 and 1993 and ERIP in 1995) and by technical assistance
credits. Within this credit, maintaining fiscal balance and strengthening procurement
policy are key aspects of macroeconomic management. Actions to directly support



- 14-
private sector growth include tariff reform, implementing the Land Act of 1995, and early
steps in regularizing informal urban settlements and reforming labor market policy.
Finally, support for ongoing human resource and other social sector initiatives will
involve improving the allocation of budget resources to and within these sectors and
clarifying and implementing sound policies. These elements were chosen to complement
ongoing efforts; their inclusion is intended to clarify policy directions and/or accelerate
implementation of key policy changes.
A. Macroeconomic Management
37.   The overall objective in this area is to maintain a stable macroeconomic
environment. The specific fiscal and monetary targets for 1996 were developed in the
context of the ESAF-supported program (approved by the IMF last December).
However, a Fund mission in February was unable to complete discussions concerning the
mid-term review of the ESAF arrangements. Following that mission, policy adjustments
were made, and preliminary indications are that policy performance strengthened
considerably in March. A mission visited Lusaka in late April to complete the Article IV
discussions and to take stock of the macroeconomic situation. The Article IV
consultation is expected to be reviewed by the IMF Board in early July. Given
satisfactory performance against revised targets, the mid-term ESAF review should be
concluded early in the second half of the year. Continued satisfactory implementation of
an acceptable macroeconomic framework will be essential for Second Tranche Release.
38.   Within necessarily tight fiscal limits, it is particularly important that money be
well spent. This has two aspects. First, the distribution of actual disbursements both to
and within sectors should reflect the government's development priorities. The particular
targets for the social sectors are discussed below and in Annex A of the Letter of
Development Policy. Second, it is essential that the process for spending these monies be
open, transparent, and accountable in order to achieve maximum value for money. In that
regard, strengthening the public procurement process is an increasingly pressing
priority. This strengthening is important both to get more and better public services for a
given level of spending and to ensure that local producers understand they are to compete
solely on the basis of price and quality. This strengthening will also reassure donors that
their assistance is being used as carefully as possible and for the purposes intended. As
part of that program, the Government has initiated through the Zambia National Tender
Board (ZNTB) a consultation process with the major clients and users of public
procurement in Zambia to discuss how best to improve timeliness, transparency, and
accountability. The Government has also adopted a time-bound action plan covering
both the short-term (1996) and longer-term agenda for strengthening the process of public
procurement. This includes decentralizing the implementation of public procurement to
individual ministries and local governments as quickly as possible, training and
institutional strengthening for both ZNTB and the Ministerial Procurement Units
(MPUs), and providing stronger and more effective oversight of important procurement
decisions. Satisfactory implementation of those portions of the plan scheduled for
completion in 1996 will be a condition of Second Tranche Release.



- 15-
B. Fostering Private Sector Growth
39.   Continued progress on privatization will be an important component of the
Government's program. In particular, the privatization of ZCCM will be essential both
to improve management of existing mines and to attract the capital needed to exploit new
opportunities. The action plan recently adopted by the Government presents a credible
strategy for rapid privatization of ZCCM while pursuing the most promising new venture,
Konkola Deep, as a separate private sector-directed project. Satisfactory progress in
implementing that action plan will be a condition of Second Tranche Release.
40.  In spite of the abolition of import controls and a substantial reduction in the top
customs duty rates since 1991, Zambia's trade regime at the end of 1995 still made it
difficult for non-traditional exporters, and for many import competing enterprises, to be
competitive. Many basic materials, capital goods (other than those exempt as part of
incentives granted on a project-by-project basis by the Investment Center) and
intermediate goods faced customs duties of 20 and 30 percent when sourced outside
COMESA (Common Market for East and Southern Africa). This made it very difficult
for exporters that use a large amount of imported materials or intermediate goods to be
competitive. An export duty drawback system can never provide fully effective relief
from the costs of taxes on inputs. Even if it did provide a timely cash refund (or an
effective duty exemption system was implemented for exporters), exporters would still be
indirectly disadvantaged by the impact of customs protection on the equilibrium
exchange rate. At the same time, many import substituting activities had lower nominal
protection on their outputs (because of exemptions, smuggling, and the 60 percent
concession on COMESA imports) than the customs duty rates paid on inputs.
41.   To address these difficulties, an integrated package of customs duty reductions
and the removal of most exemptions was implemented with the 1996 Budget. This
package was the result of a review by policy makers in Zambia, with inputs from the
private sector, tax administrators (the Zambia Revenue Authority), and Bank and IMF
staff. The package was designed with political economy and administrative feasibility
issues taken into account. As part of this package, the Government has reduced customs
tariffs on most goods by 15 percent (resulting in a tariff structure ranging from 0 to 5
percent for most capital goods and basic materials, 15 percent for intermediate goods, and
25 percent for final products). This will provide exporters with access to inputs at near-
world market prices without recourse to duty drawbacks and thereby strengthen their
competitiveness. The alternative of a flat customs duty was considered, but for it to be
low enough to resist pressures for widespread exemptions, it would not have yielded
sufficient revenue. It would effectively have become a two-tiered structure -- 0 and 15 to
20 percent -- with the revenue impact of the higher rates continually in danger of further
erosion from smuggling and more exemptions. Moreover, exporters would still not be
able to get relief, and import substitution activities that face competition from COMESA-
sourced, duty exempt, or smuggled goods would also still be at a disadvantage.



- 16-
42.   Revenue will be maintained by significantly eliminating existing tariff
exemptions and by keeping the 5 percent import declaration fee in place for 1996. A
review of customs duty exemptions was undertaken with the view to removing as many
exemptions as possible without violating international agreements. As a result, the
Government will pay duty on its imports, there will be no more investment exemptions
(and existing ones will be allowed to lapse), goods imported by returning residents will
not be exempt unless they have been abroad for 5 years (and cars will not be exempt even
then), duty exempt cars (e.g. from diplomats) will not be resold to non-exempt persons
without paying duty and charities will pay duty and get a refund (to contain abuse). Ad
hoc exemptions provided in 1995 will be allowed to lapse, and custom duty exemptions
and refunds will be limited to exporters, miners (under S169 of 1996), firms that can
prove damage from tariff anomalies (under S123 of 1994), and approved providers of
health, education, and humanitarian services. No new exemptions will be provided in
1996 (except for time bound commodity specific relief to address national emergencies)
as a condition of Second Tranche Release. The Government will also continue to ensure
that the Zambia Revenue Authority has the resources necessary to provide duty drawback
credits in a timely manner.
43.   Transferring land under leasehold in Zambia has long been hampered by
outmnoded legislation and slow processing, and the process for converting customary land
into leasehold has not been well defined. The Parliament of Zambia passed legislation in
1995 (the 1995 Lands Act), and the focus is now on implementing that legislation and
improving administrative performance within the Ministry of Lands. Timely
implementation of the Act is important to make land available to new investors and to
permit existing farmers to convert more easily to leasehold status while protecting those
currently under customary tenure.
44.   The Government has prepared drafts of rules and regulations for the
implementation of the Lands Act of 1995, including the Land Development Fund, the
Lands Tribunal and Administration. The Land Development Fund is intended to enable
the Ministry of Lands and local Councils to improve infrastructure, such as feeder roads,
which is needed to facilitate the development of land not yet under cultivation in
instances of clearly identified market failure. The Lands Tribunal is a specialized roving
court to which any grievance concerning land, including grievances against the
administrative authorities, may be brought for redress. The "administration" section of
the regulations covers various definitional and procedural aspects of the Lands Act. The
Ministry has simplified and streamlined the procedures involved in the conversion of land
from customary tenure to leasehold. These revised procedures were issued as a Land
Circular dated April 12, 1996. The Ministry has undertaken to make substantial progress
in implementing all aspects of the Lands Act of 1995 by the end of 1996 as a condition of
Second Tranche Release. This will include the appointment of members and the first
sitting of the Lands Tribunal to adopt internal operating procedures.
45.   The Government has recognized that slow processing of land transfers and
applications for conversion from customary land to leasehold is stifling the market and



- 17-
hampering the development of the private sector. In order to improve its operating
efficiency, the Ministry of Lands has undertaken to obtain objective measures of its
performance, and to set targets for improvement. To this end, the Ministry of Lands
executed a baseline survey of its administrative performance. On the basis of the survey,
the Ministry of Lands has developed a set of performance objectives which it wishes to
accomplish in 1996, including shortening the mean time lapses in the lease issuance
process and reducing the backlog in processing numbered properties. Achieving these
improvements in efficiency will serve as a condition for the Second Tranche Release.
Monitoring of these objectives during 1996 will be done through regularly revisiting the
baseline survey. The Ministry will also design a more comprehensive statistical reporting
system for monitoring its progress in forthcoming years.
46.   Zambia has long had a tradition of employer-provided housing and other
mandated fringe benefits. As a result, the Government is the largest landholder in
Zambia, and the requirements for tied housing impede labor mobility and discourage the
development of private housing. The Ministry of Local Government has prepared, and
Cabinet has approved, a National Housing Policy document which states, among other
things, that the Government intends ultimately to divest itself of its tied housing in order
to promote the private housing sector. To this end, the Ministry of Local Government
and Housing, together with the Ministry of Works and Supply, will establish the
modalities for the disposal of the housing stock in 1996. The Ministry intends to
undertake a study of the regulatory framework governing housing, including building
codes and health regulations, in order to make them appropriate for a large subset of
urban housing. These policies are reflected in the Letter of Development Policy.
47.  In 1980, 58 percent of Lusaka residents lived in urban settlements considered as
"informal", i.e., without formal title available to the inhabitants. These settlements are
classified as either squatter, upgrading, or site and service. By 1990, this number had
increased to 70 percent. There are two broad categories of informal settlements: those
which are illegal because they have not been "recognized" by the local city council, and
those which have been "recognized" but which have not yet been "declared", that is, duly
surveyed, numbered and approved by the Ministry of Local Government and Housing.
Only after "declaration" may formal title be issued to property owners. The
"unrecognized" communities could potentially be subjected to removal. Due to this
uncertainty, very few residents in such areas have access to vital services such as water,
electricity and roads. Nevertheless these "unrecognized" settlements are long-standing
and permanent in nature. The communities which have been "recognized" but not
declared may stay put, and they frequently do receive services from the Lusaka City
Council, donors and NGOs, but the lack of formal title prevents them from obtaining
bank loans to improve their properties. Full legalization, i.e., "recognition" followed by
"declaration", would provide a powerful impetus for economic growth and would
significantly improve the living conditions of thousands of middle- and lower-income
Zambians without substantial public outlays.



- 18-
48.   Accordingly, an action plan has been adopted with specific goals for 1996 and
beyond, and the Government has undertaken to take all actions in its power to move
forward with the process of recognition and declaration of informal urban settlements as a
condition of the Second Tranche Release.
49.   In the area of labor regulation, the conclusions of the Tripartite Council
(comprising Government, employer, and union representatives) on labor legislation
(particularly on reducing the legal requirements for private employers to provide housing)
have been reflected in the revised Employment Act submitted to the Cabinet Legislation
Committee in April 1996, and the revised Industrial and Labor Relations Act will be
submitted to the same Committee later in the year as a condition of Second Tranche
Release of the proposed credit. The amendment of the Employment Act will repeal the
article relating to the provision of housing or housing allowance by the employer (thereby
making the labor law consistent with the National Housing Policy) and will relax the
definition of casual labor in order to accommodate the short, intermittent and
geographically shifting demand for labor by such industries as construction. These
changes will reduce the housing related cost and improve the absorption of labor in the
economy. The amendments to the Industrial and Labor Relations Act will enable each
enterprise to have separate collective bargaining, as opposed to the sector-wide
bargaining mandated by current law, so that labor benefits will be commensurate with the
capacity of each enterprise to pay thus facilitating market entry.
C. Investing in Human Resources and Other Social Services
50.   Budget allocations to the social sectors will continue to be an important part of
the Government's economic reform program. The overall budget provisions to the social
sectors, and particularly the specific allocations to key areas within those sectors, are still
inadequate. Despite some increases in the percentage allocations to these areas, the
delivery of some key services has continued to deteriorate as a result of shrinking total
revenues. The Government wishes to halt this deterioration and to begin increasing the
level and quality of social services. In order to do so, it identified and singled out several
critical inputs necessary for the delivery of these services and increased the budget
allocations made to them for 1994 and 1995. However, disappointing revenue
collections, as well as over-runs in non-priority areas and inadequate budget release
practices, prevented the Government from disbursing the allocated funds as planned.
New ways are being sought to protect, and gradually to increase, public spending for
critical inputs and services. As a start, the Government has retained the overall share of
the social sectors in the national budget in 1996. Moreover, it has protected, and in some
cases increased, the allocation to priority areas such as drugs and the recurrent costs of
running district clinics in the Ministry of Health, books and study materials in the
Ministry of Education, chemicals for the treatment of water in the Ministry of Local
Govermment and Housing, program funds in the National Food and Nutrition
Commission, and counterpart funds which are necessary to sustain key donor-funded
projects. The Government has also prepared a policy statement on the operation of the
Cash Budget with a set of clear, transparent guidelines for budget releases. During the



- 19-
year, it will release funds in accordance with the authorized budget and with these
guidelines. Government spending in the social sector in 1996 will be at least 34 percent
of non-interest domestic expenditure, and proposed expenditure levels for specific social
sector categories are specified in the Letter of Development Policy. Actual
disbursements are being monitored on an on-going basis and will be reviewed by IDA
prior to Second Tranche Release. This will ensure that the percentage shares for health,
education, water and sanitation sectors, and social safety nets set out in the budget will be
maintained and that the absolute amounts allocated for the small but critical inputs to
service delivery (such as drugs) as set out in Annex A of the Letter of Development
Policy will be fully disbursed.
51.   The improved delivery of social services depends also on clear policies and
specific plans for implementation. Three areas of policy are of particular concern in this
operation. First, the Ministry of Health needs a national policy on drugs, which will
clarify its objectives with respect to the provision of drugs and its strategies regarding
drug procurement. The present inefficiencies in the procurement, distribution, and use of
drugs in Zambia must be addressed quickly if the broader health sector reforms are to
succeed. To that end, the Ministry has started working on a National Drug Policy in the
context of its Health Sector program. Second, the institutions in the area of nutrition are
fragmented, weak, and grossly under-funded, and the Government lacks a clear national
policy on nutrition. Third, the Government has recently made some effective use of
NGOs in the provision of public services, but the relationship has been difficult at times.
In order to improve this relationship and to make better use of NGOs, particularly in the
provision of welfare and safety net programs, the Government has initiated a series of
activities to formulate a policy statement with respect to their role. Several aid
organizations that are particularly interested in increasing the delivery of social services
through NGOs have agreed to provide technical and financial support for a participatory
policy formulation effort between the Government and the NGOs. Completing the
nutrition study and adopting suitable policy recommendations in these three areas will be
a condition of Second Tranche Release.
52.   The Government is dealing with other important social issues, formulating not
only policies and strategies, but also detailed implementation plans. One example refers
to the inability of very poor families to pay school fees and medical care fees. The
Ministries of Education and Health have formulated policies to ensure that these poor
families are not denied access to education and health services. These policies are to be
implemented by the ministry of Community Development and Social Services through its
Public Welfare Assistance Scheme. However, the policies are not operational yet
because of the lack of targeting guidelines and implementation mechanisms. Both the
guidelines and the mechanisms will be introduced this year. Work has already started on
the development of a Vulnerability Profile which will serve as the basis for the
formulation of the targeting guidelines. Another example refers to difficulties
experienced by the Ministry of Education in controlling the number of trained and
untrained teachers in its employ, and containing and budgeting adequately for personal
emoluments. The Ministry has formulated a strategy consisting of a better collection and



- 20-
maintenance of teachers records, stricter monitoring of the establishment register, the use
of pupil-to-teacher norms in the creation of new posts, and several other measures. This
strategy will be implemented in 1996. Government's current and planned actions in these
areas are indicated in the Letter of Development Policy.
D. Poverty Impact
53.   This Credit will improve the prospects of the poor in Zambia by supporting the
Government in its effort to stay the course on economic policy, including the provision of
funds for human resource investment and other social services. With stable policies and
good rain, it is expected that economic output will increase sharply in 1996 (after two
successive years of decline) thus expanding real income and employment opportunities.
Continued success against inflation will also tend to benefit the poorer groups. The
improved tariff regime will benefit exporters who tend to be more labor intensive.
Regularizing informal urban settlements will greatly improve the security of many of the
urban poor and will further expand employment opportunities in the construction area.
However, there are also areas of concern. For example, unless carefully handled and
closely monitored, the acceleration of the conversion of customary land to leasehold
could result in the loss of land rights by smallholders, as influential individuals living
under customary tenure extend their boundaries, proceed to obtain leasehold tenure, and
possibly sell the leasehold to prospective developers. The effective implementation of
the Land Act, particularly the Land Tribunal, is intended to safeguard against this
possible loss of rights by smallholders. As with the two previous adjustment credits,
client surveys will be used to monitor some of the specific impact of this program upon
the poor. Poverty monitoring surveys were taken in December 1994 and 1995, and a
similar one is planned for December 1996. In addition, a monitoring system to measure
progress in meeting the Government's internal goals in these areas will be set up (as
mentioned above in the case of the Ministry of Lands), and the Ministry of Finance will
collect and report on these results as part of its reporting to the Bank under this Credit.
54.   In the social sectors, some proposed measures will have a direct impact on
poverty whereas others will affect living standards more indirectly. Measures aimed at
increasing budget provisions to the social sectors will impact poverty directly. Increases
in the Ministry of Health's allocation to drugs and related targets for health expenditures
in rural districts will directly increase the availability of basic and supplementary drugs at
district hospitals and clinics. Increases in the allocation to the Public Welfare Assistance
Scheme in the Ministry of Community Development will allow a larger number of people
to receive needed care in local clinics and will also reduce the number of children who do
not go to school due to inability to pay school fees. Finally, policy and institutional
reforms in the social sectors will help the Government to create an institutional
environment where the poor can be helped more effectively, but it may be some time
before the impact of those improved services can be measured.



- 21-
E. Environmental Impact
55.   Addressing the issues related to the environment has been a vital part of Zambia's
economic reform program. The Government completed a National Environmental Action
Plan and is now preparing an environmental support program for possible IDA financing.
This proposed credit does not have an environmental focus, but most of the specific
effects should be positive. For example, making the market for land more orderly and
efficient and regularizing informal urban settlements should increase the incentives of
current tenants to conserve the land's value and will facilitate delivery of clean water and
sanitation services. The primary environmental concerns arise fundamentally from the
broader economic growth this Credit is intended to promote. In particular, increased land
tenure security would encourage greater production in the agricultural sector and have
implications for soil erosion and water management. Tariff reform and the ZCCM
privatization should encourage new investments in manufacturing and mining which
could have significant environmental impact if appropriate environmental impact
assessments are not carried out and pollution regulations are not in place and in force.
These issues are being addressed in the context of the development of an environmental
support program.
F. SpeciflcAgreements
56.   A summary of the specific conditions for Second Tranche Release under the
proposed ESAC II is presented below and in Annex E. All of these are expected to be
met by early 1997. Specifying clearly the precise definition of satisfactory performance in
several key areas over the year should help the Government to monitor their program
during 1996 and should reduce uncertainty as to the requirements for continued
assistance. To this end, the criteria that will be used in evaluating these tranche release
conditions have been spelled out in the Letter of Development Policy and in some cases
amplified in the Minutes of Negotiation.
57.   Release of the Second Tranche will require maintenance of a satisfactory
macroeconomic environment, satisfactory performance in implementing the overall
program as described in the Letter of Development Policy, and the following proposed
specific conditions:
(a)   The Government will have completed those portions of the Public
Procurement Action Plan scheduled for completion in 1996 (para. 38);
(b)   The Government will have made satisfactory progress in carrying out the
action plan for the privatization of ZCCM (para. 39).
(c)   The Government has maintained its policy of limiting new customs duty
exceptions to time bound, commodity specific relief to address national
emergencies (paras. 40-42);



- 22-
(d)   The government will have taken all necessary actions to implement the
Land Act, No. 29 of 1995, including appointing of members and holding
the first sitting of the Lands Tribunal to adopt its internal operating
procedures as provided for in Part IV, Section 23 (2) of the Lands Act of
1995 (para. 44);
(e)   The government will have increased its efficiency in the processing of
leasehold applications, including shortening the mean time lapses in the
lease issuance process and reducing the backlog in processing numbered
properties (para. 45);
(f)   The government will have taken all actions in its power to foster and
promote regularization of informal urban settlements, as described in the
Letter of Development Policy (para. 47-48);
(g)   The Government will have presented draft amendments to the Industrial
and Labor Relations Act to the Cabinet Legislation Committee that will
allow collective bargaining at the enterprise level (para. 49);
(h)   The Government spending in the social sectors in 1996 will be at least 34
percent of non-interest domestic expenditure, and the expenditure levels
for specific categories of the social sectors, as provided in Annex A of the
Letter of Development Policy, will have been met (para. 50);
(i)   The Government will have continued to make progress in strengthening
policies in the social sectors (Para. 51). In particular, Government will
have:
(i)   adopted a comprehensive national drug policy which addresses the
issues listed in paragraph 69 in the Letter of Development Policy;
(ii)  completed a study on the National Commission for Food and
Nutrition as outlined in the Letter of Development Policy and,
based on this study, made decisions with respect to the role,
management, and funding of the Commission; and
(iii)  based on consultations with NGOs, adopted a policy document on
improving collaboration with NGOs.
G. Implementation Arrangements
58.   The proposed Credit of US$90 million will assist Zambia in meeting its external
financing requirements during the second half of 1996 and in 1997. The Credit will be
disbursed through the Bank of Zambia. Disbursement will be in two tranches. The first
tranche in an amount of US$45 million will be released at effectiveness; the remaining
US$45 million will be released when the conditions of Second Tranche release are



- 23-
satisfied, which is expected to be about January 1997. Simplified Disbursement
Procedures under Adjustment Credits will apply. The Borrower will open an account in
the Central Bank. Upon IDA notification of tranche release for each tranche, proceeds of
the credit will be deposited by IDA in this account at the request of the Borrower. If after
deposits in this account, the proceeds of the credit are used for ineligible purposes (to
finance items imported from non-member countries, or goods or services in the standard
negative list), IDA will require the borrower to either (a) return that amount to the
account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to IDA, in which
case IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of credit. Although routine audit
of the account will not be required, IDA reserves the right to require it. As has been
successful with previous adjustment operations, the Ministry of Finance will be
responsible for the overall implementation and monitoring of reforms supported by
ESAC II. This will involve continuing the monitoring and implementation unit already
established, and revising its terms of reference accordingly.
59.   Because of the links between the various components of the economic reform
program being supported by the proposed Credit and the issues of poverty, income
growth, and welfare improvement, it will be important for both the Bank and the
Government to focus closely on the effectiveness of these programs and the impact that
they are having on the intended beneficiaries, particularly the poor in Zambia. The
ongoing poverty monitoring surveys discussed in paragraph 53, the surveys of Zambian
enterprises being undertaken under the Regional Project for Enterprise Development
(RPED), and additional monitoring mechanisms currently being established (e.g. that by
the Ministry of Lands) are all part of this continuous assessment. These surveys have
been and will continue to be supplemented by mission visits to enterprises and
discussions with associations representing the private sector. In order to define the
baseline from which the impact of the reforms can be measured, a survey will be
undertaken to define on a sample basis the baseline status of the major target groups
affected by the ESAC II program. In addition to this survey-based monitoring, the
overall impact of this operation will be measured through a small set of key performance
indicators. (See Annex H for more details.) The particular performance indicators to be
maintained as part of the implementation of this project will include: a) budget
allocations to the social sectors; b) non-traditional exports; c) inflation and real interest
rates; and d) the efficiency of processing land transactions.
H. Implementation Assistance
60.   Administrative capacity remains a constraint on the ability of the Zambian
Government to achieve the objectives of its economic recovery program. The Bank has
been assisting the Government's efforts to upgrade this capacity while also being mindful
that the direction of this program must remain firmly in Zambian hands. Several Bank
projects are directed primarily at capacity building, including the Financial and Legal
Management Upgrading Project (which includes administrative strengthening of public
procurement), the Privatization and Industrial Reform Technical Assistance Project, the
Transport Engineering Project and the recent Economic Recovery and Investment



- 24-
Promotion Technical Assistance Project. All investment projects have major components
addressing capacity issues, particularly the sector investment operations in health and
agriculture (and under preparation in roads and education). Considerable use has also
been made of the Implementation Development Fund in building capacity in advance of
project investments.
I. Cofinancing
61.   Donors will continually be made aware of the subject matter and timing of this
operation in case any would like to co-finance, but the indications from the most recent
CG meeting were that donors would be making their own arrangements for balance of
payments assistance.
J. Program Benefits and Risk
62.   The main benefits of this Credit will be increased economic growth, employment,
and poverty reduction arising from a more competitive private sector (trade and land
market reforms), a more efficient public sector (improved budget allocations and
procurement reforms), sustained human resource investments, and more effective safety
net provisions. These changes should not only increase income and employment
opportunities for all groups, they should also lead to increased private savings and
investment and expanded non-mining exports in order to increase Zambia's prospects for
self reliance and to increased investment in human resources in order to increase
Zambia's prospects for sustainable, longer-term economic growth. Most of the risks are
due to factors external to the specific reforms supported by this Credit. First, there is
always the risk in Zambia of major external shocks, particularly a major drop in copper
revenues or another serious drought. Therefore, policies to improve the efficiency of
ZCCM, to expand non-mining exports, and to diversify the agricultural sector into more
drought-resistant crops are all vital to the long-term success of Zambia's program. More
immediately, there is the prospect that deteriorating policy performance in an election
year coupled with donor disaffection over issues of political governance could result in a
break or a significant drop in external support that could threaten the economic recovery.
Economic and political developments will be closely monitored, and the Bank and the
other CG members will maintain an active dialogue throughout the year.
IV. BANK OPERATIONS
63.   The Bank's 1994 Poverty Assessment (PA), prepared with significant donor and
Government involvement, provides a focus for Zambia's development objectives and
frames the priorities of the Bank's assistance strategy for Zambia. The Bank is pursuing
a three-pronged strategy to assist the Government in implementing the PA's action plan
in Zambia: creating a stable macroeconomic environment favorable to growth; promoting
private sector development and greater public sector efficiency; and targeting assistance
to poor and vulnerable groups. Under the first prong of this strategy, Zambia has
achieved some notable successes, and on balance, seems to have emerged from the most



- 25-
difficult first stages of its economic transition. Yet Zambia's high debt burden and
limited prospects for copper exports in the short term means that continued reform and
balance of payments support will be needed for the next decade if economic growth is to
be achieved. Under the second prong, past reforms have resulted in the economy being
now among the most liberal in Africa. IDA is supporting activities through specific
investment projects and sector investment operations (SIPs) to improve public sector
efficiency and is helping to increase the private sector's role in the economy through
continued support for the privatization program and through new initiatives aimed at
providing enterprises with the information, technology, and term finance to adapt to the
new business environment. In addition, IDA anticipates assisting the Government to
arrest environmental deterioration and to put in place an effective environmental
management system as a prerequisite of growth in Zambia.
64.   To help target assistance to poor and vulnerable groups (the third prong of the
strategy), stabilization and budget control conditions supported by IDA adjustment
lending include protection of core expenditure items which provide services to the poor.
Similarly, the Bank's investment lending emphasizes supporting community-based
development initiatives, integrating growth and poverty reducing activities better within
sectors, improving the delivery of services to the poor, and linking poverty reducing
activities across sectors.
65.   The Bank's program in Zambia includes adjustment lending, investment lending,
economic and sector work, and aid coordination. Yearly Bank adjustment operations
have been aimed at strengthening macroeconomic stabilization and market liberalization,
supporting privatization and parastatal reform, reducing structural constraints on the
delivery of social services, and strengthening the social safety net. In addition, IDA
supports fifteen investment operations in agriculture, health, education, urban water and
sanitation, and social recovery, and in technical assistance in mining, the petroleum
sector, transport engineering, privatization and financial and legal reform. The Bank is
now shifting its investment lending towards SIPs, whose aim is to increase public
efficiency by avoiding the overlap, inconsistency, and administrative overload associated
with a large number of separate donor-funded projects within each sector. As umbrella
operations in which the Government takes the lead, SIPs are expected to promote
dynamic growth both broadly, through improving the efficiency of service delivery
within the sector, and in a targeted way, by financing pilot projects with a more
immediate impact on the poor. They also provide long-term capacity building within the
sector. SIPs have been approved in health (1994) and agriculture (1995). Future IDA
investment operations will consist predominantly of similar operations under preparation
in roads, environment, education and power, as well as a small number of narrowly
targeted operations to achieve needed short-term gains not best addressed under the SIPs.
66.   The Bank's economic and sector work will include broader studies to provide
some of the analytical underpinning for the economic reforms. Recent examples of such
work are the Policy Framework Papers (PFPs), the Public Expenditure Reviews (PERs),
and the Prospects for Sustainable Growth paper. In addition, a Poverty Assessment has



- 26-
provided additional insights into the breadth and nature of poverty in Zambia, explored
the impact of the reform program on the poor and recommended further reforms and
targeted investment programs. As Zambia is one of the most heavily indebted of the low
income countries, considerable attention will continue to be paid to analyzing the
country's prospects for further debt relief, and Zambia is one of the countries highlighted
in the joint Bank-Fund study on Debt Sustainability for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries.
Aid coordination will continue to figure prominently in the Bank's strategy. This
includes: supporting the aid coordination that takes place in Lusaka under the leadership
of the Government; chairing the Consultative Group which meets in Paris each year; and
providing country consultations on Zambia in each Special Program of Assistance for
Africa (SPA) meeting.
V. COLLABORATION WITHIMF
67.   The programs of the Bank and Fund have been closely coordinated since
assistance to Zambia resumed in 1991. Balance of payments needs are jointly agreed
among the Bank, the Fund, and the Government as part of the PFP and the Consultative
Group processes. Bank proposals on trade and taxation policy, priority expenditures, and
structural policy benchmarks are kept consistent with the program's fiscal targets, and the
Fund's policy benchmarks are developed in close consultation with the Bank. The fourth
Policy Framework Paper was approved by the Bank and Fund Boards in December 1995.
Also in December, Zambia successfully completed its Rights Arrangement Program with
the Fund, and the Fund Board approved a three year ESAF program. The mid-term
review of the SAF/ESAF Program is scheduled for September 1996.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
68.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Gautam Kaji
June 25, 1996



- 27 -
Anmex A
Page I of 2
Zambia - Social Indicators of Development
MOr Sam4r   . 11ien/ccem rretP        Neut
L_ _ es_   single__ __ _                                        kigM Ar
Unit of                                  srsmamte    Saharn           Lov-       Liaas
Indicator                                   measure           19704S7       980-85     1989.94       Africa      inceme        fr7w
Priority Povertv Indicators
POVERTY
Upper poverty line                         local curr.              .            ..      8.481
Headcount index                            * of pop.               ..          ..          86
Lower pover,y line                         local curr.               .           -       5.910
Headcoumt index                            % of pop.               ..          ..          76
GNP percapnta                                 USs                 600          350         350          500          390        1.670
SHORT TERM INCOlE INDICATORS
Ursldlled urban wags                        local ur.               ..          ..           ..          ..            -           _
Unsk3led mral wages
Rurud terms of us-da
Conswoerpneeuidex                           1987-100                9           46       12.764                        _
Lower 'ne                                                          ..          45       4.277            ..          .. 
Foa                                            -                   6            ..         ..            - 
Urban
Rural                                                             ..         46        4.676
SOCIAL INDICATORS
Public expenditure on basic socal scrvics   % of GDP                 .           ..         3.4 
Gro enrollment rons
Primary                                 %a Nc    age pop.          97          100         104          71           105         104
Male                                           '                  105         106         109          77           112         105
Female                                         -                  88           94          99          64            98         101
Mor1irv
Inant morulity                         per thou. live births      100          88         10J          92           55           36
Under 5  anaxity                                                   ..          ..         178          161          101          47
Immunurnion
M1eales                                   * age grup                         55.0        76.0         51.4         86.2        77.4
DPr                                                                ..        47.0        79.0         53.5         89.1        3LO
Cild mlonuution (under-5)                                         24.1        26.5        26.3            _         38.2
Life expectancy
TotW                                          e                   47           51          47          52           63           67
Female. advay ge                                                  3.3         2.3         0.9          3.5          2.4         6.4
Toul fertdity tm                         births per woman          6.9         6.9         6.0          5.9          33           127
Mammal mortality rte                  per 100.000 live biths        _.                     29             ..                       -
Supplementary Poverty Indicators
Expendi-res on socdi secuity           % of totwl govt exp,        0.6         2.1         6.0
Social secrity covaage                  % mon. scow pop.            ..                       -            .. _ 
Acs to safe water total                     % of pop.             42.0        53.6        5J.9
Urban                                                          86.0        70.0         76.2
Rura                                                           16.0         41.0        42.3          ..            _
Access to health car                                                 ..       70.0           ..
Population growth rate                   GNP per capita growth rate                     Development dlamondb
6+,    (aveng  onuaL percent)               a04     a(uda. peree)                                   Lif  xpecy
4 - 
~~~~~~ ~~~~GNP                                               Gems
2 -                                                                     I                                                   -
I CFI cLIII  
1970-75     1980-t5      1989-94             1970-75     198045       1989.94A                      to s   waow
C   Zambia                                                                                         Zambia
-    Low-incomeL.'
L See the tedcnical notL. pJ8U7. b. r1 deveJopment diamond. buaed on four key indicators. shows the avemne Ievl of developmnt in the country
compared with its incnme group. Seo  in      n.ducaoa.



- 28 -                                                    Annex A
Page 2 of 2
Zambia - Social Indicators of Development
Moest Same re snJnome rro!f           New
Latest singl year         recezu     5O M                      lhigher
Unit of                                  esrat       Saharan        'La        income
Indicator                                  measure           1970-75     198045      1989.94        Africa     income        *Oup
Resources and Expenditures
fUMAN RESOURCES
Population (mre"1994)                      thousands           4,841        6.862       9.203     571.902    3.182.21    1.096.881
Age dependency mnuo                          rano               0.96         1.04        0.98         0.94        0.66         0.63
Urban                                      % of pop.            34.8         40.9        42.9         30.6        28.3         55.9
Poputiaon gmwth rate                       annual %               3.1         3.6         2.9          2.8         1.7          13
Urban                                                            5.8         4.1         3.4          4.9         3.2          2.7
Labor force                                thousands            2.134       2.860       3.841     254.50    1.590.533      4S8.647
Agriculture                             % of labor force          78          75          75           65           67          36
Industy                                                            S           8            8           9           14          26
Femate                                                            45          45          45           41           39          40
Labor partcipation ates
Total                                     % of pop.              44          42          42           44           50          4S
Female                                                           20          19           19          37           41          36
NATURAL RESOURCES
Arec                                     thou. sq. km         752.61      752.61       752.61    24273.83    40.391.42    40.594.43
Density                                 pop. per sq. Jn         6.43        9.12        1 1.81      22.90        77.44       26.66
Agricultwallnd                           V. of land ara        47.08       47.33        47.45       50.61        52.42       41.05
Change in agnculural land                  annual %             0.04        0.09         0.00        0.01         0.16        -1.38
Agiculeural land under irrignson              V                 0.05        0.08         0.13        0.86        17.84       11.40
F* vsuant woodland                        thou. sq. km             -      359.31      323.01     5323.14      7.632.00    5.969.25
Deforestanon (aet)                     % change. 1980-90          *-           -         1.06
INCOME
Household income
Share of wop 20% of households           V. of income             ..          -          50
Shre of boaiom 40% of horseho                                                             12           ..           _
Share of bottom 20% of households                                 _           -           4            ..           _           _
EPmDRE
Food                                       % ofGDP              22.7         25.8          ..           _            _           _
Staples                                                         5.9         5.5           ..           _           _
Meat, fish, milk. chlee  eggs                                   10.0        12.8          -      _                  .. 
Cmal imports                            bouLmeric tclics         164         201         353        14.051      36.922      68.936
Food aid in ceras                                                  5         116         535        5079         816         5,771
Food production per cpta                   1987 =100             153         103          112         102          115         102
F= =liz consumption                          kgta                 1.5         2.3         2.4          5.3        58.5        463
ShamwofsgricuinareinGDP                    %*ofGDP               13.1        13.1        31.4         19.5        27.6         14.0
Hoing                                      % ofGDP               5.8          7.6          _..                 
Averge household sizc                 persons per household       4.0          ..         5.5
Urban                                                            ..           ..         5.9
Fxed investment: housing                   S of GDP               4.8         03            ..
Fuel and power                             % of GDP               1.9         3.1           _
Energyconsumptionpercapita               kg of oil equv.         383          231         140         251          373        1,602
Housholds with eloctcity
Urban                                  S of households            _            ..       39.0            .           -
Rural                                                             _           _         11.0            -           -           -
Trasport and communiLtioa                  S of GDP               3.9         3.8          ..           ..           _
Fixd invesinent wanport equipent                                  6.0         1.7           -
Total road Iegth                            thou. km              36           37          37
D1EVrMENT iN HUMAN CAPITAL
ealth
Populanon per physician                     persons            13,486       7.269      11,431           ..          ..        3.064
Populaion per nurse                                             1,698         758         610            .           -            -
Populaion per hospital bed                                       300         288            _        1316         1.034        592
Oral rehydyroon herapy (under-S)           * of cases              _            ..         90           37          38            -
Education
Grss crl1ment ratios
Scondary                              * of school age pop.         15          1            _           24          48           63
Female                                                           10           13           ..          23          42           62
Pupil-teacher tio: primary              pupils per teeher         41           49           ..          40          39
Pupil-zacher ratio secondary                                      23           23           _                       20
Pupils reshing pade 4                     * of cohon              96          100.                                                -
Rcpera rw: prinmay                    O. toftK earoll               2           2           ..-                      -
liacy                                  % ofpop.(apg150)             _          33          22           53          35            _
Feiale                                % offeuL.(agel5.4)           ..         41          29           54          46            -
Newsoaoer circulation                     per thou. pop.           22          14           8           12           ..        236
World Bank Inernutional Economics Depurtnait, Aprl 1996



- 29 -                                                               Annex B
Page 1 of I
Key Macroeconomic Indicators, 1994-2005
----- Actual-------   -Estimated-    --------- - - --------- - ------------------------ Projected--------------------------------------------------
1994        1995        1996       1997      1998       1999      2000      2001       2002       2003       2004      2005
OUTPUT
Real .rowth raits of
Gross Domestic Product 1-                                     -3.1%       -3.9%        8 3%       7 6%      4 9%       4 9%      4 0%       3 9%      3 7%        4 6%      5 5%       4 4%
Real per capnita growth rates of
Gross Domestic Product                                       -5 9%       -6 7%         5.6%      4 9%       2 3%      2.2%       1 3%      1.4%       13%        2 1%       3 0%i     2 0%
Total Consumption                                             3.2%       -I 2%        -0 5'      2 7%       0 3%      09%        1 6%       1 5%      I 4%       1.0%       1 0%      0 6%b
Pnvate Consumption                                            2.2%       -0 1%        -0 2%      1 6%      0 1%       0 8%       1 6%      1 5%       1 4%       0 8%      0 8%o      0 4%
INVESTNI ENT
As percent ofGDP.
Total Invesiment                                              6.9%        11 7%       12 0%      12 8%     14.4%      16.6%     18 1%      18.9%     19 1%       17.9%     18 7%      18 6%
Government                                                   3.6%        3.5%         3 8%      4 0%       4 1%      4 3%       4 5%      4 7%       4.9%       5 2%       5 2%      5 4%
Private Investment                                           3.3%        8.2%         8.2%      8.9%      10.3%      12.3/    13.6%!.    14 2%     14 2%      12.8%.    13.5'      13 3 R.
Non Mining                                                  1 3%        5.3%         5 4%      6.3%       6.3%      6 3%       7 2%      8.0%      8 8%b       9 3%      10 5%     20 5%
Mining                                                      2 0%        2.8%         2.8%      2.6%       4.0%      6 0%       6 5%      6 2%       5 3%       3 5%      2 9%      2 6%
ICOR 2/                                                        -4.5         -2.8         1 3        1.4       2 4       2 8        3.9       4.4        4 8        4 0        3 1       4 0
Gross Domestic Savings                                         3.0%        2.9%        3 9%       5 4%      6 6%       7.2%      6.5%      6.4%       6 5%       7 5%       9 3%      10 4%
Gross National Savings                                       -4 0%       -3 6%        -2 2%     -0 5%       1.2%      3 7%       3 7%      3 7%      3 8%        4 9%!     6 8%       8.1%
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports olGoods atid NFS (USSM)                                1173        1265         1235      1350      1459       1548       1524      1522      1528        1682      1863      2086
Copper exports ('000 MTI                                        360         327         325        350       375        390       360        330       300         320       345        380
Growth rate of'non-miing exports                             51.3%       325%         188%       150%      12.0%      100'%     10.0%      10 0%     200'        100%      20 09.    100o
ImportsofGoodsandNFS(USS M)                                    1318        1623         1563      1677      1820       2010      2123       2205      2259       2324       2494      2665
Import elasticity to GDP                                        -0.7       -4 2         -0.7       0 7        1.3        16        0 8       04         00         0 1        0 9       10
5 year non-mining import elasticity to GDP                                                                                                   0 8        0.9         10        2 0       1 0
Cuirent Account Balance in USSM 3!                           -167.8      -371.6       -360.6   -363.9    -396.3    -496 4    -635.1    -725.7    -779 1         -696 3    -685 5    -632 7
Current Account Balance; GDP3'                                -45%        -91%        -9%        -83%      -86%    -10.1%    -12.3%    -133%    -134%          -11.2%    -10.3%    -8 9%
EXTERNAL DEBT
Total Debtincluding Gapfill (ISSM)4/                           6496        6770        6387       6670      6895       6728      6973       7313      7739       8175       8635      9075
Total Debt excluding Gapfill (LiSSM)5/                         6496        6770        6394       6569      6761       6575      6707       6591      6484       6366       6242      6122
DOD/GDP6!                                                   174.8%      166.5%       1583%    1525%    1490%    1372%    13522%    133.5%    133 4%            1319%    1292C    1273%
Debt Service before New Rescheduling/Exports 7!              47 1%       57 0%        45 5%     36 8%      31 2%     23 6%      24.4%     39 0%     37 5%       33 8%     29 O.    23 3%
Debt Ser"ice after New Rescheduling/Exponts 7/               47 1%       40 5%        36 5%     28 7%      24 4%      14.0%     11 7%     27 3%      26 5%      24 8%     22 7'.    20 3%
PUBLIC SECTOR
Ratios to GDP
Total Revenues                                                18.1%       16 9%       15 8%      16 7%     17 0%      17.6%     18.0%      18.1%     18 1%      18.0%      18 2%     18 2%
Total Expenditures 8                                         28.7'!.     25.1%        21 6%      19.8'!%    19.8%     186%      18.0%     1728%      176%       174%       17 3-o    17 2%
Deficit (-deficitl                                          -10.6%        -8.2%       -58%       -3.2%     -27%      -1.0%       00%       03%        05%        06%       07%c       099%
Govemnment Credit                                            12 0%        110%         9.0%       7 8%      7 1%      6.8%       7.1%      6 5%       6 0%       5 7%       5 0%      4 7%
Private Credit                                                5 9%        8 2%         7 4%      7 8%       8 7%      8 6%       91%       8.6%       8 3%       8 2%      7 8%       8 4%
PRICES
Consumer Price Index growth rate 9'                          53 4%       34 6%        30.0%      8 3%       4 0%      4 0%       4 0%      4 0%      4 0%        4 0%      4 0%       4 0%
Extemnal Tenns ol'Trade 10                                     1 06        1 16         1 02      1 00      0 99       0 97      0 96       0 96      0 96        0 96      (196      0 96
GDPin USS$M                                                  3716.5      4065 4      4034 0    4372.9    4627.2    49035    5 156 7    54764    5801 7         6196 8    6682 3    7127 1
U Total GDP growth refers to market pnces GDP (recently revised)
2/ ICOR stands for incremaental capital output ratio
3/ Excluding grants and interest payments.
4, Assumes that a 100% ofGapfill is filled by new loans at concessional tenms.
5! Assumes that the Gapfill is not filled with new loans but with grants and/or debt relief
6/ Including Gapfill
7/ Debt service aster new rescheduling includes the assumption of Pans Club rescheduling of debt service flows in 1995 and Naples terms stock reduction in 1998
Debt service refers to scheduled payments, both for histonc and projected years.
8: Total expenditures include interest payments
9: Yearly average and not December to December
I0/ An increase means improsement in the relative price of exports
Source Bank of Zaitib,a. CSO and staffestimates



-30 -                                                                    Annex C
Page 1 of 2
Balance of Payments
-     Actual-       -Estimate  --                                    Projected--
1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999     2000      2001       2002      2003      2004      2005
Total exports ofGNFS                     1173.5    1265.4    1234.S    1350.4    1459.3   1542.4   1523.5    1521.5    1528.3    1681.8    1863.4   2085.8
Merchandise(FOB)                    1066.6    1190.4    1131.2    1234.1    1328.8    1401.5    1358.0    1335.3    1319.0    1446.5    1598.6    1788.1
Nonfactor services                    106.9     75.0      103.6     116.2     130.5     146.9    165.5      186.2     209.3     235.3     264.8    297.7
Total Imports ofGNFS                     1317.S    1622.5    1562.5    1677.2   120.2   2010.0   2122.5    2204.9   2258.8    2324.3   2494.1    2664.9
Merchandise(FOB)                    1003.2    1277.5    1233.8    1321.5    1442.8    1609.0   1697.3    1754.7    1783.4    1818.6    1951.4   2085.8
Nonfactor services                   314.6     345.0     328.7    355.7    377.4    401.0    425.3         450.1      475.3     505.7    542.7    579.1
Resource balance                         .144.4   -357.2    .327.8   .326.9   -360.8   -461.7   -599.0   -683.3    -730.5    -642.5   -630.7   -579 1
Net factor income                        -240.0   -249.5    -227.9   -239.1    -230.4   -151.6   -126.4   -130.7   -136.4    -142.6    -144.7   -143.9
Factorreceipts                         15.6      30.5      16.1      17.8      25.5      30.1      36.6      39.6      42.7      45.4      48.3       53.4
Factor payments                       255.6     220.0    244.0    256.2       255.9     181.6    163.0      170.4     179.1      188.0     193.0     1973
Interest (srheduled) I/           235.6     253.0     211.0    220.0    215.0       136.8     110.3     10S.4     107.8      108.8     109.9     110.3
Otderfactor payments               20.0      27.0      33.0      36.8      40.9      44.9      52.7      62.0      71.3       79.2      83.1      87.0
Net current trsnsfers                     -19.0     -18.0     -16.0     -18.0     -20.0    -20.0    -20.0    -20.0        -20.0     -20.0      -20.0    -20.0
Cufrent account balance excl. grants     -403.3    -624.6    -571.6   -523.9   -611.3   -633.2   -745.4   -834.1    -886.9   -805.1    -795.4   -743.0
Official capital grants                   332.0    317.S      313.2     310.5     310.7    300.0    303.0    297.0        290.0     283.0    276.5    268.0
Current account balance incl. grants      -65.3    -306.S    -258.4    -273.4   -300.6   -333.2   -442.4   -537.1    -596.9   -522.1    -518.9   -475.0
Direct foreign investment(net)             40.0      75.0      72.0      83.0      8l.0     160.0    190.0      190.0     160.0      80.0      80.0      600
Net M&LT borrowing 1/                    -129.6    1487.3     173.0      60.3     175.2     127.5    209.5       60.4     149.9     144.9     110.7      82.4
Disbursements                        213.1     229.6    240.3      306.6    228.9    229.9       317.3     658.7     734.0      754.3     785.1     763.6
Repsyments (scheduled)               304.0     272.0     245.0      172.0    147.0      84.0      72.0      75.0      60.0      65.0       68.0      66 0
Net other inflows 2/                 -32.6    1529.8      177.7    -74.3      93.3      -18.4     -35.9   -523.4    -524.2    -544.4   -606.4   -615 3
Change in Net Intemational Reserves      -154.9    1255.5      -7.4    -130.1     -44.4      45.7    -42.9    -226.7    -287.1    -297.2    -328.2    -332.6
Reseves Changes of Monetary Auth.       -133.9      43.5     -22.4   -159.1      -73.4    -45.7    -42.9    -43.6        -38.2     -42.5     -72.0    -75.2
IMFCredit                                -21.0    1212.0      15.0      29.0      29.0       0.0       0.0   -243.1    -248.9    -254.7    -256.2   -257.4
I/ Includes the assumption of Paris Club rescheduling of debt service flows in 1995 nd Naples terms stock in 199S.
2/ Includes USS 1.20S millions of IMF arrears covered by IMF purchases or USS 1,212 millions.
Source: Bank of Zaunbia. CSO and staff estimates.



- 31 -                                                       Annex C
Page 2 of 2
External Financing Requirements
(Millions of USS)
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005
ExportsofGoodsandNFS                  1173   1265   1235   1350   1459   1548   1524   1522   1528   1682   1863   2086
ImportsofGoodsandNFS 1/2/             1030   1378   1255   1343   1439   1534   1600   1671   1743   1875   2052   2219
Other Current Account exl. I nterests  -23    -14    -33    -37    -35    -35    -36    -42    -49    -54    -55    -54
Current Acount Balance excl. Grants
and Interest Payments                  120   -127    -53    -30    -15    -20   -113   -192   -263   -247   -243   -187
Debt Service after proj. rescheduling  369    525    456    392    362    221    182    426    417    429    434    434
Gross Financing Requirements 1/2/      249    652    509    422    377    241    295    618    680    676    677    620
Use of Reserves                       -134     43    -22   -159    -73    -46    -43    -44    -38    -42    -72    -75
Direct Foreign Investment 2/            40     75     68      73     41      50     50      50     50      50     70      60
Other 3/                               80    231    200    215       93     50      50     50      50     50      50     50
Net Financing Requirements 1121        263    302    263    293    317    187    238    562    618    618    629    586
Balance of Payments Assistance 1/     263    303    263    185    165    145    125    105         85      65     45     25
Financing Gap                            0      0      0    108    152       42    113    457    533    553    584    561
Memo Items:
Konkola Investment                      0      0     10      10     40    110    140    140    110       30 .   10        0
Project Financing                    288    245    298    324    341    366    382    394    406    419    432    446
IMF Repurchases                       -18  -1208     15      29     29       0      0   -243   -249   -255   -256   -257
Total Debt Outstanding exc. Gapfill  6496   6770   6394   6569   6761   6575   6707   6591   6484   6366   6242   6122
I/ Excludes project lending.
2/ Excludes Konkola Investment.
3/ Includes short term capital movements. portfolio investment and errors and omissions: and,
rescheduling excludes USS1208 millions in 1995 of IMF arrears expected to be covered by IMF purchases of USS 1212 millions.
Source: Bank of Zambia, CSO and staff estimates.
6/14/96



- 32 -
Zambia - Status of Bank Group Operations                                    Annex D
Page 1 of 4
AFlDR - Southern Africa Department
Status Of Bank Group Operations In ZAMBIA
PFDBR25 - Summary Statement Of Loans and IDA Credits
(LOA data as of 5/31/96 - MIS data as of 06/15/96)
By Country
Country:    ZAMBIA
Amount in USS miLlion
(Less canceLlations)
Loan or       Fiscal                                                                                          Undis-  Closing
Credit No.      Year   Borrower                            Purpose                       Bank          IDA     bursed   Date
Credits
31 Credits(s) cLosed                                                                                 923.58
C17430-ZM       1987    ZAMBIA                             COFFEE II                                 20.40       13.64  06/30/99(R)
C17460-ZM       1987    ZAMBIA                            AGR. RES.& EXT.                            13.00        1.17  12/31/96(R)
C22690-ZM       1991    ZAMBIA                            MINING TAS                                 21.00        2.91  06/30/97
C22730-ZM       1991    ZAMBIA                            SOCIAL RECOVERY PROJ                       20.00        2.42  07/31/97
C24060-ZM       1992    ZAMBIA                            PIRC TECHNICAL ASSIS                       10.00       4.06  12/31/97
C24220-ZM       1993    ZAMBIA                            MKTG. & PROCESS.                          33.00       23.16  06/30/99
C24290-ZM       1993    ZAMBIA                             EDUCATION REHAB. 1                        32.00       13.36  06/30/98
C25150-ZM       1993    ZAMBIA                            TRANSPORT ENGINEERIN                        8.50        4.85  06/30/97
C25230-ZM(S)   1993    ZAMBIA                              PIRC It                                  100.00      33.17  06/30/96(R)
C25350-ZM       1994    ZAMBIA                             FINANCIAL & LEGAL MA                      18.00       12.39  06/30/99
A   C26210-ZM       1994    ZAMBIA                             PETROLEUM REHAB                           30.00       30.99  06/30/00
C26600-ZM       1995    ZAMBIA                             HEALTH SECTOR                            56.00       53.51  12/31/00
C26980-ZM       1995    ZAMBIA                            AGRICULTURE SECTOR 1                      60.00       57.15  12/31/99
C27250-ZM       1995    ZAMBIA                            URBAN RESTRCT &WATER                      33.00       30.33  12/31/01
C27550-ZM       1995    ZAMBIA                             SOCIAL RECOVERY 11                       30.00       24.22  12/31/00
C27640-ZM(S)   1996    ZAMBIA                             ECN RECOVERY & INVST                      140.00      64.56  12/31/96
C27641-ZM(S)   1996    ZAMBIA                             ECN RECOVERY & INVST                       12.10        1.12  02/23/97
C28750-ZM       1996    ZAMBIA                            ERIPTA                                    23.00       23.00  12/31/01
'O0AL number Credits =   18                                                                          660.00      396.00
Loans
28 Loans(s) closed                                                                      582.13
ALl closed      for     ZAMBIA
r7TAL number Loans =    0
TOTAL***                                                               582.13    1,583.58
of which repaid                                                      490.90        6.73
TOTAL heLd by Bank & IDA                                                91.23    1,576.85
Amount sold                28.58
of which repaid         28.58
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                              396.00
Notez :
Not yet effective
Not yet signed
.. Total Approved, Repayments, and Outstanding balance represent both active and inactive Loans and Credits.
~R) indicates formally revised Closing Date.
CS) indicates SAL/SECAL DRL's and RIL's Loans and Credits.
The Net Approved and Bank Repayments are historical vaLue, alL others are market value.
'he Signing, Effective, and Closing dates are based upon the Loan Department offical data and are not taken
trom the Task Budget file.



- 33 -                                                    Annex D
Page 2 of 4
Zambia
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As ofMarch 31, 1996
(In Millios US Dollan)
O0stna Gt   Co itnbnt
IFC                          Held hy   Held y   Undisb
Fiscal Yean Conmimied               Obligor                  Type of Business     IFC Loan   Equity    PtpnL       Totals    IFC       Ptpnt   incL Ptnnt.
1972/73                 Zambia Bala Shoe Company Limit Manufacttig                     0.92       0.23      1.13      2.2S       0.23
1975/78               a/ Century Packages Limited       Manufacauring                  0.SS       0.21                1.09
1916                  *I Development Bank of Zambia     Fnancial Services                         0.54                0.54
1980/82               a/ 7Zamia Consolidated Copper Mine Mining and Extaion of Met    45.14                 2.00     53.14
1980/85                 Kafiue Textile of Zambia Limited   Textiles                   10.74                          10.74      6.27
1982                  a/ Ethanol Companyof Z7mhia. limit ChemicLs and Petrchemicals    3.62       0.60                4.22
1984/91                 ZambiaHotelPropeties Limited   Hotels ndTourism                7.50                14.91     22.41      5.96      15.61
1925                  a/ Mpongwe Development Company  Food and Agnlibusim              1.83       0.29                2.12
1928                  a/ Gwembe Valley Development Comt Food and Agbuinem              3.70       0.20                4.50
1929                  a/ MastockZAMbia Limited          Food nd Agribun                8.69                           8.69
1994                    BigFiveCarHire7Zmbiaimited  Indwl rLndConiurServi              0.58                           0.52      0.58
1995                    KailaLodge Limited              Hotels andTourisn              0.19                           0.19      0.19
Total gross comnuitment b/                                    83.85      2.67     24.04    110.56
Les cancellatiosis, tenninations, repayment & sales           70.85      2.44      2.43     81.72
Tot commitments now held c/                                   13.00      0.23     15.61     22.84      13.23     15.61
Pending Commitments
AEF UBIZANE INV.                                               1.14                           1.14
Total pending conmitmnts                                      1.14                           1.14
Total commitments held and pending conniitnents               14.14      0.23     15.61     29.98
Total undisbursed commitments
a/ Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, vin-off, sold, redeemed or rtpd.
h/ Gross commitments coraist of approved and signed projects
d Held commitments consist of disbursed and undisbursed investements.



-34 -
Annex D
Page 3 of 4
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
SECOND ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Since normal disbursements resumed in February 1992, performance of IDA-
supported operations has been satisfactory. In the case of dWjustment operations, while
there have been some delays in tranche release, nearly all of the key policy reforms
supported by the operations have been achieved. Of the total IDA-supported investment
portfolio, 65 percent (about US$300 million) is currently undisbursed. This is largely a
function of the portfolio's relative youth because disbursements are running close to
appraisal forecasts: disbursement lags of between five and seven percent in FY95 and
FY96 are a major improvement over lags of over 18 percent in FY94. In both FY94 and
FY95, disbursements for investment projects were over twenty percent of the undisbursed
amounts at the beginning of the year, a very respectable performance. This disbursement
ratio somewhat lower in FY96, however, because of some delays in effectiveness and
initial procurement processes for a few projects (e.g., the Transport Engineering and
Technical Assistance Project, the Health and Agriculture SIPs, and the Financial and
Legal Management Upgrading Project). In most cases, the causes for delay have been
resolved, and disbursements should accelerate in FY97. One credit, the FY94 Petroleum
Rehabilitation Engineering Credit, experienced a two year delay in effectiveness. The
Government had difficulties in meeting a condition of effectiveness related to private
sector management of a petroleum storage facility. The credit was declared effective in
late June 1996. One of the agricultural projects, Agricultural Marketing and Processing,
has been very slow to disburse. It is currently being restructured under the ASIP
umbrella. Implementation of the feeder roads component is already improving, and
arrangements are being put into place to accelerate the program's credit activities. Apart
from these credits, there are currently no problem projects in the portfolio.
As the investment portfolio has expanded relatively rapidly, particularly since
FY94, careful attention has been paid to portfolio management. For example, after
procurement difficulties and delays were detected, Bank staff hosted a series of seminars
and "walk-in clinics" for project staff on procurement and disbursement policies and
procedures. The Bank also hired a local procurement and disbursement officer in the
Resident Mission to provide preliminary screening of disbursement applications and
procurement packages. As a result, procurement and disbursement performance has
visibly improved. Previous efforts to improve financial accountability and auditing are
showing results; in FY95, 94 percent of audits due were received, of which 82 percent
were unqualified.
Portfolio management in Zambia is also benefiting from a number of other
initiatives. An active dialogue has developed among the Bank, the Government, and
other stakeholders on implementation and design issues. Country Program Performance



- 35 -
Annex D
Page 4 of 4
Reviews (CPPR) are held at least every eighteen months, and during the last two years,
members of the Cabinet and the Bank's Country Team have participated in annual
strategy and feedback sessions. In FY95, a Borrower Feedback Survey was piloted in
Zambia, the results of which were discussed at a workshop, at the CPPR, and at an
Executive Session with some members of the Cabinet. The survey indicated that, overall,
respondents were satisfied with the services provided by the Bank, although better
tailoring of advice to Zambian conditions and preparing projects and programs in a more
timely manner were mentioned as areas for improvement. The survey also indicated that
the benefits of Bank-supported Government efforts at poverty reduction were viewed as
being spread out over a long time and were not well understood by the general public.
That latter is being addressed in part by systematic client consultantion (SCC). For
example, as a result of SCC, a component for commnunity identification of water supply
projects was added to the Urban Restructuring and Water Supply Project. Adding to
these initiatives, management arrangements for the Bank's Zambia program are also
geared toward sustaining and improving portfolio performance. In the Resident Mission,
in addition to the local procurement officer, there is a senior operations officer with
extensive Bank operational experience who is following up on implementation issues and
coaching four local staff on implementation and supervision procedures. The Bank's
Resident Representative is also active in implementation follow-up, particularly with
respect to the SIPs. Finally, increased attention to the portfolio has been facilitated
through the introduction in July 1994 of a division chief-level Country Operations
Manager, who, as leader of the country team, has been responsible for formulating the
country assistance strategy and ensuring that the work program is consistent with that
strategy and achieving results.



ESAC II - Matrix of Policy Agreement
Area and Objectives                   Achieved So Far                                   To Be Achieved by Second Tranche
Release
PROCUREMENT - Ensure efficient,       Govemment circulated draft guidelines and initiated a    Begin implementing the action plan and
open, transparent process where decisions  series of consultation on procurement. It then adopted   satisfactorily complete all actions planned for
are based on price and quality        an action plan to decentralize procurement to individual  1996
ministries and local government, including training,
capacity building and improved oversight by ZNTB
MINING - Privatize ZCCM               A Govemment Mining Privatization Team and legal   Make progress satisfactory to IDA in carrying
and merchant-banking advisors were appointed to  out the action plan for the privatization of
prepare a specific action plan for the privatization of  ZCCM
ZCCM; the Government adopted this plan, thus
meeting a condition of Second Tranche Release under
ERIP
TRADE - Enhance the competitiveness    Govemment removed import and foreign exchange    Maintain its policy of limiting new customs duty
of non-traditional exporters and import-    controls, and reduced tariffs to a four rate structure of    exemptions to cases of national emergency as
competing enterprises                 0-5-15-25, with many materials rated at zero;     agreed with IDA, and to be announced in a
Government also removed most tariff exemptions,  Statutory Instrument
including those for its own purchases; the processing of
export duty drawback has improved
LAND - Encourage an efficient land    Govemment enacted the 1995 Land Act and issued the   Implement the 1995 Lands Act, including the
market and a fair process to convert  necessary Statutory Instruments to implement it;  first meeting of the Land Tribunal
customary land to leasehold status    Ministry of Lands adopted performance goals for its    Increase efficiency of the lease application
own operation                                    process
SETTLEMENTS - Speed up the legal    Govemment has adopted an action plan for            Take all necessary actions within its power to
recognition of informal urban settlements  regularizing informal urban settlements     regularize informal urban settlements
to encourage development
LABOR - Improve the mobility of labor,  Govemment has reviewed the Employment Act and   Submit to the Cabinet Legislation Committee
reduce the cost of labor.             submitted proposed amendments to the Cabinet      amendments to the Industrial and Labor
Legislation Committee                            Relations Act to allow enterprise-level
bargaining
0 >



Area and Objectives                    Achieved So Far                                    To Be Achieved by Second Tranche
Release
SOCIAL SERVICES - BUDGETS              Government has maintained the social sectors' budget   Release funds to the social sectors and sub-
Increase and protect public spending for    in 1996 at 34% of the non-interest domestic budget and  sectors in accordance with the LDP, i.e., at least
social services                        singled out priority areas for protection in actual  34 percent of non-interest spending will be
disbursements; it has also adopted Operational    released to the social sectors and absolute
Guidelines to govern the release of funds and minimize   protection will be given to certain key social
deviations from the agreed allocations            sector sub-headings
SOCIAL SERVICES - POLICIES
HEALTH: Improve the effectiveness of   The Ministry of Health is developing a comprehensive   Adopt National Drug Policy which addresses the
the pharmaceutical sector              Health Sector Program; it has also adopted detailed  issues referred to in the LDP
Terms of Reference for the formulation of a National
Drug Policy, including a list of issues to be addressed,
and a methodology to be followed in addressing them
NUTRITION: Improve the functioning    Govemment has approved Terms of Reference for a     Adopt a policy regarding the role and
of the National Food and Nutrition     study on the role, management and funding of the   functioning of the Commission
Commission                             Commission, and has initiated the study
NGOs: Improve collaboration between    Terms of Reference for the development of an NGO   Adopt a policy on improving collaboration with
Government and NGOs in delivering      policy, including a list of issues to be addressed and an   NGOs, based on a process of consultation with
welfare services                       outline of the methodology to be followed, were    NGOs
approved by the Government.
a:\matrix
cJQ >
fD 
o 



Annex F
Page 1 of 2
Zambia at a glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          Saharan     Low-
Zambia    Africa  Income       Development dlamond'
Population mid-1994 (millions)                         9.2      565    3,176                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita 1994 (US5)                             350        510     390
Aierage annual growth, 1990.94
Population ()3.0                                                 2.9      1.8
Labor force()                                          3.5       2.7      1.8    GNP             , ,
Most recent estimate (lafest year available since 1989)                           per
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)             86          .        ..
Urban population (% oftofalpopulation)                 43         28       26
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       49         52       65
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)              104         94      53
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             27         ..       38                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 59         ..       67
literacy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                      27         50      41
Gross pnmary enrollment (% of schoolage populasbon)   104         68      106       -Zambia
Male                                                109         77      112           Low-income group
Female                                               99        62       100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985      1994    1995      Economic ratlos'
Gross domestic investment/GDP                40.9     14.9       6.5     10.6
Exports of goods and non-factor services/GDP  36.6    36.4      33.6    33.9              Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   21.2     14.1       3.5      3.4
Gross national savings/GDP                    8.8      0.6      -4.6    -0.3
Current account balance/GDP                 -29.7    -14.4     -12.3    -12.2                   / Sn
Interest payments/GDP                         2.2      1 .9      3.3       ..    Savings                        Investmen
Total debt/GDP                               68.9   203.1      188.8   157.2
Totaldebtservice/exports                     19.2     144       31.2     26.0                       l
Present value of debt/GDP                       .       .      162.0
Present value of debt/exports                            .    475.7
Indebtedness
197544  1985-95     1994       1995  1996-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  0.2      0.6     -3.8      -1.5      4 6      -Zambia
GNP per capita                      -3.2     -1.6     -6.5      -3.1      2.0       -Low-income group
Exports of goods and nfs            -3.6      2.7      1.6      -1.8      2.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                                  1975     1985      1994    1995       Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agricuture                                   13.1     13.1      31.4    27.1    i
Industry                                     41.7     42.0      34.7    35.7    40,
Manufacturing                              15.9    22.9       22.6     23.7    20 I
Services                                     45.2     44.9      33.8     37.2      0
-20      o      /
-40
Private consumption                          52.0     62.0      83.9    78.7      ot 
Generalgovemmentconsumption                  26.8     23.9      12.6    17.9
Imports of goods and non-factor services     56.3     37.2      36.6     41.1                    GDI   X-GDP
197544  1985-95       1994    1995-
(average annual growth)                                                           Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                   0.1      0.0     -19.8    -13.2
50
Industry                                     -0.2      1.3      -5.5      3.3     401
Manufactunng                                1.0      3.5      -6.5      5.5      30
Services                                      0.6      0.1       2.8    -0.8    2D
Private consumption                           2.5    -6.2       -8.6    -44 D.
General govemment consumption                -0.8      7.0      51.9    48.6    -10 +                  2    93   94   r,
Gross domestic investment                   -12.1     -6.8     -24.2    30.7    -20
Imports of goods and non-factor services    -10.5     -1.7      -1.0     16.3                -Exports     irmports
Gross national product                        0.3      1.6      -3.8     -0.4
Note 1995 data are preliminary estimates.
rhe diamonds snow four Key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. It data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



39.-                                                             Annex F
Page 2 of 2
Zambia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985       1994     1995      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                10.1     37.3       50.2     30.9      1501
Implicit GDP deflator                         -14.1     41.3      48.6      37.7  oo 
Govemment rinance                                                                     50
(% of GDP)                                                                                    9o    Si    52    93    54    95
Current revenue                                         21.9       19.2     18.6
Current budget balance                                 -11.3       -3.9     -6 2                 -GDP del -=CPI
Overall surplus/defici                                  -8.5       -6.9     -8 7
TRADE
1975     1985       1994     1995     --
(millions USS)                                                                         Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                               1,067    1,183
Copper                                                674        741       840       1'40 
Cobaft                                                  99       162       159       '.200 t   -
Manufactures                                                                         1 . 
Total imports (cif)                               .     715        964    1,258        900
Food                                           ..       23         IS      100        00   "4o1                   J
Fuel and energy                                        122        57        57        0      I
Capital goods                                          163       313       343        00
Export price index (1987=100)                                                               89  90  91  92  93  94  95
Import price index (1987=100)
Terms of trade (1987=100)                                                                             EPOrS  0 Imports
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985      1994      1995
(millions US$)                                                                                                               _
Exports of goods and non-factor services       868      950      1,173    1.298
Importsofgoodsandnon-factorservices          1,345      969      1.317     1,625      6 n          nh an&         lPt       _
Resource balance                              -477       -19      -144      -327           89  9o      91   92   93   94 1  957
Net factor income                             -117     -267       -264      -122
Net current transfers                         -132       -38       -19       -18     '10
Current account balance,                                                             -'5 -            -
before official transfers                    -726     -324       -427     -467
.20
Financing items (net)                          656      -132       581      -738
Changes in net reserves                         70      456       -155    1,205       25
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)            166      201        260      315
Conversion rate (localWUSS)                    0.6       3.1     670.8    835 5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985       1993     1994
(millions USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         1,684    4,576      6,779    6,573
IBRD                                         184      370        240      201       Composition of total debt, 1994 (mill. USS)
IDA                                            0      105        817    1,043
Total debt service                             169      138        369      369
IBRO                                          16       42         72       76                       G A
IDA                                            0        1          6        8                       8997201 1043
Composition of net resource (lows                                                                   209 i.    C
Oirrcial grants                               14      122        478      355                        KS    (l0t
Ofricial crediors                            156      223        186      124                       E      744
Private creditors                           263        12        -40      -64                     2674
Foreign direct investment                     38       52         55       50
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0        0
World Bank program
Commitments                                   32      129        189      253       A - IBRO                      E - Blaterai
Disbursements                                 50      109        174      186       B-IDA    D- Other multilateral    F- Pr,vate
Pnncipal repayments                            4       20         52       56       C - IMF                       C - Shor1--erm
Net flows                                     46       89        122      130
Interest payments                             11       23         26       27
Net transfers                                 34       66         96      103
Intemational Economics Department                                                                                        2/23/96



ZAMBIA
Evolution of Policy Reform Agreements
A. MACRO
ERC                     PIRC                  PIRC 11                   ESAC                    ERIP                    ESAC 11                   RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/91)                  (6/92)                  (6/93)                  (3/94)                  (7/95)
General fiscal and      General fiscal and       General fiscal and     General fiscal and       General fiscal and     General fiscal and        Primary fiscal balance changed from a deficit
monetary performance    monetary perfonnance    monetary performance   monetary performance    monetary performance   monetary performance    of 7 percent of GDP in 1991 to about 1 percent
with specific limit on                                                                                                                            of surplus in 1995.
net banking credit
Inflation reduced from over 100 percent to 35
percent in 1995.
Harmonize sales tax on                         Time-bound action plan   Introduce VAT                                    Zambia Revenue Authority has increased tax
imports and domestic                           for VAT;                                                                  collection performance;
products                                        Ensure parastatal                                                         VAT introduced July 1995
Reform business                                dividends paid directly
taxation and broaden                           to Government
tax bases
Redirect budget to      Continue redirection    Redirect budget to social   Social sector share of budget increased from 28
social sectors and      of public spending      sectors and within those   in 1993 to 34 percent in 1996
within those to certain    from low-priority   to certain priority
priority categories, e.g.,  areas to social services   categories, e.g., drugs
drugs and primary                               and primary education
education
Increase nominal                                                                                                         Interest rates completely decontrolled in 1993;
interest rates                                                                                                           Treasury Bill auction established in 1993
Improve budget         Prepare guidelines for    Cash budget eliminates excess of domestic
management             operation of the Cash     spending over revenues;
procedures to avoid    Budget;
arrears and unplanned                            System for monitoring arrears introduced
spending               Adopt and distribute
procedures and
guidelines for Zambia
National Tender Board;
Establish time bound
plan for public
procurement, covering
computerization, record
keeping, training,
administrative
strengthening and                                                          t
external monitoring                                                       VQ__>
Phase out maize         Eliminate maize and                                                                                                       Maize and fertilizer subsidies eliminated             CS
subsidies               fertilizer subsidies                                                                                                                                                           Cs



B. TRADE
ERC                   PIRC                  PIRC_ j                 ESAC                    ERIP                    ESAC H1                     RESUITS ACHIEVED
(3/91)                 (6/92)                 (6/93)                 (3/94)                 (7/95)
Achieve market                                                                                                                                 Exchange rate set by market forces
clearing exchange rate
in second-window
forex market
Expand OGL to all                                                                                                                              All restrictions on imports removed
but a small negative
list
Remove export bans                                                   Eliminate remaining                                                       Nearly all export bans removed
(except for ivory, oil,                                              export ban on maize
maize, and fertilizer)
Compress tariff rates    Reduce top tariff from    More tariff reduction                    Provide relief from     Adopt a tariff structure   Duty exemptions reduced
100% to 50%; adopt    and compression                               transitional anomalies   with a maximum rate of
strategy for further                                                 in the tariff structure  25%. Many raw             Highest tariff rate reduced from 100 to 25
tariff reduction                                                                             materials would be free    percent
Introduction of VAT     of tariffs, capital goods
will automatically      would be charged 5%,       Mechanism for relief from tariffanomalies
lower protection by    intermediate goods 15%     adopted in 1994:
eliminating "up-lift"   and final goods 25%.
factor                                            Duty on many raw materials removed.
Eliminate most tariff                                                        v
exemptions, including for  Transparency and simplicity of taritf structure
Government purchases,   improved with the elimination of most
and no introduction of    exemptions in 1996.
new exemptions;
qualifying NGOs to be     Exporters begin to get more timely relief due to
given refunds or          the introduction of an offsetting credit system for
vouchers for customs      duty drawback refunds in 1994.
I___ __ __ _ __ __ __f__ __ __ _ __ __ __ _duties.
Simplify and liberalize
duty drawback system
CQ>



C. PRIVATE SECTOR
ERC                   PIRC                  PIRC 11                  ESAC                 ERIP                   ESAC 11                    RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/91)                (6/92)                  (6/93)                 (3/94)                (7/95)
Reform Investment      Evaluate effectiveness                                                                         Investment Act of '991 replaced with new
Law; prepare           of reformed Investment                                                                        Act in 1993;
investment guidelines;    Act and Investment                                                                         Reorganized Investment Center;
streamline operations of  Center                                                                                     Issued Investment Guidelines in 1995
Investment Center
Liberalize licensing                         Prepare action plan for                                                                       Licensing requirements reviewed and
for small-scale                              SSE deregulation                                                                              simplified for new businesses
enterprise
Develop action plan for   Create legal basis for                    Implement 1995 Land       Market for leasehold land liberalized and
land market            market in leaschold                          Act including the Land    regularized in 1995
land and facilitate                         Tribunal and the Land
subdivision of land                         Development Fund;
and property                                The Ministry of Lands to
establish a baseline
performance assessment
of its leaseholds grants;
Informal urban
settlements to be
regularized.
Increase budget                                                       Road Maintenance Fund established, funded
allocation for road                                                   by excise tax on fuel
maintenance
National Housing Policy
issued in 1995.
Amend Employment,
and Industrial and Labor
Relations Acts.
Begin liberalization                                                                                                                        Marketing of all crops liberalized in 1992;
of maize marketing                                                                                                                          except temporary ban on cxports in 1995.
Decontrol fertilizer                                                                                                                       All prices for agricultural products and inputs
prices                                                                                                                                     decontrolled
Begin reducing       Eliminate consumer                                                                                                    Consumer subsidies ended in 1993
consumer maize       maize subsidy
subsidy                                         _                                                                            _
Adopt new mining sector   Mining policy statement approved by Cabinet
policy to encourage       in 1995
private sector
investment;
Adopt new legal, fiscal   New legal and fiscal frameworks have been     d
and environmental         drafted and submitted to the Cabinet
frameworks;               Legislation Committee in 1995                  w
Strengthen capacity of                                                   O  b
Ministry of Mines to      Training and reorganization plan prepared
oversee new legal, fiscal    under mining sector technical assistance
and environmental
frameworks



E. CIVIL SERVICE REFORM
ERC                   PIRC                  PIRC II                ESAC                         ERIP                       ESAC 11            RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/91)                 (6/92)                 (6/93)                (3/94)                      (7/95)
Eliminate "ghost     Eliminate surplus civil                        Improve retention                                        Maintain adequate   Approved use of in-kind benefits for
workers" by physical   service staffand "ghost                     incentives for high                                       information         severance payments in 1994
survey               workers"                                       level staff                                              system with
reliable data on    Retrenched 12,000 workers in 1994
Identify staffing    Retrench 10,000 workers                        Reduce up-front cash                                     number and
needs in line        and develop deeper                             costs of severance                                       deployment of       Nearly all workers now paid by check
ministries           restructuring program;                         benefits                                                 teachers.
include compensation                                                                                                        Launched a public sector reform
measures                                                                                                                    program; ministerial audits begun in
1992
F. PRIYATIZATION
Announce             Adopt overall            Update Privatization   Begin sale of state-                                                        Adopted Privatization Act in 1992
privatization policy  privatization           Program               owned farms
and develop          plan/strategy                                                                                                               Established Zambia Privatization
modalities                                                                                                                                       Agency (ZPA) in 1992
Enact Privatization Law
Offer at least 6     Complete sale of at least   Offer for sale 60                                                                               Offered for sale 108 companies;
parastatals for sale  10 companies; and offer    companies;                                                                                       Concluded negotiations to sell 30          w
for sale companies       Reach point of sale                                                                                companies;
accounting for 10 percent  for 20 companies;                                                                                Completed sale or liquidated 40
of total tumover of      Complete sale or                                                                                   companies.
companies in program     liquidate at least 15
companies;
Offer for sale additional    Offer for sale a total
10 parastatals          of 60 companies
Recruit all key ZPA                                                                               ZPA operational since 1992.
staff
Establish                                                                                          PTF set-up in 1993
Privatization Trust                                                                                PTF received shares in Chilanga
Fund (PTF)                                                                                        Cement in 1995
Study options to                                                                                  Study completed
privatize ZCCM
Complete                                                                                           Initial impact assessment completed
assessment of impact
of privatization on
specific target
groups
Adopt and begin implementing plans                      The Govemment established a
to privatize and restructure ZCCM                       Govemment Mining Privatization            0
Adopt plans to develop Konkola                          Team in 1995. Investment bank and
Deep project on urgent basis in joint-                 legal advisors recruited;                  O ,
venture with private sector in manner                   Shareholders are negotiating to
resulting in majority private-sector                    develop Konkola Deep as a private-
ownership and management                                sector owned and managed joint
I__________I_________  venture.



D. FINANCIAL SECTOR
ERC                 PIRC                PIRC 11                 ESAC                   ERIP                  ESAC HI                RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/91)              (6/92)                (6/93)                (3/94)                  (7/95)
Reform Securities                                                                                               Liberalized Foreign Exchange transactions,
Law                                                                                                             and made exchange rate market
determined;
Eliminated all interventions in credit
allocations and interest rates;
BOZ introduced Treasury Bills weekly
Establish stock                                                                                                  auctions;
exchange and adopt                                                                                               Reduced high reserve and liquidity
capital market                                                                                                   requirements for commercial banks;
regulations                                                                                                      Changed Banking and Financial Services
Amend Bank of                                                                              Law to place all financial institutions under
Zambia Act to                                                                              BOZ supervision;
strengthen prudential                                                                      Issued BOZ regulations for banks,
regulations of banks                                                                       Improved bank supervision
Developed a Stock Exchange and
established a Securities Exchange
commission to regulate it.
End public         Reform business       Adopt business        Implement simplified    Reform insurance industry                     Opened the insurance industry to private
monopoly on        legislation           legislation           procedures of 1993    policies and laws                               companies; new insurance law drafted.
insurance industry                                             Investment Act        (including pension-find
management companies)
and set up new regulatory
and supervisory agency
Prepare action plans                       Adopt policy framework                          Adopted new policy and strategy for term
for DBZ, Eximbank                          and strategy for provision                     finance in 1995;
and Lima Bank                              of term finance to private
sector;                                        Approved restructuring DBZ as apex
Restructure DBZ as apex                        institution and creation of separate
bank and create collection                     collection agency for DBZ loan portfolio
agency for DBZ loan                            in 1995;
portfolio;
Privatize or close down                        Eximbank privatized in 1995 and
Eximbank and Lima Bank;                        privatization of Lima Bank in progress;
Reform rural credit and
reorient Govemment-                            Stopped budget allocations to agricultural
owned credit institutions                      credit institutions in 1995.
0~



G. PARASTATALS MANAGEMENT
ERC                     PIRC                  PIRC 11                  ESAC                    ERIP                   ESAC 11                  RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/91)                   (6/92)                 (6/93)                  (3/94)                 (7/95)
Complete studies of                                                    Adoption of acceptable                                                      Liquidated Zambia Airways in 1994
Zambia Airways, Post                                                    financial plan for Zambia
and Telecoms, and                                                      Airways                                                                     Telecoms separated from Post and
Zambia Railways                                                                                                                                    commercialized in 1995
Grant autonomy to all                                                                                                    UBZ closed in 1995
other parastatals
ZIMCO to be                                                                                                              ZIMCO closed in 1995. Directorate of
restructured and sub-                                                                                                    State Enterprises set up under Ministry of
holding companies                                                                                                         Finance
abolished
Establish autonomy of    Study long-term                                                                                  Utilities given authority to set their prices
key parastatal utilities  regulatory                                                                                      based on agreed mechanisms
and establish transitional   arrangement for
regulatory system,       utilities
including price
adjustment mechanisms
H. SOCIAL SECTORS                                   _
ERC                     PIRC                  PIRC 11                  ESAC                       ERIP                  ESAC II                RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/91)                   (6/92)                 (6/93)                  (3/94)                    (7/95)
Implementation schedule   Develop improved social
for Social Action        action program and
Program                  begin implementation                     _          _
Increase budget                                                        Meet minimum budget        Meet minimum budget       Maintain a social      Overall budget allocations improved.
allocation for education                                                and spending targets for    and spending targets for    sector budget of at
key social services in    key social services in   least 35 percent in     Social sector share of budget increased
1994                      1995                      996.                   from 28 in 1993 to 34 percent in 1996
Expand role of NGOs in                              Formulate a policy     Sector strategies adopted
social services delivery                            on collaboration with   Decentralization of service delivery
NGOs.                  begun
Decentralize delivery of
health and education
services
Adopt comprehensive                                                        Water sectot policy adopted in 1994
water sector policy
Prepare an
Education Sector
strategy
Formulate a national
drug procurement
policy



I. SOCIAL SECURITY
ERC                   PIRC                 PIRC 11                 ESAC                    ERIP                   ESAC II               RESULTS ACHIEVED
(3/91)                (6/92)                 (6/93)                 (3/94)                  (7/95)
Reform Social                                    Prepared Cabinet Mcmorandum on
Security/Pension Fund                            Social Security Reform in 1995
System
Adopt action plan to                            Adopted reform strategy by NSSRISC
cover unfunded liabilities                       based on joint Bank/lLO study in 1995
of existing statutory
pension funds                                    Draft legislation under preparation
Repeal 22-years-of-
service compulsory
retirement law and
modify benefit formulae
and early retirement
conditions
Adopt action plan to
improve administration
and operations of Zamnbia                       Approved Cabinet Memorandum on
National Provident Fund                          Social Security Reform in 1995
Submit to Cabinet                               Draft legislation under preparation
Legislation Committee
(CLC) draft legislation
for medium/long term
social security/ pension
fund reform_
N:Alemma\atrix.doe
O N



-47 -
Annex H
Page 1 of 2
ZAMBIA
PROPOSED ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Performance Indicators
Several indicators of economic and social performnance will be used to assess this
operation. These relate to economic outcomes expected as a result of policy changes,
rather than the agreed policy and institutional changes themselves. They will be reviewed
during supervision and after the operation has been completed and there has been time for
the changes to have had an effect, typically two to five years after the closing date. These
assessments will inevitably entail a large degree of judgment, as it is very difficult to
trace causality between actions taken under the proposed operation and these performance
outcomes. Moreover, performance indicators do not substitute for in-depth assessments
and analyses of overall economic performance over time.
The following variables will be monitored as part of this effort to assess performance:
A. Macroeconomic Management
*  government revenue and expenditure as a share of estimated GDP
* external reserves
*  inflation
* external debt and debt service relative to GDP
*  domestic savings and investment relative to estimated GDP. If overall
informnation continues to only become available after lengthy delays, imports
and production of capital goods and cement could be used as a proxy.
B. Fostering Private Sector Growth
*  growth of non-traditional exports
*  growth rate of real GDP, the index of industrial production and the output of
main crops
*  number of public sector companies offered for sale and sold



- 48 -                                  Annex H
Page 2 of 2
*  the speed of processing applications for transfers, subdivision and conversion
of customary land to leasehold.
*  number of informal settlements recognized and declared.
*  the size of the backlog in numbering of applications (by Surveys Department)
and in titling of land (by Surveys and Lands).
C. Investing in Human Resources and Other Social Services
*  school participation rates by age, sex and geographic distribution
*  the number and geographic distribution of children receiving school-fee
exemptions
*  the number and geographic distribution of people receiving medical-fee
exemptions and gaining access to health care
*  the unit cost and availability of essential drugs and the rate of immunization
* share of social sector expenditure in total government expenditure and timely
release of funds
*  consistency between the payroll and establishment registers for the Ministries
of Education and Health.



- 49 -
Annex I
Page I of I
ZAMBIA
SECOND ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare:                10 months
(b)   Operation prepared by:               Ministries of Finance; Education;
Health; Labor and Social Security;
Lands; Commerce, Trade and
Industry; Community Development
and Social Welfare
(c)   Project preparation:                 August 1995
(d)   Appraisal mission:                   March 1996
(e)   Negotiations:                        May 1996
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness:       July 1996
(g)   Relevant Project Implementation Reports and Project Performance Audit Reports:
Project Implementation Reports
Export Rehabilitation and Diversification Project
(Ln. 2391-ZA), June 1991
Industrial Reorientation Project
(Ln. 1630-ZA), June 1991
Economic Recovery Credit
(Ln. 1720-ZA), June 1992
Second Economic Recovery Credit
(Ln. 2214-ZA), June 1993
Project Performance Audit Reports
Export Rehabilitation and Diversification Project
(Ln. 2391-ZA), June 1992 (#10847)
Industrial Reorientation Project
(Ln. 1630-ZA), June 1992 (#10846)
Economic Recovery Credit
(Ln. 1720-ZA), June 1993 (#12100)
Second Economic Recovery Credit
(Ln. 2214-ZA), June 1994 (#13238)



- 50 -
Telephone. (260) 1 254263/250481                                   Annex J
TcIcx: (260) 1 253494                                           Page 1 of 26
Far: ZA 42221
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
28th May, 1996M1NISTRY OF FINANCE
OFFICE OF THE MINISTER
Mr. Callisto Madavo                                 FINANCE BTILDING
Vice President, Africa Region                           P.O. BOX 50062
The World Bank                                               LUSAKA
Washington DC 20433
Dear Mr. Madavo,
RE: ZAMBIA - SECOND ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT -
(ESAC II) LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY.
1.   In late 1995, Government reached agreement with the World Bank
and the IMF on a Policy Framework Paper 1995-1998 (PFP) which
outlines the Government's Economic Recovery Programme (ERP) and
describes the strategy for improving Zambia's economic growth
prospects by supporting private sector initiatives on the basis of
free market principles, reducing poverty and reversing the
declining performance of our social sector delivery system. In the
PFP we also specified the reforms necessary to achieve our goals.
2.   Good progress is being made in attaining our objectives. The
privatisation and parastatal reform programme which was facilitated
by the First and Second Privatisation and Industrial Reform Credits
(PIRC I and II) is having some real and tangible results. The
closure of ZIMCO and the establishment of the Zambia Privatisation
Agency (ZPA) have accelerated the privatisation programme. In 1994,
extensive policy reforms were introduced to bring about improved
macroeconomic stability and more effective delivery of social
services.   These   objectives   were   pursued   through   further
macroeconomic policy measures and reforms in the social sectors,
notably in education, health, water and sanitation. These were
carried out with the support of the first Economic and Social
Adjustment Credit (ESAC I) obtained from IDA in June 1994.
Finally, in 1995 programmes were initiated for stimulating a more
vigorous private sector response to the Government's policies. The
latter are being supported by the Economic Recovery and Investment
Promotion Credit (ERIP) supported by IDA in July 1995. The
programmes include improving tax and trade regimes, consolidation
of reforms of financial sector policies and institutions,
establishing a strategy for attracting new private capital and
management  into  the  mining  sector,   and  preparing  Zambia
Consolidated Copper Mines (ZCCM) for privatisation.
3.   The Government recognises that the task of poverty reduction
requires further efforts on its part, as well as continued support
from the donor community, including IDA. The purpose of this Letter
is to inform you about our policies and programmes for the 1996-
1998 period, for which we seek IDA assistance- through a Second
Economic and Social Adjustment Credit (ESAC II).



-51-
AnnexJ
Page 2 of 26
4.   The focus of policy adjustment under ESAC II is the reduction
of poverty through broadly-based economic growth and the
alleviation of poverty through enhanced delivery of social
services. It builds on many measures supported by ESAC I and
includes actions in four areas of adjustment: macroeconomic
stability, private sector-based and labour-intensive growth,
investment in human resources and other social services,
privatisation and parastatal reform. Maintaining fiscal balance,
and strengthening public procurement practices, are key aspects of
macro-economic management.   Actions to support private  sector
growth include tariff reform, implementation of the Land Act of
1995, and adjustments to housing and labour market policies.
Continuation of ongoing human resource and other social sector
initiatives include improving the allocation of budget resources
to and within these sectors.
MACRO-ECONOMIC FRAMEWORK AND MANAGEMENT.
Review of Recent Developments.
5.   The Economic Reform Programme which the Government embarked
upon immediately on coming into office in 1991 had the objective
of fundamentally transforming the economy. The aim was to free up
the major markets of the economy; restructure and reduce external
debt; restore Zambia s standing in the international financial
community; strengthen key economic institutions; rationalise the
role of the public sector; privatise or reform the parastatals;
repair the physical infrastructure and rehabilitate the social
services.
6.   The progress in most of these areas has been remarkable. In
1992, we liberalised most aspects of the economy and began to
restructure our external debt. In 1993 we dealt decisively with
inflation and achieved macro-economic  stability.    In 1994 we
removed exchange controls and focused on institutional reform,
including the public service. Last year we accelerated the pace
of privatisation and introduced key legislative changes related to
mining, indirect taxation and land. Of particular importance was
the introduction of the Value Added Tax (VAT) in July 1995. This
was introduced smoothly and without incident. Business has begun
to benefit from this tax.   The 1996 Budget provides for zero-
rating of basic agricultural products for VAT purposes. This will
enable farmers to reclaim the VAT paid on inputs from 1st July,
1996. In addition, the legal threshold for VAT registration has
been relaxed so as to allow small businesses to benefit from the
VAT provisions.
7.   During 1995, Zambia completed its Rights Accumulation Program
(RAP) with the International Monetary Fund (IMF).   This is the
first time that Zambia has completed any adjustment programme at
all, although several were attempted since the late 1970s.   By
completing the RAP, Zambia has been able to gain access to an



- 52 -
Annex J
Page 3 of 26
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) which cleared our
arrears to the IMF using a highly concessional loan.
8.   After just four (4) years of this Government, the structure
of the economy has fundamentally changed. Goods and services are
no longer rationed, exchange controls have been removed and foreign
exchange is now readily available through the market ; Zambia s
standing in the international financial community has been
restored; the Government is demonstrating in practical terms that
it has no business in business and we continue to maintain a macro-
economic framework that encourages savings and investment
9.   These  positive  developments  have  been  offset  by  poor
performance of mining and agriculture, the instability that was
experienced in the financial sector and the debt burden. Poverty
levels and unemployment have remained unacceptably high.
10.  During   1995,   world   market   prices   for   copper   rose
significantly, with the average realised price of copper increasing
to US $1.19 per pound, up from US $0.99 in 1994. However, due to
declining production ZCCM could not take full advantage of these
favourable prices in that year, as copper production fell by 15
percent to 307,000 tonnes.
11. The main objective of monetary policy in 1995 had been to
lower inflation by keeping the growth of liquidity under tight
control. Unfortunately, this objective was not achieved; inflation
turned out to be 45.5 percent in 1995 as opposed to a December to
December target of 15 percent. This was caused in large measure by
disappointing fiscal performance and the sharp depreciation of the
Kwacha during the first half of the year, and by shocks resulting
from the drought and the demise of the Meridien Bank and the
liquidation process of two other commercial banks which occurred
despite the provision by Government of significant financial
support. The result was shaken confidence in the banking system
which led asset-holders to shift from kwacha-denominated assets
towards foreign exchange which raised interest rates and
contributed to the depreciation of the Kwacha. The average nominal
interest rate on Treasury Bills doubled from 26 percent in January
1995 to 51 percent at the end of December.   The exchange rate
depreciated from K680 per US dollar in January 1995 to K920 by June
and to K950 at the end of December, 1995. The rate depreciated by
a further twenty percent during the first three months of 1996 to
over K1,200.
12.  The rises in both interest and exchange rates pushed inflation
higher. Inflation was also bcosted by rising food prices caused by
the drought which necessitated large maize imports. These pressures
also reduced our foreign exchange reserves. By end 1995, foreign
reserves had declined to US $203 million, equivalent to 10 weeks
of imports, from a level of US $268 million at the beginning of the
year. By the end of March, 1996 reserves dropped further to US $142



53 -                           AnnexJ
Page 4 of 26
million.   However,  to deal with the threat to macro-economic
stability and external payments' viability, Government adopted
policies which promise progress in these areas in 1996.
13.  Zambia's balance of payments deficit in 1995 was about US $150
million lower than in 1994, largely due to a rise in export
earnings  from US  $1,066 million to US  $1,186 million.   This
improved performance resulted from the sharp increase in non-
traditional exports and from favourable copper and cobalt prices
which compensated for declining production and export volumes. The
value of non-traditional exports rose to US $216 million, up from
US $157 million in 1994, reflecting the conducive environment for
their development. Their performance has been a highlight in 1995.
14.  The service burden on Zambia's external debt of US $6.3
billion has severely affected efforts to promote economic growth
and development. Fortunately, at the recent meeting of the Paris
Club, Zambia obtained favourable debt rescheduling terms which
will substantially reduce external debt service over the next three
years. The Government will negotiate with bilateral non-Paris Club
creditors for debt buy-backs on terms similar to those on the
commercial debt buy-back of 1994. If these efforts are successful,
the outlook for 1996-1998 will be for a more manageable debt
service burden. This outlook is much less favourable for the period
thereafter when large payments to the IMF on ESAF will fall due.
Obiectives for the Period 1996-1998
15.  Over the coming three years we intend to consolidate our
achievements of the 1992-1995 period and address the remaining
challenges.   We shall thus continue to revitalise the economy
through further market liberalisation; consolidating macro-
economic stability; strengthening our core economic institutions;
rationalising the role of the public sector; privatising and
reforming the parastatals; repairing the physical infrastructure;
rehabilitating the social services delivery system and reducing
the external debt service burden. Progress with these objectives
is expected to provide a base for economic growth and poverty
reduction by raising savings and investment in the economy and
increasing the productivity of such investment, both installed and
new.
16. For 1996, the growth prospects are good, reflecting recovery
in agriculture in the wake of good rains, improved volume of
production at ZCCM, and the combined growth of non-traditional
exports. We intend to make further progress with the privatisation
of ZCCM and other major parastatal companies. The provision of
term-financing for agro/industrial development will also be
rationalised or expanded. Progress with public service reform has
been slowed somewhat because of fiscal constraints which hinder
retrenchment. Greater use of the hiring freeze currently in force
will be made to reduce the size of the civil service. Other aspects
of public service restructuring will continue: the Ministry of



- 54 -                           Annex J
Page 5 of 26
Finance is being merged with the National Commission for
Development Planning and the reorganisation of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Food and Fisheries should be completed by June, 1996.
17.  As further progress towards macroeconomic stability is needed
to consolidate the conditions for sustained growth, careful
management is required to achieve an appropriate balance between
the financial and real sides of the economy. Thus, the Government
will ensure that the economic stability needed for the expansion
of our productive capacity is reached. Accordingly, fiscal policy
will aim at the generation in 1996 of a budgetary surplus
equivalent to 1 percent of GDP which, in combination with tight
monetary policies, should reduce the annualised inflation rate from
over 40 percent at the beginning of the year to below 20 percent
by year-end. This will help bring down interest rates, thereby
reducing the cost of investment and the service burden on domestic
debt. Maintenance of a market-determined exchange rate is expected
to ensure attainment of external financial balance. Similarly, if
ZCCM's current efforts to reverse the decline in copper production
turn out positive and sustainable, external reserves and the
exchange rate are expected to rise and stabilise respectively..
Composition of Expenditures.
18.  The level and composition of expenditure allocations for 1996
has been guided by targets drawn up for the 1996-1998 period in the
Medium-Term Financial Framework (MTFF). The MTFF stresses the
allocation of resources to priority areas so as to stimulate
growth, enhance investment, create employment, promote social
welfare, and provide a social safety net for the vulnerable groups.
After allowing for non-sector specific expenditure, mostly domestic
debt service, Government is directing a rising share of locally-
generated resources to the social and economic sectors
19.  The Medium-Term Financial Framework allows annual budgets to
be prepared in a more strategic context so that they reflect better
the priorities and policies of Government. It also facilitates the
integration of the Public Investment Programme with the recurrent
budget. To achieve this better, government has initiated a planning
and budgeting reform programme, centred on annual work programmes
and activity based budgets drawn up in the context of a rolling
medium-term plan. Whenever need arises for containing expenditures,
Government endeavours to protect social sector expenditures and to
ensure the timely availability of its own share in the financing
of donor-financed investment programmes.
20.  To make this possible, operational guidelines for the cash
budget have been prepared to ensure a regular and predictable flow
of resources, especially to the social sectors, in accord with
budget allocations. The guidelines prescribe, inter alia, that
forecasts of revenues and sectoral expenditures be considered by
a  Funding  Committee  which  prepares  a  schedule  of  fundings
consistent with normal fundings that are made from month to month



-55 -
Annex J
Page 6 of 26
in the light of projected revenues for the month in question.
21. Although allocations to the administrative sector are
declining - including those for defence - the share of expenditures
for law and order will rise from 6 to 6.6 percent over the period,
so as to provide a secure environment for investment and safety for
lives and property.
22. Within the economic sectors, priority goes to agriculture,
environment, energy, roads and other transport and communications,
where Government expenditures will enhance support services and
infrastructure to sustain private sector-led growth. The transport
and communications sector will receive over 6 percent of sectoral
resources.
23.   In the social sectors, priority goes towards health, education
and to water supply and sanitation, to improve access to basic
social services for the vulnerable and to invest in vocational
training. Government has allocated in 1996 34 percent of the non-
interest domestic budget to the social sectors. Specific components
of social sector spending will be protected in absolute amounts as
indicated in Annex A.
Public Procurement.
24. A programme of reform of the procurement system has been
adopted in order to achieve an efficient, transparent and
accountable public procurement system and consequently more
efficient use of public resources. The strategy is to decentralise
public procurement to individual ministries and local Governments
and the transformation of the Zambia National Tender Board into
primarily an oversight institution that will eventually not be
involved  in  most  direct  procurements.       This  will  require
strengthening the ministries  capacity to undertake this task.
This will be done through the establishment of ministerial
procurement units. Four such units have already been established
and a time bound plan for the establishment of the remaining units
and training of a cadre of procurement officers has been adopted
and is being implemented.
25. The Zambia National Tender Board will also be strengthened by
additional staff and equipment and improved physical quarters.
Greater accountability will be achieved through increased audit of
ZNTB activities and through appointment of an advisory council that
will include representatives from the private sector.
Revenue.
26. The Government's objective is to maintain the revenue to
significant levels by broadening the tax base and eliminating most
of the duty exemptions and suspensions. In 1995, value Added Tax
(VAT) was introduced. The VAT has eliminated all ad hoc exemptions
from the sales tax and brought the informal sector under the tax
net. The personal income tax bands were adjusted in 1995 to



-56-                           Annex J
Page 7 of 26
alleviate the "bracket creep" thereby restoring some progressivity.
In 1996 non-cash benefits except funeral benefits have been
included in the base with brackets and rates adjusted to maintain
revenue neutrality. The 5 percent Import Declaration Fee has been
maintained while most duty exemptions and suspensions have been
eliminated. Government has started paying duty on its imports. No
new Investment Licenses are being given and the existing ones have
been allowed to elapse. Goods being imported by returning residents
are no longer exempt unless have been abroad for more than five (5)
years. Specific customs duty is being charged on used or
reconditioned tires. Petroleum feed stock is now subject to a 5
percent rate of import duty. Charitable organisations now pay duty
and only claim a duty refund on allowable items. Duty exempt cars
under an International Agreement will not be sold to non-exempt
persons without paying duty. In order to increase overall revenue
and assure Government a realistic rate of return on its assets,
fees, fines and charges have been adjusted from K100 per Unit to
K180 per Unit. To increase the effective tax yield, tax
administration is being improved. Auditing large tax payers is
being carried out. Interest on late payments is being made towards
more self-assessment and computerization of the tax department.
External Financing.
27.    Zambia's  external  financing  policies  will  support  the
Government's policy of consolidating macroeconomic stability,
stimulating economic growth, reducing poverty and moving towards
a more viable balance of payments position. The Government aims
at diversifying and increasing Zambia's exports, reducing the
burden of its external debt and - over time - reduce its dependence
on donor assistance.
28. A principal objective of Government policy is the achievement
of external viability, which entails a reduction in dependence on
donor assistance. This process will take some years, however, and
in the meantime there will be an ongoing need for continuing
external assistance in the form of concessional balance of payments
assistance and concessional debt relief.
29. Zambia's progress in economic adjustment and structural reform
has been strongly supported by external creditors and donors.
Throughout this process, Zambia has remained in close contact with
the multilateral institutions and the rest of the donor community.
In addition to meetings of the Consultative Group, regular contact
is maintained with the donor community in Lusaka. Since early 1995,
the Government has been holding quarterly meetings with donors in
Lusaka to discuss issues facing the Zambian economy. A separate
consultative process pertaining to governance is also in place.
Public Sector Reform Progiamme
30. The current number of Public Service workers cannot be
supported by Zambia's economic base. There are too many employees
in the Service which is too costly to operate. At the same time,



57 -                             Annex J
Page 8 of 26
earnings levels, especially for skilled positions, are too low to
attract and retain skilled workers. There is need to make the best
use of available human resources and change inappropriate
organisational structures and inefficient personnel management
systems. The Public Sector Reform Programme's (PSRP) goal is to
improve the quality, delivery, efficiency and cost effectiveness
of the Public Service to the people of Zambia.
31. The PSRP has three components aimed at increasing the
efficiency of existing personnel. First, Government has approved
a reorganisation plan for each ministry. These plans reassess and
clarify the objectives of each ministry and then reorganise units
within each Ministry and reassign personnel to achieve those
objectives. Second, Cabinet Office is developing improved
procedures for personnel management, including testing of a pay and
performance system. Third, efforts are underway to strengthen local
government and decentralise the provision of social services.
32. The Government intends to finalise a national personnel
strategy in 1996 that will specify staffing levels and wage
policies that are consistent with Zambia's financial resources. The
plan will include reductions from attrition, voluntary separation
and retrenchment. To assist in the first, the freeze on new hiring
is being implemented. Requirements to hire all non-graduates in
certain areas have been suspended. Workers identified as redundant
by the ministerial reorganisation plans but who cannot be placed
elsewhere will be invited to stay at home until they can be offered
an affordable retrenchment package. It is expected that in 1996
eight ministerial reorganisation plans can be implemented.
Retrenchment itself, including payment of retrenchment packages,
has been postponed until 1997 because of constraints on resources.
Meanwhile, the Public Service is being reduced through attrition,
while establishments are being reduced through restructuring and
hiving-off of some government functions and departments.
Law Development Commission
33. The Government attaches great importance to the work of the
Law Development Commission in giving legal effect to the various
legislative changes implicit in policy reform and will ensure that
the Commission will be adequately funded to carry out its tasks.
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENTS.
Trade.
34. The tax reform programme of the past four years is being
continued in 1996. To stimulate the private sector and reduce
incentives for tax evasion, Government has restructured tariffs,
lowered duties, and has eliminated ad hoc duty exemptions and
suspensions. Raw materials attracting zero-rates in 1995 continue
to enjoy duty-free status; duty on productive machinery for
agriculture and mining was reduced from 20 to zero percent; duty
on other raw materials and productive machinery from 20 to 5



- 58 -                              Annex J
Page 9 of 26
percent; duty on intermediate goods from 30 to 15 percent; and duty
on final products was reduced from 40 to 25 percent. COMESA rates
have been set at 40 percent of the general tariff rates. Overall,
major tariff anomalies have been removed and the competitiveness
of Zambian products relative to those in the sub-region has been
enhanced. With such sharp reductions in tariff rates, there is no
longer need to exempt new investors under the Investment Act. A
refund scheme for registered education and health providers and for
qualifying NGOs has become operational.
Privatisation and Parastatal Reform
35. The pace of privatisation accelerated in 1995, following the
liquidation of ZIMCO and the strengthening of the Zambia
Privatisation Agency (ZPA). Government has now approved for sale
more than 100 companies and 79 agreements have been concluded so
far.   This outstanding performance has been achieved in part by
the flexibility Government has shown in agreeing to different
modalities for the sale of public companies, and providing for
local  participation.    Thus,  Management  Buy-Outs  have  become
possible. Government should soon approve Tranche 4 of companies
to be privatised.
36. Government is concerned about the need to reform the
parastatals, mainly public utilities (INDENI, ZNOC, and TAZAMA),
that will remain in the public sector for the next few years.
These enterprises will remain free of all political interference
in their pricing policies and management decisions; they will not
receive public subventions, and will be required to operate in an
environment which will induce maximum effort at increasing
efficiency.  Performance contracts have been finalised for these
utilities.  Autonomous regulatory agencies have been established
and will become fully operational  by the end of  1996.   The
Government will encourage public utility pricing that will ensure
an adequate return on capital and facilitate a sound level of
performance, efficiency and investment. With respect to ZESCO,
Government is committed to the commercial and financial viability
of the company and to this end has recently concluded a performance
contract (PC) with ZESCO. The PC targets ZESCO s revenue in 1997/98
and thereafter to cover full operating expenses, working capital,
debt service, as well as a significant contribution to the capital
investment program. A similar Performance Contract has been entered
into with ZAMTEL.
37.  The  Government  recently  re-affirmed  its  commitment  to
privatise ZCCM within the shortest possible time. To facilitate
this process, the services of an international merchant bank and
legal advisors were engaged with financing from IDA to prepare a
privatisation plan for ZCCM. The plan was submitted to Government
on 4th May, 1996. The Government is considering the proposed Action
Plan.



-59-                             Annex J
Page 1O of 26
Agriculture
38.   Since 1991 we have taken steps to revitalise the agriculture
sector.    Agricultural  marketing  and  input  supply  have  been
liberalised, creating many new opportunities for the private
sector. In several sub-sectors - such as in tobacco, coffee and
horticulture - the investment response has been encouraging. The
same has occurred in marketing. In 1994, the larger traders formed
the Zambia Grain Growers and Marketing Association. In addition,
companies have emerged to handle input supply, crop marketing and
processing activities. Despite these positive developments
agricultural production did not increase, largely on account of
three years of below-average rainfall and hardship caused by the
rather abrupt adjustments to marketing policies which left several
farmers with   surpluses which they could not sell. Preliminary
estimates point to a bumper harvest of food crops and continued
agro-industrial recovery in 1995/96 as a result of favourable rains
and  further  development  of  private  support  services  for
agriculture.
39.   Government  has  recognised  that  in  areas  with  poor
infrastructure, particularly roads, private trade networks have
developed slowly. To correct this, Government has launched
infrastructure improvements in outlying areas. During 1995, the
Government leased most of its storage capacity to the private
sector. It also accelerated the privatisation of maize milling, oil
seed crushing and cotton ginning.
40.   Since 1994, agricultural prices have been determined by market
forces. Following the dismantling of controls and after some time
has elapsed to permit farmers' familiarisation with the new
marketing regime, farmers are now adopting more (market and
environmentally) appropriate cropping patterns, storing crops on
farms for commercial and household consumption purposes and
expanding their commercial linkages. Producers of high-value export
crops  have  recently  undertaken  investments  in  irrigation
facilities.
41.   Agricultural policies are being strengthened further, so as
to reduce the nation's susceptibility to drought, enhance food
security, and expand agricultural exports. These policies are being
complemented by investment and technical assistance provided under
the Agricultural Sector Investment Programme (ASIP).
42.  The Government has begun to facilitate an improved capacity
of the private sector to provide agricultural credit whether in
cash or in kind. In 1995, the Agricultural Credit Act was amended,
one effect of which has been to facilitate the development of out-
grower schemes. Lima Bank has been put on ZPA's privatisation list.
Should this effort not be successful, Lima Bank will be liquidated.
Alternative credit mechanisms, including a Pilot Credit Management
Scheme, are being introduced, and credit co-ordinators have been
appointed to distribute seed and fertiliser to- farmers.   The



- 60 -
Annex J
Page I Iof26
Government is also trying to facilitate the development of
inventory credit arrangements which would enhance the private
agricultural marketing system.
Land.
43. Transferring land under leasehold in Zambia has long been
hampered by outdated legislation and processing delays. In
addition, the process for converting customary land into leasehold
has not been well defined. In 1995, Parliament passed the Land Act,
the provisions of which are also intended to encourage holding of
land under leasehold tenure. The Act is progressively being
implemented before the end of 1996. The administrative performance
within the Ministry of Lands is being improved. The Government will
issue Statutory Instruments by the end of May, 1996 to implement
provisions in the 1995 Land Law, such as the Land Development Fund,
the Land Tribunal and land administration of leasehold transfers
and conversions. This will facilitate making land available to
investors and permit existing farmers to convert more easily from
customary to leasehold status, while protecting those who wish to
remain under customary tenure. The Ministry of Lands has finalised
the procedures involved in the conversion of land from customary
tenure to leasehold.
44. The operating procedures for the Land Development Fund - which
is intended to assist in the development of unused land - have been
revised in such a way that the Fund intervenes only in instances
of clearly-identified market failures in the opening up of new
land. All other developments will be handled by the private sector.
45. Resulting from a baseline survey of its administrative
performance, the Ministry of Lands has produced an objective basis
for measuring the Ministry's performance in the years ahead from
the time the application is received to the issuance of Title
Deeds. For 1996, a set of performance objectives was established.
The latter will ensure a reduction in the backlog of leasehold
applications and reducing the time taken for the several operations
involved in lease issuance. Progress in reaching these objectives
will be closely monitored. The Departments will report periodically
on the size of the backlog and the time taken for the several
operations of lease issuance as well as the time taken for the
several operations of lease issuance. The Ministry of Lands is also
considering plans to increase the supply of surveyors and surveying
services.
Mining
46. Developing the mining sector is of vital importance to the
growth of the Zambian economy, as the sector can continue making
a major contribution to the economic growth, export earnings, and
tax receipts. The Government is aware that the development of new
mineral deposits in remote areas requires the provision of costly
infrastructure. Recent legislation has taken this into account and
provides incentives to support such ventures.  - The Mines and



- 61 -                               Annex J
Page 12 of 26
Minerals Act, 1995, which includes new non-discretionary licensing
procedures is encouraging exploration and helps to assure that
successful exploration will lead to mining development. The Act
also provides security of tenure for mining license holders.
47. It is Government policy that the Konkola Deep Mining Project
be developed as a private sector driven joint venture. For this
purpose, the Government has signed a letter of understanding with
Anglo-American Corporation which sets out the basic principles for
the development of Konkola Deep.   Negotiations between Anglo-
American and the Government have started.   Both sides are fully
committed to moving the project forward as rapidly as possible.
Other important copper mining ventures are attracting the interest
of investors.   The Konkola North Mining Project and the Lumwana
copper deposit in North Western Province are examples.
48. The Government will give special attention to the development
of small-scale mining, particularly gemstones. To achieve this, a
legal framework is being created which simplifies licensing,
reporting, and the taxation of small-scale mining operations. The
liberalisation of gemstone marketing is proving to be an important
stimulus to the sector. Meanwhile, Government is considering to
privatise the state-owned gemstone mining companies.
49.  The  Government  has  requested  IDA  to  provide  technical
assistance through the Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion
Technical Assistance Project. A component of the Project aims at
strengthening the Mines Ministry so that it can better administer
and regulate the mining sector with a view to promoting new private
exploration and investment.   Through this Project, the Ministry
will acquire, evaluate and disseminate geological data; produce
data bases, maps and other reference materials including an up-
to-date handbook on the mineral resources of Zambia.   Regional
Mining Bureaux will also be established.
50.  Because of ZCCM's importance to the Zambian economy, the
Government is concerned about the continuing decline in copper
production. Thus, the immediate challenge is to revitalise ZCCM.
In this regard, Government and ZCCM are taking steps to arrest
further declines in production and restore the company to financial
viability. A World Bank technical team has provided assistance in
developing  a  strategic  plan  for  improving  the  technical
capabilities of ZCCM's staff and strengthening its management and
Board. A new Chairman has been appointed. Meanwhile, ZCCM's
management is being strengthened by the appointment of new
technical managers and by strengthening the audit function. It is
envisaged that these measures will help in reversing the declining
trend in copper production which should stabilise at 335,000 tonnes
in 1996/97.



- 62 -
Annex J
Page 13 of 26
Tourism
51. The Government considers that tourism can contribute more to
the growth and diversification of the Zambian economy, including
the generation of foreign exchange and the creation of employment.
Development of tourism can also help to revitalise the economies
of remote rural areas. Accordingly, Government will support the
development of private sector-based tourism by fostering an
economically  and  environmentally   sustainable   sector,   thus
encouraging foreign and domestic investment in the sector. To
facilitate the latter, Government will undertake appropriate
investments in infrastructure.
52. Thus, Government intends to develop sustainable tourism based
on a quality of product and service which will be sensitive to
national and community needs and aspirations. Such development will
be encouraged in a way that will enable access by entrepreneurs
wishing to enter the industry and to ensure the preservation of the
environment, historical and cultural resources.
53.  Several developments in 1995 affected tourism positively. The
establishment of private airlines, following the closure of Zambia
Airways, improved travel within Zambia and abroad. The "Open Skies"
policy began to show positive results with increased flight
frequencies to neighbouring countries and Europe. In 1996, priority
is being given to stimulating private sector tourism activities.
A National Tourism Strategy and Action Plan will be finalised by
mid-year. Other priorities will be the continued development of
infrastructure and stepped-up efforts to reduce poaching.
Energy
54.  The Government's objectives in the energy sector are to
utilise available power-generating capacity by expanding power
exports, to arrest the depletion of wood-fuel resources, to ensure
reliable supply and efficient utilisation of energy, and to protect
against environmental consequences of energy production and use.
The Energy Regulation Act, 1995 will help to achieve these
objectives. Priority is being given to the rehabilitation of  the
sector's infrastructure, to more efficient utilisation of existing
capacity and to enhance greater private sector participation.
Pricing policy in the sector will ensure that energy prices reflect
economic costs, promote energy conservation and ensure the
financial viability of sector organisations.
55.   Inadequate maintenance of energy infrastructure has seriously
reduced the capacity to deliver reliable supplies of energy to the
economy. There have been breakdowns at various energy installations
such as the petroleum refinery, the oil pipeline and Kafue Gorge
Power Station, necessitating major expenditures on repairs and
rehabilitation.   Priority   investments   include   the   private
development of the Kafue Gorge Stage III and Itezhi-Tezhi
Hydropower Schemes, and the rehabilitation of infrastructure in the
power and petroleum sectors. To address these issues and support



-63-                              Annex J
Page 14 of 26
the required reforms in the power sector, including the
commercialisation of ZESCO, the Government is preparing an
integrated Power Sector Investment Program .ith the assistance of
IDA and other interested donors. In the prcroleum sub-sector, the
Zambia National Oil Company (ZNOC) is in the process of entering
into commercial contracts with Tazama Pipelines and INDENI Refinery
on feed-stock transportation and processing, respectively. The
management of the fuel terminal at Ndola is in the process of being
leased to a private operator. The Government is committed to the
electrification of rural areas and has introduced a 10 percent
excise tax on electricity bills to finance the programme.
TransRort and Communications.
56.   The Government's objective is the development of an efficient
transport and communication network which is responsive to
customers' changing requirements. The Government will give priority
to completing programmes of rehabilitation and maintenance and will
intensify reliance on the private sector for the development and
management of transport.
57.  The Government has launched a major programme to rehabilitate
the road system.   Future spending on roads will be designed to
avoid further deterioration of the road network and improve only
those components shown to be economically justifiable. The
Government is finalising a roads financing plan on a sustainable
long-term basis which will reflect a larger financial contribution
from road users. The Fuel Levy is helping to finance the Roads
Maintenance Programme which is overseen by the autonomous National
Roads Board.
58.   Government policies for the road sector will focus on (i)
improving the management of roads notably through the establishment
of an autonomous national road authority to oversee the maintenance
of roads; (ii) enhancing domestic resource mobilisation for road
maintenance through increased and diversified road user charges and
streamlining Road Fund disbursement procedures; (iii) developing
the local private sector by increasing opportunities for
contracting inter alia using labour intensive methods; and (iv)
improving access in rural areas through a community road program
targeted on the poor.
59.   Zambia Railways'  (ZR) share of cargo has sharply declined
since 1990, mainly due to operating inefficiency, increasing
accidents  and  ZR's  inability  to  meet  customers'  needs.    A
comprehensive strategy and action plan is being developed to be
implemented over the period 1996-1997 which includes streamlining
the organisation, retrenchme-nt of manpower, upgrading systems,
restructuring operations and eliminating uneconomic activities. It
is hoped that the commercial viability of ZR will be improved and
sustained through the involvement of the private sector in the
management of either the entire railway or its key business units.



- 64 -
Annex J
Page 15 of26
60.  Government's policy in communications is to create conditions
for the provision of efficient and affordable communication
facilities throughout the country. A key objective is to accelera-
te the development of a rural radio and telephone system
interfacing with the system available to urban telephone users. The
Government has embarked on a programme for reforming the
telecommunications sector. The telecommunications operations of PTC
have already been separated from postal operations. ZAMTEL is now
an autonomous undertaking. In late 1996, ZAMTEL will be privatised
via a public offering of shares and the introduction of a strategic
partner. ZPA is in the process of appointing an adviser to assist
in this process. The market in which ZAMTEL is operating has been
liberalised and will be regulated by the newly constituted
Telecommunications Authority. ZAMPOST Limited is now operating
Zambia's postal services.
Environment
61.  Rapid population growth, urbanisation, increasingagricultural
demands and a high incidence of poverty, pose a threat to
sustainable use of natural resources which, in turn, threatens
developmental sustainability.  Government is paying attention to
environmental concerns by implementing the Environmental Protection
and Pollution Control Act. The creation of a Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources is a manifestation of this.
62.  A national Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) was adopted in
late 1994. It aims at integrating environmental concerns into
social and economic development planning efforts. Within the NEAP
long-term perspective, the Government is preparing an Environmental
Sector Programme (ESP) which will help the Government initiate
capacity building effort to better address environmental issues.
This will be part of a multi-donor effort to finance projects that
are in line with the NEAP recommendations and priorities over a 10
-15 years period.  Therefore the proposed ESP represents a first
step of a long-term effort and will define the elements for and
initiate the process of strengthening environmental capacities
while enhancing active community participation in environmental
protection and natural resource management.
63.  Environmental issues relating to mining activities are of
concern to the Government. These issues will be addressed through
enforcement of existing laws and the introduction of appropriate
regulations.   In line with the new Mines and Minerals Act, the
Government intends to adopt new environmental regulations for the
mining sector by the middle of 1996. Environmental Impact
Assessments, together with rehabilitation of existing mining areas,
will be required for all major new mining projects.



- 65 -                              AnnexJ
Page 16 of 26
SOCIAL SECTOR AND HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
Housing and Peri-Urban Settlements
64. A large proportion of informal urban settlements in Zambia is
not officially recognised. As a result, residents cannot obtain
formal title to the property which they occupy. The lack of formal
title prevents residents of such areas from obtaining loans to
improve  their  properties.  The  legalisation  of  some  informal
settlements can help to significantly improve the living conditions
of thousands of middle and lower-income Zambians without
substantial public outlays. Hence, the Government is adopting an
action plan for regularising and legalising some informal urban
settlements, including those in Lusaka.  Hence the Government is
developing an action plan for regularising some informal urban
settlements, starting with those in Lusaka. In the newly launched
National Housing Policy, the Government has reaffirmed its
commitment to improving the quality of life of people living in
informal urban settlements. Government will demonstrate its
commitment to carry out this policy through the regularisation of
several informal settlements.  The Government will encourage all
Councils, in particular Lusaka City Council, to adhere to and to
speed up the process of regularising informal settlements through
the existing legal provisions under the Housing (Statutory and
Improvement Areas) Act, Cap 441 of the laws of Zambia.
65. Zambia has a long tradition of employer-provided housing which
has made Government the largest landlord. However, tied housing is
impeding labour mobility and discourages the development of private
housing. Government has approved a National Housing Policy which
provides that Government and Councils should divest themselves from
their tied housing. Council housing sales will be completed by the
end of June, 1996. The modalities for the disposal of government-
owned housing are being worked out. Government is also undertaking
a study of the regulatory framework governing housing, including
building codes and health regulations, in order to make them
appropriate for adequate affordable housing development. A study
of housing financing will be completed before the end of the year.
EmRloyment and Social Security
66. Government has started to amend legislation affecting the
labour market with a view to create gender and age equality in the
labour   market,   cut   labour   costs   and   improve   Zambia's
competitiveness in the domestic and international markets. This
also aims at facilitating the absorption of labour in the economy
and improve the sectoral and regional mobility of labour.
67. The Tripartite Council on labour leaislation has agreed on an
amendment to the legal requirements for private employers to
provide housing which will be reflected in the revised legislation
to be submitted to Parliament in 1996. The proposed amendments to
the Employment Act will be considered by Cabinet by June, 1996 and
will also relax the definition of casual labour in order to



-66-                               Annex j
Page 17of26
accommodate the short, intermittent and geographically shifting
demand for labour. The process to amend the Industrial and Labour
Relations Act (ILRA) will culminate in a submission to Cabinet by
June, 1996. The proposed amendment will enable each enterprise to
have separate collective bargaining. The Government also intends
to encourage the evolution of a private sector-based social
security system. To achieve this, a Private Pension Schemes Act
will be put in place which, together with the National Pension Act,
will provide the legal framework for the social security system.
Targeting Social Sector Spending.
68.  The budget provisions to the social sectors, as shown in the
annex, reflect an increase in the overall share of education,
health, water and sanitation and social safety net in the
restructured 1996 Budget. Further, the absolute allocation for
critical inputs required to enhance delivery of social services has
been increased. Thus, the allocation for school desks has been
increased by over thirty percent, grants to District Health Boards
and Mission health institutions by almost twenty percent, and the
allocation to the Public Welfare Assistance Scheme (PWAS) by over
thirty-five percent. In accordance with the guidelines for the cash
budget. funds will be released during the year to ensure that the
social sectors in general, and these critical inputs in particular,
receive their intended share of the Budget.
69.  The improved delivery of social services depends also on clear
policies and specific plans for implementation.   Therefore, the
Ministry of Health will elaborate a National Drug Policy which
clarifies  its  objectives  with  respect  to  the  selection,
procurement, storage and distribution of drugs. The aspect of
procurement is the most critical and urgent component of the policy
and will be addressed as a matter of urgency. The Terms of
Reference and a timetable for the formulation of this policy has
been elaborated and a policy document will be considered by
Government before the end of this year.
70.  Support  for Nutrition  is  characterised  by  institutional
fragmentation, weak and grossly under-funded institutions, and lack
of a clear national policy. This problem will be addressed in 1996.
The Government has initiated a study concerning the role, funding
and management of the National Food and Nutrition Commission, and
recommendations will be submitted to Cabinet for consideration
after which they will be implemented.
71.  The Government has made use of NGOs in the provision of public
services, but the relationship has been unclear, owing in part to
the lack of precise guidelines. To make better use of NGOs, the
Government is formulating a policy statement with respect to the
collaboration with NGOs in the provision of welfare and safety-
net programmes.



-67-
Annex J
Page 18 of26
72.  Measures will be taken to step up cost sharing to augment the
total quantity and quality of services, not to preclude access of
those with few resources. A significant proportion of educational
and health expenditure is currently borne by households and NGOs.
There is room to expand the non-government share by instituting
cost-sharing schemes for higher income groups. Existing schemes are
being strengthened, and Government is also promoting the role of
the private sector in providing social services while ensuring the
maintenance of adequate quality standards.
73.  The Government is concerned about access by the poor to social
services. To deal with these concerns, policies have been
formulated to ensure that the poor are not denied education and
health services. During 1996 a Vulnerability Profile will be
developed in order to simplify and improve the identification and
targeting of households qualifying under the Public Welfare
Assistance Scheme for health and education payment exemptions in
particular. The Ministry of Community Development is planning to
conduct, with IDA's help, an intensive programme in 1996-97 to
improve its capacity to deliver welfare and safety net services and
to expand the implementation of medical-fee exemptions from 9 to
18 districts and will put in place a mechanism for administering
school-fee exemptions.
74.  Reduction of poverty on a sustained basis can only occur
through broad-based economic growth. Because of the widespread
nature of poverty in Zambia, the need for a more pro-active
approach to mitigate its immediate effect is recognised. For this
purpose, province-specific action programmes have been formulated.
These programmes are being consolidated into a national programme
to develop the productive potential of the poor by enhancing their
access to productive resources,credit, raising literacy, and
improving household food security. The Rural Investment Fund under
ASIP, for which KIO billion has been budgeted in 1996, is an
example of how the poor can gain access to productive resources.
75.  The Social Recovery Project and the Microprojects Programme
continue to be implemented,  with  encouraging results.   These
programmes are meant for the delivery of social sector projects
across the country.   The Social Recovery Project benefits from
IDA's support. Some 560 activities are currently being supervised.
Under the Microprojects Programme which has been supported by the
European Union since 1992, close to 180 projects have been funded.
The resources available to these programmes will increase in 1996
and beyond, thereby making the Social Recovery Project one of the
major delivery mechanisms for the rehabilitation and expansion of
Zambia's social sector infrastructure and for strengthening local
communities.



- 68 -
Annex J
Page 19 of 26
PoRulation Policy.
76. Zambia's population is estimated at 9 million and is growing
at an annual rate of about 3 percent. This suggests that Zambia's
population could double in the next twenty years. With half of the
population being under fifteen years of age, there is a high
dependency ratio and a greater demand for school places and health
services than the country can provide. Moreover, the widely
dispersed population makes it difficult to provide social services
in a cost-effective manner. In recognition of these problems, the
Government is implementing a national population policy and
programme of action. Family planning services are being included
in the basic package of services under the health programme.
Education.
77. Success in education and training is central to the success
of the Economic Recovery Programme and long-term economic growth,
being the most important determinant of productivity growth.
Revitalisation of the educational system is, therefore, accorded
high priority. For formal education, the Government's strategy
includes improving the quality of education through increased human
resource provision of learning and teaching materials; improving
primary classrooms through community-initiated rehabilitation and
the provision of desks, raising the quality of teaching through
more comprehensive pre-service and in-service training; reforming
the examination system; and creating a more effective management
and monitoring force through the training and retraining of school
principals and inspectorates.
78. Government is committed to an integrated approach to the
education sector through the development of a national policy on
the three concerns, namely access, equity and quality. In this
regard, Government has designed the Integrated Education Sector
Investment Programme (ESIP) which involves four Ministries, namely
Ministry of Education (MOE), Ministry of Science, Technology and
Vocational Training (MSTVT), Ministry of Community Development and
Social Services (MCDSS), and Ministry of Sport, Youth and Child
Development   (MSYCD),   as  well   as   private   and   voluntary
organisations. The ESIP provides for sector-wide integration in
the areas of relevant policies, and programmes that address the
provision of education and training by both government and non-
governmental organisations. The guiding principles of ESIP are co-
ordination and rational use of resources at all levels of the
sector in accordance with set priorities. ESIP builds on a strong
sense of partnership among all providers of education and training
and seeks to channel resources where they are most needed.
79. Within this framework three fundamental targets have been
identified: the provision of universal basic education, the
education and training of children who have dropped out, been
pushed out by economic circumstances or have never been to school,
and, thirdly, the provision of youth skills training for formal and
self-employment. ESIP will form the basis for concerted donor



- 69 -
Annex J
Page 20 of 26
support to the sector. In addition, the Government will carry out
an institutional assessment which will indicate the restructuring
required for the Ministries involved to implement these policies.
The first priority is being addressed by retaining the relatively
high share of primary education (36-40 percent of the sector's
allocation for 1995) over the 1996-1997 period and encouraging the
creation of community schools. The needs of children and youths
outside the formal system will be addressed through greater
emphasis on non-formal education channels for the completion of
primary schooling and the provision of skills training for the
informal sector.
80. Strengthening vocational and technical training is critical
to equipping labour-market entrants for gainful employment. To
achieve this, the budget share for trade schools and skills
training centres is being doubled from 4 percent in 1994 to 8
percent in 1997. The Government is also giving higher priority to
technical education and vocational training.
81. In order to answer the needs of modern Zambia which has an
alarming number of unemployed and untrained youths, the MSTVT has
embarked on a review of technical education and vocational
training. MSTVT is now moving from the current training system
which concentrates on the formal sector towards the type that
targets the informal sector. Thus, the Technical Education,
Vocational Training and Entrepreneurship Training Policy (TEVET)
which was approved by Cabinet in 1995, is being translated into
programmes and strategies for implementation. To identify relevant
programmes, nine studies have been commissioned which should be
completed in the first half of 1996, with actual implementation of
programmes starting during the second half of the year. The TEVET
Policy targets training to groups that are most likely to
contribute productively to economic growth and development. These
include school leavers, entrepreneurs in both the formal and
informal sector, the unemployed and under-employed, women and
retrenchees.
82.   The process of decentralisation in the education sector
started in 1994 and funds released for provincial education are now
sub-warranted directly to Provincial Education Officers. In
addition, the Government has progressed with the process of
establishing  autonomous  Education  Boards  as  part  of  the
decentralisation of responsibility, resources and authority.
Primary schools will be covered by one District Education Board,
but secondary schools and teacher training colleges will have their
own boards. For primary schools and teacher training colleges the
programme will be completed nation-wide by the end of 1996. As
regards secondary schools, the programme will be completed by the
end of 1997.
83. The Ministry of Education has been experiencing difficulties
in the efficient deployment of teachers and in controlling the
number of untrained teachers being hired. The Ministry is taking



- 70 -                            Annex J
Page 21 of26
measures aimed at improving its control over the deployment and
monitoring of teachers and at ensuring that the teachers' payroll
register corresponds at all times to the establishment register.
To this end, it will conduct a study on the payroll system and will
complete an exercise aimed at identifying and eliminating ghost
teachers from the payroll register. The identification of ghost
teachers has already began in three provinces. During 1996, the
Ministry will continue the identification in all the remaining
provinces. It is expected that up to 1,000 may be taken off the
payroll register as a result of this exercise. The Ministry will
also develop, in 1996' a system for the allocation of teaching
posts to primary schools based on enrolment figures and agreed
pupil-to-teacher ratios. Ceilings for the hiring of untrained
teachers in 1997 will be based on this new system.
Health.
84.  Government is implementing an integrated medium-term sector
strategy which focuses on increasing coverage with a package of
cost-effective health services; build district capacity; improve
logistic  and  information  systems;   develop  human  resource
management; and ensure that national programmes, parastatals and
training institutions are oriented towards supporting the quality
delivery of the essential package. This strategy also serves as a
basis for concerted donor approaches to the health sector.
85.    The strategy reflects the high priority given to cost-
effective health care. Cost-sharing is being introduced to
supplement Government resources without restricting access of the
needy to health services. Private sector involvement in health is
being encouraged. A pre-payment scheme was introduced for those
with ability to pay.
86.   To decentralise the health sector, the Government initiated
the establishment of budgetary autonomy for District Health and
Hospital Boards. The method of disbursing funds to the health
sector was altered: District Health Management Boards submit plans
for their activities to the Ministry of Health for consolidation.
On the basis of the consolidated plan, the Ministry of Finance
allocates resources to a control account for district health
activities, the controlling officer for which is the Permanent
Secretary for Health who is responsible for disbursing these funds
to the District Health Management Boards.
87.  More effective delivery of services in rural areas will be
achieved through allocating more resources to district level
institutions, namely first referral hospitals, health centres and
health posts. In 1996-1997, the share of transfers to districts
will be increased so that the estimated recurrent costs of US $12
per capita equivalent required to deliver the essential package of
care will be provided to each district. The Government also plans
to produce guidelines for equitable cost-sharing schemes in rural
areas by mid-1996.



-71 -
Annex J
Page 22 of 26
Water and Sanitation.
88.    Service delivery in the water supply and sanitation sector
suffers  from serious problems.    Only some 55 percent  of the
population have access to safe water, while about 48 percent have
access to sanitation facilities. The main problems of the sector
are financial, institutional and insufficient human resources. To
address institutional problems in the sector, an Inter-Ministerial
Programme Co-ordination Unit (PCU) and a supporting Water Sector
Development Group (WSDG) have been established. The specific
mandate of the PCU is to recommend policy reforms; propose an
appropriate framework for development, operation and maintenance
of infrastructure; and to guide the process of strengthening
institutions with responsibility for service provision. Government
adopted a set of sector principles which include the separation of
water resources management from water supply and sanitation;
devolution of executive functions to local authorities and private
enterprises; use of technology appropriate to local conditions; and
full cost recovery in the long-run. Legislation to give legal
backing to these reforms is under consideration.
Programme Implementation and Monitoring.
89. The prospects of the poor in Zambia will be improved with the
Government maintaining its course on economic policy. The expected
increase in economic output will expand income and employment in
1996. The successful reduction in inflation will also benefit the
poorer groups. The improved tariff regime should benefit exporters
whose activities tend to be more labour-intensive.  Regularising
informal urban settlements will improve the security of the urban
poor and expand employment opportunities in the construction
sector.
90. Unless closely monitored, the conversion of customary land to
leasehold could cause land alienation as prospective developers may
prefer already inhabited land, instead of opening up new areas.
The effective implementation of the Land Act, particularly the Land
Tribunal, is intended to safeguard against such encroachment.
Second, the elimination of tied housing for many formal sector
employees may cause short-term dislocation unless it is phased over
a reasonable period of time. Surveys will be used to monitor some
of these specific elements of the programme. A Poverty monitoring
survey is planned for December  1996.   A monitoring system to
measure progress in meeting Government's goals will be set up.
91.   In the social sectors, several measures will have a direct
impact on poverty, whereas others will affect living standards more
indirectly.   Increasing budget provisions to the social sectors
will impact on poverty directly.  Increases in the Ministry of
Health's  allocation  to drugs  and  related targets  for  health
expenditures  in  rural  districts  will  directly  increase  the
availability  of  basic  drugs  at  district  hospitals  and  of
supplementary  drugs  at  district  clinics.    Increases  in  the



- 72 -                         Annex J
Page 23 of26
budgetary allocation to the Social Welfare Assistance Scheme will
allow more people to receive needed care in local clinics, and will
also reduce the number of children not going to school due to
inability to pay school fees. Finally, policy and institutional
reforms in the social sectors will help to create an institutional
environment where the poor can be helped more effectively, and they
will increase the efficiency with which institutions deliver
services to the poor.
92.  The Economic Recovery Programme imposes formidable challenges
for successful implementation. For these reasons, and due to the
need to co-ordinate the multiple policy initiatives in various
ministries and agencies of Government, management of the overall
programme has been entrusted to the Technical Committee of Economic
Ministers which is chaired by me.
Concluding Remarks.
93.  ESAC II will help meet Zambia's external financing needs for
1996/1997, support macroeconomic reform further and reduce poverty.
IDA's  assistance  is  also  essential  to  help  us  mobilise
contributions from other donors.
Yours sincerel
RONALD D S PENZA, MP
MINISTER OF FINANCE
LUSAKA.
_____________________



73 -                                Annex J
Page 24 of 26
Annex A
Page I of 3
Social Sector Spending in 1996
In 1996, Zambia will continue to make improvements in social sector spending in
three important ways; namely, budgetary allocations, budgetary management, and
expenditure monitoring. In budget allocations, we continued to improve the percentage of
the budget allocated to the social sectors and have given priority to key sub-sectoral
categories in 1996. The social sector allocations relate to the health, education, and water
and sanitation sectors and social safety net activities. These are specified as a share of the
total domestic budget excluding the non-discretionary allocations (i.e. excluding
estimated allocations for domestic debt service and elections). The sectoral allocations are
specified as a percent of the total budget to allow the Government to adjust the absolute
expenditures depending on the fluctuations in revenue (domestic expenditure).
The sub-sectoral conditions relate to the allocation to the small but critical inputs
to social service delivery such as drugs. These are specified and protected in absolute
magnitudes. Since the magnitude of the sub-sectoral allocations is limited to about 6% of
the total budget (as defined above), specifying these elements in absolute amount should
not be a major constraint to the Government's capacity to reallocate resources among
alternative uses under conditions of revenue shortfall or unforeseen expenditure overruns
in non-essential categories.
Budget Management: In recent years, the flow of the budget particularly to the
non-wage categories has been irregular, thereby making it difficult for the social sector
ministries to plan their operations and to provide services effectively. In 1996, the flow of
funds should improve and become more regular and predicable. To this end, the
Government has adopted Cash Budget Operation Guidelines. The guidelines are
accompanied with a disbursement schedule, particularly for the sub-sectoral components
of the social sectors.
Expenditure Monitoring: The Budget Department of the Ministry of Finance has
strengthened its monitoring capacity and will regularly monitor aggregate expenditures
(including the non-social ministries), the social sectors and sub-sectoral expenditures.
These monitoring instruments will allow the Government to make mid-course corrections
in the event the actual releases depart from the budget. These monthly monitoring outputs
will also be shared with the Bank and other donors.
The attached table provides the proposed sectoral and sub-sectoral allocations by
the relevant budget codes for 1995 and 1996.



-.74-                                                           Annex J
Page 25 of 26
ESAC 11: BUDGET ALLOCATIONS TO SOCIAL SECTORS                                                     Annex A
Page 2 of3
Budget   Shbae       Budget   Shaft
1995A 2              199B %
*    (K B/)               1;K El)
1. TOTAL EXPENDITURE                                                455.28     100.00     523.21     100.00
Total exp. on the basis of which Sectoral share
is computed:
Total expenditure for the Year less:                                 853.98              1123.55
Foreign financeC capital expenditure;                               .212.40              *309.24
Domestic debt service;                                               45.00                -107.30
Foreign debt service;                                               *114.30               *112.00
Self-financed component of Crop Financing'
Wage Adjustrnent                                                     -23.00                *25.00
Budget Surplus                                                                             -30.00
Eections                                                              4.00                 -16.80
2.    SECTORAL EXPENDITURES
HEALTH                                                                56.69     12.45      67.53      12.91
Recurrent and capital expenditure of MOH (#46)                        84.30               12227
Defense Medical Services (#17105)                                      0.71                 1.11
less foreign financed capital expenditure                            -28.33                -55.86
EDUCATION                                                             67.03     14.72      98.34      16.68
Recurrent and Capital expenditures of MOE (#80)                       78.05                98.95
Recurrent and capital expenditures of                                  6.00                 6.39
Win. of Sc., Tech.. and Voc Training (#65)
ess foreign-financed capital expenditure (#80)                       *17.02                -17.00
less foreign-financed capital expenditures (#65)
SOCIAL SAFETY NET                                                      g.99      1.54       6.80       1.30
Grants and capital expenditures of                                     5.04                 4.78
nistry of Comm. Devt & Soc. Services (#45)
Provincial Community Development (#9x/40)                              0.60                 0.65
Pmvincial Social Wefare (#9x124)                                       0.70                 0.67
Provincial Cultural Servies (#9x/25)                                   0.24                 022
Socal Action Programme (#3U1Oll5102J021)                               0.05                 0.04
Social Recovery Programme (#38/0115/02/22)                             2.61                 2.45
Poverty Alleviabon (#45/0215/021012)                                   3.27
Poverty Alleviabon (#38/0115/021024)
National Social Safety Net Committee (#44101/5/011002)                                      0.04
less Foreign-financed capital expenditures (#45)                      -0.05
less Foreign-financed capital expendibure (#381011510V22)             -2.25                 -2.25
less Foreign-financed capibl expendibure (#45/02/5/02V012)            -3.22
less Foreign-financed capital expenditure (#38101/502V024)
WATER AND SANITATION                                                  11.89       2.61     1334        255
Ministry of Local Govenmment and Local Housing                         5.51                 6.13
Loans and Investments (#20) Net of non-water project                  25.35                23.05
less Foreign-Financed capital (#20)                                  .22.01                -17.57
plus water and saniabon Grants to                                      1.17                 1.03
Dlskt Councils (#29106131011001)
Market Upgrading (#29101/51021002)                                     1.00                 1.62
Ministry of Energy and Water Dev t                                     6.38                 5.21
Recurent and Capital expenditares                                     26.07                29.37
Department of Water Affairs (#13103)
Water Affairs in Povinces (#9xl19)                                     2.4                  2.39
lss Foreign-financed capital Expenditures (#13)                      -22.16                26.56
NCDP
NORAD Water Supply Sanitabon Co-ordination Support (#38101/102                              1.50
less Foreign-financed capital (#38t0115/02V026)                                             -1.50
DROUGHT RELIEF                                                        11.00      2.42       5.00       0.96
TOTAL ESAC SECTORS                                                  -t5o.60     33.74     181.01      34.60



75-                                                              Annex J
Page 26 of 26
SUB-SECTORAL BUDGET ALLOCATION                                                           Annex A
Page 3 of 3
Budget                Budget
1995                  1996
HEALTH
DnJgs (#46101/2105)                                                      6.14                  6.14
Dnqs (#77IO5/2105)                                                       0.25                  0.71
Ganit so atDDs    Health Boards (#46102N011003)                         12.77                 1Z93
Grnis to Wission Heath lnsEtubons (#46/02131011004)                                            2.32
NMla  Food & Nubibon Commission (#46101131011006)                        0.21                  0.23
Food Mngement Unit (#W101131011007)                                                            0.35
COMMUNITY DEVT
Pubic Welve Assistance Scheme (#45/0113/011012)                          0.56                  0.76
PUSM  (      3013011021)                                                                       0.50
EDUCATION
Studen Requisites (#80101/210W26)                                        0.37                  0.45
Prknty School RDCs (#80J09,17,21,25,29,33,37,4112)                       3.66                  3.17
Grant to CopperbetDisMcEducabon Boards (#30013N011001)                                         0.83
School Desks (#801011V021035)                                            2.00                  2.63
WATER & SANITATION
WaSer & Sanit. O&M Grants to Districts (#2910613101/001)                 1.17                  1.03









IMAGING
Report No: P-   6929 ZA
Type: PR



