Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18092
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUEILIC OF ZAMBIA
SECOND ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Cr. 2910-ZA)
June 25, 1998
Macroeconomics I
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: Zambian Kwacha (K)
US$ 1 = 1750 Kwacha (Exchange rate of April 1997)
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOZ                Bank of Zambia
CBoH               Central Board of Health
CEM                Country Economic Memorandum
CG                 Consultative Group for Zambia
CIR                Country Implementation Review
ESAC               Economic and Social Adjustment Credit
ESAF               Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GOZ                Government of Zambia
IBRD               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                International Development Association:
IMF                International Monetary Fund.
MCDSS              Ministry of Community Development and Social Services
MOE                Ministry of Education
MOH                Ministry of Health
MPU                Ministerial Procurement Units
NEDC               National Economic and Development Committee
PER                Public Expenditure Review
PFP                Policy Framework Paper,
PIRC               Privatization and Indu$trial Reform Credits
PTA                Preferential Trade Agreement
PWAS               Public Welfare Assistance Scheme.
VAT                Value Added Tax
ZCCM               Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
ZESCO              Zambia Electricity Supply Qpmpany
ZNTB               Zambia National Tender Board
ZIMCO              Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
ZPA                Zambia Privatization Agency
ZRA                Zambia Revenue Authority
Vice President:                                     Callisto Madavo
Country Director:                                   Phyllis Pomerantz
Staff Member:                                       Hinh Dinh



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
SECOND ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Cr. 2910-ZA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface
Evaluation Summary ...................................................  i-iii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A. Background   ..
B. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .1
C. Achievement of Objectives                     .2
D. Major Factors Affecting the Program               ..10
E. Project Sustainability .1
F. Bank Performance .                                                   1
G. Borrower Performance    ..12
H. Assessment of Outcome    ..12
I. Future Operations                         .15
J. Key Lessons Learned                        .15
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1. Summary of Assessments .17
Table 2. Related Bank Loans/Credits                 .18
Table 3. Project Timetable .19
Table 4. Credits Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual  .      1 9
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation .20
Table 6. Status of Legal Covenants .21
Table 7. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .22
Table 8. Bank Resources: Staff Missions .23
Annexes
I. ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire .24
II. Borrower Assessment .33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



REPUBIIC OF ZAMBIA
SECOND ECONOMIC AN]D SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Cr. 2910-ZA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
'REFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Zambia Second
Economic and Social Adjustment Credil (ESAC II), for which Credit 2910-ZA in the
amount of SDR 62.4 million (US$ 90 million equivalent) was approved on August 1,
1996, and made effective on October 17, 1996. The First Tranche of the Credit (SDR
31.2 million) was disbursed upon effectiveness. IDA approved release of the Second
Tranche, SDR 31.2 million, on December 9, 1997. The Credit was closed on December
31, 1997
The ICR was prepared by Hinh I)inh (Principal Economist, AFTM1) and David
Greene (Consultant). The draft ICR was reviewed by Phyllis Pomerantz (Country
Director) and Ataman Aksoy (Technical Manager), Africa Region. Preparation of this
ICR started during IDA's completion mission of April/May 1998. The ICR is based on
material in the project file, including the Memorandum of the President (MOP), the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA), and supervision reports. The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by supplying the views reflected in the ICR
mission's aide-memoire and commenting on the draft ICR. The Task Managers for
ESAC II were John Todd and Sudhir Shetty.



REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
SECOND ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Cr. 2910-ZA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
i.    The objective of the Second Economic and Social Adjustment Credit (ESAC II) was
to support Zambia's economic reform program and to aid in the reduction of poverty by
promoting broad-based, private sector-led growth and improving the delivery of vital social
services. Key elements of the program supported by ESAC II were measures to: (1) ensure a
stable macroeconomic environment; (2) foster private sector growth by continuing the
privatization process and rationalizing effective protection; (3) strengthen factor markets, by
accelerating the implementation of land and labor market reforms; and, (4) improve the
delivery of vital social services by strengthening budget priorities for social sector ministries
and by further development and implementation of policy reforms.
ii.    Considerable progress was made in implementing the ESAC II program during
1996-1997. Fiscal management continuecl to improve and inflation decelerated. The
process of privatization of state enterprises, including the state mining company, ZCCM,
continued. The Government took positive steps toward improvement of the public
procurement system. Tariffs were reduced, its structure rationalized and exemptions
limited. Action was taken to implement the new Land Act, simplify and speed up
procedures for converting customary tenure to leasehold land, and regularize informal
urban settlements in Lusaka. Amendments to the Industrial and Labor Relations Act
were enacted allowing collective bargaining at the enterprise level. Budgetary allocations
for vital social services were protected. A national drug policy was issued. A study on
the National Commission for Food and Nutrition was completed. Finally, consultations
with NGOs to foster improved collaboration were underway.
iii.   The reform program began to have a positive impact on the economy during
1996-97: private investment increased, nontraditional exports surged and per capita GDP
rose. Survey data suggest that there was a decline in the incidence of poverty between
1993 and 1996.
iv.   Performance of the Government has been satisfactory, given the complexity of the
reform program and its limited administrative capacity. All of the specific actions listed
in the Development Credit Agreement were accomplished although some took longer
than originally expected, resulting in a delay in the release of the Second Tranche by
about 11 months. Part of this delay was caused by the several months' delay in credit
effectiveness and first tranche release due to several Board members' concerns on



- 11 -
governance and economic performance. Not all the actions included in the Letter of
Development Policy have been completely or perfectly implemented, but there have been
significant accomplishments. The Government's ability to maintain macroeconomic
stability has been hampered by the volatility of the international copper market, less than
optimal climatic conditions for agriculture during 1996-97 and by the decision of bilateral
donors to suspend program lending because of their concerns about governance issues.
v.    Performance of the Bank was also satisfactory. The program was complex,
involving actions by eight different ministries, and required substantial Bank staff input.
Nevertheless, identification, preparation and appraisal were expeditious, and supervision
was good. Other donors were kept informed of the project goals and the progress of its
execution.
vi.   Project sustainability is an important issue. The sustainability of the reforms
under this operation and indeed, of the whole adjustment program, will depend on the
Government's ability to carry on the remaining adjustments, and to obtain adequate
external financing. Sustainability will also require expeditious sale of ZCCM's
remaining major assets, as well as a serious effort on the part of the Government to
address the governance issues that have been of major concern to bilateral donors and the
Bank.
vii.  Several important lessons were learned from this operation:
v Adjustment for low income countries, especially those facing external shocks
like Zambia, is a long and arduous process. ESAC II was an important
operation to consolidate the hard-earned adjustment gains, but its
sustainability will depend on further policy actions.
*  While ESAC II was not unduly complex compared to similar operations in
other countries, implementation of its conditions, which involved actions by
eight different ministries, taxed the Government's administrative capacity to
its limit. Future operations should aim at fewer, and probably more critical,
conditions, particularly in an election period.
*  It may be important in adjustment operations such as ESAC II to identify at
the design stage the likely implementation bottlenecks and to provide, for
instance through a Technical Assistance loan, the resources needed to help
enhance implementation capacity of the Government.
*  The nature of NGOs as a heterogeneous group and the complexity of the
Government/NGO relationship make it difficult for adjustment lending to be
an effective instrument for dealing with Government/NGO issues.



- iii -
* Although it is important to protect social expenditures during the adjustment
process, it has proved more difficult to do so than had been anticipated. Due
to the cash budget system under which releases of expenditures by the line
ministries were made dependenit on actual revenue collections, the line
ministries were not able to adhere to their expenditure plans. Future IDA
operations will have to give more attention to issues of budgetary planning
and management if expenditures for social programs are to be protected.



PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background
1.    For the first quarter century after its independence in 1964, Zambia's economic
policy was characterized by pervasive state intervention in factor and product markets
and by large-scale state ownership of productive assets. State intervention resulted in
price distortions and inefficient allocation and use of resources. The effects of these
inefficiencies were, however, not immediately evident because the country had use of the
resources generated by production and export of copper. However, as the world copper
price declined, these inefficiencies became more evident, as domestic incomes and output
came under increasing downward pressure. The Government attempted to offset the
decline in copper earnings by borrowing heavily abroad. This was insufficient to halt the
economic decline and Zambia's economny and income levels declined rapidly during the
1 980s, while, at the same time, the counitry became heavily indebted.
2.    The Zambian Government that took office in 1991 launched a program of
economic stabilization and liberalization designed to reverse the country's economic
decline and put it on the path of sustainable growth. The objectives of the stabilization
program were to reduce the fiscal deficiit, bring down domestic inflation and restore
external balance. The privatization and liberalization program aimed at curtailing public
sector ownership of productive assets and eliminating price distortions. Because of the
country's heavy debt burden and the problematic prospects for its major export, copper,
the international donor community provided extraordinary balance of payments
assistance to permit maintenance of acceptable levels of income and employment to ease
implementation of these reforms.
3.   IDA has supported the Government's program through a series of adjustment
operations, of which ESAC II was the sixth. IDA has also helped mobilize and
coordinate external assistance through the Consultative Group process. The
government's program has been broadly successful. Prices have been decontrolled and
subsidies eliminated, inflation has been brought down significantly, market forces have
been allowed to determine the exchange and interest rates, quantitative restrictions on
imports have been eliminated; and the tariff structure has been compressed and
simplified. An ambitious privatization program is underway. The country now has one of
the most open, market-oriented economies in sub-Saharan Africa. The key question now
is whether gains under the reform process can be sustained and translated into concrete
benefits for the nation's poor.
B. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
4.    ESAC II was designed to suppcrt continuation of Zambia's macroeconomic and
structural policy reforms and to aid in the reduction of poverty by promoting broad-based,
private sector-led growth and improving the delivery of vital social services. The credit



-2 -
followed up on many of the elements supported by the first Economic and Social
Adjustment Credit of 1994. The broad objectives of the ESAC II program were to: (1)
ensure a stable macroeconomic environment; (2) foster private sector growth by
continuing the privatization process and rationalizing the tariff structure; (3) strengthen
factor markets by accelerating the implementation of land and labor market reforms; and,
(4) improve the delivery of vital social services by strengthening budget priorities for
social sector ministries and by further developing and implementing reforms in health,
education and social welfare programs.
C. Achievement of Objectives
5.    The ESAC II program has been implemented satisfactorily. Progress on
macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms continued during 1996 and 1997.
Fiscal management has continued to improve and the budget deficit was minimal.
Monetary targets have been met and inflation decelerated. The process of privatization of
staite enterprises, including ZCCM, has continued, although it has not been completed.
The public procurement system has been improved. -Significant trade reforms have been
made: the level of tariffs has been reduced, the tariff structure has been rationalized and
most exemptions have been eliminated. Amendments to the Industrial and Labor
Relations Act have been enacted to allow collective bargaining at the enterprise level,
rather than industry-wide. Action has been taken to implement the new Land Act.
Informal urban settlements are being regularized. Targets for budgetary outlays to protect
key social services have been established. The policy framework for delivery of these
social services has been improved by issuance of a national drug policy, completing a
stuidy on the National Commission for Food and Nutrition, and beginning consultations
with NGOs to foster improved collaboration in the delivery of social services. The
reform program began to have a positive impact on the economy during this period:
private investment increased, nontraditional exports grew and per capita GDP rose.
Survey data suggest that there was a beginning trend towards a decline in the incidence
of poverty.
6.    The program supported by ESAC II was described in the Government's Letter of
Development Policy. Critical elements of that program were designated as conditions of
release of the second tranche of the Credit. These included maintenance of a satisfactory
macroeconomic environment, improvement of the public procurement system,
satisfactory progress toward privatizing ZCCM, limitation of customs duty exemptions,
steps toward implementation of the new Lands Act, improving the efficiency of
processing leasehold applications, regularization of informal settlements, presentation of
amendments to the Industrial and Labor Relations Act which would permit collective
bargaining at the enterprise level, protection of certain social sector budgetary
expenditures, and progress in strengthening social sector policies (specifically
pharmaceuticals policy, the role of the National Commission on Food and Nutrition and
collaboration with NGOs). These conditions will be discussed in detail below.



-3 -
7.    Sustaining Sound Macroeconomic Management. Despite some fiscal relapses,
macroeconomic management was generally satisfactory during 1996-97. Fiscal and
monetary targets for 1996 consistent with reduction of inflation were developed in the
context of an ESAF program approved by the IMF in December 1995. However, a Fund
mid-term review mission in February 1996 was unable to conclude its discussions,
because fiscal performance was below expectations on both revenue and expenditure
accounts. Preparation of ESAC II was delayed for this reason. Policy adjustments were
then made by Government, which resulted in a strengthening of macroeconomic
performance. A Fund mission in late April 1996 then completed the Article IV
consultations and the IMF Board gave its approval in July 1996. The program was
successfully concluded in February 1997. However, by May 1998, the Fund still had not
yet been able to present a program for the second year of the ESAF program to its Board,
largely due to uncertainties regarding needed bilateral financing for balance of payments
support. Subsequent to a successful May 1998 Consultative Group Meeting, new
uncertainties have emerged surrounding the ZCCM privatization which have further
delayed presentation of the program. Although a formal Fund program has not been in
place since early 1997, the Government and the Fund have agreed on indicative fiscal and
monetary targets and the Government has met them.
8.    Strengthening the Public Procuarement System. Strengthening and streamlining
public procurement was an important pErt of the ESAC II program because of the need to
obtain more and better public services for the money spent, to ensure that suppliers
compete on the basis of price and quality, and reassure donors that their assistance is
being used carefully. Under ESAC II, the Government initiated a revision of the public
procurement system to improve its timeliness, transparency, and accountability. A
Procurement Action Plan establishing a schedule for implementing specific measures to
improve the quality and speed of public procurement was developed with SIDA and
World Bank support. The plan called for decentralizing the implementation of public
procurement to individual ministries and local governments, training and institutional
strengthening of Zambia National Tender Board (ZNTB) and the Ministerial Procurement
Units (MPUs), and providing stronger and more effective oversight of major procurement
decisions.
9.   Implementation of the program is progressing well. Procurement units have
already been established in six Ministries and several other agencies, standardized
bidding documents have been prepared, and procedures have been simplified. The
National Tender Board (ZNTB) is being transformed into an oversight agency. The
ZNTB will review awards on contracts aLbove K25 million (K300 million when
procurement units are operating satisfactorily) and propose procurement policy changes.
Procurement Units are being established in the Ministries and responsibility is being
shifted as quickly as staff can be recruited and trained. Thus far, procurement units have
been established in the six ministries and three other agencies--including Ministries of
Agriculture, Health, Education, Works, ]Finance, Transport and Communications, the
Science and Technology Agency, the Zambia Revenue Authority, and the Food Reserve
Agency. A World Bank Country Procurement Assessment Review issued in June 1997



- 4 -
foumd that implementation progressed well and that, when the reform is completed,
Zambia will have a good public procurement system. Perhaps more importantly, the
project has succeeded in drawing the Government's attention to public procurement
issues.
10.   Progress of ZCCM Privatization. The most important component of the
privatization program over 1996-1997 was the sale of ZCCM, which was a major focus
of the Economic Recovery and Investment Promotion Credit (ERIP), the adjustment loan
prior to ESAC II. Like ERIP, the ESAC II program required satisfactory progress in
carrying out the action plan for the privatization of ZCCM but the sale of ZCCM was not
made a condition in order to keep the playing field level for the Government and potential
buyers. For the purpose of privatization, ZCCM assets were split into nine packages, of
which the NkanalNchanga, Chambishi Plant, and Chingola Refractory Ores (AGLCo)
package was the largest (about 60% of total assets).
11.  Progress was made in the sale of four smaller packages and two packages,
including AGLCo, were awarded to the successful bidders, subject to contract.
Unfortunately, the sale of AGLCo was not completed on schedule. As of the date of the
ICIR mission (April/May 1998) agreement had not been reached. The extended
negotiations did not help ZCCM's production and finances, which continued to
deteriorate. Although the delay cannot be attributed to the Government alone, progress of
ZC'CM privatization at this time cannot be considered satisfactory.
12.   Limiting Customs Duty Exemptions. Significant progress has been made in
rationalizing the trade regime. An integrated package of customs duty reductions and the
rernoval of most exemptions was approved with the 1996 Budget. This package of
changes removed many of the anomalies that had crept into the trade policy environment
and restored the move towards a more outward-oriented growth strategy. The new tariff
structure provides duties of zero to 5 % for most capital goods and basic materials, 15 %
for intermediate goods, and 25 % for final products. These tariffs provide exporters with
access to inputs at near-world market prices, thereby improving their competitiveness.
13.   Most existing tariff exemptions were eliminated in 1996: there will be no more
investment exemptions, and existing ones are being allowed to lapse. Ad hoc exemptions
provided in 1995 were also allowed to lapse, and custom duty exemptions and refunds
have been limited to exporters, mining companies, firms that can prove damage from
tariff anomalies, and approved providers of health, education, and humanitarian services.
Under ESAC II the Government was to limit new customs duty exemptions. Very few
new exemptions were provided in 1996-97, and the Bank was satisfied with the
justifications for granting them.
14.  Implementing the New Land Act and Speeding-Up Applications for
Conversion Customary to Leasehold Land Tenure. The Government has recognized
that slow processing of land transfers and of applications for conversion from customary
land to leasehold status hampered the development of the land market. With the support



- 5 -
of ESAC I, the Government adopted meaLsures aimed at providing a short-term stimulus
to developing land markets on state land while building up institutional capacity for
longer-term reforms. As part of these measures, Parliament passed a new Land Act in
1995. Regulations have been issued for the implementation of the Lands Act. A Land
Development Fund has been established to enable the Ministry of Lands and local
councils to improve infrastructure, such as feeder roads, needed to facilitate the
development of land not yet under cultivation. A Lands Tribunal dealing with grievances
and disputes involving land has been established. Members of the Lands Tribunal were
appointed in 1996. The Tribunal has adopted and published its rules and procedures and
has met several times.
15.   The Government's program provided for the administrative performance of the
Ministry of Lands in processing leasehold. applications to be. The main causes of slow
processing of lease applications were identified and a plan to resolve the bottlenecks was
to be implemented. A review of records aLt the Lands Department undertaken at the time
of release of the second tranche indicated that there had been an improvement in the
efficiency of processing leasehold applications and an increase in the number of title
deeds issued. However, at the time of this ICR mission, the Ministry of Lands had not
kept updated information on progress in improving efficiency. The Government
recognizes the importance of improving the efficiency of processing and granting
leasehold operations and has committed itself to making further significant improvements
by the end of 1998, in the context of the Policy Framework Paper 1998-2000.
16.   Regularizing Urban Settlements. In 1996, 70 % of Lusaka residents lived in
informal urban settlements where formal litle was not available to the inhabitants. Very
few residents in these areas have had access to vital services such as water, electricity and
roads. Actions to speed up regularization of informal settlements were a condition of
second tranche release. The Government issued a circular in December 1996,
encouraging urban councils to speed up the process of regularizing informal settlements.
The Lusaka council has begun the process of legalization of the informal settlements.
Perimeter surveys have been carried out and field reports and socioeconomic surveys
have been completed. The Council has issued a resolution regularizing all informal
settlements. Following their certification by the Surveyor General, these will go to the
Ministry of Local Government and Housing for review and issuance of the appropriate
statutory instruments. The process was to be completed by end 1997. However,
technical problems have resulted in delays. Nevertheless, the process of legalization has
already had positive results. An NGO (Care), with the assistance of the British aid
program and with community participation, has recently launched a project to provide
water and sewerage to most of the Lusaka settlements.
17.  Increasing Efficiency of Labor Alarkets. Improvements have been made in
labor laws to increase the efficiency of the labor market. The recommendations of a
Tripartite Council (comprising Government, employer, and union representatives) on
labor legislation have been reflected in a bill passed by Parliament in late 1997. This bill
amended the Employment Act, repealed the article providing for the provision of housing



-6 -
or housing allowances and relaxed the definition of casual labor to accommodate
intermittent and geographically shifting demand for labor by such industries as
construction. Amendments to the Industrial and Labor Relations Act have also been
passed by Parliament. These amendments permit enterprise level collective bargaining,
as opposed to the sector-wide bargaining previously mandated. Wages and benefits can
now be negotiated between unions and individual firms.
18.   Protecting Social Sector Budgets As in the first ESAC project, budgetary
outlays for vital social services were protected. The Government retained the overall
share of the social sectors--health, community development, education, and water and
sewerage--in the national budget in 1996 at the 1995 level, 34% of non-interest domestic
expenditure. It also earmarked kwacha allocations for priority items, such as drugs, the
recurTent costs of running district clinics, books and study materials for schools,
chemicals for the treatment of water, program for the National Food and Nutrition
Commission, and funds for the Public Welfare Assistance program. Release of funds by
the Ministry of Finance was monitored and it was determined that a total of 35.8% of the
budget was actually released by the Ministry of Finance to the responsible ministries in
1996. Moreover, with the exception of school desks, release of funds for the key
subsectors met the targets. The Ministry of Finance continued to monitor releases for the
social sector ministries in 1997. The total releases were 34.3%, in line with the 1996
target. However, actual releases of kwacha amounts for specific subsectors in 1997 were
generally less than the amounts budgeted.
19.   Although it is important to protect social expenditures during the adjustment
process, it is more difficult to do so than had been anticipated. Budgeting appropriate
levels of outlays and actual release of budgeted funds by the Ministry of Finance to the
social sector ministries does not insure that the funds will be spent as intended. It is a
relatively simple matter for ministries to get permission from the Ministry of Finance to
reallocate funds within their budgets. In fact, a Bank mission determined that only 60%
of the funds released to the Ministry of Health for drugs, grants to mission hospitals and
district boards (which include district hospitals), the National Food and Nutrition
Commission and the Food Management Unit, were used for these purposes. This was
probably the result of a very tight cash budget under which releases for ministry
expenditures depended on actual revenue collections. Line ministries such as MOH were
not able to forecast their cash revenues and their limited capability in fiscal planning and
manaegement made it difficult, if not impossible, to adhere to their expenditure plans.
Future IDA operations will have to give more attention to issues of budgetary planning
and rnanagement if expenditures for social programs are to be protected.
20.   Improving Delivery of Social Services. The improved delivery of social
services depends on clear policies and specific plans for their implementation. Three
areas of policy were of particular concern in the ESAC II program: inefficiencies in
procurement and distribution of drugs; institutional weaknesses and inadequate funding
of nutrition institutions, and the effectiveness of government collaboration with NGOs.



-7 -
21.  Issuance of a National Drug Policy. A National Drug Policy paper was issued
in October, 1996. The objective of the policy is to ensure that Zambians have access to
good quality, safe and efficacious drugs that are affordable and rationally used. I[t
addresses the issues of drug legislation and regulation, quality assurance, financing,
procurement, storage and distribution, local production of pharmaceuticals, rational drug
use, training, research and development and traditional medicines. A comprehensive
public health logistics system, the Essential Drug and Medical Supplies Store, has been
established. A Drug and Supply Fund has been created and all supplies will be procured
through competitive bidding.
22.   Reviewing the National Commission on Food and Nutrition. The Government
has carried out a study of the functioning of the National Commission for Food and
Nutrition (NCFN). A Technical Committee drew up recommendations and a timetable for
their implementation, which was subsequently approved by the Minister of Health.
23.  Improving Collaboration with NGOs. Prior to ESAC II, the Government had
collaborated with NGOs in the provision of public services, but the relationship between
the Government and NGOs had been difficult at times. In order to improve this
relationship and to fully benefit from the presence of NGOs, particularly in the provision
of welfare and safety net programs, the ESAC II program called for the Government to
adopt a policy document aimed at improving its collaboration with NGOs. Adoption of
such a policy document was understood to mean approval by the Cabinet.
24.   This specific condition was met. In October 1996, the Cabinet approved a NGO
policy paper developed after a series of consultations between the Government and NGO
representatives. However, while the adoption of such a policy paper is a positive step in
improving collaboration between the Government and the NGOs, the complexity of the
NGO sector and the complexity of Government-NGO relationship called into question
the use of adjustment lending to build a favorable environment for the operation of NGOs
in Zambia and to enhance their capacity to contribute effectively to development.
25.   The over 500 NGOs in Zambia have a wide variety of mandates and programs and
do not constitute a homogeneous group. Moreover, the Government and some of the
NGOs had different expectations about what the outcome of the consultation process
would be. Some NGOs expected the outcome of this process, and therefore, of the
ESAC II conditionality, to be the approvzd of acceptable legislation that spelled out the
Government's policy on NGOs. Other NGOs opposed such legislation because they felt
it could be used by the Government to restrict their activities. For the Government, the
outcome was expected to be a policy paper aimed at improving its collaboration with
NGOs. Such paper would eventually lead to appropriate legislation. This more limited
outcome was also the Bank's expectation. In the event, some NGOs were not aware of
the Cabinet decision in October 1996 and thought that the conditionality was ignored by
the Bank and by the Government. For its part, the Government was frustrated that it
could not achieve consensus among the NGOs.



-8 -
26.   Because of these differences in expectations, there was some unhappiness with the
process on both sides, and with the role of IDA. Although the consultations have
produced a better appreciation of the role and concerns of each partner and have pushed
the process ahead, out of which a policy paper and appropriate legislation would
eventually emerge, this experience also illustrates the difficulties of dealing with complex
issues such as Government/NGO relationships through adjustment lending.
27.   The Letter of Development Policy also contained a number of measures to be
implemented. These measures include privatization of parastatals, restructuring public
health care, strengthening the housing market, rationalizing teacher deployment, and
improving the social safety net
28.   Privatizing Parastatals. Substantial progress has been made by the Zambia
Privatization Agency (ZPA) in privatizing Zambia's parastatal sector. ZPA has almost
completed the disposal of its current working portfolio. As of the end of March 1997,
220 firms/units in ZPA's working portfolio of 331 had been privatized. Of the
remainder, 41 were ready for or under negotiation, 26 would probably be liquidated, 12
were being litigated, and 10 were no longer being handled by ZPA, mostly state-owned
farmsn for which there were no title deeds. This leaves only 22 units under preparation.
Most of these are small tourist camps in national parks or sawmills owned by the Forest
Service. These should be ready for privatization in the near future.
29.   There are several important parastatals, including large enterprises in the
communications, power, hydrocarbon, transport and financial sectors that have not yet
been privatized. The Letter of Development Policy emphasized improving the
perfo;rmance of public utilities by increasing their autonomy and concluding performance
contracts. The 1998 Budget Speech of the Minister of Finance also committed the
Government to privatization of the last tranche of large parastatals, including these
utilities. However, it was not until June 1998 that the Cabinet approved this last tranche.
30.   Restructuring Public Health Care. The Zambian health care system is undergoing
a fundamental restructuring designed to make health care available to all, through
provision of a basic health care package at all levels of the health care delivery system.
The WVorld Bank has cooperated closely with Government in the formulation of this
strategy and is supporting its implementation. A National Health Strategy Paper has been
issued which calls for: (1) decentralization of services from tertiary care in large hospitals
to primary care in districts; (2) redirection of funding from centrally managed projects to
activities defined by communities and district and from higher to more cost effective
lower levels of the referral system; (3) defining an essential package of services and
interventions; (4) introduction of user fees to influence health seeking behavior to
appropriate referral levels; (5) increasing community involvement and ownership by
establishing neighborhood health committees; (6) opening the sector to wider private
sector participation; and (7) donor coordination in support of the Health sector investment
program.



- 9 -
31.   The Central Board of Health (CBoH) was established in October 1997 as the
agency responsible for running the health sector and spearheading the reforms proposed
in the National Health Strategy Paper. Implementation is moving ahead, but there is the
possibility that transitional problems might leave some temporary gaps in services.
32.   Rationalizing Teacher Deployment. The process of decentralization of the
education system started in 1994. H[owever, the Ministry of Education has found it
difficult to control the number of trained and untrained teachers in its employ, and to
contain and budget adequately for personal emoluments. In the Letter of Development
Policy, the MOE undertook to improve collection and maintenance of teacher records,
monitoring the establishment register, and is attempting to apply pupil/teacher norms in
the creation of new posts and is considering methods of rationalizing deployment of
teachers already in post. This process is underway. However, the administrative capacity
of the Ministry is weak and problems have arisen and the reassignment or dismissal of
teachers is proving difficult
33.   Strengthening the Housing MIarket. Zambia has'a long tradition of employer-
provided housing and other mandated fringe benefits. This tends to impede labor
mobility and discourage the development of a private housing market. In 1996 the
Ministry of Local Government and lIousing, together with the Ministry of Works and
Supply, established the modalities for the disposal of the Government's housing stock.
However, the ICR mission was unable to ascertain the status of these modalities. Sales
are taking place, but the process does not seem to be well regulated, there have been
reports of irregularities and the sale of government housing has become an intensely
political issue.
34.  Improving the Social Safety Net. The Ministries of Education and Health have
formulated policies to ensure that poDr families are not denied access to education and
health services. These policies are being implemented by the Ministry of Community
Development and Social Services, through the Public Welfare Assistance Scheme
(PWAS). However, because of budgetary constraints PWAS was only able to allocate K
192 million (about $110,000) for health care fees and K 48 million for education costs in
1997.
35.   An evaluation of the PWAS was carried out in 1996, taking into account
government policies, NGO experiences, community views and suggestions and the
capabilities of district and national institutions. The PWAS system is being restructured,
as a result of this review. The guiding principles for the restructuring are that
communities themselves are best able to identify the destitute and determine the best
means of supporting them; communities must be able to make their choices freely within
known budgetary ceilings, and their decisions should be transparent. PWAS assistance
must supplement and not replace that of families and communities, including NGOs and
churches. The PWAS is being converted into a three-tier system, with welfare assistance
committees at the community level, area coordinating committees, and district welfare
assistance committees. The PWAS will provide essential goods to the destitute, provide



- 10-
exemptions from health care fees, and assist in meeting cost of primary education.
Responsibility for selecting PWAS recipients lies with the community. A matrix-based
client screening form has been designed to facilitate decision making.
36.   Although the new structure of PWAS is exemplary, the MCDSS and its PWAS
program are severely under funded. The decentralized structure, making use of lay
people and serving scattered communities, requires at least a minimum of professional
personnel for supervision and training. However, the entire 1998 budget of the MCDSS
is only K 10.4 billion; of this only K 1.8 billion is available for the PWAS, K 0.3 billion
for administration and K 1.5 billion for assistance benefits. This means that the PWAS is
providing only the equivalent of about US$ 800,000 per year is to assist Zarnbia's
neediest population.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Program
37.   Dependence on Copper. The volatility of the international price copper has
added to the difficulty of balance of payments and fiscal management. The export price
of copiper dropped from an average of US$ 1.19 per lb. in 1995 to 0.85 in 1996 and to .70
in mid 1998. ZCCM's poor technical and financial performance have compounded the
problem. Copper exports dropped from 341,000 Mt in 1995 to 301,000 Mt in 1997, and
from US$ 851 million in 1995 to US$ 643 million in 1997. ZCCM's finances have
deteriorated severely. The company has been incurring substantial domestic and
international arrears, leading some suppliers to reduce delivery of essential inputs.
38.  Importance of External Assistance. Zambia's problematic export prospects and
its heavy debt burden combine to make external assistance, especially program-type aid,
essential. In fact, the excessive dependence of Zambia on external aid requires the
country to maintain a high level of commitment to the reform program. However,
bilateral donors suspended the provision of program assistance to Zambia in 1996-1997
because of their concern about governance issues, although they continue to provide
project assistance. These concerns led to a delay in the effectiveness of this operation
and resulted in less-than-optimal funding for the program during the period. Substantive
progress related to governance concerns is essential to ensuring that the external
financing gap in the government's program can be filled.
39.   Dependence on Rain-fed Agriculture. Maize is Zambia's major food crop, and
a major component of the Zambian diet. In part due to poor weather and in part to the
new, improved incentive system that encourages the production of other crops, maize
production dropped from about 16 million tons in the 1995/96 season the 11 million tons
in 1996/97. Shortfalls in domestic production raise domestic prices and require import of
maize meal. Weather conditions continued to be unfavorable in 1997/98, with adverse
consequences for domestic prices and the balance of payments.
40.   Limited Implementation Capacity Although Government's capacity to
implement economic reforms has improved over the past few years, it has not been able
to catch up with the increasing complexity of the reform effort. Early stabilization and



- 11 -
liberalization efforts mostly required political will, but were not administratively
demanding. As the process continued, administrative complexity increased. ESAC II has
proved to be a severe test for the Government's implementation capacity, which now
appears to be stretched to the limit. ][t may be important in adjustment operations such as
ESAC II to identify at the design stage the likely implementation bottlenecks and to
provide, for instance through a Technical Assistance loan, the resources needed to help
enhance implementation capacity. To help the Government build up this capacity, the
next adjustment operation will focus on enhancing the performance of the public service
by reforming pay and employment practices and by improving management controls.
E. Project Sustainability
41.   At the time of the ICR mission in late April-early May 1998, sustainability of
Zambia's hard-won gains appeared to depend on several factors. First, it depends on the
Government's continuing commitment to stabilization and structural reform. This
commitment has been demonstrated over the years but, given the country's high
dependence on external aid, needs to be maintained at a high level and even strengthened.
Second, sustainability depends on an expeditious completion of the ZCCM privatization.
ZCCM's production and finances have continued to deteriorate and its declining
contribution to the balance of payments and the budget and its increasing domestic and
international arrears could pose a threat to macroeconomic stability. Completion of the
sale of ZCCM's assets would enhance production and efficiency of the mining sector, as
well as providing a positive signal to potential investors. Third, sustainability of the
reform program depends on adequate external financing which in turn, depends on the
Government's ability to address the concerns of bilateral donors on governance issues.
F. Bank Performance
42.   Bank performance has been generally satisfactory. The program devised was
complex and demanding. The appraisal mission was large, consisting of eight Bank staff,
and required close consultation with colleagues in the health and education sectors. The
program required action by no less than eight government ministries and several agencies
and had eleven conditions for second tranche release. Yet, almost all the immediate
objectives of the project were accomplished, the second tranche was released, albeit with
some delay, and the project closed on schedule.
43.   Project supervision was good. Supervision missions were able to provide timely
and useful advice to the Government, Discussions with the Government indicate that the
Bank has done a good job in preparing and supervising the project. However, because of
the complexity of the project, and lirrmited staff resources, supervision missions had to
concentrate on progress in implementling the specific conditions for second tranche
release rather than a complete review of progress of the reform as a whole, as presented in
the Letter of Development Policy.



- 12 -
G. Borrower Performance
44.  Implementation of the program by Government was satisfactory. Especially
noteworthy is the fact that Government met the macroeconomic benchmarks established
in consultation with the Fund, even though there was no formal program. The potentially
troublesome issue of defining relations with NGOs has been handled well by the
Government. All of the specific actions listed in the Development Credit Agreement
were accomplished although some took longer than originally expected, resulting in a
delay in the release of the Second Tranche by about 11 months. The sale of government
housing remains an area where performance has been less than satisfactory and there
remain questions about the improvements in efficiency of conversion of land to leasehold
tenure.
H. Assessment of Outcome
45.   Evaluation of the impact of this project is difficult. First, Zambia's economic
progress reflects the cumulative impact of the reforms undertaken since 1991 and these
have been supported by six IDA adjustment operations. Second, most the actions
supported by ESAC II largely involve legal and institutional changes, the effects of which
will take some time to show positive results.
46.   Annex H of the Memorandum of the President for ESAC II includes 14
performance indicators to be used to assess the operation, both during supervision and at
completion. Most of the indicators of macroeconomic management and economic growth
were readily available (Table 1). However, most of those relating to institutional changes
and social development (e.g., speed of processing applications for land conversion to
leasehold status, backlog in surveying land, school participation rates, geographic
distribution of school fee exemptions, unit costs of essential drugs and consistency of
payroll and establishment registers of the Ministries and Education and health) were not
available on a regular basis.
47.   Macroeconomic Outcomes. Zambia has made significant progress toward
economrric stabilization during the period of implementation of the ESAC II program
during 1996 and 1997. Budgetary management has improved and the Government ran
small cash deficits in 1996 and 1997. The combination of relative fiscal balance and
cautious monetary policy led to a deceleration of inflation. As measured by the CPI (end
of period), inflation declined from 48% in 1995 to 18.6% in 1997. Moderating inflation
has had a favorable impact on interest rates: the official bank rate fell from 51.5% at end-
1995 to 23.5% at end-1997, and the treasury bill rate fell from 42% at the end of 1995 to
13% at the end of 1997. Exchange rates remained fairly stable, with the market rate
depreciating only 9% relative to the dollar in 1997, compared to a depreciation of almost
30% the previous year.
48.   Growth and Poverty Alleviation. The stabilization and liberalization of the
Zambia economy began to have positive effects on growth in 1996. After declining by
2.3% in 1995, real GDP increased by 6.4% in 1996 and, despite a decline in agricultural



- 13 -
output due to relatively poor weather, by 3.5% in 1997. Growth in 1997 was broad
based, with all sectors other than agriculture and financial services expanding. Gross
domestic investment rose from 13.9% of GDP in 1995 to 15 % in 1997. The private
sector accounted for all of the increase in investment, as public investment actually
declined.
49.    The shift towards a pro-export policy orientation has helped make the export
sector more dynamic. The value of non-traditional products increased by 26% in 1997,
reaching a record level of about US$ 300 million, accounting for 28 % of total exports in
1997 and including an expanding range of agricultural, non-metal mining, agro-industrial
and engineering products.
Table 1  Macroeconomic Indicators
1992    1993     1994      1995     1996    1997
Real GDP growth                           -1.7      6.8     -8.6     -4.3      6.4      3.5
% Shares of GDP
Consumption
Government                            16.2    27.9      14.8     14.6    12.6    10.8
Private                               82.1    78.1      76.3     77.6    78.5      77.8
Investment                                 11.9    15.0     13.4      13.9    14.9    15.0
Gross Fixed Capital                   11.4    14.6      13.0     13.6    14.5      14.7
Public                                6.7      4.5      4.2       5.4      5.7      5.2
Private                               3.8      7.0      5.6       4.5      8.8      9.5
External Debt (US$ Mn)                    6,943    6,788    6,496    6,770    6,349    7,262
Fiscal Performance (% of GDP)
Revenues and Grants                   28.5    23.9      26.9     26.6    26.0    24.0
Expenditures and Net Lending          31.0    29.4      33.7     31.2    28.5    26.2
Overall Balance (accrual)             -2.5    -5.6      -6.8     -4.6    -2.5    -2.3
Increase in Consumer Prices
(annual average)                          197.4    189      55.6      34.9    43.1      24.4
Exports (US$ Mn)                          1,120    994      1,066    1,186     993     1,101
o/w metals                           1,020     870      910      984      754      806
Imports                                  -1,302   -1,019   -1,003   -1,194   -1,055   -1,150
Debt Service Due                           683     522      542       590      453      376
Copper Export Volume ('000 MT)             409     402       360      341      327      301
Source: Bank of Zambia and Ministry of Finance.
50.    ESAC II may have had a positive impact on poverty. Increases in the MOH's
allocation for drugs and related targets for health expenditures in rural districts should



- 14 -
increase the availability of basic and supplementary drugs at district hospitals and clinics.
Increases in the allocation to the PWAS in the MCDSS have allowed a larger number of
people to receive needed care in local clinics and reduce the number of children who do
not go to school due to inability to pay school fees. Policy and institutional reforms in
the social sectors will help the Government to create an institutional environment where
the poor can be helped more effectively, but it may be some time before the impact of
thosc improved services can be measured. Regularization of informal settlements is
already leading to investment in vital infrastructure. Finally, consultations with NGOs in
preparation of the policy paper seem to be improving relationships and bode well for
future cooperation.
Table 2: Social Indicators
Nutritional status of the under five population
1991                  1996
Stunted Growth                             40                    42
Underweight                                22                    22
Access to Safe Water                       50                    50
Health indicators
1989-91               1994-96
Total fertility Rate                      6.5                    6.1
Infant Mortality Rate                     107                    109
Child Mortality Rate                       94                    98
Education indicators
(%)
1990-93               1995-96
Literacy Rate                              83                    78
Gross Primary Enrollment Rate              97                    93
51.   According to a Government study based on a 1991 survey and the Living
Conclitions Monitoring Surveys in 1993 and 1996, the incidence of poverty, which had
increased from 69.7% of the total population in 1991 to 73.8% in 1993, declined to
69.2%YO in 1996.



- 15 -
I. Future Operations
52.   Zambia's precarious balance of payments position, and need to complete its
reform agenda, suggest that IDA sltructural adjustment credits will be required for some
time to come. The next adjustment operation contemplates supporting rationalization and
reduction of the public service. This will be a major, difficult undertaking. The
difficulties encountered in rationalization of deployment of teachers encountered in the
ESAC II project highlight the weakness of administrative capacity within government.
Rationalization requires, as a starting point, accurate records of who is employed and
where. It also requires definition of the terms of reference of the various units of
Government, and some notion of the personnel required to carry them out. Finally, it
requires a plan and adequate financial resources for retrenching surplus employees in a
humane manner.
J. Key Lessons Learned
53.   The preparation and implernentation of ESAC II provide some important lessons:
* Adjustment for low income countries, especially those facing external shocks like
Zambia, is a long and arduous process. ESAC II was an important operation to
consolidate the hard-earned adj ustment gains, but its sustainability will depend on
further policy actions.
*  While ESAC II was not unduly complex compared to similar operations in other
countries, implementation of its conditions, which involved actions by eight different
ministries, taxed the Government's administrative capacity to its limit. Future
operations should aim at fewer, more critical, conditions.
T It may be important in adjustment operations such as ESAC II to identify at the
design stage the likely implementation bottlenecks and to provide, for instance
through a Technical Assistance loan, the resources needed to help enhance
implementation capacity of the Government.
* The nature of NGOs as a heterogeneous group and the complexity of the
Government/NGO relationship make it difficult for adjustment lending to be an
effective instrument for dealing with Government/NGO issues.
* Although it is important to protect social expenditures during the adjustment process,
it has proved more difficult to do so than had been anticipated. Due to the cash
budget system under which releases of expenditures by the line ministries were made
dependent on actual revenue collections, the line ministries were not able to adhere to
their expenditure plans. Future IDA operations will have to give more attention to
issues of budgetary planning and management if expenditures for social programs are
to be protected.



- 16 -
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
A.    Achievement of Objectives
B.    Program Sustainability
C.    Bank Performance
D.    Borrower Performance
E.    Assessment of Outcome
Table 2:     Related Bank Operations
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Disbursements
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Table 6      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 7:     Bank Resources - Actual Staff Inputs
Table 8:     Bank Resources - Missions



iCzpJesiWSUfln XI1q!H  |XJO1aJSteSUfl   |   XJOilus!( |  XJOD3UJSIWS X[l{I!H    I                                                                                                     aLuoan  jo ;uauhssassy  *g
p.                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~uot iado
mur1idwuoD 2U1BUOAOD
-. -- -- --- --- - - - - -- -- ---- -- -uou  iu = 31dw
lua!luaa                                   x~~JOpgJSHlP                                JOp1DJSiIBS AIMsH                                        aJUflWJOJJa 1aMOJ1Ou a
I                                                                       b~~~~~~~~~p                                                                                                                UO!SiAfldflS
l   ****   *  *   4                                                                                                               * --         a   U    s.;ss    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Uoilmd d
I. ::::EadV 
.  ... *. * + * + ....                                                                                              .3 *S ... UOUlidnpa
.....................................  ................ .................... ...................................................   ... .................... .......................... ..... ........... ............................... aia..............
.......................................................................  .......  .,.,,,,......                                      ................   .................................. ........... .................. .....,,... ''''s' ai''1-
........................................... , ..,,,,,,                .,,,,.   ...................                       ............................ ......... ..,.,.,,., ...........................................
u! l3oufl                                                     t(p)jrUfl                                            XA)Ni j!pqvuivjsSf  wvdwOd  -E
p.                      ~~~~u3wudop0AZ)( IOPDS  ltAUld
........................................    ...............................  .........  .                              ..........               ..................   ................................... ....... ..... ................... a i ;ob
p.N alq!S!lsaN                                                                              JOPlsea   le!luessqns   saA!aawo iaturWioS    *Iqnd
p.                                                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S;)Ail3ofqo [RjU0WU0OIIAUa
p.                                                                                                                                                           SUJ~~~~~UO3 I~~~~- UI 
p.                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sOA[mC30qo [mooS lqlo
p.                         S~~~~~P      suOd   OUO3D J3Pu3
.. . ./... . . .. . .. .   .. . .. . . .q... . ..   . .. . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . .. . .. . . .. . .. .   .. . .. . . .. . .. . .. . . .q... . . .. . .. . . .. . .. . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . .. . .. . . .. . .. . . .. . .. . .
SIN3IAJSS3SSV 10 A~~~~~IVNSfA1S :1                                                                                  IRDqSA
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .   .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .



- 18 -
Table 2: RELATED BANK OPERATIONS
Credit Title                           Purpose                      Fiscal Year    Status
Preceding lOperations
Second Economic Recovery   Macroeconomic stabilization, agricultural sector  1991       Closed
Credit                     liberalization, private sector expansion, and
restructuring and reforming the civil service and the
parastatal sector.
Social Recovery Credit     To foster community development efforts in       1991        Closed
alleviating negative effects on the poor of the
economic crisis, through rehabilitation and
improvement of existing infrastructure and service
delivery.
Privatization and Industrial    To modernize business framework, establish market-  1992  Closed
Reform I                   based exchange rate mechanism, and promote private
sector through privatization and improvement in
i________          .parastatal efficiency.
Privatization and Industrial    To provide balance of payments support to the  1993     Closed
Reform II                  parastatal reform and privatization program.
Economic and Social        To restore macroeconomic stability, support reform s   1995  Closed
Adjustment Credit I        in the areas of public sector management, develop a
market for land, end the budgetary drain of Zambia
Airways, plan a value-added tax, improve the duty
drawback system, strengthen and decentralize social
service delivery systems, and improve budget
allocations to and within the social sectors.
Economic Recovery and      To consolidate improvements in macroeconomic     1996        Closed
Investment P'romotion      management, stimulate investment, reform the social
security system, and support mining industry
restructuring, with increased private sector
participation.
Following Operations
Public Sector Reform and   To support Zambia's economic reform program, in
Export Promotion Credit    particular to: i) improve the performance of the public
sector service; ii) promote private investment; iii)
facilitate the privatization of ZCCM; and iv)
strengthen the delivery of social services.



- 19 -
Table 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle       Date Planned            Date Actual
Identification                MvIarch 1995        October 1995
Preparation                  lMay 1995            December 1995
Appraisal                     November 1995       March 1996
Negotiations                  January 1996        May 1996
Letter of Development Policy  January 1996        May 28, 1996
Board Presentation            April 1996          August 1, 1996
Signing                       April 1996          August 8, 1996
Effectiveness                 Jluly 1996          October 17, 1996
First Tranche Release         July 1996           October 18, 1996
Second Tranche Release        Jlanuary 1997       December 9, 1997
Closing Date                  December 1997       December 31, 1997
Table 4: DISBURSEMENTS
FY97                    FY98
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)     52.2                    42.1
Actual (US$ million)                 52.2                    42.1
Cumulative (US$ million)             52.2                    94.3
Dates of Tranche Disbursement       10/18/96                12/17/97



- 20 -
Table 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND
OPERATION
Ml jor Activities                       Actions                        Timetable           Status
Macroeconomic and Fiscal Policies
Maintain macroeconomic policy   Macro program consistent with fiscal and  Board condition and   Done
framework consistent with       monetary targets agreed with IDA and IMF   second tranche release
objectives of economic reform
program
Continue redirection of public  Total allocations for Social sectors in 1995   Second tranche   Done
spending from low-priority areas to  budget at least 33% of total non-interest  release
infrastructure and social services.   allocations
Public Procurement              Complete portions of Plan scheduled for  Second tranche release   Done
1996
Privatization                   Satisfactory progress in privatization of  Second tranche release   Not done
ZCCM
Trade                           Adopt tariff structure with maximum rate of  Board presentation  Done
25%. Many raw materials 0 tariff, capital
goods 5%/o, intermediate 15%, final goods
25%
Eliminate most tariff exemptions        Board presentation     Done
Maintain limitation of new duty exemptions  Second tranche     Done
Social Sectors                  Formulate policy on collaboration with   Second tranche         Progress
NGOs                                                            Satisfactory
Prepare an education strategy           Board presentation     Done
Formulate national drug procurement policy  Second tranche     Done
Maintain social sector budget of at least 35%  Second tranche  Done
in 1996
Complete study of National Commission for  Second tranche      Done
Food and Nutrition; make decisions on role,
management and funding
Land Policy                     Take necessary actions to implement Land    Second tranche      Done
Act. Appoint members of Land Tribunal,
adopt operating procedures and hold first
sitting
Increase efficiency of processing leasehold   Second tranche   In progress
applications
Promote regularization of informal      Second tranche         Done
settlements
Labor Policy                    Present draft amendments to Industrial and   Second tranche     Done
Labor Relations Act to cabinet



- .21 -
Table 6: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Credit       Covenant
Agreement        Type
Section                                     Description of Covenant                        Comments
3.01(a)         10        The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the  Complied with
request of either part, exchange views on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to
the Agreement
3.01(b)                   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to  Complied with
the Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying oat the Program, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request
3.01(c)                   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this  Complied with
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on
any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Credit
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of
the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any
action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
3.022           01       The Borrower shall (a) have the deposit account referred to in  As furnishing of such
Section 2.02 (b) of the Agreement audited, in accordance with  audits became optional
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent  and in light of the new
auditors acceptable to the Association; (b) furnish to the Association  disbursement
as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after   procedures, no audit
the date of the Association's request for such audit, a certified copy   was ultimately
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such  requested.
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (c)
furnish to the Associalion such other information concerning said
deposit account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have
reasonably requested.



- 22 -
Table 7: BANK RESOURCES - Actual Staff Inputs'
Stage of Project Cycle              Staff Weeks             US$'0002
Preparation to Appraisal                        46.7                   190.7
Appraisal                                       14.5                   60.2
Negotiations through Board Approval              10.5                  30.1
Supervision                                     36.8                  141.0
Completion                                       3.0                   15.0
TOTAL                                           101.0                 437.0
'Source: MIS Report (COSR2) - Staff Time Use and Schedule, in Staff Weeks and Dollars.
2 Includes travel and labor costs.



- 23 -
Table 8: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS
Stage of the Project Cycle  Month/   No. of   Staff Skills3    Days in    Rating    Rating    Types of Problems
Year    Staff                    Field      IS4       D15
Through Appraisal        Sep. 95     2    MEC,HRS            5
Oct. 95    6    MEC,HRS,PRS         4
Appraisal - Board        Mar. 96     8    MEC,HRS,PRS        16
,URB
Supervision
I  Aug. 96     4    MEC,IJRB,PRS       9          S         S     Delay in establishing
Ministerial
Procurement Units
2  Oct. 96     6    MEC,AGE,PRS         8         S         S     Same as above
3  Jan. 97      1    MEC                9         S         S     Concems re
percentage of
spending on social
sectors
4  Oct. 97     6    MEC,',SE,URB        9         S         S
,AGE,PSE,PRS
Completion               Feb. 98     2    MEC, CON            9         S         S
3 Key:
AGE           Agricultural Economist
HRS           Human Resources Specialist
MEC           Macro Economist
PRS           Procurement Specialist
PSE           Private Sector Specialist
SSE           Social Sector Economist
URB           Urban Specialist
4    Implementation Status
5    Development Impact



Annex I
- 24 -                                 Page 1 of 9
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT FOR
ZAMBIA SECOND ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (ESAC H)
AIDE MEMOIRE
Introduiction
1.    A World Bank mission consisting of Messrs. Hinh Dinh (Principal Economist and Task
Team Leader, AFTM1) and David G. Greene (Consultant) visited Lusaka from April 26 to May
8, 1998 to prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Economic and
Social Adjustment and Social Adjustment Credit (Cr. 2910-ZM), referred to as ESAC II.
Specifically, the mission reviewed with the Government and other agencies involved in project
implementation of the credit, as well as with other stakeholders: (1) the performance of the
Government and other agencies involved in implementation of the ESAC II reform program; (2)
the periormance of the Bank in assisting implementation of the program; (3) the lessons to be
drawn from implementation of the ESAC II Reform program: (4) plans for future operation of
the program, if applicable; and (5) the Government's contribution to the ICR. The mission's
conclusions and recommendations, presented below, will be confirmed by the Bank after the
mission's return to headquarters. Discussions with key agencies in the public sector, interested
members of the donor community and other stakeholders were held in Lusaka. The mission
wishes to thank the Government for its cooperation and for the generous provision of time and
effort.
2.    From the time of its independence in 1964 until the early 1990s, the country's economic
policy was characterized by pervasive state intervention in markets and ownership of productive
assets. This resulted in inefficient allocation and use of resources, which, however, was masked
by resources provided by production and export of copper. However, as the world copper price
declined, these inefficiencies became more evident. Attempts were made to mitigate downward
pressure on incomes by heavy external borrowing. By the 1980s Zambia's economy and income
levels were declining rapidly and the country was heavily indebted. The Zambian Government
that took office in 1991 launched a program of economic stabilization and liberalization designed
to reverse the country's economic decline and put it on the path of sustainable growth. Because
of the country's heavy debt burden and the problematic prospects for its major export, copper,
the international donor community provided extraordinary balance of payments assistance to
permit maintenance of acceptable levels of income and employment during the implementation
of reform. Zambia has made considerable progress since 1991: domestic and external trade have
been entirely liberalized, macroeconomic management has improved and inflation has
decelerated, and considerable progress had been made in privatization of state enterprises
3.    ESAC II was the sixth IDA adjustment credit to Zambia since 1991. Its objective was to
support Zambia's economic reform program and to aid in the reduction of poverty by promoting
broad-based, private sector-led growth and improving the delivery of vital social services. Key
elements of the program supported by ESAC II were measures to: (1) ensure a stable
macroeconomic environment; (2) foster private sector growth by continuing the privatization
process and rationalizing effective protection; (3) strengthen factor markets, by accelerating the
implementation of land and labor market reforms; and, (4) improve the delivery of vital social
services by strengthening budget priorities for social sector ministries and by further
development and implementation of policy reforms.



Annex I
- 25 -                                Page2 of9
Summary Assessment
4.    Considerable progress was made in implementing the ESAC II program during 1996-97:
fiscal management continued to improve and inflation decelerated; the process of privatization of
state enterprises, including ZCCM, continued; the Government took positive steps toward
improvement of the public procurement system; tariffs were reduced, the structure rationalized
and exemptions limited; action was taken to implement the new Land Act, simplify and speed up
procedures for converting customary tenure to leasehold land, and regularize informal urban
settlements in Lusaka; amendments to the Industrial and Labor Relations Act to the Cabinet
Legislation Committee to allow collective bargaining at the enterprise level were prepared,
budgetary targets for the social sectors were met; a national drug policy was issued; a study on
the National Commission for Food and Nutrition was completed; and consultations with NGOs
to foster improved collaboration were underway.
5.    The reform program began to have a positive impact on the economy during this period:
private investment increased, nontraditional exports grew and per capita GDP rose. Survey data
indicate that there was a decline in the incidence of poverty.
6.    Sustainability of these hard-won gains is, however, appeared uncertain at the time of the
ICR mission in late April-early May 1998. Completion of the privatization of ZCCM is essential
to improve the management of existing mines and to attract the capital needed to exploit new
opportunities. For the purpose of privatization, ZCCM assets were split into nine packages, of
which the Nkana/Nchanga, Chambishi Plant, and Chingola Refractory Ores (AGLCo) package
was the largest (about 60% of total assets). Progress was made in the sale of four smaller
packages and two packages, including AGLCo, were awarded to the successful bidders, subject
to contract. Unfortunately, the sale of AGLCo could not be concluded as of the date of this
mission (April/May 1998) due to delays in reaching agreement on commercial terms. Over that
time, ZCCM's production and finances have continued to deteriorate. ZCCM's declining
contribution to the balance of payments and the budget and its increasing domestic and
international arrears, are becoming a threat to macroeconomic stability. The macroeconomic
situation showed clear signs of strain during the first quarter of 1998: international reserves
declined rapidly, the exchange rate began to depreciate and inflation began to accelerate. It is
now difficult to envision a viable macroeconomic scenario without rapid conclusion of ZCCM's
privatization. Moreover, privatization of parastatals seems to be losing momentum. The
Finance Minister announced in his 1998 budget speech that a tranche of large parastatals,
including parastatals in the communications., power, hydrocarbon, transport and financial sectors
would be handed to ZPA for privatization. However, to date cabinet has not issued the required
resolution.
Implementation of the Program
7.    Implementation of the specific elements of the ESAC program -- reform  of the
Government procurement system, revision of the tariff structure, development of the land and
housing markets, improving functioning of the labor market, protecting budgetary provisions for
the social sectors, and improving the provision of vital services has been slower than expected.
However, implementation was satisfactory and the second tranche of the credit was disbursed in
December 1997. The ICR mission is, nevertheless, concerned about several aspects of the
program related to its sustainability: the uncertain status of privatization of ZCCM and the delay
in handing the last tranche of large parastatals over to ZPA; the apparent lack of control over the
sale of government housing; the slow progress in processing leasehold applications and in
issuing title deeds; the failure of the Ministry of Health to spend earmarked budget funds in



Annex I
- 26 -                                Page 3 of 9
accordance with its expressed priorities; and the inadequate funding of the Ministry of
Community Development and Social Services, especially the Public Welfare Assistance Scheme.
Macroeconomic Management
8.    Macroeconomic management has been generally satisfactory. Fiscal and monetary
taLrgets for 1996 consistent with reduction of inflation were developed in the context of the
ESAF program approved by the IMF in December 1995. However, a Fund mid term review
mission in February 1996 was unable to conclude its discussions. Policy adjustments were
miade by Government, and, as a result, macroeconomic performance strengthened. A Fund
mission in late April 1996 then completed the Article IV consultations and the IMF Board
gave its approval in July 1996. The program was successfully concluded in February 1997.
However, the Fund has not yet been able to present a program for the second year of the
ESAF program to its Board, largely because it has been waiting for the firming up of the
external financing. Although a formal Fund program has not been in place since early 1997,
the Government and the Fund have agreed on fiscal and monetary targets and the
Government has met them.
Strengthening the Public Procurement System
9.     Strengthening and streamlining public procurement was an important part of the ESAC
II program because of the need to obtain more and better public services for the money spent, to
ensure that suppliers compete on the basis of price and quality, and reassure donors that their
assistance is being used carefully. The Government has therefore initiated a revision of public
procurement to improve its timeliness, transparency, and accountability.  This involves
decentralizing the implementation of public procurement to individual ministries and local
governments, training and institutional strengthening of Zambia National Tender Board (ZNTB)
and the Ministerial Procurement Units (MPUs), and providing stronger and more effective
oversight of major procurement decisions. Implementation of this program is progressing well.
10.   A Procurement Action Plan establishing a schedule for implementing specific measures
to improve the quality and speed of public procurement was developed with SIDA and World
Bank support. Procurement has been decentralized to several Ministries, standardized bidding
documents have been prepared, and procedures have been simplified. The National Tender
Board is being transformed into an oversight agency. The ZNTB will review awards on
contracts above K25 million (K300 million when procurement units are operating satisfactorily)
an,d propose procurement policy changes. Procurement Units are being established in the
Ministries and responsibility is being shifted as quickly as staff can be recruited and trained.
Thus far, procurement units have been established in the six ministries and three other agencies.
Ministries of Agriculture, Health, Education, Works, Finance, Communications Science and
Technology and the Zambia Revenue Authority, and the Food Reserve Agency. The Bank's
Country Procurement Assessment Review of June 1997 found that implementation progressed
well and that, when the reform is completed, Zambia will have a sound public procurement
system.
The Privatization Program
11.   ZCCM. The ESAC II program did not provide a specific date for completion of ZCCM
privatization, only requiring "satisfactory progress." However, preparations for privatization and
negotiations for the sale were underway during the time ESAC II was being implemented. For
the purpose of privatization, ZCCM assets were split into nine packages, of which the
Nkana/Nchanga, Chambishi Plant, and Chingola Refractory Ores (AGLCo) package was the



Annex I
-27 -                                  Page 4 of 9
largest (about 60% of total assets). Until December 1997, progress was made in the sale of four
smaller packages and two packages, including AGLCo, were awarded to the successful bidders,
subject to contract. Unfortunately, the sale of AGLCo could not be concluded as of the date of
this mission (April/May 1998) due to delays in reaching agreement on commercial terms.
During the period of prolonged negotiations ZCCM's production and its financial performance
have deteriorated further. Althouglh the delay cannot be attributed to the Government alone,
progress of ZCCM privatization to date cannot be considered satisfactory.
12.   Parastatals. Substantial progress has been made by the Zambia Privatization Agency
(ZPA) in privatizing Zambia's parastatal sector. ZPA has almost completed the disposal of its
current working portfolio. As of the end of March 1997, 220 firms/units in ZPA's working
portfolio of 331 had been privatized. Of tlhe remainder, 41 were ready for or under negotiation,
26 would probably be liquidated, 12 were being litigated, and 10 were not being handled by
ZPA, mostly state-owned farms for which there are no title deeds. This leaves only 22 units
under preparation. Most of these are small tourist camps in national parks or sawmills owned by
the Forest Service and their privatization will not require much preparation.
Rationalizing Trade Policy
13.   In spite of the improvements in the trade regime since 1991, it remained difficult for
exporters of non-traditional products and some import-competing enterprises to be competitive
because customs duties oni capital goods and intermediate goods were 20 and 30 % if sourced
outside COMESA (Common Market for East and Southern Africa). Many import-substituting
activities had lower nominal protection oni their outputs (because of exemptions, smuggling, and
the 60 % concession on COMESA imports) than the customs duty rates paid on inputs.
14.   Significant progress has been made in rationalizing the trade regime. An integrated
package of customs duty reductions and the removal of most exemptions was included in the
1996 Budget. The new tariff structure provides duties of zero to 5 % for most capital goods and
basic materials, 15 % for intermediate goods, and 25 % for final products. These tariffs provide
exporters with access to inputs at near- world market prices, thereby improving their
competitiveness.
15.   Most existing tariff exemptions were eliminated in 1996, there will be no more
investment exemptions, and existing ones are being allowed to lapse. Ad hoc exemptions
provided in 1995 were allowed to lapse, and custom duty exemptions and refunds have been
limited to exporters, mining companies, firms that can prove damage from tariff anomalies, and
approved providers of health, education, and humanitarian services. Very few new exemptions
were provided in 1996-97, and the Bank was satisfied with the justification for granting them.
Reforming Land Policy
16.   The Government has recognized that slow  processing of land transfers and of
applications for conversion from customary land to leasehold status has hampered the
development of a land market. In order to remedy this, Parliament passed a new Land Act in
1995. Rules and regulations have been issuaed for the implementation of the Lands Act. A Land
Development Fund has been established to enable the Ministry of Lands and local Councils to
improve infrastructure such as feeder roads needed to facilitate the development of land not yet
under cultivation. A Lands Tribunal dealing with grievances and disputes involving land has
also been established. Members of the Ltnds Tribunal were appointed in 1996. The Tribunal
has adopted and published its rules and procedures and has met several times.



Annex I
- 28 -                                 Page 5 of9
17.   The ESAC II supervision mission reviewed performance of the Ministry of Lands in
processing leasehold applications. It reviewed records of the Lands Department and found that
there had been a significant improvement. This ICR mission, however, could not find any
information that supports that conclusion. Moreover, the National Farmers' Union, which
frequently assists its members in the application process, stated unequivocally that there had
been no improvement; that registry staff of the Ministry was poorly qualified, that
computerizaton had not taken hold, that record keeping was haphazard and that processing
surveys remained a bottleneck. Delays in issuing titles remains a serious problem because
without titles, farmers are reluctant to make on-farm improvements and cannot use their land as
collateral for loans.
Clhanging Housing Policy
18.   Zambia has a long tradition of employer-provided housing and other mandated fringe
benefits. However, the provision of housing impedes labor mobility and discourages the
development of a private housing market. Cabinet has approved a National Housing Policy that
provides for the Government, the largest landlord in Zambia, to sell the houses it provides to
civil servants. In 1996 the Ministry of Local Government and Housing, together with the
Ministry of Works and Supply, established the modalities for the disposal of the Government's
housing stock. The mission was unable to ascertain the status of these "modalities". Sales are
taking place but the process does not seem to be well regulated and there have been numerous
reports of irregularities and the sale of government housing has become an intensely political
issue.
Regularizing Urban Settlements
19.   In 1996, 70 % of Lusaka residents lived in informal urban settlements without formal
title available to the inhabitants. Very few residents in these areas have had access to vital
services such as water, electricity and roads. The Government issued a circular in December
1996, encouraging urban councils to speed up the process of regularizing informal settlements.
As a result, the process of legalization of the 15 informal settlements in Lusaka has been started
by the Council. Perimeter surveys have been carried out and Field Reports and Socio-Economic
Surveys have been completed and the. Lusaka City Council has issued a resolution regularizing
all 15 settlements. Following their certification by the Surveyor General, these will go to the
M,inistry of Local Government and Housing for review and issuance of the appropriate statutory
instruments. Although the process was expected to be completed by end 1997, technical
problems have resulted in delays. Nevertheless, the process of legalization has had positive
results. An NGO (Care), with assistance from DFID, and community participation, has recently
latnched a project to provide water and sewerage to most of the Lusaka settlements.
Increasing Efficiency of Labor Markets
20,   Improvements have been made in labor laws. The recommendations of a Tripartite
Council (comprising Government, employer, and union representatives) on labor legislation have
been reflected in a bill passed by Parliament in late 1997 revising to the Employment Act by
repealing the article relating to the provision of housing or housing allowances. The bill also
relaxed the definition of casual labor in order to accommodate the short, intermittent and
geographically shifting demand for labor by such industries as construction. Amendments to the
Inclustrial and Labor Relations Act, have also been passed by Parliament. These enable
enterprise to have separate collective bargaining, as opposed to the sector-wide bargaining
mandated by previous law, so that labor benefits can reflect the capacity of each enterprise to
pay.



Annex I
-29 -                                 Page 6 of 9
Protecting Social Sector Spending
21.   In order to protect outlays for vital social services in a time of extreme budgetary
stringency, the Government decided to retain the overall share of the social sectors--health,
community development, education, and water and sewerage--in the national budget in 1996 at
the 1995 level, 34% of non-interest domestic expenditure. Moreover, it protected, and in some
cases increased, the kwacha allocation to priority areas such as drugs and the recurrent costs of
running district clinics, books and study materials for schools, chemicals for the treatment of
water in the Ministry of Local Government and Housing, program funds in the National Food
and Nutrition Commission, and funds for the Public Welfare Assistance program. Release of
funds by the Ministry of Finance were monitored and it was determined that a total of 35.8% of
the budget was released to these ministries in 1996. Moreover, with the exception of school
desks, release of funds for the key subsectors met the targets. The Ministry of Finance continued
to monitor releases for the social sector ministries in 1997. The total releases were 34.3%, in
line with the 1996 target. However, release of kwacha amounts for specific subsectors in 1997
was generally less than the amount budgetecl
22.   Release of funds by the Ministry of Finance to the social sector ministries does not
guarantee that the funds will be spent as intended. A Bank mission determined that only 60% of
the funds released to the Ministry of Health for drugs, grants to mission and district hospitals, the
National Food and Nutrition Commission and the Food Management Unit, was used for these
purposes. Thus, the demonstrated priorities of the MOH appear to have been different from
those discussed with the Bank or reflected in the budget. As a result, the commitment of the
MOH to the decentralization plan is now being questioned by key donor agencies.
Improving Delivery of Social Services
23.   The improved delivery of social services depends on clear policies and specific plans for
implementation.  Three areas of policy were of particular concern in this operation:
inefficiencies in procurement and distribution of drugs; weaknesses and inadequate funding of
nutrition institutions and effectiveness of collaboration with NGOs.
24.   National Policy on Drugs. A National Drug Policy paper was issued in October, 1996,
the objective of which to ensure that Zambians have access to good quality, safe and efficacious
drugs which are affordable and rationally used. It addresses the issues of drug legislation and
regulation, quality assurance, financing, procurement, storage and distribution, local production
of pharmaceuticals, rational drug use, training, research and development and traditional
medicines. The policy is already in force and is operational. It establishes one comprehensive
public health logistics system, the Essential Drugs and Medical Supplies Store. The Drug and
Supply Fund has been created and all supplies will be procured through ICB.
25.   National Commission on Food and Nutrition. The Government has carried out a
study of the functioning of the National Commission for Food and Nutrition (NCFN). Based on
the study, a Technical Committee composed of representatives of the Cabinet Office and the
Ministries of Health and Community D)evelopment, and Social Services has drawn up
recommendations with a timetable of implementation. According to the timetable. The
Committee of Permanent Secretaries met and reviewed the Technical Committee's
recommendations. These recommendations were approved by the Minister of Health.
26.   NGO Policy. The Government has made some effective use of NGOs in the provision
of public services, but the relationship has been difficult at times. However, establishing guiding



Annex I
- 30 -                                 Page 7 of 9
principles for cooperation is difficult. There are now over 500 NGOs in Zambia and they have a
wide variety of mandates and programs. They do not constitute a homogeneous group and the
sitatements of any one unit cannot be taken as representing the views of the whole NGO
community. The relationship with Government of NGOs whose mandates are broadly defined as
"advocacy," has been tense, with a great deal of mutual suspicion. "Humanitarian" NGOs are
sometimes viewed as competitors of Government and there has been less than optimal
cooperation and coordination. In order to improve these relationships and to make better use of
NGOs, particularly in the provision of welfare and safety net programs, the ESAC program
called for preparation of a policy document and legislation on NGOs. Government initiated what
turned out to be series of joint meeting centering on a policy statement on the role of NGOs and
modalities for cooperation between NGOs and Government. The result of this process has been
a better appreciation of the role and concerns of each. A policy paper is being developed and
appropriate legislation is being drafted in close cooperation and consultation with representatives
of the NGO community. This work should be completed in the near future, but the process may
be as important as the product.
Restructuring Public Health Care
27.   The Zambian Health care system is undergoing a fundamental restructuring designed to
make health care available to all through provision of a basic health care package at all levels of
the health care delivery system. The World Bank has cooperated closely with Government in the
formulation of this strategy and is supporting its implementation. A National Health Strategy
Paper has been issued which calls for: (I) decentralization of services from tertiary care in large
hospitals to primary care in districts; (2) redirection of funding from centrally managed projects
to activities defined by communities and district and from higher to more cost effective lower
levels of the referral system: (3) defining an essential package of services and interventions; (4)
introduction of user fees to influence health seeking behavior to appropriate referral levels; (5)
increasing community involvement and ownership by establishing neighborhood health
committees; (6) opening the sector to wider private sector participation; and (7) donor
coordination in support of the Health sector investment program
28.   One of the principal objectives of health reform is to shift management to the local level.
One of the core concepts is partnership: Neighborhood Committees and District Health
Management Boards have been created to mobilize and channel local energy to the health sector.
The responsibility for planning, implementing, monitoring and managing health programs is
being shifted to the districts. The program will focus on the needs of under served, high risk and
vulnerable groups. Priority will be given to rural and periurban areas, with emphasis on maternal
and child care, family planning, nutrition, control of communicable diseases, immunization and
environmental sanitation. The Central Board of Health (CBoH) was established in October 1997
as the agency responsible for running the health sector and spearheading the reforms proposed in
the National Health Strategy Paper. Implementation is moving ahead, but there is the possibility
that transitional problems might leave some temporary gaps in services.
Rationalizing Teacher Deployment
29.   The Ministry of Education has found it difficult to control the number of trained and
untrained teachers in its employ, and containing and budgeting adequately for personal
enmoluments. As part of its ESAC II program, the Ministry is in the process of improving
collection and maintenance of teachers records, monitoring the establishment register, and is
attempting to apply pupil/teacher norms in the creation of new posts and is considering methods
of rationalizing deployment of teachers already in post. However, reassignment or dismissal of
teachers is proving difficult.



- 31 -                                  Annex I
Page 8 of 9
Improving the Social Safety Net
30.   The Ministries of Education and Health have formulated policies to ensure that these
poor families are not denied access to education and health services. These policies are
implemented by the Ministry of Community Development and Social Services through the
Public Welfare Assistance Scheme (PWAS). However, because of budgetary constraints PWAS
was only able to allocate K 192 million for health care fees and K 48 million for education costs
in 1997.
31.   An evaluation of the PWAS was carried out in 1996, taking into account government
policies, NGO experiences, community views and suggestions and the capabilities of district and
national institutions. As a result of this review, the PWAS system is being restructured
according to the principle that communities themselves are best able to identify the destitute and
determine the best means of supporting them; communities must be able to make their choices
freely within known budgetary ceilings ancl decisions should transparent. PWAS assistance must
supplement and not replace that of families and communities, including NGOs and churches.
The PWAS is being converted into a three tier system with a welfare assistance committees at
the community, level area coordinating committees and district welfare assistance committees.
The PWAS will provide essential goods 1:O the destitute provide exemptions from health care
fees, and assist in meeting cost of primary education. Responsibility for selecting PWAS
recipients lies with the community. The community committee will know in advance what its
annual budget is and will make its decisions in accord with resource availability. A matrix-based
client screening form has been designed to facilitate decision making. It defines categories of
applicants (aged, disabled or chronically ill, single heads of households, orphaned or neglected
children, displaced persons or disaster victims), economic status (no support from relatives,
unable to or should not work no productive assets) and other characteristics (unable to support
dependents, under 18 or still in school, child headed household, substandard housing, insufficient
food).
32.   Although the new structure of PWAS is exemplary, the MCDSS and its PWAS program
are severely under funded. The decentralized structure, making use of lay people and serving
scattered communities, requires at least a minimum of professional personnel for supervision and
training. Moreover these professionals must have transportation. The entire 1998 budget of the
MCDSS is only K 10.4 billion; of this only K 1.8 billion is available for the PWAS, K 0.3 billion
for administration and K 1.5 billion for assistance benefits. This means that the PWAS is
providing only the equivalent of about ULS$ 800,000 per year is to assist Zambia's neediest
population. This highlights the importance of the role of families, communities and NGOs in
providing a social safety net.
Impact of the Project
33.   Evaluation of the impact of this specific project is difficult. First, Zambia's economic
progress reflects the cumulative impact of the reforms undertaken since 1991 and these have
been supported by six IDA adjustment operations. Second, most the actions supported by ESAC
II largely involve legal and institutional changes, the effects of which will take some time to
show positive results.
34.   Macroeconomic Outcomes. Zambia has made significant progress toward economic
stabilization during the period of implementation of the ESAC Program, 1996-97 Budgetary
management is improving and the Government ran small cash deficits in 1996 and 1997. As a
The deficits were small enough so that virtually no domestic financing was required. The



Annex I
- 32 -                              Page 9 of 9
combination of relative fiscal balance and cautious monetary policy led to a deceleration of
inflation. As measured by the CPI (end of period), inflation declined from 48% in 1995 to
18.6% in 1997. Moderating inflation has had a favorable impact on interest rates: the official
bank rate fell from 51.5% at end-1995 to 23.5% at end-1997, and the treasury bill rate fell from
42% at the end of 1995 to 14.4% at the end of 1997. Exchange rates remained fairly stable, with
the market rate depreciating only 9% relative to the dollar in 1997, compared to a depreciation of
almost 30% the previous year.
35.   Growth and Poverty The stabilization and liberalization of the Zambia economy began
to have positive effects on economic performance in 1996. After declining by 2.3% in 1995, real
GDP increased by 6.4% in 1996 and, despite a decline in agricultural output due to relatively
poor weather, by 3.5% in 1997. Growth in 1997 was broad based, with all sectors other than
agriculture and financial services expanding. Gross domestic investment rose from 13.9% of
GDP in 1995 to in 1997. The private sector accounted for all of the increase in investment, as
public investment actually declined.
36.   The shift towards a pro-export orientation in policy is helping to make the export sector
dynamic. The value of non-traditional products increased in 1997 by 26%, reaching a record
level of about US$ 300 million accounting for 28 % of total exports in 1997 and included an
expanding range of agricultural, non-metal mining, agro-industrial and engineering products.
37.   According to a Government study based on a 1991 survey and the Living Conditions
Monitoring Surveys in 1993 and 1996, the incidence of poverty, which had increased from
69.7% of the total population in 1991 to 73.8% in 1993, declined to 69.2% in 1996.
38.   Direct Impact of ESAC II Increasing budget provisions to the social sectors will
impact poverty directly. Increases in the Ministry of Health's allocation for drugs and related
targets for health expenditures in rural districts, even if not entirely spent for this purpose, should
increase the availability of basic and supplementary drugs at district hospitals and clinics.
Increases in the allocation to the Public Welfare Assistance Scheme in the Ministry of
Community Development have allowed a larger number of people to receive needed care in local
clinics and reduce the number of children who do not go to school due to inability to pay school
fees. Policy and institutional reforms in the social sectors will help the Government to create an
institutional environment where the poor can be helped more effectively, but it may be some
time before the impact of those improved services can be measured. Regularization of informal
settlements is already leading to investment in vital infrastructure. Finally, consultations with
NGJOs in preparation of the policy paper seems to be improving relationships and bodes well for
future cooperation.
Government Contribution to the ICR
39.    As agreed with the Ministry of Finance, the Government's contribution to the ICR will
be forwarded to the Bank by June 6, 1998.
May 8, 1998
Lusaka, Zambia
For the Government of Zambia                   For the World Bank
Professor Ben Mweene                            Hinh Dinh



Annex II
Page 1 of 2
24/06 'S8  17:15 FAX 260+1+251415       PIRTA MIN FINANC                      lzjoo
Commruncwaons should be addresed          b                    ",,g o, .
to (he Seerciary to Truesury
Telep6hsave: 60 2601-25S0544, 2S0945                        N
2S0940. 250946, 254995, 252121                           N   ......
relex: ZA 42221
FCx: Or 2601.253494. SC012, 250719. 251078
relte 1m::   ETNANCE RDGEWAY
IUUBIC OF ZAMA
MINISTRY OF FINANCE iAND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
P.O. BOX 50
RIDEWAY. 1510I
MFALI1 02/12/754                                               N    ROAD
June 23, 1998
Mr Hinh Dinh
ESAC 11 Team Leader
Macroeconomics I
Africa Region
The World Bank
WASHINGTON 0 C
Dear Mr Dinh
Re ESAC II - GOVERNMENT COIUMENT ON DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION
COMPLETION REPORT (ICRi
I thank you for your letter of June 18, 1998 transmitting the draft Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) for the Seacnd Economic and Social Adjustment Credit
(ESAC II).
The G3overnment has reviewed the draft ICR and is generally in agreement with
the analysis contained in the draft Report. However, capacity enhancement to
implament adjustment operations ought to be brought into focus in future
adjustment operations. The difficulties experienced in the Ministry of Health on
issue.; of budgetary planning and management and the stalling on sustaining the
increased administrative performance of the Ministry of Lands in procossing
leasehold applications illustrate the need for providing an adequate recource
base to deliver the expected outputs of an adjustment operation. In future it will
be essential at design stage to deteirmine likely implementation bottlenecks to
various conditionalities and provide through either an IDF or a Teciinical
Assis'ance resources for desired capacity to ensure effective and et;icient
implementation.
...1/2



Annex 11
- 34 -                            Page 2 of 2
/06 '98 17:15 FAX 260+1+251415       PIRTA MIN FINANC                       Q002
2]
Mr Hinh Dinh                                      June 23,1998
ESAC II Team Leader
Wortcl Bank
WASHilNGTON D C
In the case of your paragraph 29 on privatization you seem to be conveying a
messagge that implies that Government Is not moving ahead inspite its
pronouincements. The contrary is true. The Government is fully committed to
the privatization program of parastatals and cabinet recently approved tranche 5.
It will be necessary in view of the foregoing and to correct the wrong Impression
being conveyed in paragraph 29 that a recasting be done.
I Nwish to express the appreciation of the Government of Zambia for the findrfcial
assistance it has received from IDA under the ESAC II project which has
contribiuted in a positive way and has moved us a step further towards achieving
Govemment objectives of stabilization and re-structuring Zambia's economy.
Sinceregly
Professor Benjamin Mweene
SECRETARY TO THE TREASURY
MINISTRY OF FINANCE & ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT



