Report No. PIC1831
Project Name                   Zambia-Multi-Sector Adjustment Credit II (&)
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Economic Management
Project ID                     ZMPA3224
Borrower                       Government of the Republic of Zambia
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 50062
Lusaka, Zambia
Telex: (965)-42221
Fax: 0586
Date PID Prepared              March 24, 1995
Project Appraisal Date         November, 1995
Project Board Date             April, 1996
Background
1.   By 1996, Zambia will have undergone five years of the current
stabilization and structural adjustment programs supported by five
separate IDA adjustment credits. With the help of these operations, the
Zambian economy has undergone major structural and institutional
changes. The product market has been fully liberalized, and the
exchange and interest rates are now market determined. The large
parastatal sector that spans all economic sectors is being privatized
gradually. In five years, the privatization initiative will have been
largely completed. The public utilities that will still remain in the
public sector are being re-organized and forced to operate on commercial
basis. The necessary financial and managerial autonomy has been granted
to allow them the flexibility to adjust to economic circumstances.
2.   Through these policies, stability in some key economic balances has
been regained, but the response of the economy in terms of increased
output and employment, especially from the private sector, has been
limited and uncertain. Real output actually declined between 1991 and
1994 (due in part to poor rains in two of those years). Likewise, open
unemployment, particularly for the youth in the major urban
concentrations, has risen; and underemployment and low productivity
pervade the rural economy. These phenomena have compounded the
incidence and severity of poverty in the country.
3.   The four previous adjustment operations have supported the
Government's efforts to achieve macro economic stability as well as
economic reforms in key areas such as market liberalization,
privatization, improving social services, and promoting private sector
growth. In particular, the Economic and Social Adjustment Credit (FY94)
supported efforts to improve the efficiency in existing land markets,



and the adjustment credit proposed for FY95 will support reform in the
areas of financial markets, social security, and mining investment.
This proposed credit would build on those reforms while adding specific
efforts to remove constraints to the absorption of labor.
Objectives
4.   Taking into account the macroeconomic achievements into account and
the outstanding constraints required to promote broad-based and
sustainable growth, the adjustment operation under Multi-Sector II aims
at:
a.   maintaining the momentum of the structural
adjustment and stabilization policies already put
in place;
b.   continuing the liberalization of urban and rural
land and real estate markets;
c.   removing the regulatory and institutional
constraints to labor absorption in the economy,
including the informal sector, and facilitating the
opportunities for self-employment; and
d.   supporting policy and institutional measures to
promote outward-looking economic growth.
Description
5.   The operation will address policy and institutional issues in
improving labor productivity in and labor absorption into the private
sector, particularly agricultural and small and medium scale
enterprises. As these sectors will require improved access to resources
and inputs such as land and credit, policy measures in these areas will
be initiated and supported through the operation. To address the
increased absorption of labor, particularly in the agricultural and
rural and urban informal economy, the institutional and regulatory
constraints will be explored and tackled. Additional institutional and
policy support will also be initiated to encourage private sector
development and export growth from the non-mining sectors. The
operation will also continue the implementation of sound policies to
maintain macroeconomic stability and follow-up actions in the areas
supported by previous adjustment credits.
Environmental Aspect
6.   The proposed operation does not have any direct environmental
impact. However, the regulatory and institutional reforms relating to
land markets will need to recognize the environment implications of the
policy changes and avoid policies that could have adverse impact.
Implementation
7.   While the BOP support will be managed by the Ministry of Finance
and the Bank of Zambia, the policy issues will be formulated in
consultation with the Ministries of Land; Agriculture, Food and
Fisheries; Commerce, Trade and Industry; Home Affairs; Local Government
- 2 -



and Housing; Labor and Social Security, and Legal Affairs, and the
National Commission for Development Planning.
Financing
8.   The operation will support part of Zambia's BOP needs for 1996.    At
the moment US$90 million has been earmarked for the purpose, but the
amount may be revised depending on the evolution of the macroeconomic
conditions and Zambia's needs. The Bank will also play a key role in
mobilizing additional resources from the other bilateral and
multilateral donors through the CG process.
Benefits and Risks
9.   The operation is expected to be central in stimulating supply
response and generating a broad-based growth. In spite of the fact that
Zambia is endowed with a vast expanse of unused land, obtaining access
to land has become a critical constraint to both rural and urban based
new economic activities. With this operation, a gradual and consistent
approach will be initiated to address the land issues.
10. The success and sustainability of the adjustment operation in
Zambia will depend on the extent to which additional jobs are created
and on the level of household income they generate. This operation will
assist the Government in removing the policy biases to job creation.
Moreover, it will support poverty reduction and marshall popular support
for the adjustment operations.
Contact Point: Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.:   (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 3 -



