Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2910-1-ZA
                                                 (First Amendment)
                             Agreement Amending
                        Development Credit Agreement
               (Second Economic and Social Adjustment Credit)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
                                    and
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           Dated January 9, 1997
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2910-1 ZA
                                                 (First Amendment)
                            AGREEMENT AMENDING
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 9, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a
Development Credit Agreement (Second Economic and Social Adjustment
Credit) dated August 8, 1996 (the Development Credit Agreement), for
the purpose of providing support during the execution of the Borrower's
program designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's
economy;
      (B)  the Borrower has requested the Association to provide
additional assistance in the support of the Program by increasing the
amount made available under the Development Credit Agreement by an
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million four hundred
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,400,000); and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
           Amendments of the Development Credit Agreement
     Section 1.01. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is
amended as follows:
          (i)  deleting the word "and" at the end of definition (g);
         (ii)  deleting the period at the end of definition (h);
Page  2
        (iii)  adding next after definition (h) the following
               definition:
              "(i) 'Amending Agreement' means the Agreement Amending
              the Development Credit Agreement (Second Economic and
              Social Adjustment Credit) between the Borrower and the
              Association, dated January 9, 1997."
      Section 1.02. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is
amended to read as follows:
             "Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
             Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
             referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an
             amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-seven
             million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
             (SDR 67,800,000) (the Credit), which includes: (a) an
             original amount in various currencies equivalent to
             sixty-two million four hundred thousand Special Drawing
             Rights (SDR 62,400,000) (the Initial Financing); and (b)
             an additional amount in various currencies equivalent to
             five million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
             (SDR 5,400,000) (the Additional Financing)."
      Section 1.03. (a) Paragraph (d) of Section 2.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement is amended by the deletion of the amount of "SDR
31,200,000" and the substitution therefor of the amount of "SDR
36,600,000".
      (b) a new Paragraph (e) is added in Section 2.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement which shall read as follows:
          "(e) After a date twelve months from the date of the Amending
          Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made from the Credit Account
          in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds
          of the Additional Financing. At any time after such date, the
          Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwith-
          drawn amount of the Additional Financing from the Credit
          Account or any part thereof."
      Section 1.04. Paragraph (b) (i) of Section 2.04 of the Development
Credit Agreement is amended by adding after the term "cancelled" the
following  proviso reading:
            "and that any commitment charge on the Additional Financing
            shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the
            Amending Agreement."
                                ARTICLE II
                         Effective Date; Termination
      Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective
until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been
furnished to the Association that the execution and delivery of this
Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary governmental action.
      Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to
the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association
of counsel acceptable to the Association showing, on behalf of the
Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms.
      Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the
Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by Section
2.01 of this Amending Agreement.
      Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come
Page  3
into force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Amending Agreement, this Amending Agreement and all obligations
of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless the Association
establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this
Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this
Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full
force and effect, as if this Amending Agreement had not been executed.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
               By /s/ Dunstan Kamana
                                                Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
