                                                                                                              79878
                                                                                                      CONFIDENTIAL
             International Ba~k for Reconstruction and Development
                      International Development Association
                         International Finance Corporation
                                         FOR OFFICI;\ L t:SE O~L Y
                                                                                            EDS96-286
                                                                                            July 26, 1996



                            . Statement by Mr. Arnaud Cbneiweiaa
                            ExegJtjye Directon' M'eetiQ:•.July 30. 199&



Subject:      Zambia - Second Economic and Social Adjustment Credit.

             I appreciate Management• s efforts to find a compromise by adding a condition of
eifectiveness to this adjlutment credit for Zambia.                                   ·

              Four issues should be considered:
      1-      Is there my advantage in moving ahead with the credit approval today if actual
disbursements are not to take place, say, before late August or early September? An alternative
route would have been to await the findings of the joint Fund-Bauk sta1fmission before
considering approval of that credit, a.s we all know that it will be VCJY difficult for the Zambian
authorities to bring their program back on track. I would have been ready to support this
altemative possibility. To approve the proposed credit today, I would be reassured if
Management could con!irm that our conditionality would be better managed by using the
proposed approach than by delaying credit approval

       2-    Does the proposed condition of effectiveness meet the main concems expressed by
this chair during the last Board meeting? The question is worth asking as I found the condition
of effectiveness fonnulated in quite general terms in the updated note on Zambia:

            - On ZCCM' s privatization program, staff provided me with useful detailed
information for deteiiDining whether or not Zambia is satisfactorily implementing the action
plan for privatization. I would appreciate it if the staff could circulate the answer I received on
this issue: the speci:tic targets meet my expectations;

              • On the macroeconomic framework, the note needs to be clearer: Zambia cannot
meet end-June targets of the ESAF program. We can only assess economic performance
against the revised targets established under the staff-monitored program., which are
significantly weaker than the original targets. In fact, we are looking foiWard to
macroeconomic policies being sufficiently strengthened to permit the Fund to complete its mid-
ten:u review, including any further adjustment measures that may require continued shortfalls in
external assistance. In sum. while being aware that there is no cross-conditionality between the
Bank and the Fund, I would be very reluctant to see IDA money being disbursed for this
adjustment credit if no prospects are foreseen for the Fund to resume its disbursements under
the ESAF program.




 This.docu~ent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
 ofiictal dut1es. It should not be distributed without the consent of the E.'l:ecutive Director concerned.
                                              -2-



       3-    Who bears responsibility for assessing Zambia's performance? I find that
requesting another Board meeting to assess Zambia,s compliance with the condition of
effectiveness would clearly create an inappropriate precedent. In my view, Management is
responsible for making this assessment. The Executive Directors' responsibility is to provide
guidance to Management in exerting judgement. I consider the kind ofjudgement that was
made for the release of the third tranche of the PlRC last June to be clearly unsatisfactory. I
would find it more appropriate to request a progress report to Executive Directors that would
increase our confidence in the course of policies undertaken in Zambia.
       4-     Does it make sense to provide balance of payments support to Zambia without a
resumption of bilateral assistance which is needed for the reform program to be sustained? In
this regard, Management's proposal to chair m infoiiD.al donors meeting is welcome. But, I do
not like the political flavor of a request for a po~onement that would be driven by the
timetable of resumption of bilateral assistance which is also contingent upon political
developments in Zambia. I respect donors' concerns but they should not intedere with our
deliberations.
