Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24196
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-27430)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$9.37 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
June 12, 2002
CMPO
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2001)
Currency Unit = Cedi (C)
C1.00 = US$ 0.00013
US$ 1.00 = C7300
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  -December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AP            Action Plan
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CR            Consultant Report
EPA           Environmental Protection Agency
EU            European Union
GIS           Geological Information System
GS            Geological Survey
LED           Local Economic Development
MC            Minerals Commission
MD            Mines Department
MDF           Minerals Development Fund
MME           Ministry of Mines and Energy
NGO           Non-governmental Organization
NDF           Nordic Development Fund
PPA           Planning and Policy Analysis
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SH            Safety and Health
SER           Sectoral Environmental Review
SSM           Small-scale Mining
USEPA United States Environmental Protection Agency
Vice President:  Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager/Director:  Peter A. van der Veen
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Felix Remy



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
MININIG SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                11
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  14
6. Sustainability                                                                      15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     18
9. Partner Comments                                                                    18
10. Additional Information                                                            21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000966                                     Project Name: MINING SEC.DEV & ENV
Team Leader: Felix Remy                                 TL Unit: CMNPO
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: June 13, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: MINING SEC.DEV & ENV                         L/C/TFNumber: IDA-27430
Country/Department: GHANA                                             Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: NN - Mining & Other Extractive
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   11/19/92                             Effective:                   03/04/96
Appraisal: 06/14/94                                 MTR: 06/20/98            07/14/98
Approval:  06/13/95                              Closing: 12/31/2000         12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MINERALS COMMISSION
Other Partners: Nordic Development Fund (NDF)
STAFF                Current                                 At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto Madavo                         E.V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Peter C. Harrold                        Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:      Peter A. van der Veen                   Mary Oakes Smith
Team Leader at ICR:  Felix Remy                              Leo Maraboli
ICR Primary Author:  Felix Remy; Sati Achath
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                       S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objective of the project was to support the sustainable development of Ghana's mining sector
on an environmentally sound basis through strengthened mining institutions and organizational support to
small-scale minersW to introduce the use of appropriate and envirornentally responsible technology.
Specifically, the objectives were to: (a) enhance the capacity of the mining sector institutions to carry out
their functions of encouraging and regulating investrnents in the mining sector in an environmentally sound



manner; and (b) support the use of techniques and mechanisms that will improve productivity, financial
viability and reduce environmental impact of small-scale mining operations.
The overall objective was clear and realistic, although it was somewhat broad and general. The first
specific objective of institutional strengthening was realistic but its definition became clearer only at a later
stage based on the Consultant Report (CR) called 'Study of Mining Sector Institutional Arrangements'
prepared by Swedish Geological AB in December 1997. The second specific objective was clear from the
beginning. In March 1999, the Consultant Study, 'On Common Ground - Integrating Socio Economic
and Environmental Issues into Mining Sector Development in Ghana: Lessons Learned and the Way
Forward' looked more into the social aspects such as the poverty-driven nature of small-scale and
artisanal mining, which were needed to supplement the activities mostly of technical nature which the
original project had considered.
The project's over riding goal was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of
supporting the govermnent's program of accelerated growth through private sector development, poverty
alleviation, capacity building and improvement of environmental management. This was consistent with the
government's overall economic strategy, in particular the government's mining sector strategy, which
emphasized the liberalization and rationalization of sector policies, establishing an efficient and
transparent system of handling prospecting and mining licenses, and the divestiture of state-owned mines.
This strategy encouraged foreign investment through creation of open exchange markets, realistic exchange
rates, reasonable taxation policies, and freedom to market production through legal channels, while
adhering to sound environmental standards. It also included successful efforts to privatize state-owned
mines and encourage small-scale mining (SSM) activities, which were still rudimentary, through improved
technology and better access to official marketing channels.
The project envisioned several significant benefits to Ghana, which included: (a) strengthening mining
sector institutions which would enable them to encourage and assist private investors to start or expand
mining operations; (b) improving productivity and incomes of small-scale miners through active technical
and organizational support; (c) reducing negative environmental impact of mining through improved
regulations and more effective environmental monitoring and enforcement; (d) improving health, safety and
working conditions for large numbers of small-scale miners through the introduction of appropriate
technology and equipment, (e) minimizing environmental impact of SSM activities through the introduction
of environmentally responsible technology and processing techniques; and (f) mitigating past environmental
degradation caused by SSM activities through land reclamation and rehabilitation activities.
The project took into account lessons learned from previous three operations in Ghana which focused on
developing the mining sector (they were Export Rehabilitation Project; Export Rehabilitation Technical
Assistance Project; and the Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project). These projects had no specific
components to address issues concerning environmental impact of mining, nor the existence of a very large
and growing SSM sub-sector, and related social and economic issues. This project, on the other hand,
addressed these areas through capacity building assistance for environmentally sustainable sector
development. However, the small-scale mining component was not designed to address the issues in an
integrated way including discussion of this poverty-driven activity. Consistent with the Bank's 'Strategy, for
African Mining' (1992), the project focused on providing technical and organizational support as well as
improved social and health conditions for the SSM community.
The project was not unduly complex since it just aimed to put in place a framework that would, in the
medium to long term address a variety of issues such as legal, fiscal, institutional, environmental, and
social issues, in addition to adjusting the role of the State in mining. Towards this end, the project
- 2 -



facilitated technical assistance to assist implementing partners in identifying different options for doing so.
The project implementation was, however, made complex because of the involvement of many institutions
such as Geological Survey (GS), Mines Department (MD), and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA),
each of which had its own independent views of its role in the sector. This problem was compounded by
the inter-institutional problems and delays in reaching agreement on mechanisms for intersectoral
coordination.
The project was quite demanding on local institutions, because the objective involved the process of reform
and modernization of an important sector of the economy. Several activities which were derived from the
recommendations of various studies required bringing foreign consultants. The,Mineral Commission (MC),
the implementing agency, was capable of meeting the demands of project implementation since it was
familiar with the requirements of the Bank project and also because it had a good team of professionals to
execute the project. Further, exhaustive training was given to its staff members on environment, law, and
SSM to strengthen their skills for project implementation.
The project took into account the following two risk factors to successful project implementation, viz.:
*      the risk that the institutions responsible for carrying out the project would lack the staff, capability
or incentive to carry ouf the project successfully. This risk was addressed by the capacity building nature of
the project, which aimed to strengthen the mining institutions.
*      the risk that the possibility that new technologies appropriate to SSM in Ghana would not be
adopted by the mine operators. However, since appropriate technologies for small-scale miners have been
developed and proved to be financially viable in other countries with similar conditions, there was reason to
believe that these techniques could be made to work in Ghana as well. In order to facilitate the adoption of
the new processes by the miners, field demonstrations and equipment during trial periods were to be made
available to them.
In the SSM component, however, the project design did not take into account the potential risk of creating
internal conflict between the miners and the community, or of generating internal conflicts within the
community.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no amendment to the overall objective of the project However, based on CR's (December
1997) clearer definition of the first specific objective, a new model for restructuring and strengthening the
governmental institutions was designed, which included: (a) modifying the regulatory framework as a basic
condition for institutional reform; and (b) focusing the emphasis of the institutions on their core functions,
clarifying their jurisdictional responsibilities, and streamlining their administrative, monitoring and
enforcement procedures.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of two components, namely, institutional strengthening and assistance to SSM. These
components were reasonably related to achieving the objectives and the priority agenda of the government.
The project design was well prepared and it had all necessary elements to achieve the objectives. The
Bank's substantial experience in the mining sector in other countries also facilitated in preparing a realistic
project design. Capacity of the MC for successful implementation was satisfactory since it had competent
and qualified professionals for managing the project. However, MC's performance was hampered by weak
- 3 -



coordination among agencies and the resulting delays in response.
Component . Strengthening of Mining Sector Institutions
This component had the purpose of ensuring that the institutional structure of the sector was adequate to
respond to the demands of a private, competitive and growing mineral sector. It focused on providing
support to mining agencies to be effective in implementing sectoral policy and legal and regulatory regimes
with particular focus on protecting the environment and streamlining administration of mineral rights. This
component also aimed at assisting the government to restructure GS with the goal of providing a basic
geological infrastructure and developing new geological information for use in establishing a robust
pipeline of priority prospect areas to attract investors and enhance promotional capabilities needed to
attract investments in exploration and mine development.
(i) Minerals Commission. This sub-component aimed to ensure that MC was fully equipped with the
organizational structure, manpower and logistical capabilities required to carry out its responsibilities as
the main operational promoter and coordinator of the government's strategy for private sector-oriented
mineral growth. Specifically, the project supported:
(a) an assessment of mining sector institutional arrangements to identify and formulate
restructuring steps necessary to implement sector strategy effectively, including a review of the adequacy of
monitoring and enforcement practices of environmental, health and safety standards;
(b) the execution of promotional activities of MC to attract potential investors in exploration and
mine development, including the design and preparation of promotional brochures and activities;
(c) the establishment of a comprehensive minerals information system which consisted of: (i) a
concession cadastral system; (ii) a mineral information database; (iii) a geological information database for
promotional purposes, and an aerial survey; and (iv) a mining environmental information system;
(d) the preparation of a pollution abatement strategy for ground and surface water systems of the
Tarkwa, Dunkwa and Prestea areas to remedy environmental degradation caused by mining operations.
(e) an assessment of the curricula of local universities and technical colleges in order to develop a
program to introduce modem mineral exploration technologies and processing techniques.
(ii) Mines Department. This sub-component provided technical assistance, consultant services, training,
equipment and logistical support to enable MD to fully and effectively perform its responsibilities for
inspection, monitoring and enforcement of sectoral and environmental regulations. Emphasis was given to
strengthen the organization, manpower and logistical capabilities of MD and its district offices for
executing periodic mine inspections, field verification of work programs and monitoring of mine health,
safety and environmental aspects at both large and small-scale mining operations.
(iii) Geologaical Survev. This sub-component focused on determining priority mining areas attractive for
their subsequent promotion to potential investors in order to sustain further sectoral growth. Main elements
included: (a) compilation and interpretation of available geological information; (b) definition of priority
areas to be covered by the aerial survey; (c) preparation of an action program with detailed survey
specifications; (d) selection of a survey contractor, and mobilization and execution of the survey; (e)
reinforcement of geophysical capability at GIS; (f) processing and interpretation of survey data; and (g)
publication and dissemination of results and raw data.
- 4 -



Component II. Assistance to Small-Scale Mining Enterprises
This component included a testing phase (Phase I) and a disseminating phase (Phase II).
(i) Testing of Improved Equipment and Processing. This activity consisted of pilot testing of specific
combinations of equipment likely to be applicable to Ghana's SSM conditions, both for improving
productivity and yields. It also consisted of analysis of the technical and cost effectiveness of various pieces
of equipment and processes and their effect on productivity and total output.
(ii) Dissemination of Equipment and Technology. The second phase was designed to expand the field
testing of the equipment and processing procedures in an operational setting, and included workshops and
field demonstrations of the new equipment and processes to small-scale miners. It also included the
establishment of assay equipment at each of the seven existing SSM outreach offices. This phase included
experimentation with mechanisms for the delivery of technology and equipment to small-scale miners,
including the use of credit arrangements through rural banks, NGOs and cash sales through equipment
suppliers.
(iii) Improved Geological Information. This sub-component focused on making geological information
available to small-scale miners by delineating areas with favorable geological prospects where SSM
concessions could be granted. During the first year of the project, two teams were to be put into operation:
one for regional mapping of prospective concession areas and the other for working directly with
small-scale miners on their concessions. The information generated by producing these separate mapped
areas were to be subsequently integrated into an overall geological map of the area in order to provide more
detailed and integrated information to serve as a basis for future work in adjacent areas.
(iv) Improved SSM Sub-Sector Framework and Set-up. The activity included: (i) reviewing the existing
regulatory framework for the mining sector to analyze how these regulations affected SSM operations,
especially the process and conditions for granting concessions, the length of time for which they were
granted, and their cost; and operating restrictions, with special attention to restrictions on blasting by
small-scale miners; (ii) studying market conditions and issues affecting small-scale miners and measures to
improve the commercialization of gold and diamonds; and the ways of securing additional financial
resources in the form of both equity and debt in order to expand their operations; and (iii) a program of
in-country training in basic financial management and business practices for interested small-scale miners
in order to enhance their creditworthiness and to improve their prospects for successful operations.
(v) Land Reclamation for SSM Dearadations. This consisted of can-ying out reclamation and
rehabilitation of high priority land areas on a pilot basis, with the objective of providing a basis to
determine best practices and to assess efficient and cost-effective mechanisms for carrying out reclamation.
This component also included activities to determine appropriate operating procedures, regulations,
enforcement measures, and incentives to carry out future SSM operations on a basis that avoided
degradation of past operations.
3.4 Revised Components:
Even though the components were not revised, major updating was done on project activities based on the
CR's recommendations. These recommendations aimed to assist the government in implementing sector
strategy by: (i) enacting an updated mining policy; (ii) implementing a simplified non-discretionary
administration of mineral rights; (iii) providing legal base to PMIs to facilitate the role in a private
- 5 -



sector-led mining industry; and (iv) restructuring the PMIs in accordance with the new sector policy.
(A)    Regulatory Framework Modifications of the regulatory framework included: modernization of the
cadastral system; simplification and formalization of requirements for obtaining, maintaining and
terminating mineral rights; provision of reasonable punitive criteria; inclusion of all minerals into the law
regulating artisanal mining; setting specific timeframes within which the agencies are required to take
certain actions.
For the environmental management of mining and exploration, specific recommendations included:
increasing representation of the public mining sector, and inclusion of the private mining sector in reviews
of Environmental Impact Statements of new mining developments; incorporating environmental aspects in
application for exploration rights; introducing Environmental Management Plans as a legal requirement to
all mining operations in Ghana; and establishing a statutory required financial assurance of rehabilitation of
exploration and mining sites.
(B)    Reformin' the public institutions. This activity included:
(a) Strengthening the Minerals Commission. In order to overcome the pitfalls of an unwieldy
organization, the CR recommended creation of five Directorates within MC, each with separate
and discrete functions: (i) Mineral Titles and Compliance Directorate in charge of all processes
related to mineral titles, i.e. processing and administration of mineral titles, cadastral system,
monitoring of compliance with agreements, titles-surrenders and suspensions. (ii) The restructured
Planning and Policy Analysis (P&PA) Directorate aimed to focus on policy advisory functions,
sector analysis, coordination, and on establishing a basis for comprehensive assessment of national
mineral endowment. In addition, the Environmental Department under the P&PA Directorate
aimed to address environmental issues from the sectoral perspective and interface between the
sectoral administration, the industry, the EPA, MD, and other stakeholders. The organization and
management of the Mining Infornation System is another responsibility of P&PA D. (iii) The
Small-scale Mining Directorate, through its District Small-scale Mining Centres would be the
main public institution charged with the responsibility for supervision of artisanal mining in
Ghana, promoting its legalization, providing technological assistance to miners, and conducting
environmental monitoring and compliance enforcement. (iv) The Finance and Marketing
Directorate is given the charge of collecting and analyzing data on precious metals and other
mineral, in addition to its routine accounting and budgeting tasks, and administrating MDF. (v)
The Legal Secretariat is responsible for reviewing and preparing final drafts of regulations,
processing complaints and other legal issues concerning mineral titles, and handling all other legal
matters of the MC.
The major part of MC's budget was to be financed through a provision from the Minerals
Development Fund (MDF). However, a much larger proportion of the budget could be covered by
service-related charges such as the consideration fees for the processing of titles applications; and
additional fees for access to the cadastral system and the information system, for the access to open
filed reports, and for access to statistical data compiled by MC. In general, fees would be charged
to all customers for all MC's services, both primary customers (exploration and mining companies)
and other governmental agencies. These fees would at least defray some costs of MC's service
functions.
(b). Reconstructing Geological Survev. CR recommended a complete overhaul of the GS and
transformiing it into an effective organization. GS was proposed to be reconstructed as an
- 6 -



autonomous institution within the MEM and renamed as Ghana Geological Survey (GGS). GGS
is conceived as a clean-cut service delivery organization, customer-oriented, initially mostly serving
the mining sector, but gradually widening its services to other sectors. The justification of GGS as
a governmental institution would be initially reviewed after three years, and each fifth year
thereafter.
The core activities of the GGS would comprise elaboration of geological maps, compilation of
thematic maps, preparation and interpretation of airborne geophysical maps, processing and
interpretation of satellite imagery data, regional geo-chemical surveys and compilation of
geo-chemical maps, reconnaissance and general resource assessment as a support to artisanal
miners, monitoring of micro-seismic activity, storage of geo-scientific data and geological samples,
and dissemination of geo-scientific information. Under the new structure, GGS would not be
engaged in mineral exploration.
CR proposed that all future activities of the GGS should be carried out in the form of distinct
projects, with specific objectives, time-span, financing and easily definable performance indicators.
GGS would consist of three divisions, Geological Mapping, Thematic Mapping, and Professional
Services and Information.
Regarding GGS' funding, CR recommended that the autonomous institution would negotiate a
time-limited agreement between itself and the MEM, specifying the results the GGS would achieve,
and the budgetary framework within which it would operate. In addition, GGS' activities will be
supported by service-related fees, such as fees for access to the data bank and geological and
bibliographical information systems, fees for access to the geological repository, fee for minerals
and rocks determinations, and various fees for other consulting services. Income from sales of
GGS' products such as maps, reports, and airborne geophysical data would constitute another
small portion of its financing.
CR recommended that reconstructing the GGS be done with intemational expert assistance and
financial aid, ideally through a twinning agreement with a geological organization from a country
with a substantial mining sector. This twinning partner would place its staff in GGS' key
positions, arrange training of GGS staff at the partner institution, and provide on-line support after
the reconstruction. The actual reconstruction of the GGS was to be done with the help of two
capacity building projects, one for the geological mapping, and the other for thematic mapping. In
addition, CR also proposed that a geological repository also be established in three successive
phases: (i) feasibility-study, engineering, procurement of equipment; (ii) construction of the
repository and installation of internal fittings; and (iii) implementation, i.e. establishing a system
for indexing and labeling samples, actual storing of samples. The complete reconstruction of the
GGS was estimated to be accomplished in 36 calendar months.
(c). Restructuring the Mines De artment. CR recommended restructuring MD into an autonomous
agency within the MEM, essentially functioning as a compliance enforcement agency with minor
service-delivery functions, related to: (i) supervision and regulation of safety and health (S&H)
aspects in mines; and (ii) inspection and compliance enforcement of the environmental management
of mining and exploration projects. The MD would be divided into the Mines Inspectorates and
Environmental Inspectorates. Because of the large difference in the scope of functions and tasks
performed by these two branches, the specific goals, outputs and performance indicators would be
defined and set forth for each branch and each regional Inspectorate.
- 7 -



The restructured MD is to be financed from four sources: (i) A performance-based budget from the
MEM. (ii) Performance and service-related fees, including the fee payable to MD for the work of
its supervisory authority, by anyone carrying out environmentally hazardous activities. (iii) Fees
for services rendered by the Mines Inspectorates, including fee for various training courses,
certifications, and operating permits. (iv) Special charges on production and imports of explosives.
Implementation of restructuring of MD is to be carried out with international assistance and
financial aid, for giving training to Environmental hnspectors in a donor country in the preparation
of the EMP for mining operations, EMP follow-up, report processing and field control; assistance
in the development of inspection routines of the Environmental Inspectorates, development and
introduction of a suitable database, and review of the inspection and reporting routines of the
Environmental Inspectorates.
Three-year Action Plan (AP)
In order to implement CR's recommendations and thereby achieve project objectives, a three-year Action
Plan (AP) was prepared by the previous administration during August-November 2000 and endorsed by the
new administration soon after it came to power in January 2001. Accordingly the closing date of the project
was extended to December 31, 2001 and the proceeds of the Credit was reallocated among the categories
(in SDRs) as follows:
Category                          Original Allocation  Revised Allocation
1. Civil Works and Equipment Testing    1,550,000             750,000
2. Equipment Supplies                    1,800,000           1,850,000
3. Geophysical Aerial Survey              850,000              750,000
4. Consultancy and Training              3,400,000           4,450,000
5.Unallocated                             300,000              100,000
TOTAL                                    7,900,000           7,900,000
The specific goals of AP were: (i) enactment of the necessary legal, fiscal, and environmental policies to
provide mining investors with security of tenure, clarity and transparency, access to the mineral resources
while protecting the environment and ensuring a stable and equitable fiscal regime; and (ii) strengthening
of public mining institutions to ensure the provision of reliable basic geological and environmental
information, adequate administration of mineral rights and proper implementation of the new policies.
Activities of the six programs under the AP were as follows:
*      Legal and Fiscal Reform. This program aimed to analyze the current legal and fiscal regimes of
the sector and develop and propose an intemationally competitive framework that will ensure a strong legal
base and a stable and equitable tax regime for the development of Ghanaian mining in the near future.
*      Strengthening and Refocusing of the Minerals Commission. This program was designed to
strengthen the role of the MC with respect to mineral policy development; simplify and modernize the
administration of mineral rights; assist in the implementation of the new structure of MC.
- 8-



*      Strengthening of the Mines Department. The objectives of this program were to strengthen the
MD to fulfill its traditional role to supervise and enforce the occupational safety and health obligations of
mine operations; and support the restructuring of MD. To this effect, an international expert on health and
safety in mines has been funded by NDF.
*      Restructuring of the Geological Survey. This program aimed to initiate the restructuring process
of the GS and to design and implement sequential activities for GS. NDF financed a senior geologist from
the Geologic Survey of Denmark and Greenland, who is now based in Accra and is assisting in the
restructuring of GSD.
*      Environmental As.sessment (EA) Program. Activities considered in this program included: (i) a
sectoral environmental review (SER), which was funded by NDF; (ii) EAs for SSM sub-sector to assess
the environmental impacts of the introduction of equipment, technology and processing techniques for
small-scale miners; and (iii) EAs for land reclamation to assess the environmental impacts and benefits to
the ecosystem and affected local communities.
*      Local Economic DevelopmentProjects. This program aimed at establishing local economic
development (LED) initiatives in selected mining communities in Ghana. The objective of a LED program
was to implement or research initiatives, in the communities surrounding mining operations, that would
create entrepreneurial and business opportunities and thereby strengthen the social and environmental
fabric of a region.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Since the project design predates the existence of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG), there is no official
assessment of the project's quality at entry. Nevertheless, the ICR finds the quality at entry to be
satisfactory. As mentioned earlier, the overall project objective was consistent with the CAS and the
government priorities and met the critical needs of the mining sector.
The two specific objectives were also very important because, performance of the mining sector depended
largely on having strong mining sector institutions for providing adequate administration of mineral rights,
protecting environment, and developing reliable, and quality technical and geological information. But there
was no clear definition of the work required for the institutional component. This need was addressed by
the CR. Likewise, the sector performance also depended very much on a quality insertion of mining
activities in the local communities. Therefore, a more integrated approach, including the social side would
have strengthened the small-scale mining component.
During preparation of the project, major risk factors and lessons learned from other earlier mining projects
in Ghana were considered and incorporated into the project design. In hindsight, however, the project would
have benefited by using a Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Such an instrument would have facilitated
timely implementation of recommendations on institutional component and also to undertake adequate
analysis to define the required social and environmental measures for SSM. Another shortcoming of the
project design was that funding was not provided for working on modernization of geological map of
Ghana.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement ofobjective:
The diagnostic study on Ghana's mining sector institutional arrangements and the resulting
recommendations facilitated the govermnent to formulate a sector strategy effectively in a socially and
environmentally responsive manfier. At project closure, these recommendations were being implemented by
the govemment under the Three-year Action Plan which are expected to be brought to completion with the
-9-



EU support.
On the institutional component, while the activities covered in the SAR were achieved according to
schedule, implementation of the structural recommendations of CR got stalled for almost three years. Even
though the assessment of mining institutional arrangements was completed in December 1997, and an
Implementation Committee (IC) was appointed subsequently to follow-up on the recommendations, it was
only in the last quarter of 2000 that the IC and the sector authorities took action to follow-up on the
recommendations of the CR and submitted a three-year Action Plan. Considering that activities under AP
would still be under implementation for two years after project closure, it is premature at this stage to
assess the full impact of their outcome.
In SSM component, the project improved efficiency and working conditions of the targeted small-scale
miners. Installation of the central processing compound for hard rock material was completed successfully
and equipment was provided to selected alluvial operations. The geological information developed by the
project has led to improvement in the productivity of alluvial miners operating in the areas where geological
information was collected, even though the large equipment provided to them was not very effective.
The study, Integrating Socioeconomic and Environmental Issues into Mining Sector Development in
Ghana: Lessons Learned and the W.ay Forward, which was supported by the project and co-financed by
the Canadian Trust Fund, identified downstream and upstream impacts of mining on social issues and
environment The findings and recommendations were the basis for launching the Sectoral Environmental
Review and the pilot project to assess water and sanitation issues and safe access in the Prestea mining
area, both of which are supported by NDF.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A- Strengthening of the Mining Sector Institutions
Minerals Commission. (a) Assessment of current mining institutional arrangements. Assessment of the
institutional component was completed with the report "Study of Mining Sector Institutional
Arrangements" of December 1997 by Swedish Geological AB; (b) Execution ofpromotional activities to
attract potential investors. Activities executed included preparation of a CD, opening of a web site and
preparing information on industrial minerals; (c) The establishment of a comprehensive minerals
information system. Cadastral system, the mineral information system and the geological information
database were implemented. (d) Pollution abatement strategies for Tarkwa, Dunkwa and Prestea. The
project funded the tailings dam at Tarkwa and the rehabilitation and revegetation at Dunkwa. In Prestea,
the NDF project is currently working on the effluent redesign and on the redesign and reconstruction of the
tailings dam; (e) Assessment of the curricula of the mining and related programs in local universities and
technical colleges.
Mines Department. In order to enable MD to monitor and enforce sectoral regulations, extensive training
on health and safety to all mines inspectors of MD, including a study tour to Zimbabwe, and hardware such
as vehicles for transportation were provided. Similarly, activities to support the services of MD to small
miners were also completed, including an agreement with SGS to provide the assay services, and courses
run by MD trainers on health and safety.
Geological Survey. Airbome geophysical surveys were carried out aimed to identify priority mining areas
attractive for subsequent promotion. This has included the provision of software and hardware for the
- 10-



processing of data interpretation and production of digitized maps. NDF contributed substantially, to the
tune of US$2.5 million, for the airbome survey, including data gathering, processing of the data, and
purchasing equipment.
Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME). The institutional assessment carried out by Swedish Geological
AB, and discussed above, provided the assessment needed to improve the overall operational effectiveness
to examine, address and coordinate the work of other PMIs and to conceptualize and oversee the execution
of policy. The implementation of the recommendations of the CR -under the AP - is expected to have an
important impact, in terms of improved sectoral management.
B- Assistance to Small-Scale Mining Enterprises
(a) Testing of Improved Equipment and Processing and Dissemination of Technology. Subsequent to the
completion of the hard rock central processing compound at Bolgatanga, single and double trommels on
alluvial ores in three different locations were tested; (b) Improved Geological Information. Fifteen areas
were evaluated in southem Ghana by four teams of geologists; (c) Improved SSM Regulatory Framework
and Set-up of the sub-sector. The analysis of the legal franework was completed and it concluded that
regulations were needed to deal with the health and safety issues, as well as the environrnental impact of
SSM; (d) Activities concerning the marketing conditions and basic business training of small miners were
completed. The study on marketing issues affecting small miners was completed and the activity has been
opened to private sector competition. Two firms now offer marketing service to SSM, one private and one
state owned. Training was provided to small miners on principles of accounting and financial management.
Similarly, training was provided on safety and environmerital protection which included training on the use
of mercury retorts.
Environmental Sub-Comonent
(a). Land Reclamation. All the three pilot areas identified for intervention were reclaimed. The
revegetation was carried out in all three areas with the participation and involvement of the
communities. At the Achiaman site, in addition to the trees and oil palm being planted, the
community has also planted food crops in between the tree crops, an initiative which could increase
the benefits and enhance the sustainability of the program as a whole. In the Nueng North Forest
Reserve, the afforestation program was imnplemented by the contractor in collaboration with the
Forestry Department. At the Akwatia site, 800 citrus seedlings and 700 oil palm seedlings were
planted in an initiative undertaken jointly by the community, the District Assembly and the
contactor.
(b). Small Scale Mining. Under this sub-component, geological information was made available to
small-scale miners within the formal sector, and appropriate sites suitable for this type of mining,
demarcated. This initiative resulted in reducing the potential for increased land degradation through
haphazard clearing of land for SSM activities. At the pilot testing sites located in Bolga and Wa
areas in Northern Ghana and in the Westem and Ashanti regions, the introduction of improved
processing techniques, have raised environmental awareness and sensitized SSM to
environmentally benign processes.
(c). Training. Staff from the different sector agencies including the MC, MD, GS, and the EPA
received training and exposure to environmental aspects of mining. Trining workshops were held
under the auspices of this project with the support and partnership of USEPA. These workshops
were attended by staff of other agencies including the EPA.
- 1 1 -



(d). Green Communities. This program was launched by MC with the support of the Bank and the
USEPA and in partnership with the Chamber of Mines, to provide communities around the mining
sites with an integrated program of assistance. The program included provision of water,
sanitation services and promotion of alternative livelihoods aimed at: (i) improving the
socio-economic conditions of the communities; and (ii) reducing the stress on mining concessions
through encroachment and 'galamsey' (artisanal mining) activity.
(e). Akwatia Transition Program. A masterplan and program for the rehabilitation of the
degraded mining sites at Akwatia was formulated. The program also aimed to revitalize the
community in the adjacent areas through the provision of basic amenities and the introduction of
alternative livelihoods including agro-based industry and poultry farming. The program is
designed as a pilot for promoting and implementing integrated mine decommissioning plans and
programs.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project assisted in strengthening the capacity of the government institutions in various elements which
are key for developing and adrninistering sustainable growth of the mining sector, such as: (a)
administration of mineral rights; (b) provision of a reliable geological database; (c) policy design and
definition; and (d) environmental protection. The project has also facilitated creating public awareness on
environmental impacts and management of mining activities. Many studies financed by the project have.
resulted in increasing the knowledge base on environment, actual capacity for screening, scooping,
monitoring and evaluation. However, MC's collaboration with the EPA remains weak and the
environrnental performance of sectoral agencies is still weak, since they have not developed pragmatic and
practical mechanism for monitoring, enforcement, and compliance.
In addition, the project is expected to contribute to the modernization of the mining institutional framework
of Ghana, through follow-up activities by other international financial institutions. In order to bring to
complete its institutional activities, NDF which co-financed the project has extended its financing by two
full years until the end of 2003. Likewise, the European Union (EU) has decided to process a 38 million
Euro grant from Sysmin funds - expected to be implemented during the 2003-2008 period - to finance a
follow-up project which will bring to completion most of the activities covered in this component.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
S. I Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Investment in mining in Ghana was affected by progressive depletion of previously known traditional
exploration areas where most easily identifiable surface deposits were located. This was compounded by
the decline in gold prices and increased competition in the international arena for private sector mining
investment which has reduced the worldwide investment in exploration by over 55% between 1997 and
2001.
- 12 -



5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Lack of decisiveness on the government's part and weak coordination among the participating agencies led
to delays in implementation.
There were problems with the Geological Survey (GS) and to a small extent with the Mines Department
(MD) in executing the recommendations of the CR for institutional strengthening. Because of the shortage
of funds, GS had almost become dysfunctional and as a result, its work Qn geological maps and other
geo-scientific task was delayed and affected. As a consequence, much of the data were unavailable or had
become obsolete for large portions of the country , and opportunities to acquire new information were
missed. Like GS, MD was also affected by scarcity of funds, and in addition, due to a rapid increase in the
number of mines, MD had become overburdened in discharging its duties. Many of the activities
recommended by CR were implemented late because of GS's reluctance to modernize and redefine its role
and its resistance to restructure in accordance with the requirements of a GS working in a private
sector-driven mining industry.
The environmental components of the project were not implemented, as envisaged by project design , in full
partnership with the EPA and the mining institutions. The key reason for this situation was the lack of
cooperation between the EPA and mining institutions which resulted in inadequate inter-agency linkages
including a lack of inter-ministerial and operational meetings.
Until the very final stage of the project, when the new draft Mining Law was presented for discussion
among stakeholders, there was a general lack of interest and commitment to consult with other
stakeholders, which included private sector, civil society, and other agencies such as agriculture, water,
forest, environment, and rural development.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
High rate of staff turnover from the implementing agencies including GS, MD, and EPA to private sector
led to their inadequate institutional capacity. Likewise, lack of rapport between institutions prevented their
closer collaboration and lack of transparency affected sectoral development process.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost of the project was US$ 13.27 million compared to the SAR estimate of US$13.65 million.
The lower project cost was mainly due to strengthening of the US Dollar compared to SDR during the
implementation period. The Bank financed US$9.37 million, NDF contributed US$3.6 million as of
project closure on December 31, 2001 (NDF's total allocation was SDR4.00 million, which should be
disbursed by December 31, 2003); and the Government financed US$0.30 million equivalent in local costs.
The project disbursed 96.14% of the credit amount (7.94 million SDRs). However, because of the
strengthening of the Dollar, the disbursement is shown as only 80.44% in terms of Dollar amnount (Annex
2c).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall sustainability of the project is likely. This assessment is based on the fact that the current
administration is committed to continue its support to the sector policy reforns, institutional and
management effectiveness, economical, technical, financial, and environmental matters. Future work will be
- 13 -



supported by NDF Credit which will close on 31 December, 2003; and EU, which is expected to approve a
38 million Euro grant for implementation in 2003-08, designed as a follow up to WB/NDF project.
The project has resulted in increased private investment in Ghana, even though global investment in mining
has been seriously affected because of the decline in metal prices. Once metal price is restored to normal
level, it is expected that private investment in Ghana would be sustainable. Achievements made in the
database system, effective administration of mineral rights, and environmental protection are also likely to
be sustainable.
Regarding SSM, sustainability should be linked to the capacity of MC and related agencies to ensure
adequate administration and monitoring capability for artisanal and SSM activities. In particular,
improved efficiency and better working conditions are likely for lode mining and unlikely for alluvial
mining. On the other hand, sustainability of social impact and local community participation is marginally
uncertain, bordering between likely and unlikely.
Sustainability of environmental activities would depend on environmental management which focuses on
monitoring compliance mechanisms and enforcement functions. To this effect, the project established a
basis for raising awareness of inter-sectoral linkages and for identifying options for improved management
of the impacts and potential impacts. The studies carried out under the project assessed the roles of
different agencies involved in monitoring compliance and enforcement. These agencies such as EPA, MC,
and MD, should collaborate with each other to reach agreement on best and practical approaches, and
increase their commitment to recognize and support a greater role for the private sector and civil society in
implementing the recommended reforms. It is equally important to get technical assistance as well as
financing help. In addition to the NDF support which would continue to implement some of the
environmental activities, the government should try to secure other funding (such as from the EU) to
support the recommendations emanating from the Sectoral Environmental Review. With the assistance
from development agencies such as NDF and the EU, sustainability of environmental activities would be
highly likely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Because of the delay in implementing the recommendations of CR, institutional reforms are not fully in
place. For environmental component, NDF has agreed to continue the activities after project closure.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification of the project was satisfactory. The Bank was proactive in
initiating the dialogue with the government and the Ministry of Energy and Mines for the sector reform.
The project's identification was well organized and satisfactory. The Bank took into account the project's
consistency with the government's development priorities and the Bank's CAS. The Bank's team had a
good skill mix, which brought in state of the art expertise into project design.
During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project design and all major
relevant aspects such as technical, financial, economic, institutional, including procurement and financial
management, environmental, sociological, and consistency with the Bank's safeguard policies. In addition,
during the appraisal, the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits. The Bank had a consistently good
- 14 -



working relationship with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory. Over the five years of
project implementation, there were ten supervision missions, with an average of about two missions per
year. The Bank's client relationship was cordial and productive. Supervision teams included specialists in
mining, environment, finance, regulatory framework, and institutional development.
The Bank took a firm and dynamic role in the supervision of the project implementation. Aide-Memoires
were regularly prepared and transmitted, which alerted the Govermment to problems with project execution
and suggested remedies in a timely manner, in conformity with Bank procedures. The Form 590s and PSRs
realistically rated the performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives
and project implementation. With the exception of the implementation of the CR recommendations
discussed earlier, whenever delays in implementation occurred, the Bank was able to define concrete steps
and a timetable for putting the program on track. The Bank paid sufficient attention to the project's likely
development impact. The quality of advice and the follow-up and agreed actions was adequate. Loan
covenants and remedies were enforced. The staff also showed flexibility in suggesting needed modifications
in implementation. External consultants were used for specific aspects of certain project components. Bank
staff worked closely with the government and the implementing agency and provided them with extensive
assistance, in terms of providing suggestions for drafting the laws and regulations, reviewing legal drafts,
and giving technical comments.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. During the preparation
stage, the Borrower displayed an adequate level of commitment to the objectives of the project and covered
the adequacy of design and all major aspects such as technical, financial, economic, institutional,
environmental and sociological factors, including stakeholder commitment. The government officials and
staff of the implementing agencies worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis, with
full cooperation and enthusiasm.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's performance was satisfactory. The government had consistently maintained its
commitment to project objectives throughout the implementation. It was enthusiastic in implementing all
activities listed in the SAR and Credit Agreement, but hesitant to implement the recommendations of the
CR. Because of the lack of political will and support, the government delayed the implementation of these
recommendations.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the MC as the coordinating agency was satisfactory. The MC had a highly trained technical
staff. It was well organized and effective in dealing with proc irement, disbursement, progress reports, and
- 15 -



in maintaining proper records of the project. Consequently, the day to day implementation of the project
was very smooth. However, reflecting the political situation in Ghana, MC did not push the implementation
of the CR recommendations until late in CY 2000.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
*   Technical assistance is not an optimal instrument to implement a sector reform, in case policy issues
and restructuring requirements have not been clearly identified and not been agreed to by the
government in the SAR and Credit Agreement.
* Small-scale mining is a poverty-driven activity and any effort to deal with small-scale miners should
recognize such a fact. Accordingly, the project design should take an integrated approach recognizing
this activity as a poverty-reduction component.
* For smooth project implementation, it is important to have effective inter-ministerial and inter-agency
coordination.
* Performance of a project of this kind tends to be affected by the performance of state agencies, which
normally performs below private sector standards.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT
A. BACKGROUND:
In July 1995 the Ministry of Finance acting on behalf of the Republic of Ghana signed an agreement with
the Intemational Development Agency (IDA) for a credit of SDR 7,900,000.00 (US$12.3 million) to
support the Mining Sector Development and Environment Project (MSDEP).  The Government
contributed US$1.4 million as counterpart funding.
The duration of the project is five (5) years and was due to be completed by 31 December 2000.
However, the expiry date was extended to December 31, 2001 when it became obvious that some of the
components could not be completed within the expiry date.
On 9 September 1996, the Ministry of Finance signed another Credit Agreement of US$5.5 million with
the Nordic Development Fund in Helsinki, Finland as co-financier to supplement IDA Credit.
Project Objectives
The overall objective of the project is to support the sustainable development of Ghana's mining sector on
an environmentally sound basis through strengthened mining institutions and organisational support to
small-scale miners to introduce the use of appropriate environmentally responsible technology.
- 16 -



Specifically the objectives were:
(i)   To enhance the capacity of the mining sector institutions to carry out their functions of encouraging
and regulating investments in the mining sector in an environmentally sound manner
(ii)  Support the use of the techniques and mechanism that will improve the productivity, financial,
viability and reduce environmental impact of small-scale mining operations. To achieve these objectives,
the project consisted of several components
B.    ASSESSMENT OF THE PROJECT OBJECTIVE. DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION:
Assessment of Project Objectives:
The first objective was relevant, realistic and consistent with govemment policy of implementing new
mining sector policy. Because of its significant contribution to the economy and also of its enormous
potential, the mining sector was one of the priority areas that received greatest attention under the
Economic Recovery Programme (ERP). The Government's role in the reform package was to focus on
administration and regulation of mining areas, rather than the previous role as owner and operator. The
private sector was to be the driving force in the new policy. It was important that the Government
institutions dealing with the mining sector are strengthened to meet this challenge.
The second policy was also realistic, relevant and consistent with government's policy of liberalizing
small scale gold mining in particular; create opportunities for the small miners to have access to land,
technical advice and encourage them to use appropriate mining and processing techniques to reduce
environmental damage, and provide incentives for the miners to sell to government designated buying
centres instead of selling into the informal sector.
C. DESIGN:
The project was designed to put in place a framework that would in the medium to long term address
variety of issues such as legal, fiscal, institutional, environmental, socio-economic issues, health and
safety, relating to the functions of the participating agencies, Minerals Commission (MC), the Mines
Department (MD), the Geological Survey Department (GSD), the Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM)
(now Ministry of Mines) and to some extent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
The project provided extensive training programs to the participating agencies to enable them carry out
their functions.
D. IMPLEMENTATION AND MAJOR ISSUES AFFECTING PROJECT ACHIEVEMENT:
The Credit Agreement was signed in July 1995, the credit was effective in March 1996, (a time lag of nine
(9) months) before the first tranche of funds were released into the Special account. The MC is the
coordinating agency for the project with MEM, GSD, MD as participating agencies. MC liaises with the
EPA in regard to environmental components of the project.
A project co-ordinator was appointed from MC and approved by IDA to manage and co-ordinate the
implementation of the project. The Co-ordinator was assisted by a Technical Officer and an Accountant.
Each participating agency appointed Project Liaison officers within their organisation to liaise with the
- 17 -



Project Co-ordinator.
To ensure transparency and full participation of the agencies, a "Consultative Meeting" attended by
representative of the participating agencies, and representatives of the Ministries of Finance and Mines,
was held every month to review the progress of the project.
Procurement
A procurement committee comprising representatives of the participating agencies was set up to handle
procurement of goods. Earlier members of the committee had undergone various training programmes on
IDA procurement guidelines in Washington and in Accra where they acquired the necessary skills.
In spite of the above efforts, the implementation process was sometimes slow, each of the agency had its
own independent views of its role in the sector, often delaying agreement on proposed mechanism for
inter sectoral co-ordination.
Factors affecting implementation and outcome
(i)   Difference between the Bank of Ghana (BOG) and IDA
At the start of the project it was agreed that IDA funds transferred into the Special Accounts be lodged at
a Commercial Bank outside the control of Government. On two occasions during the course of the project
BOG directed that all donor funds be transferred to the Central Bank. This situation created delays in
disbursement, it was after intensive negotiations with IDA that BOG reversed itself.
(iii) Delays in having IDA disbursement forms endorsed at the
Accountant General's Department and Finance Ministr'
The turn-around of the disbursement application forms was about one month before the Special Account
could be replenished.
(iii) Delays in release of counterpart funds from BOG
Government directed that its counterpart contribution of US1.3 million be met from the Minerals
Development Fund. During the initial stages of the project, release of funds was regular, however as the
economy slowed down, release of funds was very irregular affecting the execution of several components.
(iv)  Delays in procurement
Cumbersome procedures in establishing letters of credit, delays in clearing goods from the ports, affected
the completion of the components.
E. BORROWERS PERFORMANCE:
Before the start and during the course of the project key personnel from the participating agencies
undertook extensive training both at home and overseas to prepare them to manage the project.
The training programmes provided skilled, well-motivated and capable personnel who assisted the Project
Co-ordinator in the management of the project.
- 18 -



The perfornance of the staff has been excellent. It is on record as being the only project in the portfolio
of the Resident Director (in Accra) which did not receive any adverse comments from the Director's
office. Of course there were few problems with procurement, but those were minor and were soon settled,
without adversely affecting the implementation of the project.
The performance of the institutions involved in the project was generally satisfactory. There was general
co-operation among the heads of these institutions, often times however they reacted strongly when they
realised that they have to give away part of their authority for intersectoral harmony.
The EPA was reluctant to accede environmental monitoring of mining operations to MD who had the
regional network and the personnel to carry out this function.
GSD resisted attempts to restructure the department as recommended in the Swedish Geological AB
report of March 1999. In these two instances, Ministerial intervention could have resolved the impasse.
F. EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK:
The Bank supervisory team was fully capable in performing their responsibilities with respect to
identification, preparation and implementation of the project. Supervision missions were frequent with a
total of nine (9) mission mounted during life of the project. The Bank's decision to support the extension
period was very conmmendable. Special mention must be made of the Task Manager, through.whose
initiative, major components namely; a) Drafting of new legal and fiscal laws, b) Health and Safety, c)
Sectoral Environmental Review, d) Local Economic Developments (LED) projects for mining
communities, e) report on learning experiences gained through land reclamation, f) EIA on small-scale
mining, g) Advisor to the Director of GSD were addressed during the extension period.
The cordial relationships among the borrower, the Bank and the co-financiers (Nordic Development Fund)
coupled with the flexibility of the financiers enabled the project to extend some of the components beyond
areas not originally covered in the design. For example, the IDA and NDF supported extensions of the
airborne survey areas to include areas considered potential for mineralization.
G. PROJECT OUTCOME:
a)    Minerals Commission
The project is considered highly satisfactory since it met all of its objectives.
Technical assistance, training and equipment provided to the MC have equipped it to be able to carry out
its planning and policy formulation and investment promotion.
Transparent and efficient system of handling mineral rights, promulgation of new minerals and mining
laws with attractive fiscal regimes have encouraged direct investment of about USS$2 billion, into the
mining sector, nine (9) new mines have been opened, while the bauxite mine has been successfully
divested.
The establishment of comprehensive information systems and the assessment of the curricula of local
universities and technical colleges in order to develop a programme to introduce modern mineral
-19-



exploration technologies and processing techniques were accomplished. Land reclamation of mined out
areas, socio-economic issues arising out of mining and alternative livelihood for the mining communities
were addressed. Strict adherence to sound environmental mining techniques were enforced.
Small-scale miners were provided with geological information and introduced to appropriate techniques
and technologies in mining and processing. Between 1990 and 2000 small miners' contribution to annual
gold production averaged 5%. The use of mercury retort in the extraction of gold reduced major
environment hazards to health and enviromnent.
b)    Geological Survey Department
The department was equipped with the relevant logistics and infrastructures to enhance the performance
of its functions. Facilities provided include laboratory, drawing office, and office equipments. Tents,
vehicles, compasses, campbeds were provided to facilitate fieldwork.
An airborne geophysical laboratory equipped with computers, digitizers, and scanners was set up in the
department to enable the processing and interpretation of the various airborne geophysical surveys which
were carried out during the course of the project.
The staff manning the laboratory benefited from overseas training and with technical assistance from
foreign experts were able to process and interprete the acquired geophysical data.
c)    Mines Department
An environmental laboratory was set up and equipped for the department to offer assay services and
technical support to improve the productivity and viability of the small scale miners. Extension and
training programmes were mounted to sensitize the miners on health, safety and environmental problems.
The project provided training, equipment and logistic support to MD to enable the department effectively
perform its responsibilities for inspection, monitoring and enforcement of environmental regulations, and
mine health and safety.
d)    Ministhy of Mines (formerly Ministry of Energy and Mines)
Key personnel from the Ministry benefited from both overseas and local training programmes designed to
improve their overall operational effectiveness to co-ordinate the work of other mining sector institutions.
The Ministry was also provided with vehicle and other office equipments to enhance and improve their
productivity.
e)    Environmental Protection Agency
DraI Envirownental mining regulations were prepared by local and external consultants with inputs from
the EPA
H. LESSONS LEARNT:
1.   The Project has confirmed the relevance of involvement of the participating agencies in the initial
formulation and design of the project.
-20 -



2.    Open lines of communication, the establishment of a high degree of trust and confidence between
participating institutions and the Bank's supervision teams were critical in ensuring the successful
implementation of the project.
3.    The Bank's effort to understand the limitation and constraints facing local institutions, and the
adoption of equal partnership approach in addressing issues has ensured effective implementation.
4.    The flexibility of the Bank and the co-financiers enabled the implementation team to make
necessary improvement in the project design
5.    The implementation experience revealed the need for skill enhancement within the sectoral
agencies. Without trained and skilled manpower the implementation could not have achieved the
satisfactory success rating.
6.    Implementation experience revealed the need for better clarity and delineation of responsibilities
particularly between MD and EPA conceming environmental monitoring of mining operations.
(b) Cofinanciers:
NDF:
In general, we agree with the content and observations made in the ICR. There is, however, one problem
that NDF has experienced on a number of occasions for smaller contracts, i.e. the weakness of coordination
on the part of the MC. This has resulted a number of activities for which NDF has given its retrospective
no objection (where Ghana often has not followed NDF's procurement procedures) also once activities has
been ongoing, or even completed. If possible, we would appreciate if this somehow could be
reflected in the approropiate section of the ICR.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
A. Institutional Component
(i) Increased Private Investment                Not Applicable            USD2.0 billion of direct Investments are
estimated to have been made In the mining
sector dudng the six-year period 1996-2001,
averaging $333 million per year. This
consists of new mine development,
exploration. rehabilitation of old mines and
deDverables of service companies and
consultants.
(ii)Accessible, modem and reliable technical
data base                                                                 Old geological reports and maps have been
updated and re-organised. Technical
database at the Geological Survey
Department (GSD) and Mincom have been
upgraded and made easily accessible to
Effective and effident administration of                                  investors.
Mineral Rights
A modem cadastral system based on unified
blocks of 15" x15" is being put in place.
Concession map has been computerized
making it accessible to:
* Conduct searches for vacant ground
Determine the exact positon of any mineral
Environmental Protecion                                                  right
Mineral environmental regulations have been
drafted and awaitng cabinet approvals. A
new regulation on health and safety In mines
based on ILO Convention 176 is being
drafted under NDF funding.
B Small-Scale Mining Component
Improved efficiency of small scale miners                                 Basic geological Tnformaton acquired at a
cost of USD1 475,195.39 is now availabie to
the SSM before he/she decides to stake a
claim. In this process, technical assistance Is
provided by Mine Wardens in the field.
Improved working conditons for small scale                                Miners have been ntroduced to effident
miners                                                                    mining methods and processing techniques
and some have been supplied with Improved
processing equipment which were developed
by the project at a total cost of
USD2,404,610.34
Improved environmental protection and
awareness of the potential future of mined                                Use of mercury retort is now mandatory for al
out areas                                                                MPilot reclamation has been carried out In
three sites to Introduce SSMs about the
process to restore mined-out lands at a cost
of USD686,631.62. Already some SSMs In
the Bonte area have started some
reclamation and re-vegetation on the areas
already mined-out as a dedvative of the
experience gained from the pilot reclamation
scheme.
- 22 -



Output Indicators:
A. InsUWional Component
Strengthening Insttutional and Policy            Not Applicable
Frameworic                                                               Completed, and mining sector Institutions are
* Assessment of Institutional arranments                                 being restructured. Currentty there is an
adviser attached to the Director of GSD to
contnue with the restructuring of the
Department which had already been started.
Cost: USD232,500
Updated mining and environmental legal                                  This has been compleed end awaidng
framework                                                                 cabinet approval.
* Institutional restructuring                                            This Is on-going.
Technical strengthening of the hndhdual
government miring insitudons:
* Minerals Information systems                                           This has been completed at a total cost of
USD727,266.92
* Cadastral modernzaton                                                   First part of the pmoject has been completed
at a total cost of USD16,773
Support to MM, GSD, MD                                                  The sector agendes benefited from supply of
computers and software, laboratory
equipment, drawing office equipment, field
equipment, vehicles and overseas and loal
training, all at a cost of USD7,883,078.06.
Currently there is an adviser to the Director of
GSD supported by a bcal counterparLt Health
and safety regutatons In mines In Ghana are
being drafted as part of support to MD.
Technical data base and investment
promotion:
* Aerial geophyskcs                                                       274,772 Ilne-ckms were flown under GTK and
High Sense to generate data that have been
processed both at a cost of USD
3,352,366.48 and modem geophysical maps
produced.
Geological maps
Geological map for Northem and
South-westem Ghana has been updated at a
CD Rom, Technical brochures                                              cost of USD119,500.
CD-Rom for promoting investment in the
mining sector and other technical brochures
have been produced to make infomnation
accessible to investors at a cost of
Improved Environmental Protection:                                        USD34,781.28.
Sectoral Environmental Review
Environmental Regulations
Enforcement support/strengthening
Completed. Cost: EUR172,102
Completed. Cost: USD69,948
Pollution abatement stratgy for Identified                              New mining regulaifons are being drafted
-23 -



problem areas                                                              with NDF support of EUR47,186
Prestea water and sanitation were identified
as the problem to be tackled. The design has
been completed and tender documents have
been prepared for the physical constructon
to be completed In 2003 under NDF supporL
Cost of design: USD403,784. Total project
cost: USD1 5 million.
B. Small-Scale Mining Component
Improved sub-sectdor framework and
conditions:
Completed. Apart from this review, SSM laws
* Regulatory revlew                                                       are also being reviewed under the legal and
fiscal regime.
* Review of marketing and financing                                        Completed at a total cost of USD105,000
arrangements                                                               Private parUidpation in the marketing of gold
and diamonds are now In now being
encouraged. About 15 companies are
engaged in the business.
* Norms and enforcement of health and                                      Field officers have been trained to train the
safety condllons                                                           SSMs on the use of mercury by applying the
appropriate retorting equipment,
MD's Code of Conduct for small miners
MD has developed the code of conduct for
SSMs that Is being effectvely enforced in the
field by the field officers.
Improved Environmental Protection:
* Land reclamation and re-vegetation of
mined-out areas                                                            Project successfully completed. Three
reclamaton schemes In areas that have been
devastated by SSMs. All the reclaimed lands
have been re-vegetated with economic trees
to serve as a model that mined-out lands
could be used for other economic activites.
Total Cost: USD666,989.85
MD's code of Conduct for small miners
This is being drafted as part of the general
regulations for health and safety in mines.
End of project
- 24 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Poect Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Pilot Testing                                     2.92          2.37          82.12
lInpr-oved Geology                                1.87           1.46         78.53
Improved SSM Framework                            0.76          0.19         24.27
Land Reclamation                                  2.63          0.66          26.05
Prestea Water & Sanitation                                      0.38
Minerals Commission                               2.47         .2.94         123.92
Mines Department                                  0.81          0.68          86.57
Geological Survey Dept.                           1.65          4.28           254
Ministry of Mines & Energy                        0.48          0.31           64.7
Total Baseline Cost                              13.59          13.27
Total Project Costs           13.59          13.27
Total Financing Required           13.59          13.27
ProJect Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                    0.00        3.65         0.00         0.00        3.65
(0.00)      (3.40)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (3.40)
2. Goods                    2.38        0.00         1.62         0.00        4.00
(2.38)      (0.00)       (1.40)       (0.00)      (3.78)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00        5.60         0.00        5.60
(0.00)      (0.00)       (5.10)       (0.00)      (5.10)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00        0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                    2.38         3.65         7.22        0.00        13.25
(2.38)       (3.40)      (6.50)       (0.00)     (12.28)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) US$ million equivalent)
1. Works               [    0.00    1-1.00                                   1.26
-25 -



(0.00)        (1.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (1.00)
2. Goods                        0.00          2.03          0.61          0.74         3.38
(0.00)        (2.03)        (0.61)        (0.00)        (2.64)
3. Services                     0.92          3.26          1.95          2.50         8.63
(0.92)        (2.86)        (1.95)        (0.00)        (5.73)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        0.92          6.29          2.82          3.24         13.27
(0.92)        (5.89)        (2.56)        (0.00)        (9.37)
1" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Flnancing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Pilot Testing            2.54      0.39               2.27      0.10              89.4   25.6
Improved Geology         1.55      0.33               1.41      0.05              91.0   15.2
Improved SSM Framework   0.77                         0.19                        24.7
Land Reclamation         2.13      0.51               0.57      0.09              26.8   17.6
Prestea Water &                                                           0.38
Sanitation
Minerals Commission      2.40      0.08               2.60      0.05      0.29    108.3  62.5
Minerals Department      0.75      0.07               0.67      0.00      0.01    89.3    0.0
Geological Survey Dept.  1.64      0.01               1.35      0.01      2.92    82.3   100.0
Ministry of Mines &      0.49      0.00               0.31      0.00              63.3    0.0
Energy               I         I_I                                     I        I_I_I_I
Note: The amount of US$0.38 million for Prestea Water & Sanitation is as of December 31, 2001. This is
an on-going activity funded by NDF, which has allocated US$1.5 million for this purpose. This amount
should be disbursed by December 31, 2003.
- 26 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 27 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty'         Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implernentation Development
Monti/Year    Count          Specialty                    Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
April/94                   5    1 Mining Engineer, I Env.
Specialist, I Financial Analyst, I
Consultant, I Lead Adviser
Dec/94                     2    1 Mining Engineer, I Env.
Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
July/94                    S    1 Mining Engineer, I Env.
Specialist, I Financial
Analyst, 2 Consultants
Feb/96                     2    1 Mining Engineer, 1 Env.
Specialist
Supervision
June/96                     2   1 Mining Engineer, I Env.        S            S
Specialist
April/97                    2   1 Mining Engineer, I Env.        S            S
Specialist
July/97                     2   1 Mining Engineer, I Env.        S            S
Specialist
Feb/98                      2   1 Mining Engineer, I Env.        S            S
Specialist
July/98                     I   I Mining Engineer                S            S
Sept/99                     I   I Mining Specialist              S            S
May/00                      2   1 Mining Specialist, I Env.      S            S
Specialist
Nov/00                      I   Mining Specialist                S             S
May/O                      I   Mining Specialist                S            S
Oct/01                      I   Mining Specialist                S            S
ICR
Oct/01                     I    Mining Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             39.1                     136.90
Appraisal/Negotiation                  42.8                     111.10
Supervision                          117.27                     392.09
ICR                                    9.00                      38.10
Total                                298.17                     678.19
- 28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                      O H  OSUOM O N       * NA
OI Sector Policies                    O H  *SUOM      O N O NA
El Physical                           OH   OSUOM      ON   ONA
Ol Financial                          O H  OSUOM      * N O NA
Ol Institutional Development          O H  O SU O M O N    0 NA
Ci Environmental                      O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
Social
Ol Poverty Reduction            O H  OSUOM * N       O NA
O Gender                        O H OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM O N       * NA
O Private sector development          0 H O SU O M 0 N     0 NA
l Public sector management            0 H O SU O M 0 N     0 NA
O Other (Please spec6fy)              O H OSUOM O N        * NA
-29 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
O Lending                                           OHS OS OLU OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS       O   U  0 HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS O U 0 HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U   0 HU
L Government implementation performance             O HS OS      O U   0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O   U  0 HU
OL Overall                                          OHS OS       O U   O HU
- 30 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports;
2. Project Progress Reports;
3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the Project;
4. Borrower's Evaluation Report dated April 30, 2002; and
5. Staff Appraisal Report for Republic of Ghana Mining Sector Development and Environment
Project dated May 19, 1995 (Report No. 13881-GH)
- 31 -






IBRD 2101 IRI
3             2              I. o            o              .               2
U R K I N A   FASO          1-0            0               10---
- 10  1  ,   .         .   .,;S      \\ /' Sf C;UIIm:Om          GHANA
Te  g  4 >  4 C S pt    t   | 4          MINING SECTOR
S  ;-   E,  v  GIQN<>;U.  REHABILITATION PROJECT
UPPER     EST       6bo            V     -
N   \~~~REGION   I/  Oeo            I   </$
-10       ) WA     a    X        AS   SU        /  t  / 42)                       101-
9>5>  %   ~~~~NORTHERN !a  \/tIE;ON (vg%
_90                                                                * \f;mbulgu,  Qj7ZubtX SSM Mining Areas  90
-9.                                                             %A~ ooono  Main Mines
5  U'pe/5>  \\  \  (1/  j  cj  lilmb t   r- Primary Roads
<           - ,  > t Ct  1+  / <}\   Major Secondary Roads
COTE     \ 0o\        /         t       aa  >    t l  \KW            Other Secondary Roads
-                              4         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railroads
D'IVOIRE   \                                               S~o    @Region Headquarters
1D-d I               National Capital
Region Boundaries
-8.  g        1   vo;          AHAF                  t      _ - _  International  B oundaries
/           d'          Khong   -                           TOG              7ee0 ( 
k~~~~~~~~Bk
0 \d_ ( ~~~~~~TOGOr
-60   WEST                                                                         6 \  m  ;;  6
TRAVTema
9    9to~~iib RE(;IO 4rkwo- .7q 
/ <  \,JJSEK(ONDI              O  110 ^   330  4,0 50 MILES
0  20  40  60  80 KILOMETERS
Gulf    of      Guinea                         Thr'o nro.pd onopr ytheop oso ' o,t o   -ThoWorldook
or occoptooco of such  odooo
;pA, anj!h p.,t. The  ~ JUN  19971
JUNE 199









7   IMAGING
I   Report No.:        24196
I   Type:     ICR



