Document of
The World Bank
Report No.: 26197
PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT
GHANA
MINING SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1921-GH)
MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND
ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2743-GH)
July 1, 2003
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit = Cedi (C)
1993  US$1 = C649
1994  US$1 = C957
1995  US$1 = C1200
1996  US$1 = C1637
1997  US$1 = C2050
1998  US$1 = C2314
1999  US$1 = C2669
2000  US$1 = C5455
2001  US$1 = C7171
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AfDB      African Development Bank
AGC       Ashanti Goldfields Company
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
DIC       Divestiture Implementation Commission
EPA       Environmental Protection Agency
GGL       Goldfields Ghana Limited
GOG       Government of Ghana
GSD       Geological Survey Department
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IRS        Internal Revenue Service
JV        Joint Venture
MC         Minerals Commission
MD         Mines Department
MDF        Minerals Development Fund
MOF        Ministry of Finance
NDF       Nordic Development Fund
OED        Operations Evaluation Department
PMMC      Precious Metals Marketing Company
PPAR      Project Performance Assessment Report
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SGMC       State Gold Mining Corporation
SSM       Small-scale mining
TA        Technical assistance
Fiscal Year
Government:        January 1-December 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation         Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Departnent (Acting)  Mr. Nils Fostvedt
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation         Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                    Mr. Andres Liebenthal



OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and Independence In evaluation.
About this Report
The Operations Evaluation Department assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank's self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is
producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Bank's lending operations. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that are
innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons. The projects, topics, and analytical approaches selected for assessment support larger evaluation
studies.
A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
About the OED Rating System
The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible raUngs: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
Institutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements andlor (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, toward the achievement
of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory,
Highly Unsatisfactory.






Contents
Contents ............................................                                                           iii
Principal Ratings ...........................................   .v
Key Staff Responsible ............................................v
Preface ............................................                                                           vii
Summary .............................................                                                           ix
Background ............................................1
Macroeconomic Context ............................................                                     1
Ghana 's Extractive Industries ..........................................2
Bank Involvement in Ghana 's Extractive Industries ..........................................4
Project Assessments ............................................4
Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project ............................................4
Project Objectives ............................................4
Concept, Design, and Quality at Entry ............................................5
Project design ............................................5
Quality at entry ............................................6
Project Implementation ............................................7
Ratings ...........................................                                         10
Efficacy ...........................................                               10
Efficiency ......................................................                  10
Sustainability ...........................................                         11
Institutional development impact ...........................................        11
Outcome ...........................................                                12
Bank performance ...........................................                       12
Borrower performance ......................................                        13
Mining Sector Development And Environment Project .....................................               14
Project Objectives .....................................                                    14
Design and Quality at Entry .....................................                           14
Project design .....................................                               14
Appraisal and quality at entry .....................................               15
Project Implementation .....................................                                15
Support to small-scale mining .....................................                16
Environmental mitigation .....................................                     16
Health of artisanal miners .....................................                   17
Ratings ......................................                                               17



iv
Efficacy .....................................................                      17
Efficiency .....................................................                    17
Sustainability .....................................................                17
Institutional development impact ...................................................1 l8
Outcome .....................................................                       19
Bank performance .....................................................              19
Borrower performance .....................................................          20
Current Sectoral Issues .....................................................                                    20
Sharing of Resource Rents .....................................................              20
Development of Artisanal/Small-Scale Mining ......................................... 21
Environmental Mitigation in the Small-Scale Mining Sector .................... 22
Post-mine Economic Development .....................................................           22
Future of Large-Scale Mining .....................................................           23
Lessons Learned ......................................................                       .        .          23
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet .                    .....................................................             25



v
Principal Ratings
MINING SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
ICR                         ES                        PPAR
Outcome                    Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory         Moderately Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                  Likely                     Likely                     Unlikely
Institutional                 Substantial                Substantial                   High
Development Impact
Bank Performance              Satisfactory               Satisfactory              UnsaUsfactory
Borrower                      Satisfactory               Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory
Performance
MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
ICR                         ES                       PPAR
Outcome                       Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory    Moderately Satisfactory
Sustainability                  Likely                  Non-evaluable                 Unlikely
Institutional                 Substantial                  Modest                   Substantial
Development Impact
Bank Performance              Satisfactory               Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Borrower                      SaUisfactory               Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory
Performance
Key Staff Responsible
MINING SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project                        Task Manager/Leader          Division Chief!        Country Director
Sector Director
Appraisal                            J. Moose                  S. Aiyer             C. Koch-Weser
Mid-term                            L. Maraboli             M. Oakes Smith             E. Lim
Completion                          L. Maraboll             P. van der Veen          S. Michailof
MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Project                        Task Manager/Leader          Division Chief!        Country Director
Sector Director
Appraisal                           L Maraboli              M. Oakes Smith          0. Lafourcade
Mid-term                            L. Maraboli             P. van der Veen           P. Harrold
Completion                           F. Remy                P. van der Veen           P. Harrold






vii
Preface
This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on two mining projects
in Ghana: the Mining Sector Rehabilitation (Cr. 1921-GH) and the Mining Sector
Development and Environment (Cr. 2743-GH) projects. The forrner project was partly
funded by an IDA credit of SDR 29.3 million, approved in June 1988, and closed three
years late in December 1996. It was cofinanced by the European Investment Bank. The
Mining Sector Development and Environment Project was supported by an IDA credit of
SDR 7.9 million, approved in June 1995, for which the original closing date of December
31, 2000, was extended by one year. The Nordic Development Fund provided cofinancing
for this project.
This report is based on the Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) prepared
by the Africa Region (Report no. 16731, dated June 19, 1997, and Report no. 24196,
dated June 12, 2002), the appraisal documents (Report no. 7039, May 10, 1988, and
Report no. 13881, May 19 1995) loan documents, project files, and discussions with
Bank staff. An Operations Evaluation Department (OED) mission visited Ghana in
October 2002 to discuss the effectiveness of the Bank's assistance with the government
and the project implementing agencies. The collaboration and assistance of all their
officials are gratefully acknowledged.
This PPAR is the first OED review of Bank operations in Ghana's mining sector.
It will serve as an input to an ongoing OED evaluation of Bank Group activities in
extractive industries, for which Ghana has been selected as a case study.
Following standard OED procedures, a draft PAR was sent to the borrower and
cofinanciers for comments before it was finalized, but no comments were received. In
accordance with the Bank's disclosure policy, the final report will be available to the
public following submission to the World Bank's Board of Executive Directors






ix
Summary
This is the Performance Assessment Report prepared by the Operations
Evaluation Department on two mining sector projects in Ghana. The Mining Sector
Rehabilitation Project (MSRP) was approved for a credit of SDR 29.3 million in FY88
and closed in FY97. It was cofinanced by the European Investment Bank. The Mining
Sector Development and Environment Project (MSDEP) was approved for an IDA credit
of SDR 7.9 million in FY95 and closed in December 2001. It was cofinanced by the
Nordic Development Fund.
The key objectives of the MSRP were to (i) rehabilitate economically viable
mines, (ii) help attract private investment in mining, (iii) strengthen the governmental
agencies dealing with the sector, and (iv) increase the benefits to the country from small-
scale mining. A significant environmental cleanup component was added late in the
implementation period, but the project's objectives were never modified to reflect this.
The basic premise of the first objective was flawed. Two, and arguably all three,
of the state gold mines slated for rehabilitation proved to be unviable for technical and
financial reasons. Nevertheless, the state mines were kept going for more than a decade
(1983-95), at a cost to GOG in excess of US$ 100 million, largely funded by IDA and
other donors. All three mines were shut down by their private operators within a few
years of their takeover, due to a combination of poor geology, technical problems and
low gold prices.
In light of the project's physical and financial shortcomings, this PPAR assesses
the outcome of the project as moderately unsatisfactory. The institutional development
impact of the project is evaluated as high because of the legalization of small-scale
mining and the, strengthening of two key sector agencies. Project sustainability is rated
unlikely because the Minerals Commission, which was one of the project's successes, is
in financial difficulty, threatening its future performance. Both Bank and borrower
performance are assessed as unsatisfactory, given poor project quality at entry,
inadequate supervision, and the inability of the government to make hard decisions.
The main objectives of the MSDEP were to (a) enhance the capacity of the
mining sector institutions to carry out their functions of encouraging and regulating
investments in the mining sector in an environmentally sound manner; and (b) to support
the use of techniques and mechanisms that would improve the productivity and financial
viability of small-scale mining operations and reduce their environmental impact.
The project substantially succeeded in its capacity building objective but failed to
improve the performance of small-scale mining (SSM). Efforts to improve the
observance of health and safety precautions by artisanal miners had meager results.
Despite the failure of the SSM component, the overall outcome of the project is assessed
as moderately satisfactory in light of the project's continuing relevance and the
substantial progress in its capacity-building objective.



x
Overall the project's institutional development impact is assessed as substantial
because of the positive results achieved in strengthening the Minerals Commission and
the Mining Department and because of the improved legal and fiscal provisions for
mining (currently before Parliament) that were drawn up as a direct result of the project.
Heightened awareness of and emphasis given to the environmental impact of mining can
also be attributed to the project. However, the sustainability of the capacity building
achievements of the project is now in doubt and overall project sustainability as rated as
unlikely. Bank performance is assessed as satisfactory, albeit only marginally, given
shortcomings in the project's quality at entry. Borrower performance is assessed as
unsatisfactory because the Government did not provide proper sector leadership, failed
to reform the Geological Survey Department and latterly did not provide adequate
funding for the Minerals Commission to operate effectively.
The main lessons learned from these projects are:
* hnproving the legal and fiscal framework for private investors can be highly
effective in attracting inflows of capital to the mining sector.
* Legalization of artisanal mining is desirable but needs to be accompanied by
measures to tax and control the environmental damage caused by such mining.
*  Effective, transparent, and equitable mechanisms for transferring resources back
to communities affected by large-scale mining are essential sociopolitical tools to
ensure that tangible economic benefits are felt by local people and that mining has
legitimacy in the eyes of the public.
Gregory K. Ingram
Director-General
Operations Evaluation



Background
1.    The mining sector in Ghana, as described in this part of the report, is a major
exporter and significant contributor to government revenues. Since the mid-1980s,
extractive industries have been undergoing a massive transfornation fueled by large
infusions of foreign direct investment. The World Bank has contributed to this
transformation through assistance to rehabilitate government-owned mines and by its
wide-ranging support to sectoral supervisory bodies.
MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT
2.    Ghana has a GDP of about US$5.7 billion. GDP per capita for its population of
slightly more than 20 million (which is increasing at 2.2 percent annually), is about
US$280. Its relatively high external debt of about US$7 billion, 125 percent of GDP, has
enabled Ghana to qualify for relief under the Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC)
initiative. Real growth has averaged about 4 percent annually over the five-year period
1997-2002, but the economy still suffers from high inflation and a rapidly depreciating
currency. These are partly the legacy of fiscal laxity driven by electoral considerations
that created regular bouts of macroeconomic instability throughout the 1990s.
3.    Agriculture dominates the Ghanaian economy, accounting for over 35 percent of
GDP and 60 percent of employment. However, by the standards of Sub-Saharan Africa
Ghana has a fairly large and diversified industrial sector that accounts for about 25
percent of GDP.
4.    Mining represents about 5 percent of GDP and its contribution to total
government tax revenues in 2001 was about 4%, or about US$31 million, including
US$10 million of income tax paid by mining industry workers. Royalties of US$18
million, which are levied at 3 percent of the value of gold production at the free market
price, accounted for most of the mining sector's contribution to government revenues'.
Various tax allowances means that corporate income tax payments by mining companies
are modest, despite their combined turnover in excess of US$600million. Mining exports
of about US$ 700 million account for about a third of Ghana's total export revenues.
Large scale mines and mining service companies employ about 30,000 workers.
Considerably more people are involved in artisanal and small-scale mining.
5.    In the late 1970s to early 1980s, the Ghanaian economy experienced a severe
decline. The contraction of the Ghanaian economy was so severe that real per capita
incomes in 1984 were nearly 30 percent below the level of a decade earlier. The
Rawlings government launched its Economic Recovery Programn (ERP) in 1983-84 and
received strong support from the Bank through some of the earliest structural adjustment
operations in Africa. Initially there was suspicion of this new lending instrument both
within Ghana and in the international community, particularly in academic circles with
which Ghana was well connected. Because of the heavy emphasis on reducing the role of
the state, privatizing state enterprises, and creating a climate attractive to foreign direct
1 GOG also receives dividends on its 10% shareholding in most mining enterprises.



2
investment, some critics saw structural adjustment as alienating national assets and
returning the nation to a dependent relationship and peripheral position vis-a-vis the
global economy. In Ghana, the gold mines were particularly sensitive, as they were
culturally symbolic of the pre-colonial state.
GHANA'S EXTRACTIVE INDUSTRIES
6.    Ghana's extractive industries produce gold, diamonds, manganese, bauxite,2 and
salt. Modest offshore oil and natural gas reserves in the Saltpond basin were briefly
exploited in the early 1980s, but then shut down as they were uneconomic. Gas
production from the offshore Tano field is due to begin soon, to feed a power plant.
7.    Gold has been       Table 1: Mineral Production in Ghana, 1985-2001
produced in Ghana for     Mineral               1985  1990   1995  2000  2001
hundreds of years. Modem  Gold (000 ounces)     300   541    1709  2315  2336
mining methods were       Diamonds (000 carats)  636   637   632   627    870
introduced in the late l9t Dimns(0cat)          63     67    62    67     80
Manganese (000 tons)  357   247    187   895   1077
century and production    Bauxite (000 tons)    124   364    530   504    678
million ounces in the early  N.B. The total value of minerals production in 2001 was US$662 million.
1 960s. Thereafter the industry went into a 20-year decline that was finally halted in the
mid-1980s. Since then the nature and scale of the mining sector has gone through a
massive transformation. Foreign direct investment of about US$5 billion3 has flowed in
and probably exceeds the value of FDI in all other sectors combined. The new investment
has been heavily concentrated in surface mining, which is now the predominant method
of extraction. While diamond, manganese, and bauxite have shown large increases in
production, their financial importance to Ghana is dwarfed by gold (Table 1), which
accounts for over 90 percent of mineral exports and, at about US$650 million in 2002, is
by far Ghana's largest export.4
2. The bauxite is not of metallurgical grade and is exported while an aluminum smelter operates on
imported aluniina.
3. Including mining service companies.
4. In 1992 gold overtook cocoa, historically Ghana's principal export.



3
8.     Gold mining in Ghana today bears little   Table 2: Gold Production in 2001
resemblance to that of the 1980s when virtually  Mine               Quantity    Value
all operations were in underground, state-                        (000 ounces)  (US$ m)
owned or controlled mines.5 In the mid-1990s     Ashant Goldfields    998        271
the Ashanti Goldfields Ltd. (AGC) was            Goldfields Ghana     527        143
successfully floated on the London stock         Abosso Goldfields    303        82
exchange6 and the three main state-owned gold    Resolute Amansie     111        30
mines were divested. Gold production was         Others               231        61
valued at nearly US$640 million in 2001 and is   Small-scale miners   166        50
entirely controlled by the private sector. Two  Total                2336        637
companies, AGC and Goldfields Ghana (GGL)7
account for over 65 percent of production (Table 2).
9.     There is also a large, primarily illegal small-scale/artisanal sector that produces
gold and diamonds8 and employs much more labor than large-scale mining. It is a long-
standing feature of the sector and is likely to outlive large-scale mining. By absorbing
large amounts of unskilled labor (as many as 100,000 people, including children,
although not necessarily full time)9 this activity is a valuable socio-economic safety valve
where there is permanently high unemployment. Unfortunately, it has markedly poor
health and environmental impacts.
10.    Gold output is now about 2.3 million ounces, a tenfold increase (Tables 1-2) in
volume since its record low of about 280,000 ounces in 1983-84. The ERP received
massive backing from the donor community and the Bank quickly approved an export
rehabilitation project'" and two structural adjustment operations. They provided a crucial
injection of foreign exchange into the economy to enable the purchase of essential spares
and other inputs needed to restore Ghana's main export industries, cocoa, timber, and
gold.
11.    As a result of the improved macroeconomic conditions brought about by the ERP
and the new minerals law passed in 1986, private foreign investment quickly began to
flow in. The first new mine for over 40 years (Konongo) started production in 1988.
Three new open-pit gold mines entered production in 1990-91. One of these (Bogosu)
was backed by the IFC.
5. Before 1988 all gold was produced by AGC (55 percent state-owned) or SGMC (100 percent public),
which together employed about 19,000 workers.
6. AGC is Ghana's largest company (but with a substantial British shareholding) and also has mines in
Guinea, Zimbabwe, and Tanzania. In 2001 it was ranked as the tenth largest gold producer worldwide. The
Ghanaian government is a minority shareholder.
7. A subsidiary of Goldfields of South Africa, the world's fourth largest gold producer in 2001. The
government has a 10 percent stake in GGL.
8. Over half of Ghana's total recorded diamond production comes from small-scale operators.
9. This is a 'guesstimate'. No accurate or reliable number is available for the extent of employment in this
activity.
10. Cr. 1435-GH, approved January 1984. It was accomnpanied by a parallel TA project (Cr. 1436-GH).



4
BANK INVOLVEMENT IN GHANA'S EXTRACTIVE INDUSTRIES
12.   In the early 1980s, as part of IDA's support to the ERP, nearly US$50 million was
made available to the mining sector from the previously mentioned IDA adjustment
credits. The funds were used for the rehabilitation of the three gold mines run by the State
Gold Mining Corporation (SGMC), which employed about 8,000 workers and was on the
point of collapse. IFC also assisted AGC in raising funds (through a syndicate loan
offering) for its own rehabilitation program in the mid-1980s. Hence, although the
Mining Sector Rehabilitation project (approved in mid-1988) was the Bank's first lending
operation tailored exclusively to the needs of the mining sector, it was the logical
continuation of assistance that had begun several years earlier. The Mining Sector
Development and Environment Project followed in 1995, seven years later. These two
operations overlapped for about two years, due to a major delay in implementing the
former project. The latter project closed at end-2001 and there has been no follow-on
operation.
13.   By 1986, when preparation of the first free-standing lending operation for mining
began, the decline in gold production had been arrested, but SGMC was still making
losses due to its high costs (in part due to overmanning), decayed plant, and low output.
The mining industry was still penalized by an overvalued exchange rate, which also
provided strong incentives to smuggling of gold and diamonds. In 1985 an expatriate
contract management team was put into SGMC with Bank-CIDA funding" to help fill the
many gaps in technical and managerial positions. Many skilled Ghanaians had left the
public sector (many also left the country) due to low salaries and the prolonged
macroeconomic crisis during the 1970s and early 1980s.
Project Assessments
MINING SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Objectives
14.   The stated objectives of the Mining Sector Rehabilitation project were to (i)
rehabilitate economically viable mines, (ii) help attract private investment in mining, (iii)
strengthen the governmental agencies dealing with the sector, and (iv) increase the
benefits to the country from small-scale mining. The outright sale of the state-owned
mines was not an explicit project objective, although joint-venturing of the three SGMC
mines (Prestea, Tarkwa, both underground, and Dunkwa, alluvial dredging) with private
partners was seen as the best way to improve management and possibly obtain additional
funding for mine rehabilitation"2.
11. From the Export Rehabilitation TA Project (Cr. 1436-GH).
12. The Region pointed out that the evolution from rehabilitation through joint-venturing to outright sales
was a logical one and fully consistent with the objectives of the project and the evolving thinking about the
role of Government from owner/operator of mining assets/facilities to regulator/administrator at that time.



5
15.    These objectives were highly relevant to the issues in the sector at that time.
Viewed from the standpoint of current sectoral priorities, with the exception of mine
rehabilitation, objectives (ii) to (iv) are assessed as substantially relevant. However, one
surprising omission was any environmental objective, given that the mines had been
operating in poor condition for many years. A significant environmental cleanup
component was added to the project at a late stage of implementation, but the project's
objectives were never formally modified to reflect this'3.
16.    The basic premise of the first objective, which was the core of the entire project,"4
was flawed. Two, and arguably all three, of the state gold mines slated for rehabilitation
proved to be unviable for technical and financial reasons. A more thorough technical and
financial evaluation prior to deciding the scope of the project would have revealed that
they were marginal investments, but this information only came to light after the credit
had already been approved.
17.    From GOG's perspective, the project also had an unstated objective: the
preservation of mining sector jobs, regardless of the financial or economic viability of the
mines, particularly as Prestea and Dunkwa were company towns with no other raison
d 'etre. In addition, the mineworkers union was politically powerful. The Bank appears to
have tacitly accepted this objective, judging by its willingness to finance unviable mine
rehabilitation and to condone SGMC's financial losses over many years.
Concept, Design, and Quality at Entry
Project design
18.    The lack of an explicit environmental goal is a serious shortcoming of the original
project design'5. Including a component for the mitigation of past (as well as ongoing)
environmental damage would have enhanced the prospects of attracting private
operators'6. In any event, GOG would have to bear the cost of environmental cleanup of
SGMC's past operations and this would have been suitable for IDA financing. Instead,
the Staff Appraisal report (SAR) erroneously treats lightly the environmental impact of
mining, stating that "the current activities of the mining sector in Ghana have very
limited environmental effects in the form of subsidence, surface disturbance or disposal
of waste from mining or metallurgical processing."'7 This statement was patently untrue,
particularly of AGC's mines and the environmental damage caused by them in the
13. The Region pointed out that the evolving concerns of the project team and government responsiveness
resulted in the inclusion of substantial additional environmental activities during implementation.
14. At appraisal 85 percent of the project cost was directed to this component and ultimately two-thirds of
the credit was used for it.
15. The Region argues that the project reflected and complied with the environmental requirements and
practices of the Bank at that time.
16. Contrary to information given to the PPAR mission in Ghana, the Region commented that the majority
of the companies which expressed an interest in the privatization indicated they did not want environmental
initiatives prior to their actual involvement.
17. Report # 7039-GH, para 3.15.



6
Obuasi area. The credit conditionality, however, did require that effluent discharges and
air quality monitoring be carried out and a study be undertaken of the environmental
impact of surface mining'8. The first mention of the seriousness of the environmental
damage from mining was slow to emerge in Bank files. It was the result of a separate
reconnaissance mission"9 in late-1 991, three and a half years after appraisal, to review
environmental issues in Ghana. Formal recognition of the need to retrofit the project
with environmental mitigation components took even longer, emerging in mid-1993, just
a few months prior to the original project closing date.
19.    In a somewhat novel feature, this traditional SL was split into two tranches, only
the first of which was available for use at credit effectiveness. While the first tranche
provided funds on safety grounds for the urgent rehabilitation of underground mine shaft
winders, and for the institutional strengthening of government entities dealing with the
sector, the balance of the credit was held back in the second tranche. Access to this
depended on satisfactory implementation arrangements and adequate external financing
for a more exhaustive rehabilitation program under joint ventures. Tranching the credit
was a useful safeguard and helped keep up the pressure on GOG to come to closure on
mine divestiture. But its potential usefulness was not exploited fully since the opportunity
to entirely drop mine rehabilitation and use the second tranche for other activities (such
as a major environmental cleanup or severance pay for redundant miners) was not taken.
Quality at entry
20.    The overall quality at entry of this project is assessed as unsatisfactory because
the technical and financial evaluations at appraisal of the SGMC mines were
inadequate20. The SAR takes it as given that the rehabilitation of these mines was
justified, even though the results of evaluations (due diligence funded by the Project
Preparation Facility) of the Prestea and Tarkwa mines by mining consultants were not
available at that stage.2' The results were available before credit effectiveness and
revealed that the real FRR on both was likely to be too low to attract outside investors.
But this did not lead to a rethinking on the part of either IDA or GOG. The assessment of
Dunkwa's potential, though available earlier, was incorrect regarding the ore reserves as
well as the operational capabilities of the dredgers. Experience later showed that none of
these mines had long-term viability and they did not justify the major injection of new
funds from both public and private sources.
18. The final report, "Study on the effects of mining on Ghana's environment" (by NSR Environmental
Consultants) was issued in October 1991. It made an important contribution to raising awareness within the
Bank of the urgency of addressing the sector's poor environmental performance and thus helped trigger the
preparation of a follow-on project with an explicit environmental focus.
19. The mission back to office report, dated 12/23/91 states, "Gaseous emissions [from AGC], fallout from
the ore roasting stack, dust dispersion, tailing spillage, tailing dam decant liquor and various liquid
effluents have over a very long period of time produced widespread contamination in the Obuasi area and
in the downriver drainage."
20. The Region pointed out that the mines were considered viable once rehabilitated, based on professional
assessments by the CGM group, (the management contractor) and studies conducted by other consultants.
21. The consultants (RTZ) were asked inter alia, to assess the ore reserves, estimate rehabilitation costs,
and derive present value estimates for the rehabilitated mines.



7
21.    Clearly there was insufficiently reliable information at the time of the Bank's
appraisal on the reserve potential of the three mines. Reserve information cited in the
SAR was overly optimistic: 15 years of expected production at Tarkwa22 and 40 years at
Dunkwa, although these estimates partly depended on a gold price of at least $400 per
ounce, which also proved to be far too high13. The SAR states that this price was
'substantially below recent long range gold price forecasts'.
22.    The assessment of risks presented in the SAR correctly identified the two main
risks facing the project as lower-than-expected production and falling gold prices. But the
financial sensitivity analysis at appraisal (based on data that was soon revealed to be
overly optimistic) showed that only a small 14 percent decline in the gold price would
jeopardize the case for rehabilitation by pushing the FRR to under 10 percent. Given the
volatility of gold prices, this seems to have been an insufficient safety margin. Although
forecasts of commodity prices are notoriously unreliable, the SAR (para. 6.03) asserts
that the base case price and production parameters used in the analysis "appear
conservative" because the price was an average of the previous twelve years24. This was
probably a reasonable assumption at that time.
Project Implementation
23.    Due to the lack of a full account in the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
of the decade-long process of divesting the SGMC mines to private operators, this section
of the PPAR provides a summary of the divestiture process and a critique of both its
relevance and outcome.
24.    A debate within GOG and with the Bank on whether to seek a single joint venture
(JV) partner for all three SGMC mines (despite great technical and operational
differences between them) or to offer them separately remained unresolved for several
years. It was complicated by the discovery that long-term prospects for Tarkwa were
poorer than initially assessed. Offers were sought for the SGMC mines in mid-1989. No
bids were initially received to take over Tarkwa. Prestea, though it had always been
viewed as the less attractive of the two underground mines, received offers from potential
JV partners and was the first to reach preliminary agreement in early 1991, but this failed
to come to closure and ultimately Prestea was the last to be divested after three attempts.
The Dunkwa alluvial dredging operation was seen as the most profitable and had
attracted unsolicited expressions of interest from private firms. But this assessment
proved to be unfounded as the dredgers had major technical problems that could never be
satisfactorily resolved and the assessment of the remaining ore reserve was not accurate.
22. The consultants (RTZ) also found that the gold reserves at Tarkwa were of a lower grade of ore than
previously assumed.
23. However, it should be recognized that the project was appraised in 1987, when gold prices were
somewhat higher - around $440/ounce. They began to fall almost immediately thereafter, declining to a 20-
year low of $279/oz. in 1999.
24. Expressed in 1987 dollars and excluding the 1980 peak year price of $612/oz.



8
25.   Concluding the JV process proved to be much slower than anticipated (in part due
to GOG indecision, unfamiliarity with privatization, and the multiplicity of players
involved on the Ghanaian side - the Minerals Commission (MC), SGMC, Ministry of
Lands, Divestiture Implementation Commission, MOF). Inevitably, this delayed the mine
rehabilitation works as well. Over two years after Board approval, no JV was in place and
bidders for Dunkwa had withdrawn their offers. In the interim, SGMC continued to lose
about $5 million annually, but by 1992 its losses had risen to $12.5 million on revenues
of only $17 million.
26.   In mid-1991, at a cofinanciers meeting, GOG agreed to adopt the Bank's
suggestion to halt production at Tarkwa and Dunkwa and put them on "care and
maintenance" as a way of halting SGMC's losses, but this decision was later reversed.
Nor did GOG undertake any significant downsizing of SGMCs headquarters or carry out
other cost-reduction measures as promised. A second round of bids for the SGMC mines
was solicited in late 1991, but a timely GOG decision proved hard to obtain, given the
South African nationality25 of the bidder for Prestea and Tarkwa. Finally, Goldfields of S.
Africa took over management26 of the Tarkwa mine in July 1993, five years after the
credit had been approved and just six months ahead of the original closing date. Other
offers were later received for Prestea and Dunkwa, eventually resulting in the successful
transfer of management to private operators in mid-1995 (Dunkwa) and mid-1996
(Prestea).
27.   However, these "successes" proved to be short-lived: Prestea's new operators
(Barnex) pulled out in 1998, citing the low gold price and high production costs. The
management and employees then took over Prestea until 2000. They too had to shut
down the mine, having used up all their pooled end-of-service benefits27 and run up
substantial debts with a local bank and the power company. Dunkwa also ceased
operating in early 2000, due to the low gold price, poor reserves, and technical problems
with the dredgers28. Finally, production from the Tarkwa underground mine also ceased
in 1999, when it was replaced by a new larger, lower-cost surface mine, but the majority
of workers were retained.
28.   The impact of the mine rehabilitation on Ghana's foreign exchange earnings was
neutral at best. There is no evidence that SGMC's gold exports increased as a result of
the project. The SAR expected the project to help raise SGMC's output from 40,000
ounces to 140,000 ounces by the early 1990s. This did not happen. When Tarkwa
divested (in 1993), SGMC's production was still only 43,000 ounces, which yielded
significantly less foreign exchange, as the gold price had fallen to $360 per ounce from
$440 per ounce at the time of appraisal. Furthermore, SGMC's substantial arrears for
25. The apartheid regime was still in power in S. Africa at that time.
26. It did not purchase the assets.
27. Paid to them by Barnex.
28. The region commented that the. owner of the Dunkwa mining operation has diversified into other
activities, including agro-processing, thereby preserving employment in the area. At the time of the PAR
mission in late 2002, these non-mining activities were also virtually at a standstill.



9
unpaid electricity consumption, as well as its borrowings from local banks, had to be
cleared by GOG.
29.   The state mines were kept going for more than a decade (1983-95) for political
reasons. The cost was met from GOG's budget in turn massively backed by IDA and
other donors. The SGMC bailouts increased GOG's foreign indebtedness by more than
$50 million, but there was no payback in return in the form of higher taxes or royalties. It
was fiscally imprudent of GOG to have borrowed (and in foreign currency) to perpetuate
a non-viable business that was incapable of generating a positive cash flow. No hard
budget constraint was put on SGMC. Revenue received from the divestiture of the SGMC
mines was extremely modest29 and was used to cover the cost of severance pay of
redundant workers not retained by the new managers and the pension liabilities of
SGMC's retired employees.
30.   When the ICR was written in early 1997, the authors understandably felt that the
rehabilitation and divestiture of the SGMC had been successful since there were
encouraging signs of increased output and reduced losses. But these turned out to be
unsustainable, for geological (Dunkwa and Prestea), technical (Dunkwa dredgers), and
financial reasons (low gold price). In the case of Prestea and Dunkwa the closure
followed within five years of divestiture, while in Tarkwa underground mining was
phased out as soon as a major new surface mine could be brought into production.
31.   Dunkwa and Prestea made only modest royalty and negligible tax contributions
after divestiture. Both shut down permanently within about five years of the change in
management. With hindsight, it was not worth the trouble to divest them or keep them
going, except for the protection of employment. It would have been cheaper to have paid
the workers to stay at home, saving GOG the cost of attempted rehabilitation, especially
of the Dunkwa dredgers, which suffered many technical design and operational
difficulties.
32.   The mine divestitures were only a partial privatization because SGMC still exists
as a legal entity (although it has no operations or staff). It remains the owner of some
assets of the Prestea and Tarkwa mines.30 The assets were never sold but given to the
new operators on a "concession" basis. SGMC has yet to be liquidated and is likely to
exist for several more years while the old equipment is gradually disposed of.
33.   On a more positive note, it can be argued that divestiture of the Tarkwa
underground mine serendipitously acted as a "carrot" to get Goldfields to invest in a
major new surface mine. It is unclear whether they would have done so without having
acquired the first-hand experience of operating in Ghana as well as access to data and
information that only a local presence can bring. The opening of the new open pit
operations at Tarkwa in 1998 is a major success story, but is only indirectly attributable
29. Only about $2 million was paid to GOG for each of the two underground mines and $0.4 mrillion for
Dunkwa.
30. However, the Dunkwa mine was disposed of as an outright sale.



10
to the Bank's project.3" Goldfields recognized that there was an upside potential in the
area and took over the Tarkwa concession. As a result of their exploration, (which was in
no way connected with the Bank project), they found new reserves, albeit within the
original concession area and developed a major new surface mine.
34.   Having significantly improved the legal and incentive framework for new
investment in mining, the best way of exploiting Ghana's rich gold potential was to
pursue new prospects rather than sinking additional money into old pits. Yet at that time
GOG and the donor community were unable or unwilling to recognize this, despite the
evidence of major inflows of foreign capital for exploration and for greenfield mining
projects.
Ratings
Efficacy
35.   Overall efficacy of the project is assessed as substantial because three out of four
objectives were largely met. However, the principal stated objective, the rehabilitation of
viable mines, cannot be said to have been achieved. The implicit project objective to
provide GOG with the financial resources to keep the SGMC mines in operation in order
to avoid job losses, was largely achieved, even if there are major reservations about the
validity of this objective.
Efficiency
36.   The SAR estimated the EIRR on the combined rehabilitation of the SGMC mines
to lie between 17 and 29 percent, but did not provide details showing how these estimates
were derived. The ICR did not attempt to recalculate the EIRR on the grounds that it "has
become irrelevant as all the former operations of SGMC are now in the private sector."
This is a fallacious argument since a change in ownership or management does not
prevent the economic analysis of an investment.
37.   The short period and low level of financial benefits accruing from the
rehabilitation investments strongly suggest that the net benefits from the SGMC
component of the project would have been negative32. Nor were these investments least-
cost. The ICR indicates that about US$105 million was spent on mine rehabilitation.
Even a very generous redundancy package for all of SGMC's 8,000 staff would have cost
significantly less.
38.   The project's efficiency is therefore assessed as negligible.
31. The Region disagrees with this conclusion, arguing that although 'the new project used different
technology, mining methods and know-how, (it) is an integral part of the original privatization package'.
32. Ignoring the social benefits from preserving jobs.



Sustainability
39.   The main physical component of the project, upon which most of the IDA credit
was spent, has not proved to be sustainable. Rehabilitation of the SGMC mines, which
were not technically or financially robust at a time of falling gold prices, proved to be
unviable. On the other hand, the inflow of private investment to the sector proved to be
sustained for the past decade, although it is now increasingly uncertain. Strengthening of
the Geological Survey has not been successful and the Mines Department continues to
suffer from skill shortages. Even the Minerals Commission, one of the project's
successes, is in financial difficulty, which threatens its future performance. Overall
project sustainability is therefore rated unlikely.
Institutional development impact
40.   A new mining law was passed33 and a Minerals Commission was established in
1986 (while the project was being prepared). These were two key steps in enhancing the
attractiveness of Ghana's extractive industries for potential investors. The law was
prepared without any Bank or external assistance. However, further improved terms were
contained in the modified regulations issued in mid-1987, upon Bank and IFC advice.
The mining laws were later amended by Act 475 in 1995.
41.   Upon advice from the Bank, gold production by small-scale artisanal miners was
legalized in 1989 by passage of the Small Scale Mining Law.4 The establishment of legal
purchasing arrangements initially by a public (and later by private) buying agents
offering world prices for gold and diamonds to artisanal miners was the result of an
active policy dialog with the Bank. It was an important liberalization of the sector and
helped to boost recorded gold exports and Ghana's foreign currency earnings. However,
the Bank's recommendation to privatize or close the state buyer, the Precious Minerals
Marketing Corporation (PMMC), has not been acted upon. Of late, the PMMC's share of
gold and diamond purchases has fallen sharply, despite offering miners 99 percent of the
world price. It is handicapped by not being able to pay cash for its purchases and does not
offer credit to miners, which private buyers are able to do.
42.   In the 1980s, GOG supervision of sector activities by the Mines Department was
severely handicapped by low salaries, shortages of professional staff, and lack of
equipment (such as vehicles) to carry out mine inspections. The Geological Survey had
virtually ceased operating for similar reasons. The project provided office equipment and
vehicles to enable these bodies to carry out their functions, but made no headway on the
issue of salaries. Support to the newly created MC in the form of training and TA was
also an effective contribution of the project, which in its later years came increasingly to
be managed by the MC.
33. Minerals and Mining Law, PNDCL No. 153, 1986.
34. PNDCL No. 218



12
43.   The overall institutional development impact of the project is assessed as high
because of the legalization of small-scale mining and the strengthening of the two key
sector agencies.
Outcome
44.   The main stated project objective of mine rehabilitation proved to be irrelevant.
The crucial sectoral priority of environmental mitigation was never formally adopted as a
project objective. However, there was progress toward achieving the secondary project
objectives-attracting private investment, strengthening sectoral agencies, and increasing
benefits from small-scale mining. But in light of the project's physical and financial
shortcomings, this PPAR assesses the overall outcome of the project as moderately
unsatisfactory.
Bank performance
45.   As mentioned earlier (paras 20-22), the project's shortcomings at entry reflect the
inadequacies of the appraisal process. Most importantly, a thorough due diligence
exercise had not been completed when the project was approved by the Board. Due to the
haste in bringing the project to the Board, the appraisal team was unwilling to wait for the
outcome of ongoing PPF-funded studies that revealed that the mines were not financially
viable. It was irresponsible of the Bank to lend for what proved to be unviable
investments.
46.   The Bank's supervision of the project, particularly during the first three years of
implementation, was unsatisfactory. Bank files show that after the change in task
manager in 1990, there was no financial analyst assigned to assist with project
supervision until project closure in 1997, despite the importance of financial issues.
Neither did an environmental specialist participate in supervision during the first four
years of the project. Despite consistently poor supervision ratings ['3'] the Bank
management went along with GOG's slow pace of decision making on divestiture and
mine closure and did not take a strong position against the SGMC financial losses, which
over the 5 years prior to divestiture exceeded the value of the assistance from IDA.
47.   Corrective action was not taken at the (much delayed) mid-term review in late
1992, which presented an opportunity to cancel the mine rehabilitation components of the
project. Other post-mine options could have been examined if the Bank had been less
willing to be carried along by GOG in the SGMC bailout. It appears that even at this late
stage (just a year ahead of the original closing date) the Bank believed that closure was
less desirable than offloading the mines for whatever modest sum they would fetch. The
IDA funds could have been used instead to carry out a comprehensive environmental
cleanup at the mines and for payment of severance benefits to the miners.
48.   Instead, the project underwent only minor modification and was prolonged by
three extensions of the closing date. No formal project restructuring was done, even
though new components such as environmental mitigation and aerial and geophysical
surveys were added at a late stage.



13
49.    On a more positive note, significant savings in the use of the credit (due to the
inordinate delays in proceeding with mine rehabilitation works) enabled environmental
mitigation of $1 million for each of the three mines to be added to the scope of the
project. The inclusion of these components shows the extent to which Bank mining staff
had assimilated the importance of addressing the sector's environmental impact in the
five year period since the SAR had incorrectly minimized it (para 18). But the amounts
were determined on the basis of the availability of funds rather than on an evaluation of
actual needs at the three sites. For Prestea, the IDA funds were far less than was required
and another donor agency (NDF) had to be approached to cover the shortfall.
Environmental impact assessments and audits were undertaken when the environmental
mitigation components were retrofitted35.
50.   The ICR (prepared in the pre-1999 format) is unsatisfactory because it does not
adequately describe the project's implementation experience and difficulties and its
restructuring to address environmental issues. There is no assessment of projecct design or
quality at entry. Coverage of financial and economic issues is weak (no financial
perfornance information is provided on SGMC, nor data on royalty and tax payments or
even proceeds received by GOG from divestiture). No account is given of the
enviromnental mitigation works carried out.36
51.    Overall Bank performance is therefore assessed to be unsatisfactory.
Borrower performance
52.    GOG's mining sector policies were improved considerably during the project
period. The private investment climate for mining and the policy on artisanal mining both
yielded substantial benefits. But viewed narrowly from the perspective of this project,
which was dominated by the SGMC mine rehabilitation, these were relatively minor
aspects.
53.   Decision making by GOG on divestiture of the SGMC mines was very slow. In
addition, GOG did not impose a hard budget constraint on SGMC. This allowed the
agency to keep operating and its losses to keep rising. The state-owned mining industry
and its workers benefited from very substantial subsidies for more than a decade, when
these scarce funds could have been used elsewhere for activities that yielded (at least) a
positive return on the investment. Finally, it was financially imprudent of GOG to borrow
in foreign currency to keep an unviable state enterprise afloat.
54.    Overall performance by the borrower is therefore rated as unsatisfactory.
35. It should be noted that Bank environmental staff at that time regarded these two projects as "flagships"
for introducing environmental concerns into the sector dialogue on mining in Africa.
36. The PPAR rnission learned that the IDA-funded anti-pollution equipment to allow off-barge mercury
processing at Dunkwa was procured but never installed before the shutdown of operations.



14
MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Project Objectives
55.   In overall terms, this project sought to support the sustainable development of
Ghana's mining sector on an environmentally sound basis. The stated project objectives
were (a) to enhance the capacity of the mining sector institutions to carry out their
functions of encouraging and regulating investments in the mining sector in an
environmentally sound manner; and (b) to support the use of techniques and mechanisms
that will improve the productivity and financial viability of small-scale mining operations
and reduce their environmental impact.
56.   This was essentially a capacity-building project that redressed the relative neglect
of socio-economic and environmental issues in the Bank's previous interventions in the
sector. As the SAR explicitly recognizes, "[flor many years, the adverse environmental
impact of mining was ignored." Addressing the problems of small-scale mining (SSM)
was also a welcome rebalancing of effort and attention away from large-scale mining that
had dominated the sectoral agenda since the mid-i 980s.
57.   The project was in line with the declared 1995 CAS objectives of capacity
building, improved governance, and environmentally sustainable growth. The 2000 CAS
places much more emphasis on rural poverty alleviation, which this project addresses
through its SSM/artisanal mining component. Hence, the relevance of project objectives
both at the start and at project completion was high.
Design and Quality at Entry
Project design
58.   The design of the small-scale mining component failed to address key legal,
institutional, and financial issues relating to the new equipment that the project sought to
introduce to raise SSM productivity, albeit on a pilot basis. Successful adoption of the
machinery would have required either some form of credit scheme for the sale of the
equipment, or the setting up of a service provider to own, operate, and rent the equipment
out for a fee. These issues were not addressed at appraisal or incorporated later, even
though they had been identified in the Executive Project Summary,3" which envisaged a
sigriificant small business development component to accompany the technological
improvements. However, by the time of appraisal this had been dropped as premature and
much greater emphasis was given to the technical characteristics and testing of equipment
to be introduced38.
37. Dated 1/13/94.
38. The Region pointed out that the reason that so much attention was given to the technical suitability and
acceptability by small scale miners of the equipment introduced was the result of failed previous efforts
where both Government and small scale operators had purchased and brought equipment to the country,
which did not perform under the particular conditions of the Ghana deposits/circumstances.



15
Appraisal and quality at entry
59.   Given the wide scope of the project, it would have been appropriate to have
undertaken a sectoral environmental review as part of the appraisal process. Instead, as
the project was placed in the Bank's category B, only a somewhat limited and superficial
environmental analysis was done.39 Had it been known before appraisal that the project
would later include a tailings dam, it would have been classed in category A. The sectoral
environmental review was finally undertaken in the last year of the project and its
findings were not available until after credit closure.
60.   The SAR correctly identified two risks to the project, but dismissed both of them
as unlikely. In practice, the project suffered when both risks materialized. First, the
development and adoption of new technology appropriate for artisanal mining proved
problematic (para 64). Second, not all the implementing agencies proved capable or
willing to implement their components successfully.
61.   The ICR correctly points out that the project's quality at entry would have been
significantly enhanced if a PPF had been used to carry out the study of institutional
arrangements in the mining sector. The institutional study was finally completed two and
a half years after Board presentation, which, given the need for debate and consensus
building, led to difficulties in completing implementation of its many recommendations40
before credit closure. Finally, a social analysis of artisanal mining during project
preparation would also have helped improve the design of this component4".
Project Implementation
62.   Although numerous studies were undertaken in the early phases of project
implementation, the MC was slow to initiate action on the recommendations flowing
from these studies. This was particularly the case for the institutional reforms, which took
three years to be adopted as GOG policy and which have still not been fully
implemented.
63.   The project design put the MC in charge of overall project coordination, while
actual implementation was appropriately delegated to the various project beneficiaries.
However, for reasons related to inter-institutional rivalries and difficulties in coordination
and decision-making, the overall progress of the project was hindered by the multiplicity
of bodies involved in its implementation. The MC did not have authority over the other
entities involved and was seen by some as high-handed or lacking in objectivity. Its role
was resented by some, particularly as regards institutional reforms that emerged from
studies carried out under the project.
39. Both Annex G of the SAR and the PID consist of only 3 pages of identical text.
40. Some of which were hotly contested.
41. Such social studies were carried out as part of the Bank's small-scale mining projects in Niger and
Burkina.



16
Support to small-scale mining
64.   A substantial portion of the IDA credit (US$2.5 million) was initially earmarked
for the procurement, testing, and dissemination of mechanical equipment designed to
raise productivity of the SSM operators. Virtually all the equipment proved to be
unsuitable for local conditions, even though study tours involving the artisanal miners, as
well as MC staff, had been undertaken as part of the equipment selection process. But no
feasibility study was done and the equipment procured under the project was too large for
the scale of most artisanal mining, too heavy and too costly to move to different sites, and
too expensive for SSM operators to purchase. These shortcomings appear to have come
to light only in the closing stages of the project and were not flagged in the supervision
reports or adequately covered in the ICR.
65.   Equally important to the failure of the mechanization component was the lack of
legal, managerial, or financial arrangements for operating the equipment procured by the
MC. Since the latter was only the procurement agent and financier, it needed another
entity to manage, operate, and charge a fee for the equipment if it was to be run on a
rental basis, given that most of it was too large to interest potential buyers. Although the
SAR envisaged experimentation with technology delivery and credit mechanisms,
surprisingly, no study was carried out under the project to address these aspects, which
are crucial to any future efforts to mechanize SSM operations. Hence, at project closure,
no suitable equipment for SSM had been disseminated or an appropriate business model
for mechanization been designed.
Environmental mitigation
66.   The construction of a tailings dam for the Tarkwa underground mine was initially
part of the mitigation activities funded by the previous Bank project. However, it came to
be included as part of the second project during its implementation because the works
could not be completed before the closure of the preceding project. This concrete/earth
structure prevents the finely ground waste rock (produced in the form of slurry from the
old processing plant42), which was dumped into a valley, from being carried down the
valley by a minor river. The area behind the dam has been stabilized and is being
revegetated. Water quality is monitored downstream for evidence of chemical seepage.
67.   The PPAR mission was able to confirm the positive findings of the ex-post
environmental audit of the land reclamation undertaken in the Nueng North forest reserve
near Tarkwa. This area had been degraded by abandoned workings of artisanal miners.
The project successfully restored the forest to an acceptable environmental standard.
Although undertaken by a Ghanaian contractor from outside the region, the labor input
was essentially from local villagers. The MC needs to analyze the experience of the three
reclamation projects funded under the credit to determine the cost of a bigger program of
environmental reclamation that could be funded through a levy (para 94) on SSM
operators.
42. Now pernanently closed down.



17
Health of artisanal miners
68.   The efforts under the project to improve the observance of health and safety
precautions by artisanal miners had meager results. Most workers who crush the ore-
bearing rock do not use facemasks and inhale large amounts of fine dust particles.
Mercury, the most widely used chemical to separate gold from ore, is highly toxic.
Retorts imported under the project and sold on a subsidized basis to miners did not prove
to be a success for a variety of reasons. The potential users were dissatisfied with the size,
design, and fragility of the glass retorts, the difficulties in obtaining spares and the price
(about US$60), despite the two-thirds subsidy43 from the MC. They also had insufficient
financial incentives to recycle mercury, which was often provided to them by private gold
buying agents.
69.   Finally, many artisanal miners have a poor awareness or are skeptical of the
health risks of handling and inhaling mercury. The failed efforts of the MC at
disseminating mercury retorts on a large scale leaves the large number of mercury users
exposed to unacceptably high risks to their health as well as that of their unborn children.
Clearly more attention is needed to identify technically and financially acceptable
mercury retorts. Apart from an improved, more robust model that could be manufactured
for the Ghanaian market, the case for an initial free distribution of retorts on health
grounds should also be studied.
Ratings
Efficacy
70.   The project substantially succeeded in its capacity-building objective but failed to
improve the performance of small-scale mining. Overall efficacy is therefore rated as
modest.
Efficiency
71.   In the absence of any financial or economic analysis for this technical assistance
project, it is not possible to assess its cost effectiveness or evaluate its efficiency.
Sustainability
72.   The overall progress in institutional development achieved under the project and
its sustainability are threatened by the ongoing severe squeeze on the operating budgets
of all the sector supervisory bodies. The annual allocations from MOF to those bodies are
grossly inadequate. In recent years they have been able to top up what they receive from
MOF by using their share of the Minerals Development Fund (paras 85-89). However,
the disbursement arrangements have been altered since 1999 because of GOG's
budgetary crisis. These monies are now credited to the Consolidated Fund rather than
being disbursed directly by the IRS. GOG has been withholding releases to the MDF
43. The cost of the retorts was about $180.



18
from the Consolidated Fund, with an adverse impact on the operational capabilities of the
MC, MD, and GSD. A loss of skilled staff is also to be feared if there is no early
resolution to the financial crisis faced by the sector entities. The sustainability of the
capacity building achievements of the project is therefore uncertain. In the absence of
evidence of corrective action by GOG, this PPAR assesses overall project sustainability
as unlikely 4.
Institutional development impact
73.   The project had a substantial positive impact on the Minerals Commission. It is
clearly the premier public entity dealing with the sector. After close to 15 years of
support from and intensive dealings with the Bank under two projects, it has developed
into a mature and relatively well-run institution. It has made a major contribution to the
impressive growth of the Ghanaian mining sector. However, given the weakness of the
new Ministry of Mines (para 75) it needs to be more proactive in steering the proposed
fiscal and legal modifications to rapid adoption by Parliament.
74.   The Mines Department benefited significantly under the project in the form of
vehicles, office, and laboratory equipment. The MD's ability to police and enforce
mining regulations has been enhanced by the project. Nevertheless, it is overstretched,
given the increase in the number of mines, short of technical staff,45 and underfunded.
The present mining regulations are outmoded and in numerous instances inappropriate
for surface mining. They have been updated by the MD but have yet to be formally
adopted by GOG. The extent of its responsibilities for environmental monitoring is still
imprecise and a clear demarcation of roles with the EPA is needed. The case for a merger
with the MC appears to have some merits and deserves study.
75.   At the Geological Survey Department the project funded a significant amount of
airborne geophysical surveys, software, hardware, and consulting services46 for its
interpretation. The latter work is still ongoing. The diagnostic studies of the GSD as an
institution (also carried out under the project) concluded that it was moribund, in need of
radical restructuring and that it should subcontract much of its technical work to
specialized, outside firms. The GSD senior staff had a totally different philosophy and
believed that in-house capabilities should be developed to do all the analytical work. The
restructuring proposals were never accepted by GSD and neither the MC nor the ministry
were in a position to impose change. In recent years the GSD has found its financial
situation growing increasingly worse as funding from the MDF dried up and the Bank's
project closed. It is still greatly overstaffed at the lower skill levels47 and its operating
budget from MOF is inadequate for it to function effectively. The ID impact of the
project on the GSD is rated as modest.
44. The Region disagrees with this conclusion and believes that the funding of sector bodies is adequate.
45. Hiring and retaining skilled staff is difficult because of its civil service pay scales. The Bank
unsuccessfully tried to obtain better service conditions for MD staff.
46. Essentially financed by NDF, which also provided a resident TA adviser to the GSD.
47. About 250 of its 350 staff are in the administrative and support category.



19
76.   The project had a negligible ID impact on the supervising ministry (Energy &
Mines), which was split into two ministries in mid-2002. The sector now has its own
ministry for the first time, but unfortunately it is an empty shell. The split took place
without planning or budgeting. At the time of the PPAR mission, it had no office space of
its own and virtually no staff. The office equipment funded under the project had been
retained by the Ministry of Energy. In these circumstances, the ministry is unable to play
a substantive role in policymaking and the minister has to rely on the MC for advice and
guidance.
77.   Overall the project's ID impact is assessed as substantial because of (i) the
positive results achieved in the MC and MD, (ii) the improved legal and fiscal provisions
for mining (currently before Parliament) that were drawn up as a direct result of the
project and (iii) the project's contribution to the integration of environmental issues in
mining sector policy making and supervision.
Outcome
78.   Despite the failure of the SSM component, the overall outcome of the project is
assessed as moderately satisfactory in light of the project's continuing relevance and the
substantial progress in its capacity-building objective.
Bank performance
79.   The project had several shortcomings at entry (paras 58-60) and was insufficiently
prepared as regards institutional reforms. Supervision in the initial two years of the
project appears to have suffered because the Bank's team gave priority to bringing the
previous project to satisfactory closure after many years of unsatisfactory performance.
Supervision was then enhanced and strenuous efforts were made during the latter part of
project implementation to push the reform agenda and recover from lost time.
80.   Given the good results in the closing stages of implementation, the decision by the
Bank's country management to withdraw from the sector was premature, particularly as
key project activities were still ongoing at the time of closure. Some of the reform
momentum built up in the last two years of implementation has thus been lost. There is a
large agenda of unfinished policy and regulatory improvements that was launched in the
closing years of the project.48 Although NDF is still engaged and the EU is expected to
take over as the key donor agency from 2004, it is unclear whether other donors are in a
position to carry out thorough and regular supervision.
81.   Overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory, albeit only marginally so.
48. GOG intends to address these issues through new legislation that is to be put before Parliament in the
next few months.



20
Borrower performance
82.   The MC executed its project coordination role satisfactorily. Implementation
problems with other sector institutions and conflicts over turf were not solely of its own
making. However, it should have been more proactive in attempting to the salvage the
SSM component of the project.
83.   GOG's performance is assessed as unsatisfactory because it did not provide
proper sector leadership in general and specifically failed to impose a solution to the
impasse on the reform of the GSD. Its decision to set up a new Ministry of Mines without
any resources is not an example of good governance. Finally, the retention of MDF funds
by the MOF is undermining the sector entities, undoing the gains of the project and is
politically shortsighted.
84.   Overall borrower performance is therefore assessed as unsatisfactory.
Current Sectoral Issues
85.   The experience of the two mining sector projects, assessed in Part I of this report,
illuminates several important issues that need to be addressed in Ghana. The following
section explores the way resource rents are shared, the development of small-scale
mining and the mitigation of its environmental impacts, post-closure economic
development of affected areas, and the future of large-scale mining.
Sharing of Resource Rents
86.   The Constitution of Ghana49 explicitly reserves all mineral rights for the state and
does not recognize the rights of landowners to receive any share of benefits flowing from
the extraction of mineral resources. Despite the lack of any constitutional provision, the
considerable expansion in mining activity in Ghana gave rise to the sentiment that local
communities in affected areas should receive a direct share in the royalties paid to GOG
by the mining companies. This was also consistent with the practice of payment to local
chiefs of "concession" and various other fees by mining companies before the 1962
Minerals Act when landowners still had rights to the subsoil resources. As a result, the
Mineral Development Fund (MDF) was set up50 by GOG in 1992 at the initiative of the
Minerals Commission (MC).
87.   The MDF receives 20 percent of all mining royalties, about US$3.6 million in
2001. Half of this amount is for the mining communities5" and half is for mining sector
institutions and mineral-related investment projects. The payment of a portion of royalties
from the MDF to the sector entities was a pragmatic way of ensuring that they had
adequate funding to operate effectively and to be able to pay their staff more than civil
49. Article 257, clause 6 of the 1992 Constitution vests all minerals in the President, on behalf of, and in
trust, for the people of Ghana.
50. By an administrative decision, not by an Act of Parliament.
51. Less 10 percent retained by the Office of the Administrator of Stool Lands since 1999 to cover its
administrative charges.



21
service scales. The portion disbursed to mining communities is again subdivided among
the local administration (District Assemblies), the Traditional Councils, and the Stool
chiefs, with varied ways of using and accounting for the monies. Unsurprisingly, this has
given rise to controversy, both over the respective shares as well over the manner in
which these bodies use the funds. For instance some District Assemblies simply treat the
funds as part of their normal revenues to pay for recurrent expenses. In other cases, the
traditional leaders have been criticized for using the MDF money for conspicuous
consumption rather than for community development or disbursing it to those most
adversely affected by mining.
88.   Equally seriously, the flow of mineral royalties back to the producing areas from
the MDF has also been seriously disrupted in recent years by the MOF policy of retaining
these funds for general budgetary use rather than disbursing them to the MDF. Given that
there is already a significant degree of popular resentment against mining, this is a
politically risky strategy. A field visit to Wassa District, which contains the largest share
of Ghana's mines, confirmed the competition between mining and agriculture for arable
land, the poor state of local infrastructure, inadequate public services, and high
unemployment. The local economy in Wassa does not appear to have benefited from
large-scale mining through sustained economic growth and improved public services.
89.   Local people feel no perceptible benefit from the resources extracted from "their"
land, despite the sharing of royalties between the central government and the mining
communities. Unemployed youth attacked local chiefs and looted or destroyed their
palaces in two towns in Wassa West in late 2001. Their main grievances were the lack of
jobs and insufficient access to land for cultivation. Despite the fact that the mining
companies promptly pay royalties to GOG on a quarterly basis and that they cannot be
held responsible for the lack of adequate flowback of these rents to the local
communities, they inevitably have to bear the brunt of local discontent.
90.   It is essential that the sharing of resource rents be put on a transparent, equitable,
and sustainable footing. The MDF needs to be institutionalized by Act of Parliament to
ensure that the MOF cannot easily withhold disbursements. The proportions earmarked
for the different types of beneficiaries also need to be reviewed through public
consultations in mining areas before passage of the necessary legislation. The draft bill
prepared by the MC is only a first step in this direction as it essentially preserves the
status quo as regards the sharing of the rent among the different beneficiaries.
Development of Artisanal/Small-Scale Mining
91.   This segment of the Ghanaian mining industry makes a significant contribution to
mineral exports and is likely to remain an important feature of the industry in the long
term. It has a high absorptive capacity for unskilled labor, low import content, and makes
a big contribution to the sectors net foreign exchange earnings because there are no
outflows for foreign debt service, dividends, or expatriate salaries.
92.   On the other hand, small-scale mining (SSM) is responsible for considerable
environmental degradation, pays virtually no taxes, operates largely in the parallel
economy, and is poorly regulated in all its aspects. There would seem to be considerable



22
scope for improving its productivity through mechanization, its health and safety record,
and its environmental performance, but these are major challenges that have so far proven
beyond the capability of GOG and donor-funded interventions.
Environmental Mitigation in the Small-Scale Mining Sector
93.   No workable mechanism has yet been devised to ensure that the environmental
damage caused by SSM activities is rectified. All too often, such activities are short-lived
and highly mobile, making it extremely hard for any effective monitoring to take place.
In many instances the mining is undertaken illegally, often on legal concessions held by
large mining companies, and even the identities of the miners are unknown.
94.   The MC intended to use a portion of the MDF revenues flowing to it for land
reclamation projects. However, in effect this would amount to large-scale mining paying
for the environmental damaged caused by SSM, which pays no royalties or taxes. It is not
consistent with the principle that the polluter should pay. Such royalties should flow
directly into community development projects in the areas most affected by large-scale
mining.
95.   Another attempt to deal with the problem was made via the Precious Metals
Marketing Company (PMMC), but this failed. The PMMC was obliged to drop the 4
percent levy for a land rehabilitation fund that it deducted from the gold purchase price
offered to artisanal miners because it was unable to compete with unauthorized gold
buyers. No attempt has since been made to reintroduce it. Yet the gold and diamond
purchasing agent (whether public or private) seems to be the only point of contact with
the official economy where the SSM sector can be levied a fee for environmental
reclamation. Provided the environmental levy is kept as low as possible and is
systematically collected by all registered buying agents, it should not lead to a substantial
increase in undeclared sales. However, the difficulty of universal application of the levy
and enforcement of collection should not be underestimated.
Post-mine Economic Development
96.   This topic has received virtually no attention, despite its increasing relevance to
Ghana's mining sector. The Resolute Amansie mine is slated for closure in the very near
term. The closure of the Prestea underground mine has devastated the local economy of
the township and its future is a political "hot potato" for GOG. Residents are clamoring
for government assistance and would like to see underground mining restarted. Potential
investors interested in surface mining are being rebuffed. Other mines are also likely to
close in the medium term. Experience elsewhere52 shows that planning for alternative
economic activities needs to begin well before closure takes place.
52. For example at the Ok Tedi and Misima mines in Papua New Guinea, both scheduled for closure by
2010 are already working on closure planning and post-mining local economic development.



23
Future of Large-Scale Mining
97.   Gold production has reached a plateau, the current level of exploration activity is
low and total production will decline in the near term. Should this be a cause for concern
to GOG? It is unclear what its true net benefits are to Ghana. Large-scale mining by
foreign companies has a high import content and produces only modest amounts of net
foreign exchange for Ghana after accounting for all its outflows. Similarly, its corporate
tax payments are low, due to various fiscal incentives necessary to attract and retain
foreign investors. Employment creation is also modest, given the highly capital intensive
nature of modern surface mining techniques. Local communities affected by large-scale
mining have seen little benefit to date in the form of improved infrastructure or service
provision, because much of the rents from mining are used to finance recurrent, not
capital expenditure. A broader cost-benefit analysis of large-scale mining that factors in
social and environmental costs and includes consultations with the affected communities,
needs to be undertaken before granting future production licenses.
Lessons Learned
98.   Numerous lessons of broader relevance for mining emerge from the experience of
these two projects:
> Improving the legal and fiscal framework for private investors can be highly
effective in attracting inflows of capital to the mining sector.
> Legalization of artisanal mining is desirable but needs to be accompanied by
measures to tax and control the environmental damage caused by such mining.
> Gold mining projects need to be financially robust under very wide price
fluctuations if the risk of losses is to be minimized.
> Much more analytical work needs to be done on the socioeconomic issues relating
to mine closures and the transition to sustainable, non-mining economic activities.
> In countries with an unstable, non-convertible currency, gold and diamonds will
always be attractive alternative stores of value and convenient vehicles for tax
avoidance.
> Financial autonomy for regulatory bodies such as the Minerals Commission is
crucial for their effectiveness and sustainability. This can be assured through
levies on mining companies and/or license fees, etc.
> Effective, transparent, and equitable mechanisms to transfer resources back to
communities affected by large-scale mining are essential sociopolitical tools to
ensure that tangible economic benefits are felt by local people and that such
mining has legitimacy in the eyes of the public.
> Improving the productivity of artisanal mining is more complex than just the
selection of the most suitable equipment. Financial and managerial arrangements
for the dissemination and operation of machinery are equally crucial.






25                                 Annex A
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
GHANA MINING SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1921-GH)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal      Actual or      Actual as % of
estimate        current     appraisal estimate
estimate
Total project costs                  120            107.8          90
Loan amount                          40             40.1           100
Cofinancing                          34.7           17.8           51
Cancellation                         Not applicable  --
Date physical components completed   June 1994      June 1997
Economic rate of return              29%            Not provided
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY89    FY90   FY91    FY92    FY93   FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97
Appraisal         4.5    15.6    27.0   34.1    37.1    40.0     -       -
estimate (US$M)
Actual (US$M)     4.9    11.2    17.7   22.5    24.1    28.4    32.8   35.7    40.1
Actual as % of    109     72      66     66      65      71     82      89     100
appraisal
Date of final disbursement:  May 6,
1997
Project Dates
Original                 Actual
Identification                               N/A                    01/15/86
Preparation                                  N/A                    06/17/87
Appraisal                                   05/87                   10/19/87
Negotiation                                 11/87                   02/25/88
Board Presentation                          03/88                   05/10/88
Signing                                                             07/14/88
Effectiveness                               08/88                   03/10/89
Mid-term review                              N/A                    10/07/92
Project completion                         06/30/94                 06/30/97
Loan closing                               12/31/93                 12/31/96



26                                    Annex A
Staff Inputs
Planned               Revised                Actual
Weeks       US$       Weeks       US$       Weeks     US$(000)
Preappraisal                                                            72.8       171.8
Appraisal                                                               23.8        98.6
Negotiations                                                            15.2        37.7
Supervision                 116.3                 133.7                 192.6      557.6
Completion
Total                       116.3                 133.7                 304.4      865.7
Mission Data
Date      No. of  Staff days  Specializations  Performance  Rating  Types of
(month/year)  persons  in field  represented      rating   trend     problems
ldentificaton/  12/85    4       15        FA,Eng,Eng,E
Preparation                                E,Eng,E,Con
E,FA
FA, Eng,Eng
FA,Eng
Appraisal
Supervision  10/88       2       17        FA,Eng
02/89       1                                   2         2
03/90       2        7        FA, Eng           3         2
09/90       2        10       FA, Eng           3         2
11/91       1        5        Eng
03/92
06/92       3        14       Eng, OpOff,Con    3         2
10/92                                                              Mid-term review
06/93       1        17       Eng
11/93       3        14       Eng,OpOff,Con     2         2
04/94       3        16       Eng, OpOff,FA
07/94       4        19       Eng,OpOff,FA,Con
12/94       2        12       Eng,OpOff
10/95       2        18       Eng,OpOff
02/96       2        4         Eng,OpOff        S         S
06/96       1        8         Eng              S         S
12/96       2        8        Eng,OpOff         S         S
Completion   04/97       2       10        Eng,OpOff        S          S
Other Project Data
FOLLOW-ON OPERA4TIONS
Operation                                     Credit no.      Amount           Board date
(US$ million)
Mining Sector Development and                   Credit          13.27          06/13/1995
Environment Credit                              2743



27                                Annex A
GHANA MINNG SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2743-GH)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
Appraisal      Actual or     Actual as % of
estimate       current     appraisal estimate
estimate
Total project costs                     13.6           13.3              98
Loan amount                             12.3            9.4              76
Cofinancing                              --             3.6              --
Cancellation                             Not            --               --
applicable
Date physical components completed    December      December
2000           2003
Economic rate of return                  Not
applicable
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY96     FY97      FY98     FY99     FYOO      FY01     FY02
Appraisal estimate     1        4         7        9        11      12.3
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)                     Breakdown not provided in ICR            Total: 9.4
Actual as % of
appraisal
Date of final disbursement: April 2002
Project Dates
Original                 Actual
PCD                                         NA                    11/19/92
Appraisal                                    NA                   06/14/94
Approval                                    NA                    06/13/95
Effeciveness                                NA                    03/04/96
Mid-term review                           06/20/98                07/14/98
Closing date                             12/31/2000              12/31/2001



28                                    Annex A
Staff Inputs (actual)
No. of staff weeks        US$ ('000)
Identification/preparatio         39.1                 136.90
n
Appraisal/negotiation             42.8                  111.10
Supervision                      117.27                392.09
ICR                               9.00                  38.10
Total                            298.17                678.19
Mission Data
Date      No. of  Staff days  Specializations  Implementation  Dev.  Types of
(monthyear)  persons  in field  represented    progress    Objectives  problems
Identfication/  04/94        5             ME,ES,FA,CON,LA
Preparation     12/94       2                   ME,ES
Appraisal       07/94        5              ME,ES,FA,2 CON
02/96       2                   ME,ES
Supervision     06/96        2                  ME,ES           S           S
04/97       2                   ME,ES           S          S
07/97       2                   ME,ES           S          S
02/98       2                   ME,ES           S          S
07/98       1                    ME             S          S
09/99       1                    MS             S          S
05/00       2                   MS,ES           S          S
11/00       1                    MS             S          S
05/01       1                    MS             S          S
10/01       1                    MS             S          S
Completion       10/01       1                   MS
ME=Mining Engineer; ES=Environment Specialist; FA=Financial Analyst; CON=Consultant; LA=Lead
Advisor;
MS=Mining Specialist
Other Project Data
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                     Credit no.      Amount           Board date
(US$ million)
None



