Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13881-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
MAY 19, 1995
Industry and Energy Operations
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 1995)
Currency Unit  =   Cedi (C)
US$1  =   (¢)1130
1(C) =   US$0.001
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EIA          -     Environmental Impact Assessment
EPA          -     Environmental Protection Agency
ERP          -     Economic Recovery Program
GS           -     Geological Survey
GTZ          -     Gesselschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
MC           -     Minerals Commission
MD           -     Mines Department
MEM          -     Ministry of Energy and Mines
SSM          -     Small-Scale Mining
SSMP         -     Small-Scale Mining Project
TA           -     Technical Assistance
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .............................                                        iii
1. INTRODUCTION                                              .1
2. THE MINING SECTOR .S
A. Structure of the Sector                                 .5
B. Small-Scale Mining                                    .7
1. Gold                                     .7
2. Diamonds                                   .8
C.   Future World Demand for Gold and Diamonds                          .9
D. Legal Framework  ..10
E.  Institutional Structure for Mining .12
F.   Marketing Issues for Small-Scale Mining .13
G.  Effect of Mining on the Environment .15
H.  Health and Safety Effects .17
I.      Institutional Structure for the Environment .17
3.  THE BANK'S EXPERIENCE AND STRATEGY .19
A. IDA Lending to Ghana .19
B.  Country Assistance Strategy .20
C.  Mining Sector Strategy for Ghana .20
D.      Lessons Learned from other IDA-Supported Projects .21
4.      THE PROJECT.................................................23
A.      Project Objectives ..................................................... 23
B .     Project  Sum m ary  .....................................................      23
C.      Detailed Project Description            ....................................... 24
1.      Strengthening of Mining Sector Institutions ............................... 24
*2.      Assistance to Small-Scale Mining Enterprises ............................. 26
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission to Ghana in March/April 1994, and an appraisal
mission in July 1994. The appraisal mission comprised Messrs. Leo Maraboli (Task Man-ager, Sr. Mining
Engineer) IENIM, Paul Bermingham (Financial Analyst) AF4IE, Ms. Indu Hewawasarn (Operations Officer)
AF41E, Mr. Robert Nooter (consultant) and Ms. Eleanor George (Sr. Statf Assistant) AF4IE. Mr. Jasdip Singh
scted as Lead Adviser for the project and Messrs. James Kerr (COMD2) and Robert Tillman (AFTES) acted as
peer reviewers for the project. Secretarial and administrative support was provided by Ms. Eleanor George
and Ms. Lee Swapp (Staff Assistant), AF4IE. Ms. Mary Oakes Smith and Mr. Olivier Lafourcade are the
managuig Division Chief and Departmental Director, respectively.



- ii -
Pa2e No.
D.    Cost Estimates and Financing ...................... 29
E.   Implementation ......................                                                                        31
F.   Procurement ......................                                                                           32
G.   Disbursement ......................                                                                           35
H.    Project Supervision ...................... 36
I.    Environment Aspects ......................                                                                  36
J.    Poverty Alleviation ......................                                                                  37
5         PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY .......................... 38
A.        Project Benefits .............................................                                          38
B.        Project risks .............................................                                             38
C.        Project Sustainability ............................................  38
6.    AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......................................... 40
ANNEXES
A.    Institutional Structure of the Mineral Sector
B.    Detailed Project Cost Estimate
C.    Project Implementation Schedule and Monitorable Indicators
D.    Procurement Arrangements
E.    Procurement Plan and Schedule
F.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
G.    Environmental Analysis
H.    Contents of Implementation Manual
I.        Training Program
J.        Supervision Plan
TABLES
2.1       Export of Major Minerals ..........................................5
2.2       Official Production of Gold ..........................................5
2.3       PMMC  Purchases of Gold from  Small-Scale Miners ..........................................7
2.4       Diamond Purchases from  Small-Scale Miners ..........................................9
2.5       Summary of Small-Scale Gold and Diamond Concessions ....................................9
2.6       SSM   Gold Purchases by PMMC .........................................                                             14
4.1       Estimated Project Costs .........................................                                                 30
4.2    Financing Plan .........................................                                                             30
4.3        Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements .........................................    34
4.4       Allocation of Disbursements Under IDA  Credit .........................................                             34
4.5       Allocation and Disbursements Categories .........................................                                 35
MAP IBRD NO. 21011R



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Ghana
Beneficiaries:     Ministry of Energy and Mines and Minerals Commission
Amount:            SDR 7.9 million (US$12.3 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard IDA with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:  Not applicable
Project Objectives: The overall objective of the project is to support the development
of Ghana's mining sector on an environmentally sound basis
through strengthened mining institutions and the provision of
appropriate technology and organizational support to small-scale
miners. Specifically, the objectives are: (i) to enhance the capacity
of the mining sector institutions to carry out their functions of
encouraging and regulating investments in the mining sector in an
environmentally sound manner, and (ii) to develop techniques that
will improve the small-scale mining (SSM) operations.
Project Description: (a) Strengthening of the mining sector institutions through: (i)
support to the MC to improve its organizational structure; expand
its promotional activities; formulate regulations and amend
existing legislation as necessary to set in place a sound regulatory
framework for the sector; develop guidelines and standards for
environmental monitoring and control, and for mitigation of
environmental aspects of mining activities; and establishment of a
minerals and environmental information system; (ii) support to the
MD to carry out its inspection, monitoring and enforcement
responsibilities, particularly with regard to environmental impact
and health hazards, and for assisting small-scale miners in the
application of the new technology to be developed under the
project: (iii) support to the GS to improve its geological
information base through an aerial survey and the publication and
dissemination of the results; and (iv) support to the MEMto



- iv -
carry. out its policy planning and coordination role for the mining
sector in a more effective manner.
(b) Assistance to Small-Scale Mining Enterprises through: (i) pilot
testing of identified modules of small-scale mining equipment for
improving both productivity and yields, and the extension of
successfully tested models to determine their applicability to
Ghana's conditions and acceptability by the small-scale miners; (ii) a
program to make better geological information available to small-
scale miners through the establishment of teams of geologists
trained and equipped to delineate recoverable ore bodies on SSM
concessions; (iii) improvements in the sector framework for SSM
operations, including needed modification of regulations and laws,
and improvements in the marketing structure applicable to small-
scale miners; and (iv) reclamation and rehabilitation of priority areas
degraded through past SSM activities as a pilot exercise to
determine best practices and cost-effective methods for future
reclamation programs.
Benefits and Risks: The main potential benefits of the project include: (i) improved
mining sector institutions able to encourage and assist private
investors to start or expand mining operations; (ii) improvement in
productivity and incomes of small-scale miners through active
technical and organizational support; (iii) reduction of the negative
environmental impact of mining through the strengthening of
environmental monitoring and enforcement; (iv) improved health,
safety and working conditions for large numbers of small-scale
miners through the introduction of appropriate technology and
equipment; (v) minimized environmental impact of small-scale
mining activities through the introduction of environmentally
responsible technology and processing techniques; and (vi)
mitigation of past environmental degradation caused by small-scale
mining activities through land reclamation and rehabilitation
activities.
The main risks include: (i) the possibility that new technologies
appropriate to small-scale mining in Ghana cannot be developed or
will not be adopted by the mine operators; and (ii) the institutions
responsible for carrying out the project may lack the staff, capability
or incentive to carry out the project successfully. Appropriate
technologies for small-scale miners have been developed and
proved to be financially viable in other countries with similar
conditions, and therefore there is reason to believe that these
techniques can be made to work in Ghana. Adoption of the new
processes by the miners would be facilitated by the field



- v -
demonstrations and trial periods under which equipment would be
made available to them. The last risk is addressed by the capacity
building nature of the project, which aims to strengthen the mining
institutions.
Estimated Project Cost:A1
Foreign
Project Component                Local        (US$ million)      Total
Institutional Strengthening of    0.95            3.82            4.67
Mining Sector Agencies
Assistance to Small-Scale         3.32            3.64            6.96
Mining Enterprises
Contingencies:                    0.78            1.24            2.02
Total Project Cost            5.05            8.60            13.65
a/ All costs estimated net of duties and taxes
Financing Plan:
Foreign
Local      (1US$ million)       Total
1DA                                3.7             8.6            12.3
Government                         1.4             0.0             1.4
Total                          5.1             8.6            13.7
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
(US$ million equivalent)
1996      1997       1998      1999      2000     2001
Annual               1.0       3.0        3.0       2.0       2.0      1.3
Cumulative           1.0       4.0        7.0       9.0      11.0      12.3
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Poverty Category:        Not applicable.



I



1. INTRODUCTION
Background
1.1     Country/Sector Background and Constraints. During the 10 years prior to the
introduction of the Economic Recovery Program (ERP), real Gross Domestic Product (GDP)
fell by 2 percent per annum. Since the ERP was adopted in 1983, the GDP has grown at an
annual average rate of around 5 percent. Significant policy reform and fiscal adjustment
occurred under the ERP. The policy reforms included the reform of trade and exchange rate
systems, the elimination of price controls, and the liberalization of interest rates and
investment regulations including those applicable to mining, which resulted in better incentives
for efficient and sustainable growth. In addition, increased mobilization of revenue under the
ERP permitted the Government to make significant investments in infrastructure, while at the
same time reducing fiscal deficits. Inflation fell from more than 100 percent in 1984 to less
than 20 percent in 1991.
1.2    Notwithstanding a decade of sustained fiscal adjustment, in 1992 the election-related
wage increases and other fiscal slippages resulted in a re-emergence of fiscal deficits and
inflation. There was some improvement in the fiscal situation in 1993 and 1994. The
economy grew by 5 percent in 1993 but, due to unexpected rains and conflict in the Northern
areas, GDP growth was less than anticipated in 1994, averaging about 3.8 percent, with
inflation rising to 25 percent. Macroeconomic stability is expected to be restored in 1995 and
sustained after that, leading to more rapid private sector growth in the medium to long term.
1.3     The mining sector in Ghana accounted for about 45 percent of export earnings in
1993. The sector employs about 20,000 workers in the larger mines and 30,000 people in
small scale mining. Gold is its principal product, with about 85 percent of total mining sector
export value and 85 percent of formal employment. In 1985, the Government introduced
policy reforms to open up the sector to private investment. During the past decade, gold
production has grown steadily from 277,000 ounces in 1983 to 1,261,000 ounces in 1993.
Large-scale mining involves a few producers, and the largest among these, Ashanti Goldfields
Corporation, accounted for 74 percent of the country's output in 1992. Continuing its
divestiture policies, the Government recently reduced its stake in Ashanti Goldfields from 55
percent to 31.3 percent, raising $400 million in a transaction that saw the Corporation's stock
successfully floated on the Accra and London Stock Exchanges. While the current mining
policies are broadly consistent with Ghana's overall country assistance strategy of promoting
the private sector, there is some concern about the capacity of the Government's institutional
framework to implement the policy reforms, to carry out requisite promotional activities to
attract new investment and to ensure appropriate environmental monitoring.



-2 -
Institutional Framework
1.4    The Ministry of Energy and Mines (MEM) is the main agency dealing with the
mining sector. The Mines Department (MD) and the Geological Survey Department (GS) are
the main departments of the Ministry responsible for the sector. The MD is responsible for
mine safety, enforcement of licensing and leasing provisions of minerals concessions, and
environmental monitoring. The GS gathers and publishes information on Ghana's mineral
resources as a basis for attracting investment. The MC was established in 1986 as a semi-
independent agency designed to help formulate Government policy, and generally to
encourage the development of the mining sector. IDA's support for the mining sector
included the Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project (IDA Credit No. 1921-GH), effective since
March 1989, which was intended primarily to support the rehabilitation and privatization of
three Government-owned and operated gold mines.
Environmental Effects
1.5    For many years, the adverse environmental impact of mining was ignored, with
resultant degradation of the land, adverse effect on water quality, and air pollution from the
large-scale mining operations. These effects have had an adverse impact on the communities
near the mining operations. The long established underground operation run by Ashanti
Goldfields Corporation (AGC), for example, produced widespread contamination in the
surrounding villages, particularly Obuasi and Sansu. Gaseous emissions, fallout from the
stack, tailings spillages and various mine effluents over a prolonged period of time resulted in
adverse effects on the surrounding eco-systems. Elevated concentrations of metals and
suspended solids have rendered the Kwabrafo-Jimi and Ofin rivers unsuitable for domestic
usage. AGC has, in collaboration with IFC, taken several steps to redress key pollution
problems such as the emissions from the roasting stack, through the installation of a bio-
leaching plant.
i.6    During the last several years, large-scale mining operations run by foreign investors
have generally adhered to internationally acceptable environmental practices, and
Environmental Impact Assessments have been required for all new mining concessions.
Neither the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) nor the Mining Sector agencies,
however, currently possess the institutional capacity necessary to carry out monitoring of the
mining activities to ensure that they are carried out in an environmentally responsible manner.
The mine operators largely carry out self-monitoring with random checks by the EPA. Since
the EPA cannot be expected to monitor all developmental activities in all sectors, it is the
responsibility of the sectoral agencies to carry out this function. This situation is expected to
be alleviated through this project, which will provide institutional strengthening to the MD to
be more effective in carrying out regular visits to mine sites to carry out sampling of natural
resources affected. The Government-operated mines have made the least progress in
remedying past environmental damage. This is now being remedied through the inclusion of
provisions for mitigation of past damage (financed in part by funds made available through the
Mining Sector Rehabilitation Credit) in connection with the privatization of these operations.



- 3-
Environmental audits have been prepared for all three mines and mitigation work is expected
to commence before May 1995 in all three mines.
Small-Scale Mining
1.7     Small-scale mining of both gold and diamonds is widespread, especially in the
Southern and Eastern parts of the country. The Government adopted, in 1989, a law
specifically regulating SSM gold operations. It also set up the Precious Minerals Marketing
Corporation (PMMC) to buy the output of both gold and diamonds, either directly or through
licensed traders, in order to attract these flows to authorized channels. Nevertheless,
substantial amounts continued to be sold through illegal channels. During the past year,
several initiatives have been taken by the Government to improve the commercialization of
gold and diamonds. In the case of diamonds, PMMC has introduced competitive buying and
exporting with the licensing of five international operators. In the case of gold, PMMC has
opened a buying office in Tarkwa, and the Government has authorized a private company,
Miramex, to purchase and export gold in competition with PMMC. In addition, PMMC has
become more competitive with the unauthorized buyers of gold by offering better prices for
the minerals, resulting in significant increases in purchases.
1.8    Small-scale mining production in Ghana is carried out in the most rudimentary
fashion, and incomes from small-scale mining operations are minimal. Recovery is typically
only 20 to 30 percent of the gold contained in the mined ore, and there is a general lack of
knowledge and disregard for safety and environmental regulations. The MC is engaged in
trying to improve small-scale mining of gold and diamonds through implementation of a pilot
Small-Scale Mining Project (SSMP), carried out with assistance from Deutsche Gesellschaft
fir Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ). The SSMP has undertaken an analysis of the needs
of the sub-sector, identified the main constraints and initiated pilot testing of improved mining
and processing techniques and equipment. The pilot testing activities of SSMP have
confirmed significant potential for improvement in output, productivity and yields but the
specific means to achieve this potential are yet to be proven for Ghanaian conditions.
Country Assistance Strategy and Rationale for International Development Association
(IDA) Involvement
1.9    The proposed project is consistent with IDA's strategy of supporting the
Government's program of accelerated growth through private sector development, poverty
alleviation, capacity building and improvement of environmental management. The
Government's mining sector strategy emphasizes the liberalization and rationalization of sector
policies, establishing an efficient and transparent system of handling prospecting and mining
licenses and the divestiture of state-owned mines. The proposed project aims at providing
capacity building support to the mining sector agencies to carry out the policy, and
institutional and regulatory reforms needed to promote private sector growth in the mining
industry. Establishing capacity for environmental monitoring and control of both large and
small-scale mining operations, stimulating private entrepreneurship, alleviating poverty



- 4-
through improvements in productivity of the low-paid, small-scale miners, improving the
safety of working conditions and improved environmental and social conditions are other
objectives of this project. The achievement of these objectives is expected to assist in the
translation of Ghana's market-based macroeconomic policies into increased foreign
investment, increased output, exports, employment generation and minimization of
environmental degradation. The project complements the ongoing Mining Sector
Rehabilitation Project and the Environmental Resource Management Project.



2. THE MINING SECTOR
A. Structure of the Sector
2.1    Gold mining has a long history in Ghana, which was known to the early European
traders as the "Gold Coast" of Africa. A small-scale mining industry was already well
developed by the late 1400s. By the late 1800s, mining activities had thrived and gold
production increased rapidly. Since 1900, gold mining has gone through various boom and
bust cycles with production increasing significantly but erratically. Gold output peaked in the
early 1960s at around one million ounces per year and declined steadily thereafter to 277,000
oz. in 1983 because of various adverse conditions which included overvalued exchange rates
that made exports uncompetitive, lack of spare parts, and deterioration of infrastructure
related to the mining sector.
2.2    Ghana's mining sector also includes production of other minerals including bauxite,
manganese, diamonds, salt and sand. Gold, however, is the main product as indicated below:
Table 2.1: Exports of Major Minerals
(US$'000)
1990         1991         1992         1993
Gold                205,786        303,480      346,220      444,469
Bauxite                9,971         8,735        9,477        9,472
Manganese             14,297        21,789       16,699        14,242
Diamonds              16,927        19,606       19,652        18,369
2.3    Gold production responded to the changes instituted through the Economic
Recovery Program, as indicated by more than a four-fold increase in productive output since
1983:
Table 2.2: Oficial Production of Gold a/
1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Gold ('000 oz)  282   299   287   328   373   429   541   845   998  1261
-/Excludes production of small-scale miners:
2.4    Gold production is concentrated in ten privately owned and controlled mining
operations and three state-owned mines. Of the three state-owned mines, the privatization of
Tarkwa has been completed and the new management has commenced operations. At
Dunkwa, the process of conversion to private ownership and management is well advanced



- 6 -
and the related agreement is shortly to be ratified by Parliament. At Prestea, negotiations for
joint venturing have been completed. However, the related agreement still remains to be
ratified by Parliament and management needs to be transferred to the joint venture partner.
The Government recently reduced its stake in Ashanti Gold Corporation, which is by far the
country's largest gold producer, from 55 percent to 31.3 percent, raising US$400 million in
transactions that saw its stock successfully floated on the Accra and London Stock
Exchanges. Another important source of production includes small-scale gold and diamond
mining activities of over 30,000 miners who-use rudimentary artisanal technology. However,
the production methods, institutional structure, marketing and environmental problems of the
large and small-scale mining operations are distinctly different from each other, as described in
Section B of this chapter.
2.5     The stimulus for increased production during the past decade was the result of the
availability of foreign exchange for the purchase of capital equipment and imported supplies, a
rTalistic exchange rate applicable to export sales, improvement in the transportation
infrastructure, a Minerals and Mining Law enacted in 1986 that provided a clear framework
for new mining investments, and an overall favorable investment climate that provided a more
receptive atmosphere for foreign investors. These factors led to both increases in output at
existing mines and the startup of several new privately owned and operated gold mines.
2.6     The country's second most important mining activity is the production of diamonds,
dominated by Ghana Consolidated Diamonds (GCD), which until 1993 was a wholly-owned
and operated Government corporation. GCD operated a diamond mine employing about
2,200 workers at Akwatia, about 150 km northeast of Accra, which also issued licenses for
small-scale tributers to carry out artisanal operations on its property at approved sites.
Production had been stagnant during the past ten years as GCD had operated with obsolete
equipment, overstaffing, and poor management. In 1993, the Government entered into a joint
venture partnership with its operations to be managed by a private foreign investor. Proven
reserves indicate that there is sufficient ore to support mining for at least ten years at a much
larger production rate of about double the present levels.
2.7     Future Requirements of the Sector. Gold and diamonds have been an important
source of export earnings and employment and a significant contributor to increased GDP
during the past decade. The role of the sector can mainly be attributed to the improved
investment climate in Ghana and the development of known deposits rather than to the
development of new deposits. In the recent past, there has been a downturn in investment in
exploration and mine development as existing mines are brought up to optimal production
levels. If the sector is to continue to expand, there is now a pressing need to expand the
Government's general exploration work to locate additional likely deposits and to publicize
the findings of that work in order to attract new investors. In addition, further sectoral
development will result in enhanced demand for technical skills in the mineral industry. In
order to respond to this need, local universities should include in their curricula pertinent
courses on state-of-the-art technologies targeted at supporting the mineral industry.



- 7-
B. Small-Scale Mining
2.8     About two-thirds of the small-scale miners in Ghana are involved in gold production
and the rest in diamonds. Gold sold by small-scale producers through official channels totaled
US$12.6 million in 1993 as indicated in the table below, but estimates of total output from
miners are much higher than the official transactions. Diamond sales through official channels
are in the range of US$12 million annually, with substantial additional production also sold
through illegal markets.
2.9     Gold. Small-scale gold mining in Ghana is conducted under the Small-Scale Gold
Mining Law of 1989. The law defines SSM of gold as any mining activity not involving
sbibstantial expenditures in areas not exceeding 25 acres.
2.10    The output of small-scale miners has increased substantially since the above
mentioned enactment of legislation in 1989, as reflected by the sales of gold to the PMMC:
Table 2.3: PMMC Purchases of Gold from Small-Scale Miners
Year                Quantity (ozs)            Value (US$)
1989                    9,273                  3,730,000
1990                    17,234                 6,257,281
1991                    15,601                 5,325,236
1992                    17,297                 6,148,121
1993                    35,145                 12,647,290
Source: PMMC
2.11    Small-scale mining of gold is carried out by operators licensed by the Government to
mine in designated areas for a period of three to five years. There are also a significant
number of unauthorized operators largely because efforts to license small-scale mining are
relatively recent. The licensed operators typically engage workers (tributers) to dig and
process ore into a concentrate that is sold by the tributers to the licensed operators, who in
turn are required to sell the final gold metal product to an approved Government purchaser.
Individual concessions are granted for 3 acres of land, and corporate or cooperative
concessions are allowed up to 25 acres. Each concession typically employs 5 to 20 groups of
tributers consisting of 5 to 10 workers each. Over the duration of the concession, work is
usually conducted on a production sharing arrangement whereby two thirds of the production
belongs to the tributers and one third to the concessionaire, who has the first option to buy the
tributers' shares. Equipment is confined to hammers, buckets, shovels, pick-axes, sluice boxes
and the like. Processing includes the use of mercury with associated environmental and health
impacts. Mining sites typically are identified on the basis of other mines in the area, and
licensees lack any reliable knowledge of mineral potential yields. Tributers are frequently
inexperienced in mining and processing techniques, and there is a general lack of knowledge
and disregard for safety and environmental regulations. Recovery is typically 20-30 percent of
the gold contained in the mined ore, as indicated by tests conducted by the MC.



- 8-
2.12    Initial pilot operations for improving the yields and productivity of small-scale gold
and diamond operations were initiated and carried out under the Small-Scale Mining Project
unit administered by the Minerals Commission with the support of GTZ over the past several
years. The SSMP had undertaken an analysis of the needs of the sub-sector, identified the
main constraints and initiated pilot testing of improved mining and processing techniques and
equipment, pilot tested a credit program and completed an assessment of the social and
environmental impact of small-scale mining. Assessments have also been completed on the
role of increased participation of women in the sector, as well as marketing mechanisms for
gold and diamonds. The pilot testing activities confirmed the significant potential for
improvement in output, productivity and resource recovery, and for the adoption of practices
that would minimize the adverse impact on the environment. However, the specific potentials
are yet to be demonstrated because attempts by the SSMP to develop improved small-scale
mining equipment and to establish a credit scheme to make this equipment available to the
miners have only focused on the most rudimentary elements of the sub-sector spectrum with
marginal results. Commercial sales of equipment to upgrade the SSM processing systems
have been limited mainly to pumps used to drain water from the diggings, with no impact on
inproved recovery or efficiency of operations. There has been very little SSM equipment
available commercially in Ghana, presumably because equipment of this kind is not marketed
aggressively and because SSM in Ghana has only been legal since 1989.
2.13    Diamonds. Small-scale mining of diamonds is carried out in a manner similar to
small-scale gold mining. About 60 percent of the licensed operators carry on their operations
at the GCD site at Akwatia, with most of the balance in adjacent areas. The diamond
concessionaires also engage tributers and purchase the output on a daily basis at the site.
2.14    The sales of diamonds by small-scale miners to the licensed foreign buyers operating
under PMMC's auspices increased rapidly in the late 1980s due to a more active purchasing
role by PMMC and because of exchange rate adjustments. However, formal sales have
tapered off in the last two years, as indicated below. The reasons for this decline is unclear,
considering that the prices offered by the licensed buyers have increased significantly as a
result of the new liberalization initiatives and the introduction of competitive buying and
exporting through the licensing of five international operators who carry out their activities at
PMMC's office in Accra. Nevertheless, as with gold there is active unauthorized trading, and
actual production levels seem substantially higher than indicated by the PMMC figures.



Table 2.4: Diamond Purchases from Small-Scale Miners
Year              Quantity (carats)          Value (US$)
1986                    3,144                    10,537
1987                    4,445                     16,845
1988                  34,231                    153,424
1989                  151,606                  2,108,961
1990                 484,877                  14,280,481
1991                 541,849                  17,444,007
1992                 479,875                  13,036,546
1993                 368,195                  11,574,979
Source: PMMC
2.15    The number of small-scale concessions granted up to November 1993 is summarized
in table below. However, MC estimates that only about 100 gold and 20 diamond
concessions are actively under production at present, with the balance inactive due to poor
initial operating results and lack of resources.
Table 2.5: Summary of Small-Scale Gold and Diamond Concessions
(November 1993)
Small-Scale                   Number of Concessions
Mining District  Diamond   Alluvial Gold   Hard Rock Gold    Total
Tarkwa                -            97                3             100
Akim Oda            75             14                -             89
Bibiani               -            25               25              50
Dunkwa                -            28               21             49
Assim Fosu          33             14                -             47
Enchi                 -            10               28             38
Kibi                  -            36                -             36
Total              108            224               77            409
Source: Minerals Commission
C. Future World Demand for Gold and Diamonds
2.16    Demand for gold and diamonds is difficult to predict, especially since demand and
prices for each commodity are set under different conditions. The demand for gold depends
on supply and demand in a volatile free market, based on a combination of demand for jewelry
and for investment. Demand for jewelry in developing countries is high when prices are low
and vice-versa. On the other hand, hoarding of bullion seems to rise when prices rise.
Overall, investment demand for gold has increased steadily in recent years due primarily to
growing private investment demand. Generally, the outlook for the demand for gold seems to



-lo-
be good, with demand for jewelry rising and investors continuing to place gold in their
portfolios. Given the volatility of gold prices experienced since the early 1980s, future prices
could be anywhere from 35 percent below or 50 percent above its recent price of US$380 per
ounce.
2.17    The diamond market is essentially controlled by a well established cartel dominated
by DeBeers. This cartel controls 90 percent of the diamond jewelry market, and has
substantial control over the industrial diamond market as well. It sets prices on the basis of
demand, and regulates its operations on the basis of an inventory buffer stock. This cartel has
been effective in maintaining relatively stable prices for diamonds, and is likely to be able to
continue to do so in the future.
D. Regulatory Framework
2.18    The Minerals and Mining Law, 1986 (as amended by Act 475), is the key piece of
legislation pertaining to the mining of precious minerals. It provides for state ownership of
minerals in their natural state within the jurisdiction of the country and requires a prior
application to and a grant from the responsible Minister before any person can carry out any
type of exploration, production or marketing of such mineral. The law sets out the types of
permits the Minister is empowered to grant, the duration and the size of the concessions, the
criteria for eligibility and the procedures for applying for such grants. It also sets out in broad
terms the rights and obligations of the holder of a mineral right and the powers of the MD
over mineral operations. The Constitution, which came into force on January 7, 1993, vests
all rights to minerals in the State. It requires Parliamentary ratification of the grant of a right
to produce minerals. In certain circumstances, Parliament may delegate this power.
2.19    To date, no regulations have been formulated under the Minerals and Mining Law,
1986. Some regulations made under the Minerals Act of 1962 continue to be enforced,
although some of the provisions in the regulations have been modified or replaced by specific
provisions of the Minerals and Mining Law itself The Government, in consultation with IDA,
is undertaking an assessment of the regulatory framework and the need for additional
regulations. Draft mining and environmental regulations are already under preparation in
collaboration with the EPA.
2.20    For small-scale gold mining, the most relevant pieces of legislation are the Small-
Scale Gold Mining Law, PNDCL 218 enacted in 1989, and the Mercury Law of 1989. The
latter requires that good mining practices are observed in the use of mercury. Main provisions
of the former legislation relate to: (a) prohibition of small-scale gold mining unless a license
has been granted by appropriate authority; (b) the size of concessions; (c) criteria applicable to
license holders; (d) the establishment of District Small-Scale Mining Centers, and the
provision of advice and training facilities to ensure effective and efficient mining operations;
(e) requirements for good mining practices, including due regard to health, safety and
environmental aspects; (f) compensation for land owners; (g) prohibition of the use of



explosives; (h) exemption from payment of income tax and royalties for a three-year period
from when the law was proclaimed; and (i) limiting the sale of gold only to authorized buyers.
2.21    Small-scale mining other than for gold is governed by the Minerals and Mining Law
of 1986 and the Mining Regulations of 1970. The former contains a specific provision for the
designation of areas for small-scale mining operations, with subsequent exclusion or
modification by regulation of any of the provisions of the law which would otherwise apply.
It also empowers appropriate officers to enter any premises other than dwelling houses to
determine whether any disturbances are created by mineral operations. More specific
provisions concern the need to obtain a license to divert streams of water for mining, and the
ability to formulate regulations concerning the restriction of prospecting operations in or near
any river, dam, lake or stream, the prevention of pollution of waters, springs, streams, rivers
or lakes, the gathering of firewood, and the cutting down and use of timber for the purpose of
carrying on prospecting and mining activities. In general, the Secretary for Energy and Mines
is empowered to make regulations for the conservation and development of mines and
minerals and to implement the provisions of the law. The Mining Regulations also contain a
provision that water containing "any injurious matter" cannot be discharged offsite without
having been rendered innocuous.
2.22    The Minerals Commission has prepared a Code of Practice for Small-Scale Gold
Mining as an initial step to regularize this type of activity. The Code requires:
* Concession holders to take preventive measures to avoid accidents.
* Filling of worked-out pits and excavations in a systematic manner to allow the land
to assume its natural state.
* Appropriate occupational safety measures, such as maintaining a maximum vertical
mining face height of 1.8 m.
* No mineral dressing in streams that is likely to cause pollution, without the written
approval of the Chief Inspector of Mines (or his representative).
* No diversion of streams to allow mineral dressing, without the written approval of
the Secretary for Energy and Mines.
*  No dumping of wastes or similar materials in or near streams.
2.23    While this code has been written in response to the perceived needs of the gold
mining industry in particular, it has obvious application to other small-scale mining activities.
In practice, however, there is little or no enforcement of the Code even among the small-scale
miners who operate on a legal basis. This situation is expected to be addressed through
capacity building assistance to be provided to MD under the project.



- 12 -
2.24    Environmental Regulations. The Government has initiated the process of
strengthening the environmental regulatory framework pertaining to the mineral sector. The
Attorney General's Department has produced a first draft of Mining (Environmental)
Regulations. In addition, the EPA has, in collaboration with the MC, produced Mining
(Environmental) Guidelines, which provide specific guidelines for carrying out mining
operations in an environmentally responsible manner. The newly ratified Environmental
Protection Agency Act, 1994, empowers the EPA to require an EIA regarding any activity
likely to have adverse effects on the environment.
2.25    The Government has, in consultation with IDA, initiated a review of the regulatory
framework. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the Government will submit to
IDA not later than December 31, 1996, a draft report outlining recommendations for
modifying the regulatory framework, including relevant environmental, health and safety
regulations (para. 6.1 (e)). During the mid-term review, program of developing reforms in the
regulatory framework will be assessed, and agreement will be reached on an action plan for
further reform.
E. Institutional Structure for Mining
2.26    The main Government agency dealing with the mining sector is the Ministry of
Energy and Mines (MEM). The Mines Department, the Precious Minerals Marketing
Corporation and the Geological Survey Department are the ministry's main departments.
MEM is also supported by the Minerals Commission, which is overseen by MEM but operates
as an independent entity with its own operational budget. Brief descriptions of these
institutions are provided below.
2.27    The Minerals Commission (MC) was established under the Minerals Commission
Law of 1986 as amended by the Minerals Commission Act of 1993, primarily to help
formulate Government policy with respect to "exploration for and exploitation of mineral
resources" and to handle "all public agreements relating to minerals". Its principal function is
to encourage the development of Ghana's mineral resources through attracting foreign
investors, negotiating leases with them, and trying to bring the small-scale miners into legal
channels through the establishment of PMMC buying offices and licensed traders. The MC is
also the main sectoral agency responsible for ensuring that mining operations are carried out
in an environmentally sustainable manner. To this end, they carry out priority studies on
assessing environmental impact of both large- and small-scale mining and liaise as needed with
the EPA. The MC has been funded through trading commissions on domestic mineral sales
and by charges for mineral rights and concessions. This funding has kept the MC outside of
the civil service pay system and allows it to pay somewhat higher salaries. Another funding
source soon to be effective is the Minerals Development Fund (para 2.31). The MC has a
Small-Scale Mining Unit (SSMU), with 13 professionals and 14 other staff, which has been
responsible for carrying out the Small-Scale-Mining Project (para 2.12). SSMU has
established seven outreach offices to provide extension services to small-scale miners (Annex



-13 -
F). At Tarkwa the outreach office includes a laboratory and testing facility for assay of gold
samples.
2.28    The Mines Department (MD) has responsibility for inspecting Ghana's mines to
ensure health and safety conditions and to enforce compliance with the licensing and leasing
provisions of the Minerals and Mining Law of 1986. It is also responsible for environmental
monitoring and enforcement, and is in the process of establishing a laboratory and field
monitoring unit to ensure that Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) are implemented
and that environmental standards are complied with. The Mines Department has been
understaffed for many years, but now has 13 professionals and 43 other employees including
field staff, support staff and laborers. The staff need to develop the necessary skills to carry
out effective environmental monitoring of both large and small-scale mining operations; and to
provide technical assistance to small-scale miners.
2.29    The Geological Survey Department (GS) conducts geological investigations to
determine the mineral resources available in the country, and publishes information on its
findings as a basis for attracting both domestic and foreign investment. It employs 23
geologists, 37 technical officers, 37 drafting personnel, laboratory technicians, laborers, and
drivers.
2.30    The Precious Minerals Marketing Corporation (PMMC) is a Government-owned
corporation with a Board of Directors appointed by MEM. It has responsibility for buying
gold and diamonds produced by small-scale miners and, until 1994, had the exclusive right to
export their output. It operates purchasing gold at offices in Accra and Tarkwa, and also has
licensed buying agents and sub-agents who are authorized to buy gold for resale to PMMC.
For diamonds, PMMC primarily oversees trading and exporting of licensed foreign buyers of
diamonds, who operate from its office in Accra. In 1993, about 35,000 oz of gold and
368,000 carats of diamonds were sold to PMMC or its licensed diamond buyers.
2.31    In 1994, the Government established a Minerals Development Fund, (MDF)
whereby 20 percent of all mining royalties are paid to the fund for institutional support for the
mining industry. Ten percent of the assets of the fund are designated to finance capital
expenditures needed by MC and for staffing requirements of MD and GS.
F. Marketing Issues for Small-Scale Mining
2.32    PMMC gold and diamond buying operations run parallel to an extensive unofficial
system of illegal buyers, as mentioned before. These buyers are closer to the mining sites and
deal directly with the producers. They have in the past been able to offer better prices than
the licensed buyers, usually by operating on a spot cash payment basis, and sometimes by
prefinancing the producers. During the past two years, PMMC has taken steps to make its
operations more competitive with the illegal buyers, as outlined below.



- 14-
2.33    Diamonds. Diamond purchasing and exporting is carried out by authorized private
diamond merchants. They conduct their activities in PMMC's Accra Office, for which they
pay PMMC a two percent fee on the value of the diamonds purchased to cover PMMC's cost
of providing these facilities. In the past, there were only two licensed buying agents. Within
the past two years, PMMC has authorized three additional buyers to operate in Ghana, aiming
to create more competition among the buyers and hence more attractive prices for the
producers.
2.34    Gold. Prior to 1993, PMMC set its gold buying price at the world market price less
3 percent for its commission and 4 percent for a Land Rehabilitation Fund. This was not
competitive with the unauthorized buyers who were able to offer higher prices. Therefore,
PMMC adopted a more aggressive strategy in 1993. It now sets its buying price on a weekly
basis at a guaranteed floor price of about 98 percent of the world market price, adjusting the
price upward during the week if world prices rise. This strategy, plus the increase in world
market prices for gold in 1993, led to a doubling of SSM purchases in that year compared to
1992 as shown in Table 2.3, indicating that PMMC had become more competitive with the
illegal buyers. Additionally, PMMC also improved access to its buying offices in December
1993 by opening a second office in Tarkwa, where there is a concentration of small-scale
mining activity. Previously, small-scale miners could sell directly to PMMC but had to travel
long distances from remote areas to Accra. They could also sell to the licensed buying agents,
but typically these agents offered only about 75 percent of the world market price. More
recently, since opening the new office in Tarkwa, SSM sales to PMMC have increased
substantially, as indicated below in Table 2.6.
Table 2.6: SSM Gold Purchases by PMMC
(oz)
1993                        1994
Total          Accra          Tarkwa        Total
January                  830           2,627           1,154         3,781
February                2,450          2,445           1,219         3,664
March                   2,510          3,426           2,031         5,457
April                   3,960          4,215           2,392        6 ,607
May                     2,820          2,459           1,566         4,025
June                    3,656          3,535           1,246        4,781
Six-Month Total        16,226          18,707          9,608        28,315
Source: PMMC
2.35    In early 1994, the Government approved an application for an international private
company, Miramex, to operate in Ghana as a gold trader and exporter in competition with
PMMC. This firm set up security facilities, offering producers another legal option for
marketing their gold production. A total of 7,000 oz of gold was purchased and exported in
its first two months of operation. The Government has assessed the performance of Miramex
during 1994 and, being satisfied with its review, has stated that it is prepared to license, on a



- 15 -
gradual basis, additional buying and exporting agents in the future. The Government has
adopted this phased approach to liberalize the commercialization of precious minerals as a
precautionary measure to ensure orderly transition and sustainability of the liberalization
process. A statement of the Government's policy and specific steps that will be taken for
further liberalization has been included in a Letter of Sector Development Policy dated May 3,
1995. A draft of the letter was submitted to IDA as a condition of negotiations (see para
6. 1 (b)).
G. Effect of Mining on the Environment
2.36    Large-Scale Mines. A report' prepared by consultants on the current state of
Ghana's environment reviewed the effects of large-scale mining operations, based on an
assessment of eleven operating mines. Excluding socio-economic impacts, environmental
effects were summarized as follows:
*  A total of about 6,000 ha of land has been affected to date by the 11 mines visited.
This can be compared with an annual deforestation rate of 22,000 ha.
*  Indirect effects on surrounding land, which includes the use of timber from
adjacent forests, the effects on vegetation of air pollutants emitted from roasters,
and changes in land use due to the in-migration of workers from other areas.
*  Adverse effects on water quality-with consequent impairment of downstream water
uses, such as for drinking or other domestic functions. This is primarily due to
mine-imposed sediment loadings although metal inputs also arise from in-river
disposal of untreated effluents, fallout from arsenic trioxide emissions from sulfide
ore roasting, and gravity separation of amalgamated gold ores.
* Elevated ground level concentrations of sulphur dioxide and arsenic near
established mines, such that public health criteria are likely to be frequently
exceeded and vegetation has been affected.
2.37    For many years, the adverse environmental impact of mining was ignored, with
resultant negative impacts on the communities located near the mining operations and on the
surrounding eco-systems. For example, the town of Obuasi and the surrounding areas,
located near the large Ashanti Goldfields mining operation, has a high level of contamination
of its water supply, air and soil resulting from about one hundred years of uncontrolled
processing of ore. Recently, AGC has in collaboration with IFC taken steps to put in place,
an environmental mitigation plan which includes new and environmentally responsible
technology, such as bio-leaching. During the last several years, other large-scale mining
operators have also generally adhered to internationally acceptable environmental practices,
I"Effect of Mining on the Environment in Ghana", 1991, NSR Env. Consultants Pty, Ltd.



- 16-
and adopted modem technologies, to minimize the impact on the environment. In addition,
EIAs are now required for all new mining concessions.
2.38    The Government-operated mines have made the least progress in remedying past
environmental damage, although this is now being remedied through the inclusion of
provisions for mitigation of past damage (financed in part by funds made available through the
ongoing Mining Sector Rehabilitation Credit) in connection with the privatization of these
operations. Environmental audits have been completed for all three mines and priority
problems and measures to redress these have been identified. Action plans have been drawn
up to commence mitigation. They are currently being discussed by officials of the State Gold
Mining Corporation (SGMC) and company officials to determine and demarcate
responsibilities of the Government vis-a-vis those of the new companies. While environmental
damage resulting from past mining activity is clearly the responsibility of the Government,
wherever the future mine operations are likely to adversely impact the environment, the
responsibility for mitigation measures will need to be shared (in the case of joint ventures) or
borne by the new owners. US$3 million of IDA funds from the Mining Sector Rehabilitation
Credit have been allocated for supporting environmental mitigation at the three mines.
2.39    Small-Scale Mines. In contrast, small-scale mining is carried out with virtually no
regard for environmental regulations or standards, due to the scattered and uncontrolled
nature of these operations. The direct effects of small-scale mining operations on the land
include the alienation of small areas of land. The major impact, however, is not that
associated with individual operations, but rather the cumulative effects. Based on Minerals
Commission records in 1992 and further recent observations a total area of about 15,000 ha of
land is estimated to be potentially affected by past small-scale mining activities, with about 10
percent of this total (1,500 ha) estimated to be under active disturbance at present. When
compared to the cumulative effect of large-scale mining (6,000 ha), the extent of land
alienation by small-scale mining is two and a half times as large and likely to continue
growing. Also, the use of mercury in the amalgamation process results in the release of
mercury into the environment, exposing miners to health hazards through mercury toxicity
(see para 2.41). Some 4 to 5 tons of mercury are estimated to be released each year at the
present level of small-scale mining activity.
2.40    The downstream effects of suspended sediment from small-scale mining operations
are less severe than in large-scale mines, probably because the workings tend to be scattered
and the amount of land disturbance at any one site is lower. An additional mitigating factor is
that drainage from active small-scale mine workings often flows into nearby old pits and
workings that tend to act as settling ponds. Nonetheless, elevated turbidity and suspended
solids concentrations in downstream waters occur wherever small-scale mining is located
adjacent to streams or rivers, especially diamond and alluvial gold operations resulting in
lower quality domestic water supplies where villages are dependent on streams.



-17-
H. Health and Safety Effects
2.41    Except at the new modern mines, unsafe mining practices are common at both legal
and illegal sites. At small-scale gold and diamond mines, lack of adequate benching in pits and
insufficient roof supports in underground mines have caused fatal accidents despite the
provision of Government extension and inspection services. Mercury is widely used in both
small- and large-scale gold mining to amalgamate fine gold into a concentrate. While the
large-scale mines recover their mercury during refining, the small-scale miners are in dire risk
of developing mercury toxicity because they simply burn off mercury over an open fire or
kitchen stove. This process allows mercury vapor to enter the environment and exposes
miners and often their families to the fumes. Mercury analyses in scalp hair samples taken
from occupationally exposed miners and unexposed control populations in Tarkwa and Accra
shows elevated levels in the miners.
2.42    Compared to the general population, small-scale miners (especially gold and
diamond miners) are likely to be more susceptible to diseases caused by water-borne agents
because of their extensive use of untreated river water and the proximity of work areas to
stagnant water.
I. Institutional Structure for the Environment
2.43    The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is set up under the Environmental
Protection Agency Law of December 1994. The role of the EPA is to ensure that all
developmental activities take account of environmental concerns through EIAs and also to
ensure that there is regular monitoring of environmental quality. The EPA also has the
mandate to develop and implement programs for both formal and non-formal environmental
education. The EPA is distinct from the former Environmental Protection Council in that the
EPA is a body corporate with full powers for enforcing all environmental laws and
regulations. The EPA law provides broad powers to the EPA and makes environmental
offenses criminal offenses punishable with strict penalties including terms of imprisonment.
2.44    The EPA can, however, only fulfill this role with the cooperation of sectoral
agencies responsible for implementation of programs that have an impact on the environment.
A number of sectoral agencies have responsibilities for activities that affect the environment.
The Department of Agriculture is responsible for policy formulation and for the
implementation and supervision of natural resource utilization, conservation and management
programs. Departments of Forestry, Lands, Game and Wildlife, and Mines are responsible for
the national forestry programs, wildlife management and the control of mineral exploitation,
respectively. The day-to-day monitoring of sectoral activities to ensure that due regard is paid
to environmental concerns remains the responsibility of sectoral agencies. The EPA is
empowered under the EPA Law to carry out inspectiorn and monitoring of sectoral activities
to ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations. The MC and MD collaborate
with the EPA in implementing the inspection and monitoring activities. The project will assist



- 18 -
in clarifying jurisdictional responsibilities through the proposed institutional study to be
carried out by MC (para 4.2(a)).
2.45    For environmental management in the mining sector, the Government needs
assistance to achieve the following objectives: (a) minimization or prevention of negative
environmental impact of new mines; (b) containment of the impact of established mines; and
(c) assessing best practices and options for ensuring the rehabilitation of disturbed land. The
EPA and MC have taken the initial steps to start the process of formulating regulations
targeted at minimizing environmental impact through the introduction of environmental
impact assessments to ensure that modem environmental controls are built into the design of
new mining projects during the planning stage. General guidelines have been developed to
outline how mining activities can be carried out in an environmentally responsible manner.
Technical assistance will be provided under the proposed project to build upon this initial
work and develop comprehensive, detailed guidelines and standards based on guidelines and
standards that are currently operative in other mineral processing countries such as Australia,
Canada and Malaysia. These guidelines will be studied and modified to suit Ghanaian
conditions. The project would also provide training for staff of the MC, MD and GS to
enable them to carry out their responsibilities with due regard to environmental aspects.



3. THE BANK'S EXPERIENCE AND STRATEGY
A. IDA Lending to Ghana
3.1     Since the initiation of the Government's Economic Recovery Program (ERP), in
1983, IDA has provided assistance for policy as well as institutional reform programs and
investment lending to support the recovery of the economy and to assist in creating a
framework for sustained growth. Bank and IDA lending to Ghana as of December 31, 1994,
amounted to US$2.86 billion2, with total disbursements of US$2.1 billion.
3.2     During the early 1980s, Bank and IDA lending focused mainly on providing foreign
exchange and stimulating exports to cope with the lack of foreign exchange. While the lines
of credit were slow in disbursing due to the depressed state of the economy at that time, the
adjustment lending was successful in laying the groundwork for key reforms such as exchange
rate and price liberalization, import liberalization, export promotion measures and regulatory
reform. All these reforms resulted in greater availability of foreign exchange for domestic
manufacturers; improved export earnings, particularly from non-traditional exports; increase
in the production of locally manufactured goods; and improvement in institutional capacity for
project analysis and implementation. In the decade since the ERP was introduced, real GDP
growth averaged 5 percent per annum, compared with minus 2 to 3 percent per annum in the
preceding decade. On a per capita basis, real income grew by 2 percent per annum.
3.3     By the end of the 1980s, despite much progress throughout the decade, particularly
improvements in infrastructure, health and education through targeted credits from IDA and
the donor community, the main issues were still an unsatisfactory supply response and an
increasingly distressed financial sector. In 1988 and 1991, two IDA Credits3 aimed at
redressing the financial sector distress were approved. They addressed resource mobilization
and credit allocation in the financial system as well as improvements in the regulatory
framework of the banking system and the restructuring of distressed banks. In the early
1990s, IDA credits focused on creating an enabling environment for private investment;
maintaining macroeconomic stability; undertaking tax reform to improve incentives for private
investment; taking steps to make the regulatory environment in Ghana more consistent with
the liberalized economy, making further progress on state enterprise reform; and maintaining
the momentum of reforms designed to increase the efficiency with which public resources are
used and, thereby, enhancing their support for private sector development.
9 Private sector development accounts for 42 percent, including adjustment loans; infrastructure accounts for 34 percent
including transport, power and teleconmnunications; agriculture 11 percent; education and health 7 percent; natural
resources and environment 2 percent; and freestanding technical assistance 4 percent.
3 Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FINSAC 1) (1988) and the Financial Adjustment Credit (FINSAC II)
(1991).



- 20 -
B. Country Assistance Strategy
3.4     In recent years, the emphasis of the IDA strategy has shifted from structural
adjustment to capacity building in both public and private sectors, promotion of non-
traditional exports, environmental issues, and poverty alleviation as the basis for sustainable
long term development. The key objectives of IDA strategy, as stated in the CAS of 1995
are: (i) accelerating action on poverty reduction; (ii) restoring and maintaining macroeconomic
stability; (iii) developing a national program for capacity building under conditions of good
governance; (iv) fostering private sector development in all sectors, especially agriculture; and
(v) helping create the conditions for environmentally sustainable growth. IDA's current
strategy for Ghana is aimed at assisting the Government to achieve its stated goal of achieving
poverty reduction through accelerated growth. This entails maintaining the macroeconomic
situation under control, establishing a favorable environment for attracting vigorous private
sector participation throughout the economy, and investing in the development of human
resources and infrastructure. The proposed project would support the strategy by
encouraging labor-intensive private sector activities, improving incomes, capacity building,
and adoption of environmental practices in the mining sector. Given the embryonic status of
its nontraditional export base and its dependence on a few export commodities which are
subject to volatility in prices, Ghana is not yet in a position to increase substantially external
borrowing on commercial terms. The role of the donor community in continuing to provide
assistance to help ensure an adequate flow of foreign exchange to Ghana will, therefore,
remain crucial.
C. Mining Sector Strategy for Ghana
3.5     The Government's strategy for the mining sector is consistent with its overall
economic strategy. It encourages foreign investment through creation of open exchange
markets and realistic exchange rates, reasonable taxation policies, and freedom to market
production through legal channels, while adhering to sound environmental standards. It also
includes successful efforts to privatize state-owned mines and encouragement of small-scale
mining activities, which are still rudimentary, through improved technology and better access
to official marketing channels. This strategy has been most successful for large-scale gold
mining, with dramatic increases in output (Table 2.2) and improved environmental conditions
at the large privately-operated gold mines. It has not been as successful for diamond mining,
which was until recently dominated by a state-owned corporation, or for small-scale mining,
which has been legalized only recently, with the consequence that technology still remains at a
rudimentary level with marginal output, environmental damage continues unabated, and much
of the output is sold through unauthorized channels.
3.6     IDA's ongoing support for the mining sector has been limited to the Mining Sector
Rehabilitation Project, effective since March 1989. This project, financed by US$40 million
from IDA and US$50 million in cofinancing, was primarily intended to support the
rehabilitation and privatization of three state-owned gold mines. The privatization process of
the mines is well advanced (para 2.4). Support under this project also included the provision



- 21 -
of limited amounts of equipment and training to MD, GS, MC and MEM to establish capacity
in these institutions.
3.7     With regard to the SSM sub-sector, there is considerable scope for expanding
production through improved recovery rates, more efficient equipment, and marketing
arrangements that will induce more sales through official channels. There is also an urgent
need to reduce the negative environmental impact of small-scale mining and to improve the
safety of these operations. Enforcement of environmental regulations will only be feasible if
small-scale miners are able to generate reasonable financial retums. Further, incentives to
operate on a legal basis need to offset the increased cost of complying with environmental and
other regulations.
D. Lessons Learned from Other IDA-Supported Projects
3.8     Ghana's overall project implementation performance compares favorably with other
countries in the Region. An increased focus on implementation, complemented with actions
to address generic as well as project specific issues, resulted in increased disbursements for
investment lending by over 30 percent in FY93. The recent Country Portfolio Performance
Review (CPPR), carried out in June 1994, examined ways to improve procurement
processing. A simplification of procurement procedures was agreed, and the number of steps
for review and approval have been reduced. Of total lending, about 80 percent of completed
projects have been rated satisfactory. The number of problem projects have fallen steadily
from 7 in FY92 to 5 in FY93 to 4 in FY94. Disbursements, however, deteriorated during
FY94. Unsatisfactory disbursement performance was discussed with the Ghanaian authorities
during the CPPR in June 1994. Disbursement performance has improved during the first half
of FY95 with total disbursement as of December 31, 1994 amounting to US$2.1 billion. A
10-15 percent increase is expected in FY95 over FY94 disbursements. As part of the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy, disbursement performance is now linked to new commitments.
3.9     There were three operations in Ghana which focused on developing the mining
sector. They are the Export Rehabilitation Project, the Export Rehabilitation Technical
Assistance Project and the ongoing Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project. The two former
projects identified mechanisms for the development of the state-owned mining enterprises and
the latter project focused on the rehabilitation and divestiture of these mines. The divestiture
of all three mines is well advanced, as described in para 2.4. The implementation of the
Mining Sector Rehabilitation Project revealed the need for strengthening of the institutional
and regulatory framework. None of the above projects addressed issues concerning
environmental impact of mining. Sectoral agencies lacked capacity to carry out environmental
monitoring of either the large-scale operations or SSM activities. The existence of a very
large and growing SSM sub-sector, and related social, economic and environmental issues
remained unaddressed. The proposed project will address these weaknesses through capacity
building assistance for environmentally sustainable sectoral development. Consistent with the
Bank's "Strategy for African Mining" (1992), the project also focuses on providing technical



- 22 -
and organizational support as well as improved social and health conditions for the small-scale
mining community.
3.10    Additional IDA support relevant to this project includes the Environmental Resource
Management Project (IDA Cr. 2426-GH of September 1992), which is aimed at
strengthening the capacity of both the Government and communities to manage environmental
resources. The Credit provides technical assistance for the development of environmental
management and technical skills for the staff of the EPA and other sectoral agencies'
administrative officers at national and district levels, to develop an environmental information
system, and to develop a strategy for increasing public awareness of environmental issues.
The Credit also supports the development of a community-based land and water management
system and a coastal wetlands management system. While not directed specifically at the
mining sector, it should have an indirect impact on mining activities through the strengthened
national environmental institutions that should result from the project. Implementation of the
Environmental Resource Management Project was slow at the beginning, mainly on account
of the lack of leadership at the EPA and continued changes in the institutional framework.
With the appointment of a new Executive Director and key staff and consultants to manage
major areas of work, there has been a noticeable improvement in project implementation. The
proposed project has the advantage of close collaboration with key staff in the sector as well
as in the EPA, from the inception of project design and preparation.



4. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
4.1     The overall objective of the project is to support the sustainable development of
Ghana's mining sector on an environmentally sound basis through strengthened mining
institutions and organizational support to small-scale miners to introduce the use of
appropriate and environmentally responsible technology. Specifically, the objectives are (a) to
enhance the capacity of the mining sector institutions to carry out their functions of
encouraging and regulating investments in the mining sector in an environmentally sound
manner; and (b) support the use of techniques and mechanisms that will improve the
productivity, financial viability and reduce environmental impact of small-scale mining
operations.
B. Project Summary
4.2    In order to achieve these objectives, the project would consist of the following
components:
(a)   Strengthening of the mining sector institutions through: (i) support to the
MC to: a) improve its organizational structure; b) expand its promotional
activities; c) review existing monitoring and enforcement practices including an
assessment of jurisdictional responsibilities of sectoral agencies and the EPA
with regard to environmental monitoring; d) develop guidelines and standards
for implementing sectoral and environmental regulations; and e) establish a
minerals and environmental information system; (ii) support to the MD to: a)
carry out its inspection, monitoring and enforcement responsibilities,
particularly with regard to environmental impact and health hazards; and b)
assist small-scale miners in the application of the new technology developed
under the SSM component of this project; (iii) support to the GS to improve its
geological information base through an aerial survey and to publish and
disseminate the results; and (iv) support to the MEM to carry out its policy
planning and coordination role for the mining sector in a more effective
manner.
(b)   Assistance to Small-Scale Mining Enterprises through: (i) pilot testing of
identified modules of small-scale mining equipment for improving both
productivity and yields, and the dissemination of successfully tested equipment
to determine their applicability to Ghana's conditions and acceptability by the
small-scale miners; (ii) a program to make better geological information
available to small-scale miners through the assistance of geologists to delineate
recoverable ore bodies on SSM concessions; (iii) improvements in the sector
framework for SSM operations, including review of the regulatory framework



- 24 -
and improvements in the marketing arrangements for SSM production; and
(iv) reclamation and rehabilitation of priority areas degraded through past SSM
activities as a pilot exercise to determine best practices and cost-effective
methods for future reclamation programs.
C. Detailed Project Description
1. Strengthening of Mining Sector Institutions
4.3     This component has the purpose of ensuring that the institutional structure of the
sector is adequate to respond to the demands of a more competitive and growing mineral
sector. It will focus on providing support to mining agencies to be effective in implementing
sectoral policy and legal and regulatory regimes with particular focus on environmental
factors. The project will also assist in developing new geological information to establish a
robust pipeline of priority prospect areas to attract investors and enhance promotional
capabilities needed to attract investments in exploration and mine development. These
objectives will be met with four sub-components, as described below.
4.4     Minerals Commission (US$ 2.48 m.). This sub-component would aim to ensure
that MC is fully equipped with the organizational structure, manpower and logistical
capabilities required to carry out its responsibilities as the main operational promoter and
coordinator of the Government's strategy for private sector-oriented mineral growth.
Specifically, the project would support:
(a)   an assessment of current mining sector institutional arrangements to identify
and formulate restructuring steps that may be necessary to implement sectoral
strategy effectively, including a review of the adequacy of current monitoring
and enforcement practices of environmental, health and safety standards. The
analysis would include: (i) an assessment of jurisdictional responsibilities of
sectoral agencies and the EPA with regard to environmental monitoring, (ii)
identify appropriate enforcement mechanisms, including the viability and cost
effectiveness of performance bonds for ensuring adherence to environmental
standards, and (iii) prepare guidelines for implementing sectoral and
environmental regulations. A draft report outlining the findings of the analysis
is expected to be submitted to IDA by December 31, 1996. The final report
would be the basis to prepare an action plan to further strengthen the
effectiveness of sectoral institutions (para 6.1(d)).
(b)   the execution of promotionat activities of MC, which are required to attract
potential investors in exploration and mine development, including the design
and preparation of promotional brochures and activities;
(c)   the establishment of a comprehensive minerals information system which
would consist of: (i) a concession cadastral system; (ii) a mineral information



- 25 -
database; (iii) a geological information database for promotional purposes,
generated under the above-mentioned program of compilation of geological
information and an aerial survey; and (iv) a mining environmental information
system;
(d)   the preparation of a pollution abatement strategy for ground and surface water
systems of the Tarkwa, Dunkwa and Prestea areas to remedy environmental
degradation caused by mining operations (para 1.5); and
(e)   an assessment of the curricula of local universities and technical colleges in
order to develop a program to introduce modemn mineral exploration
technologies and processing techniques (para 2.7).
4.5     Mines Department (US$ 0.81 m) . The project would provide technical assistance,
consultant services, training, equipment and logistical support to enable MD to fully and
effectively perform its responsibilities for inspection, monitoring and enforcement of sectoral
and environmental regulations. Emphasis would be given to strengthen the organization,
manpower and logistic capabilities of MD and its district offices for executing periodic mine
i1spections, field verification of work programs and monitoring of mine health, safety and
environmental aspects at both large and small-scale mining operations.
4.6     With regard to small-scale mining, training and technical assistance would be given
to ensure that MD can provide: (a) assay services and technical extension support to improve
the productivity and viability of small-scale miners based on the technology generated by the
SSM pilot testing program; and (b) extension services to sensitize miners about health, safety
and environmental problems related to small-scale mining including training for small-scale
miners in special skills such as blasting and subsequent certification of competence. Goods
financed by the project would include test instruments for field monitoring, laboratory
equipment, vehicles and office equipment and supplies.
4.7     Geological Survey (US$ 1. 66). This project sub-component is aimed at determining
priority mining areas attractive for their subsequent promotion to potential investors in order
to sustain further sectoral growth. This activity has been assigned a high priority because of a
recent downturn in investment in exploration and mine development, which raises an urgent
need to use more advanced geological technology to develop new geological information.
For this purpose, the use of airborne geophysical survey technology has been selected mainly
because of its low cost and ability to carry out rapid mapping of extensive areas. This will be
used to identify target areas for exploration of gold and base metals.
4.8     Main elements include: (a) the compilation and interpretation of available geological
information; (b) the definition of priority areas to be covered by the aerial survey; (c) the
preparation of an action program with detailed survey specifications; (d) the selection of a
survey contractor, and mobilization and execution of the survey; (e) the reinforcement of
geophysical capability at GS, structuring these functions away from detailed mineral
evaluation activities (which should be left to potential investors); (f) the processing and



-26 --
interpretation of survey data; and (g) the publication and dissemination of results and raw
data. The IDA credit would finance the aerial survey, consultant services to assist GS, and
training.
4.9    Ministry of Energy and Mines (USS 0.49 m.). MEM is the principal government
agency responsible for the mining sector. Main areas for strengthening under the project
would include funding of office and communication equipment and provision of technical
assistance through consultants to: (a) improve the overall operational effectiveness of MEM
to examine, address and coordinate the work of other mining sector agencies; and
(b) conceptualize and oversee the execution of policy and strategy review, including market
liberalization and commercialization aspects.
2. Assistance to Small-Scale Mining Enterprises
4.10    This component would be executed by MC, with assistance from the Mines
Department and the Geological Survey. It would include a testing phase (Phase I) and a
disseminating phase (Phase II) which would be formulated on the basis of the outcome of
Phase I.
4.11    Testing of ImprovedEquipment andProcessing (US$ 1.25 m.). Pilot testing of
specific combinations of equipment likely to be applicable to Ghana's SSM conditions would
be carried out, both for improving productivity and yields. The equipment packages, which
have been identified during study tours undertaken by a team comprising officials from the
MC and a small-scale miner, mainly include small-scale crushers, pulverizers, pumps,
amnalgamators, and gravity concentrators such as sluice boxes. The complete listing of
equipment to be tested during Phase I, provided in Annex K. The objective is to keep the
total cost of capital equipment for each processing system or module to US$30-50,000 for
alluvial mining and to around US$100,000 for hard rock mining. Testing would be confined
to equipment available on the world market, although some adaptation to local conditions may
be necessary. Analysis would be done of the technical and cost effectiveness of various pieces
of equipment and processes and their effect on productivity and total output. The testing
program would also address the introduction of improved processing technology which is
environmentally responsible and suited to Ghanaian conditions, and improved sorting of
crushed ores to maximize yields. The testing program would extend over a two year period
and would be carried out by three teams of contractors (two for alluvial mining of gold and
one for hard rock mining) under the supervision of the SSM section of the MC, with each
contractor testing two different processing systems.
4.12    Dissemination of Equipment and Technology (USS 1.29 mn). This sub-
component would be implementaed by the MC in close coordination with the M.D. After the
first phase is completed, results would be assessed and the design of a second phase would be
agreed upon by the MC and IDA. The second phase would be designed to expand the field
testing of the equipment and processing procedures in an operational setting, and would
include workshops and field demonstrations of the new equipment and processes to small-
scale miners. It would also include the establishment of assay equipment at each of the seven



- 27-
existing SSM outreach offices similar to the-facilities presently available at Tarkwa (see para
2.27). This phase would include experimentation with mechanisms for the delivery of
technology and equipment to small-scale miners, including the use of credit arrangements
through rural banks, NGOs, and cash sales through equipment suppliers. An Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIA) would be carried out prior to the commencement of the second
phase. The EIA would assess possible disturbances and impact on the environment and
outline measures to mitigate these impacts. The mitigation measures identified would be
incorporated into the design of the second phase.
4.13    Improved Geological Information (US$ 1.88). A program to make geological
information available to small-scale miners, who now operate without any reliable information
as to the location and extent of exploitable ore, would proceed simultaneously with the
activities designed to improve SSM technology. The GS would organize teams consisting of
a geologist, a technical officer and laborers to delineate areas with favorable geological
prospects where SSM concessions can be granted, and to work with the small-scale miners in
delineating recoverable mineralization after a concession has been obtained. General
information of a preliminary nature would be made available to prospective applicants at no
charge. After a license has been granted, the survey team would assist in delineating ore
within the concession area for potential yield, size and depth, and in providing a map
recording the results of the survey. A fee would be charged for this purpose to cover the out-
of-pocket costs of the survey team (per diem, gasoline, assay test, etc.) in order to maintain
the service on a sustainable basis.
4.14    During the first year of the project, two teams would be put into operation: one for
regional mapping of prospective concession areas and one for working directly with small-
scale miners on their concessions. If the operating results are favorable during the first year,
two additional teams would be established to assist the small-scale miners. The information
generated by producing these separate mapped areas would be subsequently integrated into an
overall geological map of the area in order to provide more detailed and integrated
information to serve as a basis for future work in adjacent areas. The equipment, vehicles,
and incremental operating costs necessary to operate the survey teams and integrate the
results into a mineral resource map of the surveyed areas would be financed under the project.
4.15    A Joint Geological Task Force would be established to oversee the geological
assistance included in this component of the project. The Task Force would include members
from the MC, the MD, and the GS. The Task Force would provide guidance to the GS on
areas to be surveyed, would review the Annual Work Program outlining the work of the
teams, and would receive and review periodic progress reports on the work accomplished. It
would also evaluate, along with IDA, the results of the first year's activities. A continuation
of the survey work by the GS and an expansion from two to four teams would be predicated
on the Task Force and IDA findings that the first year's results were satisfactory.
4.16    Improved SSMSub-Sector Framework and Set-up (US$ 0.77 m.). This sub-
component would be implemented by the MC in close coordination with the MD. The project
would finance a study to review the present regulatory framework for the mining sector to



- 28 -
analyze how these regulations affect SSM operations. Specifically, it would review the
process and conditions for granting concessions, the length of time for which they are granted,
and their cost. It would also review operating restrictions, with special attention to
restrictions on blasting by small-scale miners. As the volume of SSM activities increases with
the adoption of new technology, the use of appropriate safety controls becomes even more
relevant. The study would give special attention to environmental, health and safety
regulations, as well as to review how and to what extent they can be enforced. It would
conclude with specific recommendations and an action plan for improvements needed to
facilitate SSM operations, to improve safety conditions, and to reduce their negative
environmental impact.
4.17    This subcomponent would also include a study of marketing conditions and issues
affecting small-scale miners and measures to improve the commercialization of gold and
diamonds. A study would also be carried out as to how small-scale miners can secure
additional financial resources in the form of both equity and debt in order to expand their
operations. This would include a review of the roles of existing financial institutions,
including NGOs, leasing companies and rural banks. The Government will provide to IDA, a
draft report outlining recommendations for further liberalizing the market for precious
minerals. On the basis of the final report, an action plan would be prepared, satisfactory to
IDA, by June 30, 1997 (para 6.1(c)).
4.18    This sub-component would also include a program of in-country training in basic
financial management and business practices which would be organized by the MC and carried
out by local training institutions for interested small-scale miners in order to enhance their
creditworthiness and to improve their prospects for successful operation. Under Phase II of
the Project, extension services would be provided to the small-scale miners to use the new
equipment and technologies with due regard to impact on the environment. Also, MEM
would establish an Advisory Board, whose membership shall include small-scale miners, for
the purpose of advising MEM on the development of policies affecting small-scale mining
activities. The Advisory Board would be established not later than June 30, 1996.
4.19    Land Reclamation for Small-Scale Mining Degradation (US$2.63 m). Small-
scale mining has created extensive damage in mined-out areas. Environmental problems
resulting in these activities include the removal of the topsoil; rendering the land unsuitable for
any type of agricultural activity; serious erosion leading to salinization in creeks and river
systems and permanently affecting watersheds; contamination of ground water sources
through metal concentration and the seepage of mercury used in gold extraction; creation of
large craters on the land surface, which turn into stagnant ponds, increasing the incidence of
malaria; and the elimination of biodiversity in affected areas.
4.20    The project would carry out, the reclamation and rehabilitation of high priority land
areas as a pilot exercise. The program currently targets 500 acres. The pilot activity will seek
community involvement, particularly in the tending and care of the woodlots, which will
ultimately benefit the communities. While the areas selected will represent only a small
fraction of the total area in need of eventual reclamation, it will provide a basis to determine



- 29 -
best practices and to assess efficient and cost-effective mechanisms for carrying out
ieclamation. The areas identified for reclamation would be selected considering both the
economic value of the land as well as the losses to be incurred in terms of degradation of
natural resource stock, threat to human health and to eco-systems upon which populations
depend. Three sample areas for reclamation have been identified and cost-benefit analysis has
been carried out for each selected site, with favorable results. Benefits included in the analysis
included those expected from agriculture, improved health conditions and fisheries benefits
from desilting of rivers and streams, with alternative cropping systems for calculating
agricultural benefits. All alternatives yielded positive net present values based on a discount
rate of 10 percent. If the value of non-measurable benefits, such as restoration of a favorable
eco-system and secondary employment effects were taken into account, the potential benefits
to be derived from reclamation would be even more favorable. Detailed reclamation plans are
currently being prepared for each of the three sites, which will be the basis for requests for
proposals to carry out the work on a contract basis. Planning for the land reclamation pilot
work is being coordinated with the EPA and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry.
Consultant services and earth-moving components would be financed by the IDA credit.
4.21    This component would also include activities by the MD to determine appropriate
operating procedures, regulations, enforcement measures, and incentives to cause future SSM
operations to be carried out on a basis that avoids the degradation of past operations. The
principal incentive for SSMs to adhere to good environmental practices is expected to be their
interest in benefiting from the availability of improved geological information and information
regarding appropriate equipment and improved processing techniques. Consultant services,
equipment and vehicles would be provided under the project to assist the MD in carrying out
this work, including the training of its field personnel to prepare them for advising the small-
scale miners in best practices to avoid degradation during mining operation.
D. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.22    The estimated total cost of the project is US$13.7 million, net of duties and taxes,
including physical and price contingencies, with a foreign component of US$8.6 million,
equivalent to 63 percent of total project costs. Costs were estimated on the basis of 1994
prices and include physical contingencies of 10 percent for equipment, consultant services and
training. Price contingencies, amounting to US$0.9 million, are based on the October 1994
forecast Index of Unit Value of Manufactured Exports. The estimated cost of the project is
given in detail in Annex B and is summarized in Table 4.1.
4.23    IDA would finance the consultant services, equipment and supplies, a portion of the
civil works cost of land reclamation and the contract cost of pilot testing, and training for a
total of US$12.3 million or 90 percent of total project costs. The Government would finance
local costs of workshops, per diem and operating expenses for field operations, and part of the
cost of the environmental reclamation component and contractor costs for testing of SSM
equipment. The Government would provide a total of US$1.4 million equivalent, equal to 10
percent of total project costs, plus any duties and taxes payable on items procured for the



- 30-
project through the Project Account (paras 4.40 and 6.2(f)). Deposits would be made for this
purpose on a periodic basis.
Table 4.1: Estimated Project Costs al
(US$ million)
Project Component         Local   Foreign   Total   Foreign/Total %
Institutional Strengthening
of Mining Sector Agencies    0.95    3.72     4.67          80
Assistance to Small-Scale
Mining Enterprises         3.32      3.64     6.96          52
Contingencies              0.78      1.24     2.02          61
TOTAL                      5.05      8.60     13.65         63
-_AeAll costs estimated net of duties and taxes.
4.24    The proposed financing plan is as follows:
Table 4.2: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Local      Foreign    Total
IDA                3.7         8.6      12.3
Government            1.4         0.0        1.4
Total              5.1         8.6       13.7
E. Implementation
4.25    Project Management Structure. The Republic of Ghana would be the borrower
(represented by the Ministry of Finance), and MC would be the coordinating agency for the
project, with MEM, Geological Survey Department, and the Mines Department as
participating agencies. MC would liaise closely with EPA in regard to the environmental
components of the project, including the setting up of the minerals environmental information
system and the land reclamation component. A Project Coordinator acceptable to IDA has
been appointed by the MC to manage and coordinate the implementation of the project. The
Project Coordinator would be assisted by a Technical Officer and an Accountant. Each of the
participating agencies would also appoint Project Liaison Officers within their organizations
to liaise with the Project Coordinator. The appointment of the Project Coordinator acceptable
to IDA was a condition of negotiations (see para 6.1(a)).



- 31 -
4.26    Project Startup. MC would organize a project launch workshop within one month
of signing of the Credit to bring together all of the participating agencies. The workshop
would clarify responsibilities and would assist in initiating Project activities as agreed in TORs
and schedules described in detail in the Project Implementation Manual, including key
performance indicators which would be agreed upon during negotiations (para 6. l(h)).
4.27    Annual Work Program and Budget. Annual work programs will be prepared by all
participating agencies by December 31 of each year starting from December 31, 1996. The
first year's program has already been finalized in consultation with IDA. Subsequent annual
work programs will be based on an evaluation of the previous year's experience. The MC will
submit to IDA not later than October 31 of each year, a budget for each succeeding fiscal
year, specifying by quarter, the Government's contribution to the financing of the project (para
6.1(f)).
4.28    Mid-Term Review. A comprehensive mid-term review would take place, not earlier
that April 1, 1997, and not later than June 30, 1997, (para 6.1(a)), after the completion of the
first phase of the SSM pilot testing program. The review would be carried out jointly by
MEM and IDA and would include: (a) an evaluation of the results of the pilot testing of
equipment and technology for SSM. Agreement would be required, based on these results, on
the equipment to be included in the second phase, and the terms of reference for the
consultant services required; (b) the progress in the development of standards and guidelines
to ensure that all mining operations are carried out in an environmentally responsible manner;
(c) an assessment of the findings of the EIA that would be prepared after the completion of
the first phase (para 4.12 and 6. 1 (b)); (d) an examination of the results from the land
reclamation testing and agree on best practices and cost-effective methods suitable for
Ghanaian conditions to continue rehabilitation of priority areas (para 4.20 and 4.21); (e) the
progress made in improving the marketing environment for small-scale miners and
liberalization of the market for precious minerals; (f) the progress in developing reforms to the
regulatory framework governing the mining sector; (g) the status of project monitoring
indicators; and (h) the performance of consultants.
F. Procurement
4.29    Procurement under the project will cover the supply of civil works, goods, and
consultancies for technical assistance, training and operational support. Procurement of all
items for goods and works funded by IDA will follow the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits. All contracts for consulting services will be in
accordance with IDA's Conditions for Consulting Contracts (1981), and Guidelines for use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as an Executing Agency
(1981). All contracts under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures and
contracts for the appointment of consultants will be based on World Bank Standard Bidding
and Contract documents. Under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures for the
supply of goods and works, interested foreign firms will be allowed to participate. Import
taxes levied on project imports funded by IDA should be borne by the Government, in



- 32 -
accordance with IDA's guidelines. To facilitate and ensure the orderly execution of
procurement tasks, the Minerals Commission will be responsible for the management and
processing of procurement activities, which it will conduct in a centralized manner and in
close coordination with all project participating agencies.
4.30    The amount of Civil Works under the project are estimated at about US$3.6
million. They will comprise land reclamation for mitigation of environmental damages from
SSM amounting to US$2.5 million, and testing of equipment for SSM (mostly earthmoving
and materials handling) amounting to US$1.1 million. These works are not likely to attract
responsive interest from international contractors because they are widely located
geographically, and individual contracts are relatively small in size, with estimated cost of
US$0.2 million or less. These works can be provided through local contractors at competitive
prices. Contracts for such civil works, each of which is estimated at US$200,000 or less, will
be procured by NCB up to an aggregate value of US$3.4 million.
4.31    The procurement of Goods for the project would slightly exceed US$2.8 million.
This would include nearly US$0.9 million for the acquisition of SSM mining and processing
equipment to be pilot tested, and the remaining balance of approximately US$1.9 million to
provide the Mines Department (US$0.7 million), Geological Survey (US$0.5 million),
Minerals Commission (US$0.7 million) and Ministry of Energy and Mines (US$29,000) with
equipment. Such equipment would include laboratory components (required for assays
related to environment, health and safety, and for assistance to SSM on reserve estimations),
computer hardware and software, office implements, specialized equipment, instruments and
tools, and field vehicles. Procurement contracts which are estimated to exceed US$100,000
each, will follow ICB procedures.
4.32    Because of the specialized nature of a number of the required equipment and limited
number of suppliers, procurement of goods below US$100,000 per contract will be awarded
by Limited International Bidding (LIB), up to an aggregate value of US$1.1 million. All
known suppliers will be invited to bid for specialized equipment/instruments procured by LIB.
Contracts below US$50,000 each will be procured by International Shopping up to an
aggregate value of US$0.3 million, by obtaining at least three quotations from suppliers of at
least two different countries.
4.33    The service contract for geo/aerial survey (US$1.2 million) will be procured by ICB
in accordance with the Procurement Guidelines of the World Bank.
4.34    Provision of Consulting Services and Training will involve contracts for a total of
nearly US$5.6 million of which approximately US$4 million is for consulting services. This
will include approximately: (a) US$ US$3.0 million for technical assistance and training to
strengthen the functions of the Minerals Commission, Mines Department, Geological Survey,
and Ministry of Energy and Mines; (b) US$ 0.5 million for technical assistance and training
concerning tests for SSM equipment; (c) US$1.3 million for services to provide geological
assistance to SSM; and (d) US$0.8 million for technical assistance to improve SSM
framework. Terms of reference for the main consulting contracts related to the above



- 33 -
mentioned activities are contained in the Implementation Manual. These contracts will
involve a broad range of services which will include geophysics, geology, mineral promotion,
mineral policy and legislation, mining and environment aspects, database development, and
technologies for small-scale mining. Local training will include activities in the form of
attendance to conferences, seminars, workshops and on-the-job-training, which will be
organized and carried out under the project. Overseas training, mostly in mining countries,
will include attendance to specialized short-term conferences, seminars and workshops, and
short-term attachments to overseas institutions or agencies for on-the-job training. For this
purpose, the Minerals Commission will submit annually to IDA a proposed training program
for the review and clearance of IDA, which will identify staff to be trained, field of training,
training venue, period of training and cost.
4.35    IDA review of Procurement Decisions. For all IDA funded procurement activity,
all contracts for the supply of goods and works with an estimated value of US$100,000 or
more will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. All contracts to consultant firms with
a value above US$100,000 and to individuals with a value above US$50,000 will also be
subject to IDA's prior review and clearance. This procedure would result in a prior review by
IDA of nearly 70 percent of the total number of contracts under the project. All other
contracts below the prior review thresholds will be subject to IDA's post review (one out five
contracts). IDA's prior review will involve all procurement documentation as per Appendix 1
of the World Banks' Procurement Conditions and Guidelines for Consulting Contracts. The
procurement arrangements to be applied during the project are summarized in Table 4.3.
Finally, to ensure satisfactory adherence to IDA's procurement procedures, the first ten
contract packages handled by MC will be subject to prior review by IDA for its clearance on a
case-by-case basis for bidding documents, bid evaluations, contract awards, and termns and
conditions of contracts prior to their finalization.



- 34-
Table 4.3: Summary of Consulting Services
(Cost and Man-months)
BudEet ($M)                Budeet (P/M)
Component         Foreign    Local   Total   Foreign   Local   Total
Minerals Commission     0.49     0.49      0.98     23         65      88
GSD (Geol Survey)       1.24     0.00      1.24     59          0      59
Mines Dept.             0.00     0.00      0.00      0          0       0
MEM                     0.20     0.11      0.31      8         12      20
1.93     0.60      2.53     90        77      167
Pilot Testing           0.25     0.11      0.36      10        15      25
Improved Geology        0.15     0.08      0.23      6          9      15
Improved Framework      0.56     0.20      0.76     23         24      47
Land Reclamation        0.11     0.00      0.11      6          0       6
1.07    0.39       1.46     45        48       93
Total                   2.00     0.99      3.99    135        125     260
4.36    Reporting Requirements. The status of procurement progress will be furnished to
IDA every six months in an agreed format. Copies of awarded contracts will be provided
promptly to IDA.
Table 4.4: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Project Element        ICB        NCB -   Other         NBF        Total
Civil Works              -       3.654        -          -        3.654
(Including Field                (3.400)                           (3.400)
Tests)
Goods and Services
(Equipment and         2.389       -        1.621        -        4.010
Instruments -         (2.389)       -       (1.407)      -        (3.796)
Geo/Aerial Survey)
Consulting Service       -         -        5.601        -        5.601
and Training             -         -        (5.104)      -        (5.104)
Total                  2.389     3.654      7.222        -        13.265
(2.389)    (3.400)    (6.511)      -       (12.300)



- 35 -
G. Disbursement
4.37    The project is expected to be completed over a period of five years, and the
proceeds of the IDA Credit are expected to be disbursed during six years. There are strong
indications that disbursements will take place in accordance with projected schedules, since
counterpart funds are not in issue. Further assurance is provided by the Government's keen
interest to strengthen sectoral agencies, improve the efficiency of SSM activity and reduce the
adverse impact of mining on the environment. Further, after the first two years of project
implementation, the bulk of remaining project activities will consist principally of technical
assistance and training for which disbursements would be mainly completed during the first
four years of project implementation.
4.38    The IDA Credit would be disbursed against the following categories: (a) 100 percent
of expenditures for consultancies, training and training materials; (b) 100 percent of foreign
and 90 percent of local expenditures for equipment and materials contracts; and (c) 80 percent
of civil works for land reclamation and test work for SSM equipment. The disbursement
profile is set out in Table 4.5.
Table 4.5: Allocation and Disbursements Categories
Credit Allocation     Percentage of Expenditure
Category                  (US$ million)             to be Financed
Civil Works (including         2.9                       80%
equip. testing)
Equipment, Supplies             2.2              100% foreign, 90% local
Geo/Aerial Survey               1.0             100% foreign, 90% local
Consultant Services            4.4                       100%
Training
Unallocated                     1.8.
Total                         12.3
4.39    Special Account. To facilitate disbursements of the credit proceeds, the
Government will establish an Special Account in a commercial bank to be operated by MC on
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA to cover IDA's share of eligible expenditures for a
four month period for all participating agencies. The authorized allocation amounts to
US$300,000. Upon effectiveness of the IDA credit, an amount of US$150,000 representing
fifty percent of the initial deposit will be made available from the proceeds of the credit. The
remaining balance will be disbursed when needed. The Special Account should be replenished
monthly. Replenishment applications should be supported by appropriate documentation
including bank statements and a reconciliation statement. Details of the establishment and
operations of the Special Account and other disbursement procedures were discussed and
agreed during negotiations of the IDA Credit.
4.40    Project Account. The Government will establish a Project Account in cedis in a
commercial bank for local matching funds. The Government will make quarterly deposits in



-36 -
advance on the basis of an agreed budget for the project, proposed by Government and
accepted by IDA by October 31 of each year. The first contribution of US$30,000 equivalent
will be deposited in the account as a condition of credit effectiveness (para 6.2).
4.41    All disbursements of the IDA Credit will be fully documented except for contracts:
(a) for goods, works and consulting services (firms) of less than US$100,000 equivalent; and
(b) individual consultants of less than US$50,000 equivalent, which will be made on the basis
of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). MC will be fully responsible for preparing withdrawal
applications for all components. The documentation for withdrawals under SOEs will be
retained at MC, appropriately cross-referenced to the relevant withdrawal application and
made available for review by supervision missions of IDA and the external auditors, upon
request. Audit reports will be provided within six months at the end of each fiscal year and
will include a review of the adequacy of documentation for all amounts withdrawn on the
basis of SOEs.
H. Project Supervision
4.42    The first supervision mission and the project launch workshop would take place one
month after signing of the Credit. Three supervision missions each year, each staffed by a
mining engineer and such other specialists as may be appropriate for each phase of the project,
would be required during the entire project implementation period of five years. A schedule
of supervision missions is included in Annex J.
L. Environment Aspects
4.43    The project is expected to have a positive environmental impact both through
capacity building in sector institutions for environmental monitoring and management, and
through the adoption of specific measures to be determined by the MD with the assistance of
consultants to minimize the impact on the environment from SSM operations (see para 4.20).
In addition, the project has a sub-component which will specifically address the rehabilitation
of lands degraded by past small-scale mining activity. A cost benefit analysis carried out to
determine the potential benefits to be obtained by reclaiming three pilot sites indicate that
positive returns are to be derived from the exercise. Detailed reclamation plans are currently
being prepared for these three sites. Similar studies will be carried out prior to undertaking
more reclamation work under the project. The project has been classified as environmental
category "B". An environmental analysis (EA) of the proposed project has been prepared and
is available for review by the public at the MC and the EPA. The EA is attached to the SAR
as Annex G. A specific EIA will be carried out as part of the project execution with regard to
SSM technology and processing techniques when these have been tested for acceptability by
the end of Phase I of the project.



- 37-
J. Poverty Alleviation
4.44    The project is consistent with the Government's anti-poverty strategy. It aims to
provide opportunities to small-scale miners to enhance their productivity and incomes through
the provision of technology and organizational support. Current productivity of the small-
scale miners is very low with recovery ranging between 20 to 30 percent. The introduction of
new but simple technology is expected to improve the recovery at least up to 50 percent, with
resultant improved incomes for the community.



5. PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY
A. Project Benefits
5.1   The main benefits of the project include: (a) improved mining sector institutions able
to encourage and assist private investors to start or expand mining operations;
(b) improvement in productivity and incomes of small-scale miners through active technical
and organizational support; (c) reduction of the negative environmental impact of mining
through the strengthening of environmental monitoring and enforcement; (d) improved health,
safety and working conditions for large numbers of small-scale miners through the
introduction of appropriate technology and equipment; (d) minimized environmental impact of
SSM activities through the introduction of-environmentally responsible technology and
processing techniques; and (e) mitigation of past environmental degradation caused by SSM
activities through land reclamation and rehabilitation activities. The benefits identified in (b),
(d) and (e) are contingent upon the success of the pilot program to assist small-scale miners.
B. Project Risks
5.2   Main risks include: (a) the possibility that new technologies appropriate to SSM in
Ghana cannot be developed or will not be adopted by the mine operators; and (b) the
institutions responsible for carrying out the project may lack the staff, capability or incentive
to carry out the project successfully. Appropriate technologies for small-scale miners have
been developed and proved to be financially viable in other countries with similar conditions,
and therefore there is reason to believe that these techniques can be made to work in Ghana.
Adoption of the new processes by the miners would be facilitated by the field demonstrations
and trial periods under which equipment would be made available to them. The last risk is
addressed by the capacity building nature of the project, which aims to strengthen the mining
institutions.
C. Project Sustainability
5.3   The strengthening of the sectoral agencies is intended to ensure sustained growth of
the sector, attract private investment as well as to encourage the Government to establish
environmental controls to be maintained beyond the life of the project. The strengthening of
sectoral agencies to provide capacity for environmental monitoring as well as the
establishment of a mining cadastre and environmental baseline monitoring are expected to be
completed during the project life, and would therefore minimize recurrent costs thereafter.
Environmental guidelines that are put in place during project implementation would most
likely be maintained through the technical assistance and guidance to be provided under the
project and also due to the economic incentives to be gained. In the case of large scale mines,
the government agencies will be provided with the regulatory framework as well as
implementation capacity required to carry out environmental monitoring and control. If the
improved packages made available to small-scale miners increase their financial returns



- 39-
significantly, as anticipated, there is a high probability that the improvements will be adopted
and sustained since there will be a strong economic incentive to do so.
I



6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1    During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the following
points:
(a)   to carry out a comprehensive mid-term review jointly by the MC and IDA, to
be held not earlier than April 1, 1997, and not later than June 30, 1997
following the completion of Phase I. A program of further work will be agreed
as a basis for proceeding with Phase II of the SSM pilot testing program (as
described in para 4.28);
(b)   to carry out an EIA after the completion of Phase I, and to be reviewed during
the mid-term review. The EIA would identify possible impacts on the
enviromnent and outline remedial measures which will be incorporated into the
design of Phase II of the pilot testing program (para 4.28);
(c)   to provide to IDA, not later than December 31, 1996, a draft report outlining
recommendations for further liberalizing the market for precious minerals. On
the basis of the final report, an action plan would be prepared, satisfactory to
IDA, by June 30, 1997 (paras 4.17 and 4.28);
(d)   to submnit to IDA, not later than December 31, 1996, a drafl report outlining
recommendations for enhancing the effectiveness of sectoral institutions. The
final report, satisfactory to IDA, will be used as the basis to prepare an action
plan, not later than June 30, 1997, to further strengthen the effectiveness of
sectoral institutions (para 4.4(a));
(e)   to submit to IDA, not later than December 31, 1996, a draft report outlining
recommendations for modifying the regulatory framework including relevant
environmental, health and safety regulations. During the mid-term review,
progress of developing reforms in the regulatory framework will be assessed
(para 2.25). An action plan for further reform will be prepared by June 30,
1997;
(f)   to deposit amounts necessary to meet project requirements into a project
account (para 4.40) established for this purpose on a periodic basis; to prepare
a budget for each fiscal year not later than October 31 of each year,
satisfactory to IDA specifying by quarter the Government's contribution to the
financing of the project (para 4.27);
(g)   to prepare annual work programs, including training, for each of the
participating by December 31 of each year starting from December 31, 1996,
based on an evaluation of the previous year's experience (para 4.27), and



- 41 -
(h)   TORs and schedules including key performance indicators; agreement on the
Project Implementation Manual (para 4.26).
6.2    The conditions of effectiveness include the establishment of the Project Account
(para 4.40) and deposit of the Government's first contribution to the project of US$30,000
equivalent.
6.3    With the agreements reached above, the proposed Mining Sector Development and
Environment Project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$12.3 million equivalent, to the
Republic of Ghana on standard IDA terms.



I



ANNEXES
A-   Institutional Structure of the Mineral Sector
B.    Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
C.    Detailed Implementation Plan and Monitorable Indicators
D.   Procurement Plan and Schedule
E.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
F.    Small-Scale Mining Districts
G.   Environmental Analysis
H.    Contents of Implementation Manual
L.    Training Program
J.    Supervision Plan
K.    Lists of Equipment to be Used in Phase I of the Project



I



GHANA
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE MINERAL SECTOR
MINISTRY OF
ENERGY AND MINES
(MEM)
Minerals              Mines              Geological        Precious Minerals
Comniission           Department       Survey Department  Marketing Corporation
(MC)                 (MD)                (GSD)               (PMMC)



ANNEX B
GHANA
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
MIN1NG SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING PLAN
(Net of Duties & Taxes)
US$ Million Equivalent
Local       Foreign       Total
COST ESTIMATES
A. Assistance to SSM Enterprises
Pilots testing of equipment                 1.02         1.46         2.48
Improved geology                            0.97         0.62         1.59
Improved sector framework                   0.23         0.44         0.67
Land reclamation                            1.10         1.12         2.22
Sub-total                                   3.31         3.64         6.96
B. Strengthening of Mining Sector Institutions
Minerals Commission                         0.46         1.66         2.12
Mines Department                            0.06         0.65         0.71
Geological Survey Department                0.27         1.16         1.43
Ministry of Mines and Energy                0.16         0.25         0.41
Sub-total                                   0.95         3.72         4.67
Total Base Cost                             4.27         7.36         11.63
Contingencies
Physical                                0.43         0.73          1.16
Price                                   0.35         0.51         0.86
Total Contingencies                     0.78          1.24        2.02
Total Project Costs                               &p 516
Financing Plan
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Local       Foreign      Total
IDA                          3.7          8.6          12.3
Govemment                    -1.4         0.0          1.4
Total                        5.1          8.6          13.7



Ghana: Mining Sector Development and Environment Project
Detailed Implementation Plan
Strengthening of Mining Sector Institutions                                                                                          _
lmplement  Procurement    Start       End      Cost Est.     FYJ96   I FY97           F)Y98     FY99    F0             I FY01
Cmnpimet                              g        Arrangements    Date       Date      USS'O0O   CY9S    CY96          CY97        CY98        CY9"         CYWO
Minerals Commission
Promotional Activities                      MC           LCB
Publications                                                         Jul-96   Dec-98          128             ******                ***E
Seminars, worlkhops, etc.                                           Apr-%     Dec-00          64           *E *****              **       *****              *E *
Travel & subsistence                                                 Jul-96    Jun-00         49              *****              ******               ***
Consulting services - foreign                                       Apr-%    Dec-99          240           ***          ******               ****
Consulting services - local                                         Apr-%     Sep-98          129          **       *******
Minerals Infonnation System                 MC           LCB
Mineral Concession Cadastre
Equipment (computers) & vehicles                                  Jul-96    Jun-97         222              *  *  *  *
lstallation & training                                            Jul-%    Jun-98           95              ********
Geological Infonmation Sub-system
Equipment (computers)                                             Jul-%     Jun-97          58              *  *  *  *
Installation & taining                                            Jul-96    Jun-98          59              *      u......
Mineral Information Database
Equipment (computers)                                             Jul-96    Jun-97          94              *  *  *  *
Installation & training                                           Jul-96    Jun-98          59              **       *     *  
Environmental Information Data
Equipment (computers)                                             Jul-96    Jun-97          58              *  *  *  *
Installation & training                                           Jul-%    Jun-98           59              *     ..        U..
Equipment & vehicles                        MC           LCB
Vehicles                                                            Oct-%     Apr-97         245                    U
Library                                                             Oct-96    Dec-96           12 2
Other Equipment                                                     Jan-97    Jun-97          59                    *  *
Training                                    MC          Other
Overseas training                                                   Jul-96    Dec-00         343              *E *  *  **        ***                  ****
Local training                                                      Jul-%    Dec-00           67              **                   ****                     *E*E
Woishops                                    MC          Other
Local vwkshops & seminars                                           Jul-%     Dec-00          67              **                   ****               *     *U*E
General Consulting Services                 MC           LCB
Foreignconsultants                                                  Oct-%    Jun-00          252                 **       **              **       *     * ||U
Localconsultants                                                    Oct-95    Dec-99         128   -*E E E E UUEUUUUUU



Ghana: Mining Sector Development and Environment Project
Detailed Implementation Plan
Strengthening of Mining Sector Institutions
Implement  Procurement    Start        End      Cost Est      FY9t   | F.Y97   | FY98   I   FY"99   |YOO    I FY01
Component                            Agency   Arrangements    Date         Date      USS-00O   CY95    CY96          CY97         CY98        CY99         CY00
Geological Survey Department
Aerial Survey                               GSD
Aerialsuvey contract                                    ICB          Jul-96    Dec-97        1,199              *  *  *  *  *  -
Consulting services                                    LCB           Jul-96    Dec-97           47              *  *  *  *  *  C
Equipment & vehicles                        GSD           LCB
Vehicles                                                             Jul-%    Dec-96            69                 *  U
Office equipment                                                     Jul-96    Dec-96           63                 *  C
Training                                    GSD          Other
Overseas trainling                                                   Jul-96    Dec-00          216              **       *      *     *     *******  
Local training                                                       Jul-96    Dec-00           67              ***         **        *     *     *      *        * 
1,661
Mines Department
Equipment & vehicles                         MD           LCB
Vchicles                                                             Oct-96   Mar-97            87                 *  A
Environmental instruments                                            Jul-96    Jun-97          301              *  *  *  -
Laboratory equipment                                                 Jul-96    Jun-97         266               *  *  *  -
Office equipment                                                     Oct-96    Dec-96           12                 -
Training                                     MD          Other
Overseas training                                                    Jul-96    Dec-99           82              **       *             *    **       * 
Local training                                                       Jul-96    Dec-99          68               **       **       ******* 
816
Ministry of Energy and Mines
General consulting services                 MEM           LCB
Foreign consultants                                                  Jul-96    Jun-00          201              *************                               *D
Local consultants                                                    Jan-96    Dec-98          113              **                                       
Equipment & vehicles                        MEM           LCB          Oct-96   Mar-97            29                 *  D
Training                                    MEM          Other
Overseas                                                             Jul-96    Dec-99           83              ****               *     ****           -
Local                                                                Jul-96    Dec-99           67              **       *         *        **       **        __E
493 1 1 1 1 1~ ~ ~    ~       ~                         10
5,4 57 ___________________________________  _ _
m-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.~~~~D



Ghana: Mining Sector Development and Environment Project
Detailed Implementation Plan
Assistance to Small Scale Mining Enterprises
Impkmnent   Procurement    Start      End      Cost Est         96    |    F97    |       F98    |            9          o        FYOI
Component                               A         Arrangements    Date      Date      USS'OOQ   CY95       CY96                         CYS           Cy"9           CYOG
Pit Tesdng of Equlpsent                          MC
Phase I equipnent teiWn                                     LCB
Equipment testing                                                     Jul-96    Jun-97         399                *  *  *  -
Consuling services                                                    Jul-96    Sep-98       1,145                *             U       
Phase 11 equipmnt terting                                   LCB
Disanination of phase I equipment                                     Jul-98    Jun-00         492
Training                                                   Other        Apr-96   Dec-00          160             *  *  a  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  a  *  *  a  *  *  -
General consulting services
Foreign consultans                                       LCB          Jan-96   Dec-00          251        **                                         *            
Locl cornsutants                                         LCB          Jan-96   Dec-00          116         *  ****              **                            
MC operating costs                                         Other        Jan-96   Dec-00          195                                * * c *
Phase 11 ectensioservices                                  Other    Jan-96  Dec-00               195                                    * D * * * * * * * *  *  * * * * * * *  * -
1     2,953                                                                          J
Improved Geology                                 MC
Lage suvey teamn                                            LCB
Equipment                                                             Jul-96    Jun-97          93                *  *  *  -
Consuling se-vics                                                     Jul-96    Jun-00         423                *  *  *  *        *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  -
Small vcy tcan # I                                          LCB
Equipnent                                                             Jul-96    Jun-97          S2                a  *  *  -
Consuling services                                                    Jul-96    Jun-00         302                *  *  *  *        *  * a    *  *  *  *  *  *  *  -
Small survey team Ws 2 and 3                               LCB
Equipmnt                                                              Jul-96    Jun-97         164                a  *  a  -
Consuling sevics                                                      Jul-96    Jun-00         603                *UUEUEUEUuUEu   * a                                    *m
General consulting services                                 LCB
Foreign cofultaZts                                                    Jan-9S    Jm-99          153                                     *  *  *  *  a  a
Local consultants                                                     Jul-97    Jun-99         94 _  _                                 a _    a _  _     IN
_ _ _ _        _   _         ~~~~~1,904   1  1   1
Improved Small-scale Mining Fssnevork            MC
Reguly famework rtudy                                       LCB         Apr-97    Sep-97         101                           U
Finial study                                                LCB          Jul-96   Dec-96          99                *  U
Marketing sludy                                             LCB          Jul-96   Dec-96          74                *  -
Develtopet of environental
sandard and guidelinea                                   LCB          Oct-96    Sep-97         299                   *  *    -
Polution abatnent in Ouasi                                 LCB          Ot-96    Sep-97          199 _  _  _  _
_________________________        _______       _____     _ _ _ _          77~~~     ~      ~     ~      ~~2  _0t
Land Redasltion                                  MC                                                                                                                                               (Iq
Consuting services                                          LCB          Jul-96   Mar-97         109                *  *  *
Works contract                                              LCB         Oct-96    Scp-00       2,555                    **                       *****                                             |
.__ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___   _______ ____2,664  _ _
8.293



GHANA
MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
MONITORIBLE INDICATORS
BS Year
Moultoribk Items                    Units             1994            1s            19X          17            1998          19f           2006
SSMS asided with geogical wk                   # of minrs
assist-d
Completion of(Equipmmt Tedsin&
Phan                                         %
Phkse 2                                      %
Gold poduAtii  hram SSMs                          02
D_m  podA= iam SSMs                              caus
iSd_ -  pt bd                                      s
Aerial u                                           K
Isaim' of nolgical infontion databa               %
New  umwmnints of fragn investment ian            USS
pol & diamosd Wining
Toal god production                                on                                                                                               II
TFal diind psoduction                            carat"



Ghana: Miniing Sector Development and Environment Project
Procurement Plan and Schedule
ukmml  Pewemmi    Blt                Ed       Cowi C_E                                                        ofd 
C     _mpuami                     ...Am       A,rraagea"b    pos        Dale     US%"           1m of DeC            of BWProp.         Conerctf/Sig,ang
MAuas Cumue
Ptuinlimi  Adivis                          me          LCB
PsMiculian                                                        Jul-96   Dec96          125              Dec-96                Feb-96               May-9
S d=iMM w p. eli                                                 ApF-96   Dec-00           64
Twwd a M_i1e                                                      Jul-96    Jun-00         49
C__mdlia  =Vic- Iwein                                            Apr-96   Doc-9           240              Nov-96                Jan-96               Maz-96
Cmamaking in      - bcal                                          Apr-96    Sep.96        129              Nov-95                Jan-96               Mar-96
Miwala b%uI   ia Syim                      NC          LCB
mim  al Ceio Cndmed
Equ_gm    (c_Wlu) & vwil                         LCB/ICB        Jul-96    Jun-97        222              Feb-95               Apr-96                Jun-96
Inaliim  . ksi                                                  Jul-96   Jimu-9          95              Feb-96               Apr-96                Jun-96
EquOM (ipuimu)                                                 Jul-96   Jun-97          St              Feb-9i               Apr-96                Jun-96
laulaUc _a &                                                    Ju1-96    JuS-96         59              Feb-9S                Apr-96              Jun-%
Maa hk_Dibe
Equimeui(o=aus)                                                 Jul-96   Jun-97          94              Feb-95               Apr-96               Jun-96
h1af_1n & kai n                                                 JU-96    Jun96           59              Feb-95               Apr-96               Jun-96
En_virI  bhIdm_  Del
Egu-M(cmPsM)                                                    Jul-96    Jun-97        5S               Feb-95               Apr-96               Jun-96
hlilalima kaia*                                                 Jul-96    Jun-96         59
EqgupmM     vdhicks                        MC        LCBICB
Vdiidm                                                           Oct-96   Apr-97          245              Apr-96                Jun-96               Aug-96
Libfru                                                            Ocd-96   Dec-96          12              Apt-96                Jun-%|               Aug-96
O1b  Equipm_t                                                     Jn-97    Jun-97          59              Jun-96                Scp-96               Nov-9%
TEaug                                      MC          Other
O        -  q                                                     Jul-96   Dec00          343
l.ca t,aiang                                                      Jul-96   Dec40           67                                                           (  z
Wmrkehapa                                  MC         Otb 
I mAXl Whup A mamunara                                            Jul-96   Dec-00          67
*0o06 4.'UUWWf bOl                         W'         II'B                                                                                                a  a
haceg . a- -  A                                                  ( :O-96   Jun-00         252              Apr-96               Jun-%               Aug
-  -.4"&MuA                                                      tO95        c-99         125             Apr-95                Jwt--9S             Aug-9)
1/. /J'519



Ghana: Mining Sector Development and Environment Project
Procurement Plan and Schedule
SlrengIhening of  ining_tar _      Inslitulions
Impkmnet  Pgocu,reaat    Stari       EnA      C"at E                              SubAo  A rd of
_    Coimjneal                      AgenY   Arrang~eeb Dasl      e      Di.      USWo           lshe of Doe          of HidProp.        Cularac /sigidwg
Geological Survey Deparent
Aial SWvgy                                GSD
Aaiulsuwy coubscl                                    ICU          Jul-96   Dec-97        1,199             Jan-96                Mar-96               May-96
Comultin  avicesa                                    LCa          Jul-96   Dec-97          47               Jan-96               Mar-96               Mxy-9
Equipmcai A vdhicks                       GSD        LCI43/L1B
Vebhicl                                                           Jul-96   Dec-96          69              Jan-96               Mar-96               Miy-96
Office equipowi                                                   Jul-96   Dec-96          63              Jan-96                Mar-96              May-96
Traing                                    GSD          Oth0
Owrsea Baining                                                    Jul-96   Dec-0          216
LAl raining                                                       Jul-96   De-0            67
hines Departmat
Equipen  A vehicles                        MD        LCBDILB
Vehicles                                                         OCt-96   Mar-97           87             May-96                 Jul-96               sep-96
Env i_  i _s                                                      Jul-96    Jun-97        301              Jan-96               Mar-96               May-96
Labhniy .qWpulp                                                   Jul-96    Jun-97        266              Jan-96               Mar-96               May-96
Of   -eqia Oct-96   Dec-96                                                                 12             May-96                 Jul-96               Scp-96
Trainiqg                                   MD          Otha
ov0lle  rainn                                                     Jul-96   Dec-99          82
LOa                                                               Jul-96   Dec-9           68
Mlstsy of lErgy sad h ins
Gm"l coaling savies                       MEM        LCBLIB
Foae f  .e n ialal                                                Jul-96    Jun-00        201              Jan-96                Jul-96
LAl Omallant                                                      Jan-96   Dec-91         113               Jul-35               Sep-95              Nov-96
Equip        & veie                       MEM        LCID          Odc-96   Ma-97            29              May-96                Jul-96               Sc4)-96
Tainlng                                   MEM         Otber                                                                                              P  >
ov0n                                                              Ju1-96   Dec-9           a3
11cal                                                            Jul-96   Dec-99           67
_____ __ ___ __ _  _493                                                 _   o
1 12519



Ghana: Mining Sector Development and Environment Project
Procurement Plan and Schedule
Asisine lo Snall Scale Mhin gEnkrlpcs_
CeaupanA                   =q                         D            Dale      0.4.     US5               Dec.I       WP                      Cwm4,ud/S4.Ins
Plbt Taiig of iSupmeei                          SMC
Pb.u I   _W*i lU amg                                        LCH
E-         Ieg                                                         Jul-96    Ju.97         399               Dec-5               Feb-9                May-96
CA-ipsa    aim                                                         Jul-96    Sq-98       1.145               De-95               Feb-9                May-96
Pb... UI4pm t_  ng                                          LCB
Dia    i_    d    I   _Ap.ah                                          Ju-98    JuF-0O          492              Dec-97               Feb-97              May-97
Teaming                                                                 Af-6    Da--0            10                &95                  De-95                Fb-96
F<su_ camulaeid                                           UD          Jan-9    Dec0            251               Jul-95              8Se5                 Nov-95
LAc1 eahaA LCB                                                       Jn-96   D c40            116                W-95               &pq-96               Nov-95
MC epmiin oa"                                              011_          Jan-9    Dcc40          195
Ike.. It edunim.ienrVicin                                  01k          Jan-96   Dec-0           195               Jul-95             s&p95                 Nov-95
I-ug-ed Ge.bgy                                   Mc
Lae mey lm                                                LCB1UB
EewluWn                                                                Jul-96    Jun-97        93               Dec-95               Feb-96              May-96
CmAki' vam                                                             Jutl-96 % Jun-0         423              Dec-93               Feb-96              May-96
So" mwy le   I                                            LCWUB
E-j_                                                                  Jul-96    Jww97          32              Dic-95                Feb-96              May-96
C       _mhing _vucm                                                  Jul-96    Ju00          302               Dec-95               Feb-96              May-96
8m1 erwy 1_ tr 2 and 3                                    LCHIDB
E-                                                                    JulM6    Jun-97          164              Dec-95               Fe1-96              May-96
_ Jul46 J_40um                                                                                603               Dec-95               Feb-9               May-96
OmAal M.dingwViM                                          LCBMIB
F      __ip amukak                                                    J-W98   hjm-9            153               Ju97                Sn97                 Nov-97
LOcleullAl                                                            Jul-__   hm-99            84              Dc-9                 S9p-97               A-97
I__ed _-mIe Mimig F,endme                        MC
3egda - eak    dy                                           LCB         Ap-"    Sp97             101               S-96                D96                  Feb-97
F _iai  wdy                                                 LCD          Ju-9    Dc-96            99               De-                 Feb-96               Apr.96
Meekam      l Iy  ILCB                                                   Jul-96   Doc-9           74               Dec-95              Feb-96               Apr-96                   :
D_Itov_ of el                                                                                                                                                                            Z
ii&h&npVwAOa                                           LCBIUB         Od-ff   Sep-97          299               AwF96                JUR-96              Aug96           9            Z
Fabow abdau   i Obuai                                      LCB          Oc-t St      -97         I"               Apg-9                Jua-K               Auag-96
Cnmubig sr                                               LCD/lID        Jul-96   Jar-97    I     09               D-95                 Feb-96              Apr-96
W.Sks "amom                                                LCD          Oct-96    Sq-Cu       2.555               Agw-96              Jun-96              Aug-96



ANNEX E
GHANA
MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
In US$ Millions
Cumulative
IDA FY          Disbursement        Cumulative       Disbursement
& Semester         by Semester       Disbursement    as % of Credit
1996    1               0.2               0.2                2
2              0.8                1.0                8
1997    1               1.5               2.5                20
2               1.5              4.0                33
1998    1                1.5              5.5                45
2               1.5              7.0                57
1999    1                1.0              8.0                65
2               1.0              9.0                73
2000    1                1.0              10.0               81
2               1.0              11.0               89
2001    1                1.0              12.0               98
2               0.3              12.3               100
Total                  12.3



ANNEX F
BURKINA FASO
j I
jr,C I%                                                       1'J
(I                                                4'J,
(Oft
w
N
b
r
DUN         GU OfDUNEA,                   o    l
3~~~~~1L4
,~~ ~~~ .3
I   La                     l- c a e in n g d i m 0  I
-. ~. -..f  KONOOml
4)~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~UE
-  /~~~~Sml-cemnig&tit



ANNEX G
Page 1 of 6
GHANA
MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Environmental Analysis
Overview
1.    The objective of the above project is to establish capacity in the Government to ensure the
sustainable development of the country's mining sector. This is expected to be achieved through the
setting up of an effective regulatory framework to carry out all mining activities in an
environmentally sound manner. Pilot testing of different mechanisms and techniques will be used
to improve the productivity and financial viability of small-scale miners while at the same time
reducing environmental impact of these activities. The aim is to provide incentives to small-scale
miners to contain their activities to clearly demarcated areas of land, providing them with access to
geological information and technology as well as extension services to enable mining activities to
be carried out in an environmentally sustainable manner. In addition, the project will address the
environmental impact of past mining activities through the pilot testing of different techniques and
mechanisms for reclamation and rehabilitation of priority areas.
2.     The project aims to provide assistance to the Government to achieve the following
objectives with regard to environmental management in the mining sector: (i) minimization or pre-
emption of environmental impact of new mines; (ii) containment of the impact of established mines;
and (iii) assessment of best practices and options for ensuring the rehabilitation of disturbed land.
In order to achieve these objectives, the project will provide technical assistance and capacity
building support to the mining sector agencies. In addition, the project will carry out pilot testing
of alternative techniques including equipment and processing technology which will increase the
productivity of small-scale miners while at the same time containing the environmental impact of
these activities. The equipment and technology to be pilot tested, will be limited to those that are
already operational and have been approved as being environmentally responsible in the source
countries. They will be tested for applicability to local conditions and acceptability by the small-
scale mining communities. The project will also address the reclamation and rehabilitation of land
areas that are determined as being priority and which are degraded through past small-scale mining
activities. The reclamation and rehabilitation activities will be carried out on a pilot basis, to test
best practices and cost-effective mechanisms.
3.     This project has been classified as Category B, according to the Bank guidelines pertaining
to environmental review procedure. The design of the project benefitted from several studies that
were carried out by the Minerals Commission of Ghana, to ascertain the impact of small-scale
mining activities on the ecology and on communities. These studies have assessed the social,
environmental, health and safety impact of small-scale mining. A chapter summarizing the general
effects of small-scale mining on the environment is attached to this Project Information Document
as Annex I.



ANNEX G
Page 2 of 6
Nature of the Project and Environmental Analysis
4.    The project is mainly a technical assistance project and the only investments are of a pilot
nature. The project contains a significant degree of flexibility in design, unlike a traditional project
where the type of investment and the resulting impacts on the eco-systems and communities could
be assessed during the preparatory stages of the project. In this project the equipment to be utilized
would be determined during the course of project execution, depending upon the applicability to
local conditions and acceptability by the communities concerned. Likewise, the reclamation of land
would be carried out on lands determined by the Government and by communities, as being
priority. Reclamation will be carried out using community involvement and participatory methods.
Once the types of equipment and processing techniques are determined under phase I of the
project, and the reclamation methods and locations are determined in consultation with the
recipients, specific environmental analysis will be carried out as part of project implementation, to
determine best practices and mitigation measures.
Project Components as they address Environmental Management in the Mining Sector
5.    A brief description of the project components in the context of how they address
environmental management in the mining sector is provided below:
Strengthening of Mining Sector Institutions
6.    This component comprises four sub-components:
(a) Improved Institutional and Regulatory Framework. Under this sub-
component, the project would provide assistance to the mining sector agencies to
review existing legislation, regulations and monitoring and enforcement activities
in order to determine modifications for the improvement of the institutional and
regulatory framework. A legal review of all legislation and regulations applicable
to the mining sector has already been commenced and the recommendations
emanating from this work would be implemented under this sub-component.
Guidelines and standards would be developed for environmental monitoring and
control of all mining activities. This activity would be carried out by the Minerals
Commission (MC) in Ghana, in close collaboration with and under the guidance of
the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
(b) Improvement in Enforcement. Support will be provided under this sub-
component to the Mines Department (MD) to carry out inspection, monitoring and
enforcement responsibilities, particularly with regard to environmental impact and
health hazards. Equipment will be procured for the Mines Department to carry
out monitoring and sampling of air, soil and water in and around mine sites.
(c) Environmental Information. Assistance under the project would extend to
the setting up of a mining/environmental data base which would be part of a
comprehensive mineral information system. The environmental data gathered by
the Mines Department, pertaining to soil and water quality in and around mine
sites and information pertaining to mine effluents would be fed into the data base.



ANNEX G
Page 3 of 6
This data base would be fully consistent with and compatible to the Environmental
Information System being developed at the EPA.
(d) Studies. Studies to be carried out under this component include an analysis of
appropriate mechanisms to enforce regulations, including (i) an assessment of the
applicability of performance bonds and other measures to ensure that mine
operators carry out environmental mitigation; and (ii) a pollution abatement, water
and sanitation strategy for the township of Obuasi, where past environmental
degradation is especially severe.
Assistance to Small-scale Mining Enterprises
7.     Under this component, equipment and technology known to be environmentally
responsible, would be pilot tested to determine their acceptability to local small-scale miners. The
dissemination of these as well as processing technology which is environmentally sustainable is
aimed at reducing the environmental impact of small-scale mining activities. The project aims to
provide incentives to small-scale miners to contain their activities to specific locations in order to
minimize environmental impact on extensive land areas. Extension services would be provided
under the project to carry out mining activities in a responsible manner, which would include
training in activities such as the safe disposal of mine wastes, handling of toxic or hazardous
materials, safety in mine operations and the restoration of the land utilized to an acceptable state.
8.     Under this component, degradation of lands through past mining activities of small-scale
miners would be addressed through the pilot testing of methods to reclaim and rehabilitate priority
areas. Methods for rehabilitation would include participatory approaches where community
involvement would be sought in the reclamation and reforestation activities. The aim of this sub-
component would be to determine cost-effective methods for future reclamation activities.
Reclamation activities will include the closure of abandoned shafts and surface dumps and filling
of mined out areas. Rehabilitated land will be planted with fast-growing indigenous vegetation,
mobilizing community participation in the selection of plant varieties as well as with regard to the
methods of afforestation.
9.     The MC has identified three sites as being priority land areas, in consultation with the EPA
and with the departments of land and forestry. Cost-benefit analysis has been carried out to
determine environmental and other benefits of reclaiming and rehabilitating these lands. The
preliminary findings indicate that positive dividends are to be gained by rehabilitating these sites.
Detailed reclamation plans are currently being drawn up to specify the methods, cost estimates and
man-months required to carry out the work. This sub-component is therefore in an advanced stage
of preparation and would enable the reclamation work to commence as soon as the project is
effective.



ANNEX G
Page 4 of 6
it   a --'   '          'it
i  92tcSte . ae
-  V)  **t. 
4,    j
-k.
Plate 9.5 Stock Piled waste material adjacent to rivet; Site 1
Plt 9. Pit, wae  en  updotie 1



ANNEX G
Page 5 of 6
Plate 10.1 Active mine area
Plate 10.2 Active excavation showing tutdercutting of trees



ANNEX G
Page 6 of 6
A~b
4..~~~~~~~~4
1 M-                                 aIISE
a.     -  ->-                ib               is..
~~4.    rw                                               at4 ' 
Plate 11.1I Active mine area
Plate 11.2 Gravel-washing at-ea



ANNEX HI
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS OF THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL
Introduction
II.    The Project
-     Project Objectives
-     Project Summary
-     Detailed Project Description
-     Cost Estimates and Financing
-     Risks
III.   Implementation Arrangements
-     Organizations Responsible for the Project
-     Implementation Agreement Between the Borrower and the Implementing
Agencies
-     Responsibilities of the Implementing Agencies
-     Relationship of Implementation Agencies to Other Entities
-     Administrative Arrangements for Project Implementation
-     Role of IDA in Project Implementation
IV.   Implementation Plan
-     Implementation Plans
-     Procurement
-     Disbursements
-     Principal Actions Required to Achieve Development Objectives
-     Project Accounting and Financial Management System
V.    Monitoring and Evaluation
-     Key Development Impact Indicators
-     Key Progress Indicators
-     Key Financial Indicators
-     Major Loan Covenants



ANNEX H
Page 2 of 2
CONTENTS OF THE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION MANUAL
ANNEXES
A     Project Costs
B     Project Financing Plan
C     Institutional Structure of the Mineral Sector
D     Plan of IDA Missions
E     Detailed Implementation Plan
F     Detailed Work Program for First Year
G     Terms of Reference for Consulting Services
H     Vehicle and Equipment Specifications
I     Training Program
J     Specification of Other Activities



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
GHANA
MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Training Program
Training and Capacity Building. The training and capacity building activities included in the
proposed project have two main objectives. They aim at building necessary manpower skills,
know-how, and organizational capacity at public agencies related to the mining sector, w%ith the
purpose of enabling their fulfillment of regulatory, monitoring and promotional roles. They also
aim at improving the technology and operational practices of small-scale miners, through
mechanisms of extension services, in order to promote a self-sustainable evolution of efficient and
environmentally responsive formal small-scale mining activities in Ghana. Emphasis has been
placed at project design on the establishment of appropriate systems and procedures in key areas of
sectoral management, and on the development of skilled professional manpower, with a particular
priority assigned to address the requirements related to environmental matters. These objectives
will be achieved principally through the execution of training programs at MC, GS and MD. which
will consist principally of staff improvement activities through implementation of workshops, on-
the-job-training, and short-term overseas training. The program to achieve these objectives is
summarized below in Figure X. The execution of such training activities will in turn form the
sound cores of technical skills and know-how, which are needed by these agencies for their
subsequent use as vehicles to realize meaningful technology transfers to SSMs.
At the Minerals Commission, the short term objective will be to provide MC with the
professional manpower base and logistical capacity to enable the satisfactory fulfillment of its
fundamental role as the principal sectoral administrator and promoter of Ghana's private sector
oriented mining development strategy. The short-term objective will also aim to develop the
manpower capacity required to fulfill MC's role as main coordinator and instrument for improving
the small-scale mining sub-sector. Accordingly, the project would finance the following training
and staff development activities of MC: a) upgrade the skills of a limited number of professional
staff through one to two-month courses or attachments to appropriate foreign mining institutions or
mining companies; b) refresher training of staff to upgrade their skill levels through local training
workshops executed with assistance of local or foreign consultants, and local institutions; c)
specialized training in such areas as environmental management, organizational and technological
aspects related to small-scale mining, and computer skills for selected staff of MAC, as needed for
the efficient performance of their duties, through study tours or short courses at appropriate foreign
institutions and companies; and d) management training in policy, institutional and legal aspects of
mining sector administration, and in international mining investment, trade and promotion for
senior management of MC, through study tours and attendance at appropriate international
seminars and workshops.
At the Geological Survey, a main short term objective will be to develop a satisfactory
capability for prospecting and determining areas which are suitable for SSM activities, and to
provide geological assistance to small-scale miners on mineralization trends, and reserve estimation
and evaluation.  Another short-term objective under the proposed project will be to develop
capabilities to avail prospective investors, both local and foreign, with basic geological data and



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
information for attracting their investments in exploration. This will involve particularly the
improvement of capabilities for undertaking geological interpretations, and geophysical and geo-
chemical surveys and analysis. The ensuing medium-term objectives will be to improve these
capabilities through a combination of continued field experience and further training. Accordingly,
the project would finance the following training and staff development activities of GS: a) skill
upgrading of a limited number of geological staff for the execution of mineral resource
assessments, geo-physical interpretations, geo-chemical surveys and analysis, and related data
processing, through one to two-month courses or attachments to appropriate foreign mining
institutions or mining companies; b) specialized training on aspects related to mineral resource
trends and assessments for small-scale mining, for GS staff involved in SSM, through local
training workshops executed with assistance of local or foreign consultants, and local institutions;
and c) training of GS staff to increase their awareness of environmental issues in mining, through
participation to local workshops.
At the Mines Department, a main short-term objective will be to restore the capacity of
MD to carry out its basic responsibilities, focusing primarily on mine health and safety, and
environmental monitoring and compliance. Another main-short term objective will be to develop
adequate capability to provide guidance and assistance to small-scale miners on evaluation of
mineral property, mine planning and technology applications for processing ore. The medium-term
objective will be to build the needed field experience, and technical and managerial skills to enable
MD to carry out these functions efficiently under the project. Accordingly, the project would
finance the following training and staff development activities of MD: a) upgrade the skills of a
limited number of professional staff through one to four-month courses or attachments to
appropriate foreign mining institutions, with particular emphasis assigned to improve the
capabilities of: mine wardens, on small-scale mining methods and technology, and environmental
monitoring; chemists, on environmental sampling and assaying; mining engineers, on best practices
and issues related to inspectorate functions of monitoring and compliance with health and safety,
and on specialized aspects of environmental management, impact assessments, monitoring and
compliance; and b) training to enhance environmental awareness, and to upgrade laboratory skills
for assaying and testing of, including environmental testing and trend analysis, materials for
selected staff of MD, as needed for the efficient fulfillment of inspectorate functions and duties,
through local training workshops executed with assistance of local or foreign consultants, and local
institutions;
At the Ministry of Energy and Mines, the objective will be to better equip the staff within
the central MEM organization to oversee the work carried out by the Geological Survey, the Mines
Department and the Minerals Commission.  This will require training to increase the staffs
knowledge of environmental, legal and managerial aspects of the mining industry.
In-country workshops will be organized by the MC for the SSM program, and by the MD
for training its staff. Instructors will include staff that has received overseas training supported by
foreign consultants. There will be two workshops per year for the SSM program, and two per year
each for the MD and the Geological Survey. SSM workshops will be utilized to keep the SSMs
informed as to the progress of the testing program, and to extend the knowledge gained from the
field testing. MD workshops will provide MD staff with training in monitoring technology,
laboratory trend analysis, land reclamation techniques, database analysis and environmental issues.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
GS workshops will concentrate on techniques of mineral exploration, data analysis and
interpretation, and mineral economics.



GHANA
MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
OVERSEAS TRAINING PROGRAM
Minerals Commission
INSTITUTION/
DATE           OFFICER             COURSE           DURATION   ORGANIZER                          REMARKS
Jan. 1996    Exploration     Training in a Geological 8 Weeks     To be identified     There is a need to upgrade Officer's
Geologist       Survey Organization                                       skills and technical abilities in general
survey work.
Jun. 1996    Cartographer    Computer Application   6 Weeks       To be identified     To educate Officer in the use of
in Cartography                                            computer in the compilation of data
for map production and reproduction.
Aug. 1996   Cartographer    Cartography             10 Months    Horsens Technical     To improve Officer's technical ability
College, Denmark     in map production and reproduction
from data compilation
Nov. 1995    6 District      Study Tour             4 Weeks each  Chile or Peru        Study tour for the District Officers in
and          Officers (Small                                                           charge of Small Scale Mining
Jun. 1996    Scale Mining)                                                             operations in the Districts to acquaint
(Two Groups)                                                              them with small scale mining
activities in Chile and Peru,
Philippines or Bolivia
Jan. 1966    Environmental   Environmental Impact   6 Weeks       Hill International,  Training in environmental impact
Officer         Assessment                          Ltd., Washington,     assessments
D.C.
>q 



INST1ITUTION/
DATE           OFFICER            COURSE           DURATION   ORGANIZER                         REMARKS
Jan. 1977    Environmental   Environmental         14 Weeks     UNEP, Tufts,         To broaden the Officer's
Officer        Management                          University           understanding of environmental
management
Sep. 1996    Asst. Legal    Foreign Investment &    3 Weeks     Intemational Law     Introduction to Investment
Officer        Contract Negotiation                Institute            Negotiations
May 1996    Accounts        Public Financial       8 Weeks      University of        To improve officer's knowledge and
Officer        Management                          Connecticut Hartford,  skills in managing the Commission's
____________  _______________                       USA                  financial resources
Jun. 1996    Administrative   Human Resource       8 Weeks      USDA Graduate        To sharpen Officer's skills in the
Manager        Development                          School, Washington,   handling of personnel matters in the
D.C.                Commission
Apr. 1996    Principal      International Capital    3 Weeks    St. Catherine's      Course will enhance Officer's skills in
Financial      Markets Training                    College, Oxford, U.K. analytical and valuation procedures in
Analyst        Course                                                   investment decision-making process
Geological Survey
Nov. 1995   2 Geologists    Computerized Systems  4 Weeks       To Be Determined     Field techniques in geological and
in Minerals Exploration                                 geochemical sampling and mapping
Nov. 1995    1 Geochemist    Data Analysis and     8 Weeks      To Be Determined     To learn latest techniques in analysis
I Geophysicist  Interpretation - Remote                                 and interpretation
Sensing
Jan. 1996    2 Geologists   Environment and        5 Weeks      To Be Determnined    Relation of exploration and mining to
Exploration          I_the environment
Jan. 1996    2 Geologists   Exploration for Small   6 Weeks     To Be Determined     Special exploration requirements for
Scale Mining                                            small scale miners
(A



INSTITUTION/
DATE           OFFICER              COURSE           DURATION   ORGANIZER                           REMARKS
Mar. 1996    1 Geochemist    Minerals Economic       6 Weeks       To Be Determined      Economic analysis of geological data
1 Geophysicist   Data Analysis
Jul. 1996    2 Geophysicists  Data Presentation      5 Weeks       To Be Determined      Presentation techniques
Mines Department
Jan. 1996    4 Mine Wardens  SSM Methods and         4 Weeks       Department of Mines,  To familiarize MWs with SSM
Technology                           Zimbabwe              technology
Sep. 1996    2 Chemnists      Environmental          14 Weeks      Illinois Institute of  To expand knowledge of
Chemistry                            Technology            environment chemistry
Sep. 1996    2 Mining         Environmental          14 Weeks      Tufts University      To familiarize MD staff with
Engineers       Management                                                  environment management concepts
Feb. 1997    4 MD Staff       Study Tour of Mines    3 Weeks       Tufts University      To expand knowledge of how MDs
Departments in Other                                       work in other countries
Countries
Feb. 1998    4 MD Staff       Environmental Impact   2 Weeks       Hill International, Ltd. Familiarization with EIA techniques
Assessment            I
MEM
Feb. 1996    Environmental   Environmental           8 Weeks       To Be Determined      To provide knowledge within MEM
Officer         Management                                             .   of environmental issues
Sep. 1996    Legal Adviser    Foreign Investment and  8 Weeks      To Be Determined      To provide knowledge of legal issues
Contract Negotiation
Feb. 1997    Division Chief   Management of Mining  8 Weeks        To Be Determined      To strengthen MEM management of
Sector                                                     the mining sector
to 



ANNEX J
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Project supervision will include the following:
(a)   A Project Launch Workshop would take place as soon as the conditions
of effectiveness are about to be met. It would focus on (i) accounting
procedures needed for keeping project accounts and for setting up and
controlling the Special Account; (ii) procurement procedures, including the
use of the Bank's standard bidding documents; (iii) disbursement
procedures, including replenishment of the Special Account, Statements of
Expenditure and documentation to be kept and to be forwarded to IDA;
(iv) audit requirements; (v) coordination between the recipient agencies,
including the selection of individuals in each agency to serve as a point of
contact; and (vi) progress on preparation of bidding documents for early
procurement action.
(b)   Regular supervision missions would be carried out three times a year
during the life of the project.
(c)   Mid-Term Review. A comprehensive mid-term review would take place,
not earlier that April 1, 1997, and not later than June 30, 1997, after the
completion of the first phase of the SSM pilot testing program. The review
would be carried out jointly by MEM and IDA and would include: (a) an
evaluation of the results of the pilot testing of equipment and technology
for SSM. Agreement would be required, based on these results, on the
equipment to be included in the second phase, and the terms of reference
for the consultant services required; (b) the progress in the development of
standards and guidelines to ensure that all mining operations are carried out
in an environmentally responsible manner; (c) an assessment of the findings
of the EIA that would be prepared after the completion of the first phase;
(d) an exarnination of the results from the land reclamation testing and
agree on best practices and cost-effective methods suitable for Ghanaian
conditions to continue rehabilitation of priority areas; (e) the progress
made in improving the marketing environment for small-scale miners and
liberalization of the market for precious minerals; (f the progress in
developing reforms to the regulatory framework governing the sector;



ANNEX J
Page 2 of 3
(g) the status of project monitoring indicators; and (h) the performance of
consultants.
(d)   An Implementation Completion Review (ICR) would be carried out jointly
by the Government and IDA three months before the project closing date
to review the achievements of the project in relation to its objectives. This
review would serve as the basis for the Government's ICR report to be
submitted to IDA not later than six months after the completion of the
project.
Tentative Project Supervision Schedule
Dates       Activity                        Skill Requirements         Staff Weeks
Sep 1995    Project Launch Workshop         Task Manager                    2
Procurement Specialist         1
Disbursement Specialist        1
Accounting Specialist          I
Dec 1995    Supervision                     Task Manager                    2
Environmental Officer          2
Mar 1996    Supervision                     Task Manager                    2
Jul 1996    Supervision                     Task Manager                    2
Environmental Officer          1
Oct 1996    Supervision                     Task Manager                    2
Feb 1997    Supervision                     Task Manager                    2
Jun 1997    Supervision                     Task Manager                    2
Oct 1997    Supervision                     Task Manager                    2
Mar 1998   Mid-Term Review                  Task Manager                    2
Environmental Officer          2
Economist/Financial Analyst    2
Jul 1998    Supervision                     Task Manager                    2
Nov 1998   Supervision                      Task Manager                    2
Mar 1999    Supervision                     Task Manager                    2



ANNEX J
Page 3 of 3
Dates       Activity                          Skill Requirements         Staff Weeks
Jul 1999    Supervision                       Task Manager                    2
Nov 1999    Supervision                       Task Manager                    2
Apr 2000    Supervision                      Task Manager                     2
Sep 2000    Implementation Completion Review  Task Manager                    2
Environment Officer             2
Financial Analyst               2
Feb 2001    Supervision                       Task Manager                    2



MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND
ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Phase I Equipment List
AL-4
Alluvial Processing Using Knelson Concentrators
Component    Equipment Name                     QTY       Power        Cap/Size      Supplier             Cost (USD)
1.        Warman pump, rubber-lined, 1800    1         30          1 1/2"/1"    Peacocke, Simpson       4,000.00
rpm
2.        Skid mountings for above and       2          -             -         -                        2,000.00
piping
3.        Skid mounted trommel (including    1         5           Im x 3m      Satellite Marketing      3,500.00
motor)
4.        Wheel barrows                      10         -             -         Local Purchase            800.00
5.        Shovels                           20         0              0         Local Purchase            300.00
6.        Knelson concentrators with screen,  2        4             7.51       Peacocke, Simpson        2,000.00
motors
7.        Diesel generator, skid mounted     1       50 kva           -         Hubert Davis             8,500.00
It >
30 2
o X



Component    Equipment Name                    QTY       Power        Cap/Size      Supplier             Cost (USD)
8.        Distribution board, cables,        I         -             -         Hubert Davis             5,000.00
switchgear
9.        Smelting furnace (gas)             I        LPG            -          Peacocke, Simpson        500.00
10.       Lining for water storage/water     -         -           I,000m2      -                       2,000.00
tank                                                   1,000 gals.
11.       Amalgam barrel                     1         3              -         Peacocke, Simpson       2,000.00
12.       Copper plate                       1         -           Im x 2m      Radiator & Tinning        550.00
13.       Retort                             1         -              -         Peacocke, Simpson         200.00
14.       Miscellaneous (pans, balance, etc.)                                                           2.,000.00
TOTAL                                                                                       51.350.00
..  * q z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND
ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Phase I Equipment List
AL-6
Alluvial Processing with Jig, Querl and Panner
Component  Equipment Name                  QTY       Power         Cap/Size      Supplier             Cost (USD)
I.      Scrubber/sizing trommel         1          5          30" x 12'     Silver Springs           6,000.00
2.      Mineral jig                      1        1/2         12" x 12"     Silver Springs           3,700.00
3.      Querl bowl concentrator         1          10            24"        ABJ                      2,500.00
4.      J. R. Ezi panner                 1      12 volts          -         EEZEE Gold                 750.00
5.      Water pump (warnian)            1          15          1 1/2"/1"    Peacocke                 2,000.00
6.      Diesel generator                1        50 kva           -         Hubert Davis             8,500.00
7.      Distribution board              1          -              -         -                        5,000.00
8.      Smelting furnace (gas)           1        LPG             -         Peacocke, Simpson          500.00
9.      Miscellaneous                                                                                27000.00
TOTAL                                                                                      3__9_5_0.
uIJx



MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND
ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Phase I Equipment List
HR-I
Hard Rock Ore Processing Using Shaking Table and EZI Panner
Component    Equipment Name                  QTY       Power         Cap/Size      Supplier              Cost (USD)
I.        Grizzly                         I          -          4" opening     -                         300.00
2.        Shaking table                   1           1           4' x 8'      Silver Springs          3,600.00
3.        Osbom 2fs jaw crusher           1          1.5           4tph        Osbom Engineering      23,000.00
4.        J. R. Ezi panner                1        12 volts          -         EEZEE Gold                750.00
5.        Water pump                      1          15          1 1/2"/1"     Peacocke, Simpson       2,000.00
6.        Water tank                      1          -           1,000 gals.   -                       2,000.00
7.        Diesel generator                1        75 kva            -         Hubert Davis            9,400.00
8.        Distribution board              I          -               -         Hubert Davis            5,000.00
9.        Feed conveyor                   1          5          8m x 450mm     IMF Engineering         4,250.00
10.        Fine ore bin                    I          -           20 tons                              4,000.00
we1I
° 1iA



Component    Equipment Name                 QTY        Power         Cap/Size     Supplier             Cost (USD)
10.       Fine ore bin                    1          -            20 tons                              4,000.00
11.       Ore feeder                      1          5         4m x 450mm     IMF Engineering          2,880.00
12.       Ball mill (self classifying)    1          30          1 1/2 tph    ABJ Engineering         33,000.00
13.       Smelting furnace (gas)          I         LPG             -         Peacocke, Simpson         500.00
14.       Slurry pump                     1          15          15' head     Mitchell Cotts           4,440.00
15.       Hydro cyclone                   I          -              3"        Peacocke, Simpson         500.00
16.       Miscellaneous                                                                                2.000.00
TOTAL                                                                                      97.620.00
>1



MINING SECTOR DEVELOPMENT AND
ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT
Phase I Equipment List
HR-7
Hard Rock Ore Processing Using Shaking Table and EZI Panner
Component    Equipment Name                  QTY        Power         Cap/Size      Supplier              Cost (USD)
1.        Grizzly                         I           -          4" opening     -                         300.00
2.        Shaking table                    1          1            4' x 8'      Silver Springs           3,600.00
3.        Osbom 2fs jaw crusher            1         1.5            4tph        Osbom Engineering      23,000.00
4.        J. R. Ezi panner                 1       12 volts          -          EEZEE Gold                750.00
5.        Water pump                       1          15          1 1/2"/1"     Peacocke, Simpson        2,000.00
6.        Water tank                       I          -          1,000 gals.    -                        2,000.00
7.        Diesel generator                 1        75 kva           -          Hubert Davis             9,400.00
8.        Distribution board               I          -              -          Hubert Davis             5,000.00
9.        Feed conveyor                    1          5         8m x 450mm      IMF Engineering          4,250.00
oX



Component    Equipment Name                 QTY        Power         Cap/Size     Supplier             Cost (USD)
11.       Ore feeder                      1          5         4m x 450mm     IMF Engineering          2,880.00
12.       Ball mill                       1         30           1 1/2 tph    ABJ Engineering         33,000.00
13.       Smelting furnace (gas)          1         LPG             -         Peacocke, Simpson         500.00
14.       Miscellaneous                                                                                2.000.00
TOTAL                                                                                      92.680.00
IV 






MAP SECTION






IBRD 2101 1R
30BURKINA   FASO0                                                              00                          1
GHANA
Ha~o~   Ton,     Noor.~go               ~            / MINING SECTOR MANAGEMENT
AND ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
U\ t;PPE R  WBE5T              Ssbdlt      
A        ~REGION              -k{   oeoe   
I olWA                                                                                                                                     I 0Pgu/ 
NOR?THEVIT          Dboby     \\    *<REtGION
h-nbolgu               Zab.go 
90                    _ Sot*  OoneO op..                                                                       SSM Mining Areas
9.\              SI                           /\                               PUJo\\X    Moin Mines
_____   Primary Roads
sa    \   _  <   :   /   g\t\     Major Secondary Roads
C T   \/IIOther Secondary Roads
COTEj                 t         v                  sSologo       | w        \Kowt            | -    Railroads
D'IVOIRE                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Region Headquarters
bba   ~ ~ ~      K        - ~      Moko,,go                  I.,t
'     National Capital
5   °lsombol   /Ct            h  /. _  Region Boundaries
- 8°       HSomro                                       Ik) ./' Jlmo                 * \>   WoA                    _.-  International Boundaries-
J-~~~~               ~                                                        Ports
BR  G-AHAFO  RE,ION
g Lon  t SUNYANI         \"  X;           ~E1uorL-                  _                        J 
7-7°/          \X T                         ASiNT!                    JKpEn)                                          TOGOt
(~~~~G                           KUioAS                                                     H    w  F
V   '   A/~~~~~ _ ''\,> RE  A N 
A-: ~~~~~~/Brofaer
j           ~~~~KOORIDU.-                    MpeDn
-6 '   WESTERN) 
)   9,i q  (  REXoSt   <                         CR_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kt                                '
pto                                    C       _ _          )      S            L-pAPE COASiT
him~~~~~E  -bro  Tkr rJi                                                   I I  
50  Ninoonto    .11,        ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                     2   40   60   80 KILOMETERS                5
A~orro    0TokRra0
Th. boundori-. colona. d.n-oin,otMr,. ond ony oth.r infonm_not
.hon  nM. rpdontinpy on i7-,-ort of Tho World fBonk
o   aky                                                                                     . 2n  .   o        D              r
Mndor..n,.nt or too.ptono. of .boh bo4EndodoI.
S'                                                                                 0   10  20 30 4~~~~~~~~~~0  0     IE
FEBRUARY 1995









IMAGING
Report No:        15881 GH
Type: SAR



