                              Document of
                           The World Bank




                                                         Report No: 29549

                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                      (COFN-04170 TF-28371 TF-20552)

                                  ON A

                                GRANT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 4,08 MILLION

                                TO THE

ASSOCIATION POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'INFORMATION ENVIRONNEMENTALE

  FOR A REGIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

                          REIMP(CEN.ENV.,INFO)




                              June 25, 2004

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective :November 7, 1997)

                                  Currency Unit = CFA franc (CFAF)
                                     CFAF 1.00 = US$ 0.0017
                                        US$ 1.00 = CFAF 580

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1     December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADIE       Association pour le Développement de l'Information Environnementale dans la sous-région du
           Bassin du Congo/ Congo Basin Association for Environmental Information Development
AfDB       African Development Bank
CAR        Central African Republic
CARPE      Central African Régional Program for the Environment (USAID)
CEMAC      Communauté Économique et Monétaire de l'Afrique Centrale
CIDA/ACDI  Canadian International Development Agency
COMIFAC    Conférence des Ministres en charge des Forêts d'Afrique Centrale (Conference of Central
           African Forest Ministers)
DESS       Diplômes d'Etudes Supérieures Spécialisées
DRC        Democratic Republic of Congo
ECOFAC     Conservation    et   Utilisation   Rationnelle  des    ECOsystemes     Forestiers d'Afrique
           Centrale/Conservation and Rational Use of Forest Ecosystems in Central Africa
EIA        Environmental Impact Assessment
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
EU         European Union
FAO        Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FORAC      Central Africa Forest Observatory
GEF        Global Environment Facility
GFIS       Global Forest Information Service
IABIN      Inter-American Biodiversity Information Network
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IFAD       International Fund for Agricultural Development of the United Nations
IUFRO      International Union of Forest Research Organization
JRC        Joint Research Center
NEAP       National Environmental Action Plan
NGO        Non Governmental Organization
NRM        Natural Resource Management
NWG        National Work Group
PCD        Project Concept Document
PFE        Projet Forêt Environnement/Forest Environment Project (Gabon)
PIU        Project Implementation Unit
REDDA      Réseau pour l'Environnement et le Développement Durable en Afrique
REFLI      Regional Fund for Local Initiatives
REIMP      Regional Environment Information Management Program
SADC       Southern Africa Development Community
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
TFAP       Tropical Forest Action Plan
UNEP       United Nations Environment Program
UNGC       Unité Nationale de Gestion et de Coordination

WCS    Wildlife Conservation Society
WWF    WorldWide Fund for Nature


                            Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
                          Country Director   Ali M. Khadr
                           Sector Manager    Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Francois Rantrua

                                           AFRICA
                                 REIMP(CEN.ENV.,INFO)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                   vi
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                  vi
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              3
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            34

Project ID: P000003                                                  Project Name: REIMP(CEN.ENV.,INFO)
Team Leader: Francois Rantrua                                        TL Unit: AFTS3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: REIMP(CEN.ENV.,INFO)                                     L/C/TF Number: COFN-04170; TF-28371;
                                                                                                     TF-20552
   Country/Department: AFRICA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (70%); General information
                            and communications sector (20%); Other social services (10%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P); Land
                            management (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/25/1993                                     Effective: 03/24/1998                04/21/1998
     Appraisal: 03/09/1997                                         MTR: 05/28/2001                  05/28/2001
      Approval: 12/18/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          ASSOC. POUR LE DEV. DE L'INFORMATION ENV/ASSOC. POUR LE
                                           DEVLPMT. DE L'INFORMATION ENVIRONNEMENTALE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Callisto E. Madavo & Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Ali M. Khadr                                   Serge Michailof & Nils T. Cheyan
Sector Manager:                 Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                             Cynthia Cook
Team Leader at ICR:             Francois Rantrua                               Francois Rantrua
ICR Primary Author:             Pacome Kossy


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The primary goal of the REIMP identified in 1995 (which can be assimilated to a development
objective or a global objective) was to improve planning and management of natural resources in
the Congo Basin, with specific focus on biodiversity conservation, by providing the various
stakeholders with appropriate information on the environment in response to the needs they
identify. Forest ecosystems in the Congo Basin are regarded as global biodiversity "hot spots" and
raise many concerns. Several donor agencies have undertaken efforts to assist national
governments in addressing these concerns within the framework of the Convention on
Biodiversity (Rio 1992). A study of a number of initiatives in the region identified a critical
problem in this field as the lack of comprehensive and accurate environmental information, and
the difficulty, if not the impossibility, of access to it. The REIMP addresses this situation by
creating a regional network of public, private and non-governmental agencies based in Central
Africa willing to share information and capitalize their experiences and lessons learned. To add
flexibility and allow the implementation of small scale activities relevant to the project objectives,
the project also included a fund for local initiatives for the promotion of micro-projects in
forestry, agriculture and the environment.

More specifically, the project had the following five objectives:
l Ensure the circulation of environmental information and optimize benefits from existing
    initiatives;
l Foster involvement of decision-makers in environmental information use and facilitate sound
    land use planning in the Congo Basin;
l Provide users (Public and private sectors, NGOs, sub-regional and international organisations)
    with environmental information meeting their           demand;
l Strengthen national capacities for environmental information management;
l Implement a Regional Fund for Local Initiatives (REFLI).

In order to implement the REIMP, six governments in the Congo Basin (Cameroon, CAR,
Congo, DRC, Equatorial Guinea and Gabon) signed a regional memorandum of understanding in
1997 creating the "Association pour le Développement de l'Information Environnementale"
(ADIE) as the implementing agency for the REIMP. The Government of Chad joined the ADIE in
2001. The ADIE was organized into (i) a regional unit located in Libreville (Gabon) and
responsiblefor the project regional coordination, the management of funds, the dialogue with
donors and other regional institutions and the management of regional activities, and (ii) national
units located in each of the seven countries (including Gabon) and responsible for the
implementation of REIMP national agendas, the management of national networks, the
monitoring of REFLI activities and the dialogue with Governments.


3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were recognized as pertinent throughout implementation and therefore did
not need to be revised.

3.3 Original Components:
In order to achieve its objectives, the project had the following five components (from SAR):


                                                   - 2 -

Component 1: Network Creation and Service (Cost: US$ 35,000 All costs per component are GEF
financing only)
     Objective: To ensure information circulation and optimize benefits from existing initiatives.

Actors involved in natural resource management in the Congo Basin agreed that better
dissemination of existing information was an important objective. In that context, this component
was set up to enable users and decision-makers to take advantage of the large amount of
environmental information already available. The following activities were to be carried out:
l Set up the primary network. During the preparation phase, several public, private and
    non-governmental agencies were selected by National Work Groups (NWG) in each country
    to constitute an initial primary network. Selection criteria were: (i) having a national or
    regional    mandate which makes them key actors in collecting, processing, storing and
    disseminating environmental information, (ii) having the technical and human capacity to
    participate effectively in the project, and (iii) being actively involved in the preparation phase.
l Enlist new agencies to the network during the course of the project.
l Promote and harmonize standards for data collection and integration.
l Implement or improve telecommunication infrastructure including Internet facilities.
l Develop information services, in particular:
   o    an archive database including existing maps and reports related to Natural Resource
        Management (NRM) in each country;
   o    national and regional libraries on the environment in order to satisfy external requests for
        information;
   o    compile national laws and rules related to NRM, especially within countries subject to new
        environmental regulations.

l Develop catalogues and rosters. This activity, essential for promoting accessibility to data,
    services, and human skills in Central Africa,                includes:
   o    development of a meta-database (database that includes other databases created by
        projects and international organizations, paper          documents such as photographs,
        reports, maps, as well as socio-economic data sources for users interested in taking into
        account         interactions between environmental and socio-economic factors (e.g.
        urbanization rates, poverty levels and deforestation);
   o    elaboration of a REIMP roster of experts to meet managers' demand for skills in basic and
        thematic mapping, database management,           and biodiversity and forest resource
        management; and
   o    publication of a directory of products and services provided by the REIMP.




                                                   - 3 -

Component 2: Decision-Making and Communication (Cost: US$ 146,000)
    Objective: To encourage decision-makers to use environmental information and to facilitate
    sound planning for land use in the Congo Basin.

The involvement of decision-makers in using environmental information was identified by the
major stakeholders in natural resources management as an important issue to be addressed by the
REIMP. Therefore, this component was set up to help decision-makers, mainly at the national and
regional levels, to use information on natural resources in planning and monitoring. The following
activities were defined accordingly:
l Organize workshops on communication and raise awareness for decision-makers.
l Develop user-friendly information tools and elaborate a regional report on the environment.
l Develop communication tools for rural populations.
l Elaborate communication tools for the public.



Component 3: User-Oriented Production (Cost: US$ 2,177,000)
    Objective: To provide users with environmental information meeting their demand.

In spite of the huge amount of information on natural resources in reports, inventories, maps,
aerial photographs, and satellite images already available, serious gaps remained and affected
decision-making. This component was identified to fill such gaps through the following activities:
l Produce and update basic environmental information with the following end products:
   o    border-to-border radar coverage of the entire region (4 million km²) to provide users with
        cost-effective background information          necessary for cartographic and inventory
        applications;
   o    topographical and land cover databases and maps at a scale of 1:200,000 in the areas
        where basic landscape information is in high demand: intensive forest logging areas
        (500,000 km²), biologically sensitive areas (300,000 km²), urban and suburban areas
        (50,000         km²), and coastal zones (300,000 km²) --the realization of these maps
        could be reinforced with optical and radar satellite images    (LANDSAT, SPOT, ERS,
        JERS etc.); and
   o    databases and geometrically corrected photos for the major urban centers at a scale of
        1:50,000, using aerial photography or aerial videography.

l Produce and update information on forestry and biodiversity including:
   o    elaboration of forest zoning plans, as recommended by most national forest strategies;
   o    develop local biodiversity conservation plans to orient and control future investments and
        conservation activities with the participation of local population in seven biologically
        sensitive areas in the Congo Basin.

l Produce and update information on agriculture and rural development.
l Produce information on geological resources and mining extraction.




                                                 - 4 -

Component 4: Capacity Building (Cost: US$ 158,000)
     Objective: To strengthen national capacities.

The three components above would not have been properly implemented without appropriate
equipment, technical assistance and training of local staff. Thus, a capacity building component
was included to allow the training of sub-regional representatives, not only to support other
project objectives, but also provide local experts with an opportunity to serve other projects and
clients within the region. The activities listed below were identified to achieve the component's
objective:
l Equip local agencies with computer, hardware and software and office supplies.
l Provide technical assistance and training.
l Promote marketing of services provided by the national agencies and experts.



Component 5: Regional coordination of the project and financing of a Regional Fund for
Local Initiatives (REFLI) (Cost: US$ 1,502,000)
     Objective: To set up management tools and implement a REFLI.

After setting up the first four components, two dimensions of the project remained to be
efficiently fulfilled: the management of the project and the link with local populations and local
NGOs. This component was designed to cover these aspects and the following activities were
identified:
l Set up management tools.
l Provide support to the regional executing agency.
l Finance and implement a Regional Fund for Local Initiatives that supports environmental
    micro-projects set up by local populations and NGOs.

3.4 Revised Components:

Although there was no formal revision of components, in the course of the project, the map-based
activity (component 3) was dropped in response to user demand; it appeared that requests were
more for the processing of data than for its production.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

The project was not submitted to a quality at entry process by the Bank's Quality Assurance
Group. The project was approved on December 1997. At that time, the Quality Assurance Group
did not exist yet.
However, a brief review of the project design conducted during the ICR mission showed that
although highly innovative, objectives and activities were conceived consequently to help
improving the management of information related to natural resources. Besides, the institutional
arrangement, with a regional bureau and 7 local representations, was adequate to manage such a
project. The multi-donor dimension of the project and the quality of the collaboration among
donors was also a positive element. Nevertheless, this project had an ambitious long-term agenda.
The process for reaching this agenda has been initiated, but will require sustained effort from



                                                  - 5 -

member countries and donor organizations. The project was innovative, and as such required very
specific descriptions of roles, which could have been better defined in the project implementation
manual.

During project preparation, extensive review and support was provided by the Bank's GEF
Division.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

As already stated, the REIMP was a multi-donor project and as for the Bank/GEF side, the
REIMP was funded by the GEF only; IDA funds were not mobilized for the project.
Consequently outcomes and outputs declined below are those of the GEF operation except for the
component 5 where some IFAD and Belgian Cooperation funds were made available through the
World Bank as well.

Achievement of Outcomes under the REIMP was satisfactory. While the project has not yet
improved the management of natural resources in the Congo Basin, it has put in place a process
and established a basis for a better management of information related to natural resources. The
project collected, organized and set means to disseminate information used in decision-making
processes. This dynamic, which is a change of mindset, is ongoing and will take some time to be
effective. The REIMP enabled it by facilitating:
l a better understanding of the region's needs in terms of environmental, scientific and social
    knowledge and in terms of management of           environmental information;
l the assessment of the willingness of countries to implement information systems in order to
    better manage natural resources along with the promotion of forest information management
    systems;
l the set up of tools to archive and manage information;
l the promotion of the involvement of local communities in the management of natural
    resources; and
l the building of capacities.

At a strategic level, the achievements of the REIMP and the enthusiasm observed around the
project largely confirmed its initial hypothesis and approach, the lack of organized and shared
information was hampering the sustainable management of natural resources. These achievements
that have generated valuable lessons for future operations can be summarized as follows:




                                                 - 6 -

Information as a Key to Improved Environmental Management. Addressing environmental
issues from the angle of information constituted a major challenge and an innovative approach
that the REIMP tried to meet. The REIMP paradigm is that information opens up social,
economic and technical opportunities, provided it is widely shared and circulated. Information
sharing and circulation help break isolation faced by local stakeholders, avoid duplication of
efforts, increase transparency, take advantage of previous mistakes, and therefore optimize
investments. In the context of environmental management in the Congo Basin, better and more
widely available information was expected to improve the quality of resource management,
promote coordinated action for biodiversity conservation, and empower all stakeholders. In this
context the organization of stakeholders into networks of users within each of the seven ADIE
countries and the development of tools to organize (meta-database) and circulate data
(environmental libraries, catalogs) supported the REIMP approach.

The regional dimension of the ADIE. Throughout the REIMP implementation, the ADIE
succeeded in attracting new international institutions to work in the Congo Basin, institutions
which found in the ADIE a reliable interlocutor for the region, and a partner who could help them
implement successful operations. Foremost among these institutions are the United Nations
Environment Program (UNEP), the European Joint Research Centre (JRC), the International
Union of Forest Research Organization (IUFRO), as well as various European and North
American universities with which ADIE signed conventions. It is highly probable that without
such a regional structure as ADIE, these institutions, with limited knowledge of the Congo Basin,
would have been unwilling to work in Central Africa.

The associative and network approach. Bringing together private, public and
non-governmental institutions into a flexible structure such as the ADIE was another strategic
achievement of the REIMP. This approach brought the different members of ADIE to a better
mutual understanding and has led some of them to continue their relations outside the inner circle
of the REIMP. The set up of a regional board including representatives of civil society, private
sector and public sector of each country was a key achievement that fostered the regional network
established by ADIE through the REIMP.

At the technical level, the REIMP improved information circulation within the sub-region through
setting up a network of users and gathering and disseminating existing information, through the
development of mechanisms and tools such as the meta-database, the environmental libraries and
the catalogs.

The project promoted the use of information in decision-making processes through the
organization of workshops for decision-makers, the development of tools such as the
environmental dashboard and the development of communication media such as brochures, videos
and audio tapes. The realization of a web site was fundamental in the REIMP communication
strategy.

In order to provide users with necessary information, the REIMP promoted the setup of
information systems and observatories. An observatory of forest fires was successfully developed



                                                - 7 -

in CAR. A forestry management information system was designed in Gabon. The REIMP set up
the first information system for monitoring environmental projects in the sub-region, which was
then used by other projects.

To capitalize and to favor the sustainability of mechanisms and tools developed and promoted, the
REIMP put a particular emphasis on capacity building. The training of sub-regional
representatives was at the center of the project and in that context, specific environmental
management curricula, internationally accredited, were developed in collaboration with Gabonese
and French universities.

REIMP achievements were realized despite a combination of factors that could have hampered
project completion, particularly: (i) the innovativeness of the REIMP which was the first project
of its kind, (ii) the absence of successful regional operations in the Congo Basin, (iii) the conflicts
of leadership between certain Nations, (iv) the civil troubles in Central African Republic, DRC
and in Republic of Congo, and (v) the involvement of several donors with different approaches
and procedures.

The positive results of the REIMP and the good operational relations developed between
countries through the project were recognized by the participating governments when they
upgraded its status from a non-governmental association to an inter-governmental agency
(Agence Internationale pour le Développement de l'Information Environnementale) on March 27,
2003. The agency was mandated by the Congo Basin countries and sub-regional organizations, in
particular CEMAC and COMIFAC (the orientation, coordination and decision-making
organization for sustainable management of forest ecosystems in the Congo Basin), to be
responsible for all questions related to the management of environmental information and to
provide or to develop necessary tools for decision-makers.

Close links exist between ADIE and COMIFAC. In June 2002 the second meeting of COMIFAC
was held in Yaoundé (Cameroon). That meeting was the occasion to adopt COMIFAC legal
documents in which it was clearly mentioned that within the context of COMIFAC, ADIE was in
charge of the management and the dissemination of information related to natural resources in the
Congo Basin. This was considered a huge step forward and a major success for the REIMP
implementation, in a region where priorities were not often in the information management sector.


Another feature of REIMP achievements was the central role played by the ADIE in the
development of the Central Africa Forest Observatory (FORAC). ADIE was given, by the
European Union, the responsibility to implement the preparatory works for the establishment of
FORAC with a view to ultimately manage the observatory. FORAC benefits from REIMP
activities particularly biodiversity inventories of sub-regional species such as reptiles and birds.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The outputs of the project can be detailed for each component. It is important to mention that
after project completion, costs per component are different from those estimated at the appraisal
for two reasons: (i) the removal of the activity that aimed to purchase aerial photographs, and (ii)


                                                  - 8 -

the reallocation among the grant categories done in 2002. The reallocation was made necessary to
better reflect the real needs and priorities expressed by regional stakeholders. The overall cost of
the GEF project did not change.

Component 1: Network Creation and Service (Cost: US$ 588,491)
     Objective: To ensure information circulation and to optimize benefits from existing
     initiatives.

This component is rated Satisfactory. The project set up a regional network of actors involved in
natural resources management for a better use of information collected and organized through the
REIMP. This network included 127 agencies (NGOs, private and public institutions) working in
the management of environmental information. The network was divided into country networks
animated by REIMP local executing agencies (UNGCs). Some of the network members were
particularly active, such as the representative of the Gabonese private sector (Internet Gabon)
whose manager and founder was the Vice-president of the ADIE board.

The meta-database was operationalized and made accessible in eighteen (18) institutions within
the sub-region. This database, the first ever in the region, included (as of end of June 2003 during
the ICR mission) 2900 references of which: 1677 reports, 335 mapping data, 195 institutions, 140
experts, 26 projects and 599 contacts. Some of the data were made available on the ADIE web
site www.adie-prgie.net . The establishment of this database was an opportunity to set up
standard methods for collecting and storing information and data. Short-term training on database
management was organized in order to provide experts from National Management and
Coordination Units (UNGCs) with the required skills.

Environmental libraries were established in all countries involved in the project. A total of 18,000
documents were available at the time of project closure. In addition, a regional environmental
library located in Libreville was set up. This library included 200 documents such as reports of
studies and forestry /environmental laws. A total of 27 experts were trained in the management of
libraries including the use of library management software.

The data gathered and organized by the project through the meta database and environmental
libraries established within each ADIE country (within universities and other existing libraries
mainly) were consulted by students, researchers and other projects (ECOFAC, PFE, Cameroon
Biodiversity project, CARPE,...) and major NGOs (WWF, WCS,...) for their missions of
biodiversity preservation and implementation of better models of natural resources management.
They were also used to support GFIS and REDDA activities in the Congo Basin.

However, the most innovative achievement of the REIMP was the implementation of "thematic
families" focusing on biodiversity conservation, sustainable forest management, mapping
engineering, environmental evaluation, culture and environment, and coastal zone management.
They consist of discussion groups on the Internet for the exchange of experiences and knowledge
on Natural Resource Management. In their respective sectors, thematic families aimed to:
l establish and maintain up-to-date directories of experts, professionals and practitioners;
l facilitate exchange of knowledge and experiences among stakeholders;




                                                  - 9 -

l moderate discussions; and
l identify information gaps and design appropriate methodologies to fill them.

300 people participated in the thematic families, which organized in 2000 an international
workshop on the management of wildlife in forest concessions in Central Africa. This workshop
enabled the launching of sub-regional debates on biodiversity conservation within forest
concessions.


Component 2: Decision-Making and Communication (Cost: US$ 868,555)
    Objective: To Encourage decision-makers to use environmental information and to facilitate
    sound planning for land use in the Congo Basin.

This component is rated Satisfactory. Its objective was to communicate broadly and efficiently on
the REIMP products in order to encourage decision-makers to use environmental information as
well as tools set up by the project. Despite the absence of a communication plan, regional
workshops were organized to the attention of decision-makers like the one on the management of
wildlife in forest concessions in Central Africa or the workshop that led to the adoption of a
methodology for the execution of Environmental Impact studies. Moreover, the ADIE developed
some noteworthy communication instruments (62 video tapes, 66 audio tapes and several
brochures) for the public and rural populations, the most important of which was the Web site (
www.adie-prgie.net). These tools, particularly the brochures allowed communicating at all levels
on REIMP missions and achievements. The REIMP annual workshops organized to assess the
implementation of the previous annual work plan and discuss the content of the next one, with all
stakeholders and other interested environmental actors, were used efficiently to present and
discuss REIMP achievements. An environmental dashboard (report presenting the state of the
environment with focus on biodiversity) was drafted and served as the principal basis for FORAC.
Indeed, biodiversity inventories that were intended to feed the environmental dashboard were
further capitalized in the context of FORAC (www.forac.net).


Component 3: User-Oriented Production (Cost: US$ 432,733)
    Objective: To provide users with environmental information meeting their demand.

This component is rated Satisfactory, although an important part of this component, particularly
the map-based activity, was dropped because of a shift of needs from production to processing.
The subcomponent on the production of agricultural, rural development, geological and mining
information was also underdeveloped. However the promotion of Forestry Information Systems
was successfully achieved in Congo Basin countries, owing to the forestry management
information system developed in Gabon in collaboration with a former Bank operation (Projet
Forêt Environnement ­ PFE). At the same time, an observatory of forest fires was implemented in
CAR fulfilling an important need expressed by the Government of CAR. The observatory of
forest fires enabled the reduction of fires within the country by 60%. Although forest information
systems were not developed, the REIMP served to widely launch the concept and bring
consciousness for a need of these tools for a better management of natural resources. As of today,



                                                 - 10 -

every country in the region wants to implement a forestry information system.

A project on the mitigation of impacts caused by logging activities was conducted in collaboration
with the FAO. A report on how to minimize the impact of logging in Central Africa ("Comment
minimiser l'impact de l'exploitation forestière en Afrique Centrale") was produced. The report's
recommendations focused mainly on:
l the respect of rural populations,
l the improvement of living conditions for rural populations,
l the reduction of impacts on flora and fauna.

Three major biodiversity inventories were conducted and led to the production of three catalogs
on sub-regional species: birds, amphibians and reptiles. In addition, an index of forestry and
environmental laws was produced, as well as a report on the management of urban infrastructures
and space in DRC. A general map on DRC was also produced. These catalogs and reports are
available online at www.forac.net and in the regional environmental library.




Component 4: Capacity Building (Cost: US$ 339,685)
     Objective: Strengthen national capacities.

This component is rated Satisfactory and it is the biggest success of the REIMP. The project
initiated and implemented with complete success high level training on environmental information
management practices in collaboration with Omar Bongo University of Gabon, the National
School of Forests of Gabon and a number of French universities (Université de Marne-La-Vallée,
Université de Bordeaux III, Université de Bordeaux IV and Université de Paris VI) and French
schools (Ecole Nationale des Sciences Géographiques and Institut National Agronomique Paris
Grignon). The training led to a Master equivalent degree (DESS) for about 52 people (all from
the sub-region). At project closing, the ADIE was preparing the development of more
environmentally focused training within the sub-region particularly with Cameroonian and
Congolese institutions. From 2001 to 2003, the students were trained in new environmental
curricula completely designed under the project. The people trained were from public
administration or private sector. After graduation, they went back to their organizations, which, in
most cases funded the training.

Several small training sessions for ADIE staff and for some network members were organized,
particularly on project monitoring, project management, meta-database and environmental library
management. A total of 55 people were trained in these sessions.

The regional experts were fully promoted and in many cases given charge of projects as was the
case in the context of EIAs managed by the advisory unit of the ADIE. A total of 7 EIAs were
executed by regional experts from the ADIE network: 2 EIAs for SHELL Gabon (oil company), 4
EIAs for PERENCO Gabon (oil company), 1 EIA for a gabonese program of lodgings building
(PROgrame national de Construction de Logements des Agents Civil de l'Etat ), 1 EIA for WWF
(sub-regional office) and 1 EIA for the Gabonese ministry in charge of public health. Experts from



                                                - 11 -

the network trained staff of forestry companies (Leroy Gabon, SBL Gabon) on GIS and remote
sensing techniques and provided several consultations in satellite images processing
(implementation of a pilot project on the use of satellite images in forestry management plans for
the Equatorial Forestry Company).

On a more practical side, REIMP agencies were provided with necessary equipments. In that
context, 54 computers and 21 printers were purchased and allocated in all the 7 national ADIE
agencies and the regional unit. The allocation started in 2000. It was implemented gradually and
was linked to the execution of major project like the set up of the meta database and the
establishment of environmental libraries. For the observatory of forest fires in CAR, the project
acquired a NOAA-AVHRR, a World Fire Web system, which is a unit for satellite image
processing.


Component 5: Regional coordination of the project and financing of a Regional Fund for
Local Initiatives (REFLI) (Cost: US$ 2,007,500)
     Objective: To set up management tools and to implement of a REFLI.

This component is rated Satisfactory. The implementation of the Regional Fund for Local
Initiatives financed by IFAD and the Belgian Cooperation through the Bank was well executed. A
total of 26 micro-projects on forestry, agriculture and environmental topics were implemented for
a total amount of 375,000,000 F CFA (US$ 625,000). These micro-projects allowed the
beneficiaries to develop or use various improved techniques of sustainable natural resources
management.

Micro-projects were also meant to demonstrate that better access to information and information
infrastructure by local populations opens up social and economic opportunities, which, in return,
help to improve livelihood. In that respect, the REFLI supported the execution of micro-projects
as diverse as the implementation of rural telephony, market price listings, environmental
newsletters, training workshops for rural women, or practical guides. The REFLI happened to be
an effective tool to communicate with local communities on a sustainable management of their
environment. It served to catalyze a consciousness at local level and that can be assessed by the
type of projects that communities identified to promote a better use of natural resources.
Moreover a survey of beneficiaries conducted during the mid term review revealed that 88% of
people were satisfied by the REFLI activity. However, one can regret the fact that replicable
projects and case studies were not prioritized.

A monitoring and evaluation system for development projects was implemented (the first ever in
Central Africa) to monitor project activities. The system also served to monitor REFLI
micro-projects. This system was extended to other projects in the region. The monitoring and
evaluation system was well designed and the implementation manual was concise. However, some
of the indicators supposed to fill the system happened to be inappropriate over the course of the
project. They were not readapted with certain change of activities due to the flexibility of the
project and the shift of needs (map-based activities).




                                                - 12 -

GEF funding was also used to support staff from the regional unit and the Chad national unit
who were not civil servants. This support was particularly important in allowing the other donors
to invest directly in activities.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
There was no calculation of an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) owing to the nature of the
project and its objective, which cannot be quantified.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial analysis was done for the project as a whole. However, the financial rate of return
calculated at appraisal was based on the sale of marketable products (supposed to bring US$ 0.45
million per year) and membership fees from ADIE membership. Marketable products were limited
to catalogs from biodiversity inventories. The sale of only these listings will not generate US$
0.45 million per year. Furthermore, despite the 127 members from the ADIE network,
membership fees remain marginal (about US$ 50,000 per year). Thus, the full recovery of project
recurrent costs (US$ 1,160,873 in 5 years) by year five, after project completion (2008), will not
be possible because basically, the only source of funds is membership fees.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact was Modest in a sub-region where environmental matters
were initially given a very low priority. The REIMP supported the development of an improved
perception of natural resource management through the introduction of information systems
within administrations in charge of the management of natural resources. In fact, thanks to the
REIMP several sub-regional administrations in charge of the management of natural resources
launched processes to develop or to improve their forestry and biodiversity information
management systems. Because of its regional nature, the REIMP has also facilitated relations
between administrations across countries. Within countries, the establishment of networks of
users has enabled the improvement of relationships between public administrations, privates
companies and NGOs involved in the natural resources sector. The ADIE is an international
organization headquartered in Gabon, with a Steering Committee as its highest governing body,
headed by a President, and an Executive Secretariat as its managerial entity. A separate
Executive Secretariat is present in each member country, hosted in that country's ministry of
environment, or, if this does not exist, in the ministry of forestry or natural resources. As such, the
integration of information in decision-making is greatly facilitated for these ministries.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Three principal factors affected the implementation of the project that were not under the control
of Government or the implementing agency: (i) the inability of one of the donors to meet its
obligations for ADIE national units, (ii) problems with long-term technical assistance, and (iii)
civil strife.

The functioning of local implementing agencies was planned to be funded by the EU. After a
couple of years, these local agencies were not financially supported as expected, leading to a



                                                     - 13 -

critical staff drain that made it more difficult to implement the project. Only staff directly paid by
Governments remained in the project and in some countries only the national coordinator
remained. Consequently, project performance was affected.

Some donors, particularly the EU, provided technical experts to the project and paid them directly
without involving the management of the project. This situation created two groups within the
project: the sub-regional staff and the technical experts who did not consider themselves as part of
the project team but rather as donor representatives. This lack of harmony impacted the cohesion
of the team, particularly in the early period of the project. However, this weakness was entirely
resolved by June 2001, following staff changes in ADIE.

Civil strife that disturbed project implementation to some extent, particularly at the beginning,
took place in Central African Republic (CAR), in the Republic of Congo (RC) and in the
Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Social and political trouble in CAR started in 1996 and
never ceased completely. In RC, a civil war shook the country from 1998 to 1999. The uprisings
in the eastern part of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) did not significantly affect the
implementation of the project. It is noteworthy that the project continued to function in all
countries throughout these difficult times and that it developed into a cross-national professional
and technical support group of great importance to its members.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Two factors within the control of governments impacted project implementation and outcome: (i)
the appointment of staff, and (ii) the financing of local executing agencies.

Some staff appointed to local executing agencies had other occupations within the administration.
It is a credit to these members of staff that they shared their time between their two functions as
well as they could, but the timetable of some activities suffered from this particular circumstance.

Moreover, counterpart funds from Governments were not always forthcoming. This affected the
functioning of local executing agencies negatively.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Four types of factors were controlled by the implementing agency and might have affected the
project implementation: (i) the management of donors' procedures, (ii) the recruitment of local
consultants or staff, (iii) the fragile communication between the regional unit and country units,
and (iv) the designation of sub-regional staff to work with technical assistants.

The management of donors' procedures, particularly the management of financial procedures, was
weak and had an impact on the speed with which financial and procurement operations were
processed. The multiplicity of donors may have contributed to this situation, but on the other
hand the project did not recruit and train financial specialists in order to allow a smooth and easy
management of funds.




                                                    - 14 -

The recruitment of local consultants or staff may have been another critical factor. Very little
competitive bidding was launched in order to recruit the required skills. Consequently the quality
of some staff was an issue and this may have negatively affected the delivery of certain project
outputs.

The internal communication or the exchange of information between the regional unit and the
decentralized ones was sometimes not as easy as wished. This situation was created by the fact
that ADIE staff (regional and national) was learning how to manage a network and how to work
while being part of a system and a team. This weakness did not facilitate the fluidity of exchanges,
particularly at the beginning of the project.

The designation of sub-regional staff to work with technical assistants in order to ensure a
sustainable transfer of knowledge was not effective. It took some time before the ADIE realized
that the technical assistants were not effectively transferring any of the knowledge to regional or
local staff. Nevertheless, by the end of the project, this issue was clearly understood local staffs
were hired to work with technical assistants.


5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project costs was within the amount forecast at the appraisal, though slightly lower.
Adjustments had to be made in the cost composition since one of the components had to be scaled
down. The project was not extended from its original five-year period and cost of 4.08 million
dollars (GEF financing only). The GEF funding was fully disbursed. The total cost was US$ 18.5
million, compared to the Appraisal amount of US$ 19.41 million.).

Table 2: Financial Planning: GEF Grant and Co-financing




The following donors participated in the REIMP implementation

·       African Development Bank
·       Belgian Cooperation
·       Canadian Funds for Local Initiatives
·       CIDA
·       European Commission
·       French Cooperation
·       French Funds for Environment



                                                 - 15 -

·       Fonds Francophones pour les Inforoutes
·       GEF
·       GFIS
·       Governments
·       IFAD
·       Sweden Cooperation


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project sustainability is rated unlikely. The REIMP implementing agency, the ADIE, has been
set up as a permanent institution and its status has been improved as described previously.
Besides, in the context of its new mission the ADIE is going to use the tools and methodologies
developed during the REIMP implementation in particular, the meta-database, the web site, the
environmental libraries, the methodology for the production of EIAs, the methodology for the
implementation of observatories and the different information systems. The network of
environmental actors established within the sub-region is likely to remain established and grow
within and beyond the Congo Basin given the new status of the ADIE. Training activities will
continue and will be expanded to other countries in the region. At project closure, the ADIE was
working on the auto-financing mechanism for this activity. In 2003 the auto-financing rate was
40% (training fees). However, the financial independency of the ADIE, necessary to sustainably
maintain the investments made under the REIMP has not been achieved yet. The ADIE remains
weak and the agency has started a fund raising campaign that could be supported at first by the
financial involvement of member governments (they have engaged themselves to contribute for
about US$ 20,000 per year to the functioning of the inter-governmental agency) and later by the
implementation of new projects that the Agency is planning to prepare and to implement with the
support of various donors. The preparation of a second phase of the REIMP is being discussed
between ADIE and donors particularly between ADIE and the World Bank/GEF.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
No particular transitional arrangement to regular operations have been made. Almost all the
REIMP activities are already integrated in the regular operations of the ADIE and the ADIE is
trying to maintain normal operation, after project closure through annual contributions from
member states. However, a number of additional activities as well as consolidation of what was
done in the first phase would be necessary. The REIMP was the first phase of a process and it
may be useful to follow up with a second operation whose the preparation is being discussed
between the World Bank/GEF and the ADIE.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during project identification and preparation was Satisfactory. First, the
identification and the introduction of an innovative approach to better manage natural resources,



                                                  - 16 -

based on the management of information was well handled by the preparation team, which,
through the organization of several workshops, successfully disseminated the new concept. The
Bank was able to mobilize sub-regional representatives at technical and decisional levels, from
private and public sectors as well as civil society, to prepare the project, and to make sure that all
actors were involved and committed despite civil war in three of the seven countries and despite
the fact that some of these countries did not have at that time an active portfolio with the Bank
(Equatorial Guinea, Congo, DRC & CAR).

Second, during the same phase, the Bank successfully mobilized project preparation funds from
other donors such as the Belgian Cooperation and ensured the involvement in the project of major
donors in this sub-region such as the French Cooperation, the European Commission and the
African Development Bank. The Bank played a catalytic donor coordination role that proved to
be essential in involving traditional donors and bringing new ones in the sub-region.

Third, in a region where conflict of leadership was hampering a fruitful and operational
collaboration, a regional executing agency was successfully set up with the participation of all
countries.


7.2 Supervision:

The Bank supervision performance is rated Satisfactory in light of the results achieved by the
project. Bank supervision missions were regular and were executed by strong technical teams that
produced detailed aide-memoires with operational recommendations in order to correct project
shortcomings. These recommendations were always focused on domains such as: (i) general
management, (ii) financial management, (iii) communication, (iv) technical improvement, (v)
networking, and (vi) donor's platform management. To improve coordination between donors
and therefore the overall supervision of the REIMP, the Bank systematically invited other funding
agencies to join its own supervision missions in so-called multi-donor missions.

However, despite detailed recommendations regarding financial issues and meetings organized
with the project financial auditor, it might have been worth involving a financial specialist in Bank
missions. This aspect had not been satisfactorily handled.. The supervision of technical aspects,
including the REFLI, in the other hand was well conducted.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Considering the results achieved by the project as well as the catalytic role played by the Bank in
developing and disseminating the project concept and involving other donors, the overall Bank
performance is rated Satisfactory.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower performance during Preparation is rated Satisfactory. During the preparation phase



                                                 - 17 -

the Governments of the Congo Basin countries were completely mobilized and assigned their
experts to prepare the project. When needed, decisional or political level actors contributed
successfully to the preparation process. Moreover, despite the new approach to development
targeted by the REIMP, regional executives quickly picked up and assimilated the project
objectives. The creation of a regional organization to implement the REIMP was a key result of
the countries' willingness to go forward.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
Even though the sub-regional Governments were involved to a very limited extent in project
implementation, their performance is rated Satisfactory. The ADIE had a Board that was chaired
in turn by one of the environment ministries of the region. The Board played an active role and
took critical decisions to correct shortcomings in the management of the ADIE and the REIMP.
For instance, the Board changed the ADIE coordinator in 2001 to resolve recurrent management
issues. It is a tribute to cooperation between the member Governments that REIMP execution
took place harmoniously.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency performance is rated Satisfactory. The change of status and the
recognition from regional institutions like CEMAC and COMIFAC can be understood as a
consequence of the successful implementation of the REIMP. Regional representatives
demonstrated exceptional ability to handle new topics and to take regional leadership in all
questions related to the management of environmental information.

Although some weaknesses were noticed in the management of donors' procedures and in the
conception of an efficient communication strategy, ADIE was successful in establishing and
managing one of the first regional initiatives within the sub-region. In addition, important
technical results were achieved.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Recipient (Implementing agency, Governments) performance is rated Satisfactory by
taking into account the results achieved both in preparation and implementation phases. Despite
the mistakes that were made early in the project, the willingness and the technical ability of
regional and local teams as well as of the Governments were key in the accomplishment of project
objectives.


8. Lessons Learned

The lessons learned from the REIMP experience can be grouped under the following categories:

Category 1: Information as a key to improve environmental management

l The theme of promoting development by providing information proved to be a good way of
    bringing people together in a region that was      lacking a common tradition.



                                                 - 18 -

l It is possible to successfully introduce innovative development topics in a region by widely
  involving every active stakeholder from the very beginning. This was done very early during
  the preparation phase and was a key element of success.
l New, non-traditional project themes can be successfully introduced. The value of an
  information management project was recognised in the region, in spite of being the first
  regional project of its kind and in spite the fact that the region responded slowly to this
  non-traditional operation.
l Information as a key to improve environmental management requires an important adaptation
  of mindset. This could be done only by having groups of people sharing the same objective
  and having the same vision. Though, the management and the organization of decision groups
  should be a priority in the context of information projects.
l The needs of information users vary considerably over the time. Frequent user surveys should
  be done to make sure that the               information produced and the support used to
  spread it are the most suitable.


Category 2: Regional approach

l A regional approach has the advantage to enable economies of scale in creating and sharing
  information and knowledge
l A regional approach is an effective plat-form for donors coordination and allows to avoid
  duplication of initiatives.
l This approach, based on concrete cooperation on technical subjects, facilitates the
  development of regional integration.


Category 3: Sustainability and Support to the ADIE

l The financing of the implementing agency should be part of an agreement with donors.
l Sustainability mechanisms should be treated as priority and their appropriateness should be
  revised and discussed during the MTR.


Category 4: Management

l Management of projects should put more emphasis on linking financial management and
  monitoring & evaluation. The REIMP achieved a lot in this regard by putting in place early in
  the preparation phase an integrated financial and M&E system.
l In an innovative project good management of communication is necessary to show project
  results and to create a dynamic whereby more and more stakeholders as well as additional
  donors became supporters of the new approach thus increasing the chance of its sustainability
  and replicability.
l In the context of regional projects, the good functioning of local agencies is an important part
  of success and decentralized units should be funded and managed efficiently
l The project utilised a light and flexible management structure that proved practical (central




                                               - 19 -

    project office with decentralized national offices), which can be repeated in other projects, or
    continued in this project in the event of a second phase of financing.
l The regular execution of supervision missions, externally by the Bank, internally by the project
    implementation unit, and jointly with other donors ensured successful implementation, and
    should be retained in future.
l Project implementation units should retain sufficient flexibility to respond to immediate needs.
    The project successfully adapted at mid-term when it was realized that the processing of
    satellite data was more important than the production of new data


Category 5: Technical assistants and transfer of knowledge

l Technical experts recruited or appointed in project implementing agencies should ensure an
    adequate transfer of knowledge towards local executives.
l In order to ensure cohesion in teams, technical assistants should be managed by the Project
    Implementation Unit and report to the beneficiaries
l In future, the project should ensure better links with the private sector, as this sector is a key
    recipient of the information disseminated and produced by the project, and should include
    feedback mechanisms from the private sector, especially as it includes sectors with potentially
    high environmental impact e.g. manufacturing, transport, extraction and logging. Likewise,
    the project should set up mechanisms to ensure feedback of information from all stakeholders
    (government agencies, general public, NGOs, conservation groups, educational institutions,
    donors).

All these lessons, would be capitalized in the context of a follow up project that the ADIE would
prepare as stated in its strategy for the period 2004-2009, which was sent to the major donors of
the REIMP.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The implementing agency judged the project Satisfactory and was pleased with the catalytic role
played by the REIMP in making clear the importance of better management of decisional
information to reach a sustainable management of natural resources. The key role played by the
Bank in bringing other donors around the table as well as making Trust Funds available through
various Bank partnerships was recognized. Moreover, the financial support of the GEF that
permitted the functioning of the regional unit and the flexibility of the Bank in reallocating GEF
funds were very much appreciated. Nevertheless the ADIE wished to have smoother Bank
procedures in particular the principle of non-objection that was considered to have sometimes
slowed activities. The ADIE also wished more Bank guidance on financial management, which
was clearly recognized as a weakness, along with communication.


(b) Cofinanciers:




                                                 - 20 -

The REIMP co-financiers met during the ICR mission in Libreville were satisfied by the project
achievements and seemed mobilized to support a follow-up operation, to be proposed by ADIE.



(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

No formal consultation of stakeholders was conducted. However, some stakeholders, particularly
those from Gabon and DRC were met during the ICR mission. Although they were satisfied with
REIMP achievements given the uneasy regional context, they expressed the need to have a follow
up operation in order to consolidate and develop REIMP achievements. They recognized the
ambitiousness of the project and affirmed that it needed more than 5 years to complete the agenda
assigned to the project.


10. Additional Information



    GEF Review Criteria

In general, having been set during the preparation phase, the REIMP logical framework did not
change significantly except for the suspension of the activity that aimed to purchase aerial
photographs. This suspension was due to an evolution of user needs. At first, the photographs
were destined to go to the observatory of forest fires. After the observatory acquired the
equipment needed to produce its own photographs, it no longer required them from ADIE. It
migrated to the need for processing images rather than purchasing them. Second, aerial
photographs were also needed for the urban observatory. This activity was financed by another
donor (AfDB) who planned the necessary budget to cover all needs in aerial images.

Overall, the logical framework appeared to be perfectly adapted to the missions assigned to the
project. It was set in accordance with needs assessed during the preparation phase with
stakeholders from the Congo Basin. Later, it was enriched by lessons learned from ongoing
operations at that time in the region, in particular: GEFCongo, GEF Cameroon and PFE Gabon.
As presented in Section 4.2 (Outputs by components) project objectives, which was GEF
objectives as well since the project did not include IDA funds, were met even though, the project
ambitious agenda could not have been totally completed in 5 years.

a.      Country Ownership and public involvement

The commitment and ownership of Governments was extensive and critical through the
preparation and the implementation phase since the REIMP was a response to national NEAPs.
During the preparation phase Governments were mobilized at technical and political levels and to
implement the project highly qualified Government representatives (former ministers) were
appointed both regionally and locally. In terms of financial commitment, although not a
government agency, the PIU was located in Libreville (Gabon) in a building whose rent was paid
by the Gabonese Government. The local implementing agencies were also housed in buildings



                                                 - 21 -

owned by the ministries in charge of the management of natural resources. Private sector and
NGOs were also active. The workshops organized were attended by every stakeholder involved
either in the management of natural resources or in the communication sector. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) created to manage the project required the approval of each
participating government and expressed the willingness and the commitment of stakeholders.

Throughout implementation, beneficiaries' involvement remained strong and was reflected in the
ADIE board (the board was consisted in 3 representatives of each country composed by 1
member from the public administration, 1 member from the private sector, 1 member from the
local NGOs community), where public and private sectors as well as NGOs from each
sub-regional country were represented. The board was chaired by a minister from one of the 7
countries and played an important role in the management of the ADIE, and consequently in the
management of the project. The network of actors established by the REIMP included 127
agencies. Several of them benefited from either technical assistance or funds from the REFLI.
REFLI beneficiaries were frequently met during Bank supervision missions. Experts from the
network were often used in the context of EIAs. It is worth mentioning that the project was in
accordance with NEAPS and TFAPs produced in the region.


b.      Replication of the approach

The REIMP is a well-regarded project in terms of knowledge transfer inside and outside the
African continent. Indeed, the concept captured the attention of other regions and the results,
undoubtedly, supported this conviction. The SADC Region (Southern Africa) and the West
African Region expressed a desire to implement a project similar to the REIMP in their own
regions.

Outside the African continent, a project named Inter-American Biodiversity Information Network
(IABIN) is in preparation. This project is very similar to the REIMP and the Bank's team in
charge of the REIMP was asked to provide guidance for the IABIN preparation (peer review the
PCD). Although, objectives and activities in similar projects may be different from those of the
REIMP, it's the REIMP innovative approach based on a better management and dissemination of
information to improve, in turn, the management of biodiversity that holds attention.


c.      Financial Planning

All the project costs are given in the Annex 2 of the present ICR.

·       Identification of co-financing sources
With the support provided by the Bank, the ADIE was able to identify several sources of
co-financing funds as presented above in Table 2.


On the other hand, the project did not raise a lot of Leveraged Resources Leveraged Resources are



                                                - 22 -

additional resources-beyond those committed to the project itself at the time of approval-that are mobilized later as
a direct result of the project. with the exception of approximately US$ 84,000 from the Gabonese
Government through the PFE to support the implementation of high-level training in
environmental topics, counterpart funds of approximately US$ 300,000 from communities
implementing REFLI projects, US$ 66,000 from GFIS (ADIE is a node of the GFIS network) and
US$ 15,000 from REDDA.

·         Financial control
Even though the executing agency was able to disburse project funds, the financial management
was weak, particularly the planning of available resources and their efficient use. This situation
was created by the lack of a confirmed expert in finance, the lack of a financial dashboard and a
weakness in the complete mastery of the financial management software.

·         Due diligence
The financial audits were executed in accordance with the grant agreement and with Bank
procedures. Although not often on time, annual audit reports were always transmitted to the
Bank. No major issues were raised in the reports.


d.        Cost-effectiveness

·         Compliance with the incremental criteria
In agreement with the incremental criteria, GEF funds were used with others as stated in Table 2.
In addition they served to finance activities that would not have been financed otherwise, such as
the development of project management tools, the support to the regional coordination or the
development of the environmental dashboard.

The GEF role allowed the creation of a hub from which other donors started their own action.

·         Completion of planned activities
The GEF project was completed on time. It lasted 5 years and the GEF funding of US $4.08
million was fully disbursed at closing.


e.        Monitoring & Evaluation

Monitoring and evaluation was one of the strengths of the project and served to monitor project
activities as well as micro-project financed by the REFLI. The project implemented one of the first
monitoring and evaluation systems within the sub-region and hired the first expert on monitoring
systems from the sub-region. The system was established at regional and national units. Each
country hired a M&E person who was trained by the regional expert. A monitoring and evaluation
implementation manual was produced to describe the functioning of the system and present the
indicators that would be used during the project. The system allowed the frequent production of
monitoring reports (monthly, quarterly, semesterly and annually) that permitted the supervision
teams to assess the evolution of activities and to correct shortcomings that occurred during



                                                      - 23 -

project implementation. The system was replicated in other projects within the sub-region like the
PFE Gabon. Experts from the REIMP supported the installation of the system and provided the
necessary training. Although, the REIMP and the ADIE succeeded in promoting M&E systems in
the Congo Basin, it is worth mentioning that the early days were not easy because actors involved
in the project were discovering this new system of accountability.




                                              - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR            Actual/Latest Estimate
A01 - Number of membership requests to the (Target value at appraisal: 10) 197    103
Regional Implementing Agency (Number of
requests per year.)
A03 - Information requests received by        (200) 500                           516
ADIE's Metadata information system (number
of monthly requests)
B02 - Number of requests received by ADIE (10) 130                                82
from decision-makers related to land use
planning (Number of requests per year)
B03 - Number of main legal documents          (5) 30                              17
quoting ADIE (laws, decrees, regulations,
national plans,per year and per country)
B06 - Turnover from general-public products ( 50,000) 80,000                      10,000
sales (per year, US $ equivalent)
C01 - Turnover from product and services      (200,000) 150,000                   40,000
sales (per year, US $ equivalent)
D02 - Turnover of REIMP agencies (per year, (200,000) 350,000                     80,000
US $ equivalent)
E03 - Number of REFLI requests received       (25) 30                             64
(Number of requests per year)


Output Indicators:
                                                                             1
               Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR            Actual/Latest Estimate
A02 - Bendings to the Data Exchange Policy (<5) <20                               <35
(Number of bendings constated, per year)
A04 - Average delay to provide information    (<7) <12                            <12
after requests' reception (Number of hours)
A05 - Rate of information requests that could (80%) 100%                          100%
be answered (Percentage)
B01 - Number of proposal sent by ADIE to      (10) 150                            213
decision-makers related to environmental
information (Number of requests per year)
B04 - Number of copies of Environmental       (1000) NA                           NA
Report disseminated each year per country
(Number of copies per year)
B05 - Quality of the Regional Environmental   (1) NA                              NA
Report (reviewed by the Scientific
Committee) (Quality ratio : from 1 (bad) to 5
(excellent))
C02 - Savings on gross data (Per year, US $ (600,000) 150,000                     NA
equivalent)
C03 - Area covered by topographic and land (20%) 6.5 %                            6.5%
use maps (scale more than 1 : 200 000)
(Percentage of the total region area)
C04 - Protected areas provided with flaura    (20%) 13.3%                         13.3%
and fauna inventories by the project
(Percentage of the region's protected sites
area)
C05 - Protected areas provided with           (10%) NA                            NA
biodiversity inventories or conservation plan
by the project (Percentage of the region's
protected sites area)
C06 - Area including enough inventoried       (40%) NA                            NA
information for the seting-up of a zoning plan




                                                              - 25 -

or a local development plan (Percentage of
the total region area)
C07 - Area covered with a zoning plan or a       (10%) NA             NA
local development plan (Percentage of the
total region area)
C08 - Area covered with a local development (3%) NA                   NA
plan, including biodiversity conservation with
neighbourhing population rights of use taken
into account (Percentage of the total region
area)
D01 - Number of Staff-years of training          (240) 300            300
provided to technicians and decision-makers
in the region (Total time (in year unit) for the
whole staff)
E01 - Percentage of ADIE self-financing part (100%) 12%               40%
in its annual budget (Rate (margin divided by
fixed expenses))
E02 - ADIE's Overhead costs rate (Rate           (<10%) 13%           17%
(overhead divided by total expense))
E04 - Delay to answer to REFLI requests          (20) 30              60
(Number of days)
E05 - Numbers of REFLI requests                  (NA) 40              26
implemented (Number of implemented
requests per year)
E06 - External dynamic : Number of agencies (NA) 15                   3
under ADIE paying service contract (Number
of agencies per country)

1 End of project




                                                            - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Network creation and service                                   0.04             0.52          1300
Decision-Making and communication                              0.15             0.82           546
User-oriented Production                                       2.17             0.44          20.3
Capacity building                                              0.16             0.30         187.5
Regional coordination of the project and financing of a        1.56             2.00           133
Regional for Local Initiatives

Total Baseline Cost                                            4.08             4.08
                          Total Project Costs                  4.08             4.08
                  Total Financing Required                     4.08             4.08


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB               2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                             0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.35             0.87         0.00          0.00        1.22
                                    (0.27)           (0.67)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.94)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
4. Operational Cost                  0.00             0.00         2.63          0.00        2.63
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.01)          (0.00)     (2.01)
5. Aerial Photograph                 0.00             0.00         1.46          0.00        1.46
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.12)          (0.00)     (1.12)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                             0.35             0.87         4.09          0.00        5.31
                                    (0.27)           (0.67)      (3.13)          (0.00)     (4.07)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB               2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                             0.00             0.00        0.00           0.00       0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00             0.00        0.37           0.00       0.37
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.47)         (0.00)     (0.47)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00        1.63           0.00       1.63
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.14)         (0.00)     (2.14)


                                                  - 27 -

   4. Operational Cost                      0.00               0.00              2.07             0.00              2.07
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.70)            (0.00)           (2.70)
   5. Aerial Photograph                     0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00               0.00              4.07             0.00              4.07
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (5.31)            (0.00)           (5.31)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Network creation and            0.04         0.07         0.92        0.52         0.05       1.36      1300.0     71.4    147.8
service
Decision-making and             0.15         0.24         1.15        0.82         0.16       1.30       546.7     66.7    113.0
communication
User-Oriented Production        2.17         0.94         3.07        0.44         0.63       2.85       20.3      67.0     92.8
Capacity building               0.16         0.60         3.44        0.30         0.40       3.16       187.5     66.7     91.9
Regional coordination of        1.50         0.72         4.18        2.00         0.48       3.65       133.3     66.7     87.3
the project and financing
of a Regional Fund for
Local Initiatives (REFLI)




                                                           - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

NA




                                      - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/1995                   5    MISSION LEADER (1)               HS             HS
                                             BIODIVERSITY EXPERT (1)
                                             INFORMATION SYSTEM
                                             EXPERTS (2)
                                             AGRO-ECONOMIST (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/1997                 15     MISSION LEADER (1)               HS             HS
                                             LAWYER (1)
                                             FOREST &
                                             ENVIRONMENT EXPERTS
                                             (6)
                                             INFORMATION SYSTEM
                                             SPECIALISTS (5)
                                             SOCIAL EXPERT (1)
                                             ECONOMIST (1)

              09/1997                   5    MISSION LEADER (1)               HS             HS
                                             INFORMATION SYSTEM
                                             EXPERTS (3)
                                             LAWYER (1)

 Supervision
              05/1998                   1    MISSION LEADER (1)               S               S
              09/1998                   2    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             INFORMATION SYST. SPEC
                                             (1)
              04/1999                   3    MISSION LEADER (1)               S               S
                                             INFORMATION SYSTEM
                                             EXPERT (1)
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              06/1999                   4    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             INFORMATION SPECIALIST
                                             (2); SOCIOLOGIST (1)
              11/1999                   2    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             INFORMATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1);
              11/2000                   3    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                             INFORMATION SYSTEM
                                             EXPERT (1)
                                             FORESTER (1)

              06/2001 (MTR)             3    MISSION LEADER (1)               S               S
                                             FORESTER (1)
                                             INFORMATION SYSTEM



                                              - 30 -

                                            EXPERT (1)


               11/2001                 2    MISSION LEADER (1)
                                            FORESTER (1)

               11/2002                 3    MISSION LEADER (1)
                                            FORESTER (1)
                                            INFORMATION SYSTEM
                                            EXPERT (1)

 ICR
               06/2003                2     MISSION LEADER (1)                S    S
                                            MEMBER (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               80                          250
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  134                           150
  Supervision                            186                           401
  ICR                                       7                           45
  Total                                  407                           846




                                            - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


l Global Environment Facility ­ TF Agreement, September 1997

l Central Africa Region, Regional Environmental Information Management Program ­ Staff

  Appraisal report, December 1997, WB

l Project Status Reports from 1998 to 2003

l Supervision aide-memoirs from 1998 to 2003

l Monitoring reports from ADIE


l Rapport synthèse de fin de projet, ADIE ­ July 2003




                                            - 34 -

- 35 -

