Page  1
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 028371
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Regional Environmental Information Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the
Global Environment Facility
and
Association pour le Développement de l’Information Environnementale
dans la Sous-Region du Bassin du Congo
Dated March 24, 1998
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF 028371
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 24, 1998, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the 
Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust 
Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF and Association pour le 
Développement de l’Information Environnementale dans la Sous-Région du Bassin du 
Congo, a non-governmental organization registered under the laws of the Republic of 
Gabon (the Recipient).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of 
the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are continued 
in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank establishing the GEF Trust Fund;
(C)
the countries signatories of the Memorandum of Understanding on 
Cooperation in the Field of Environmental Information executed on July 3, 1997 (the 
Memorandum of Understanding), which are at present the Central African Republic, the 
Republic of the Congo, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Republic of 
Equatorial Guinea, the Republic of Gabon and the Republic of Cameroon (the Congo Basin 
Region Countries), having satisfied themselves as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested assistance from 
the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, and the Bank has 
determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of 
Resolution No. 94-2 referred to above;
(D)
each of the Congo Basin Region Countries has addressed a letter to the  
Bank, requesting the Bank to make the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund directly 
available to the Recipient and has undertaken, inter alia, to take all action 
necessary to assist the Recipient in the carrying out of its obligations under this 
Page  2
Agreement; and
(E)
the Recipient intends to contract from the European Union (EU) a grant in 
the amount of four million European Currency Units (ECU 4,000,000) to assist in 
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the EU Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the EU and the Recipient;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 
6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read 
as follows: "the term "Special Drawing Rights" and the symbol 
"SDR" mean special drawing rights as valued by the International 
Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the 
term "Bank" shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity;
(iii)
the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account;
Page  3
(vii)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: "Except 
as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of 
the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations."; 
(viii)a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (j) in Section 6.02 
of the General Conditions, as follows: "an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF.";
(ix)
the first sentence of Section 10.01 is deleted; and
(x)
Section 10.04 is modified to read: "Any dispute arising out of or 
relating to this Agreement which is not settled by agreement 
between the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in 
accordance with the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules in force on the 
date of this Agreement. The place of arbitration shall be 
Washington, D.C. In the event of a conflict between the UNCITRAL 
Arbitration Rules and the terms of this Agreement, the terms of 
this Agreement shall govern."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Implementation Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered into 
between the Recipient and a National Management Unit (as hereinafter defined) or an 
Implementing Agency (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to paragraph (c) of Section 3.01 
of this Agreement;
(b)
"Implementing Agency" means any of the agencies or entities in any of the 
Congo Basin Region Countries with execution responsibilities in the field of 
environmental information management, which shall have been selected by the Recipient 
for the purpose of  carrying out a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to an 
Implementation Agreement;
(c)
 "Manual of Procedures" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, to be 
issued pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
containing, inter alia, the operating procedures for the execution of the Project, the 
criteria for selecting Implementing Agencies and eligibility of Subprojects and the 
model form of Implementation Agreements, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes any schedules to the Manual of Procedures;
(d)
"National Management Team" means a team of professionals, including a 
coordinator and  related staff at the national level, charged with responsibilities in 
the implementation of Project-related activities and with the administrative 
coordination among Implementing Agencies;
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(f)
"Subproject" means an activity to be implemented by an Implementing 
Agency or a National Management Team under an Implementation Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million nine hundred seventy 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,970,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
Page  4
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement: (i) for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant; and (ii) 
amounts paid (or if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals 
made for the benefit of an Implementing Agency under a Subproject the reasonable cost 
of eligible expenditures related to such Subproject and in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account is requested.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
CFA Francs a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and managerial practices and with due regard to ecological 
and environmental factors and applicable international guidelines in the field of 
environment, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
enter into Implementation Agreements with each Implementing Agency or National 
Management Team which shall have been selected by the Recipient to carry out project 
activities on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth 
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under each Implementing Agreement 
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of this Agreement and, except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive such Implementing Agreement or any 
provisions thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
Page  5
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Recipient shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 5.02. The Recipient shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, technical and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 5.03. The Recipient shall at all times operate and maintain its 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial, technical and environmental practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
Any of the Congo Basin Region Countries shall have taken any action for 
the dissolution of the Recipient or the suspension of its operations.
Page  6
(b)
Any of the Congo Basin Region Countries shall have taken any action 
which, in the opinion of the Bank, may adversely affect, prevent or interfere with the 
carrying out of the Project or any part thereof, or the achievement of its objectives, 
including, without limitation, the enactment or issuance of legislation or regulations 
with such effect.
(c)
Any of the Congo Basin Region Countries shall have failed to afford a 
reasonable opportunity for representatives of the Bank to visit any part of their 
territory for purposes related to the Project, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the relevant Implementation Agreements.
(d)
The Recipient shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature or 
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by the Recipient or by any others 
whereby any of the assets of the Recipient shall or may be distributed among its 
creditors.
(e)
The right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the EU Agreement 
for the financing of the Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the EU Agreement, unless the Recipient 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (i) such suspension, cancellation, 
termination is not caused by the failure of the Recipient to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Recipient from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the EU Agreement has been executed and delivered between the Recipient 
and the European Union for the financing of project activities in the field of 
environmental information management, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank; and
(b)
the Manual of Procedures  has been approved by the Bank and adopted by 
the Recipient. 
Section 7.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all 
their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Regional Coordinator of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Association pour le Développement de l’Information 
   Environnementale dans la Sous-Region du Bassin du Congo
Boite Postale 4080 
Libreville
Gabon
E-Mail:
prgie_urgc@compuserve.com
For the Bank:
Page  7
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Washington, D.C., U.S.A., as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
ASSOCIATION POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT DE
   L’INFORMATION ENVIRONNEMENTALE DANS
   LA SOUS-REGION DU BASSIN DU CONGO
By /s/ Mamiah Jean Roger
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods and vehicles
220,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’ services
360,000
100%
and training
(3)
Aerial photographies
800,000
100%
and satellite images
(4)
Recipient’s Operating costs 1,300,000
100%
(5)
Unallocated
290,000
TOTAL
    2,970,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of any of the Congo Basin Region Countries for goods or 
Page  8
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of any of the 
Congo Basin Region Countries;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
of the Congo Basin Region Countries or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any of the Congo Basin Region Countries; provided, however, that if the 
currency of any of the Congo Basin Region Countries is also that of another country 
which is not one of the Congo Basin Region Countries from the territory of which goods 
or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services 
shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and
(c)
"Recipient’s operating costs" means expenditures required for mission 
travel and allowances for the Recipient’s staff, telecommunications, purchase and 
maintenance of office equipment, vehicles, supplies and audit.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) in respect of a Subproject, unless the corresponding Implementation 
Agreement has been concluded in accordance with procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, works and 
services under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve and strengthen the management and 
planning of natural resources and their utilization in the Congo Basin Region 
Countries.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Network Creation
Carrying out of Subprojects in order to foster involvement of decision makers in 
the utilization of environmental information, aiming at a full utilization of such 
information, through: (a) increasing the availability of information and strengthening 
the dissemination structures by establishing documentation centers and catalogs of 
databases; (b) developing a framework to integrate and promote the utilization of the 
results of the analysis of environmental information and natural resource management 
practices; (c) carrying out of workshops at the national and local levels, based on 
participatory approaches; and (d) improvement of the communication facilities, 
including provision of basic telephone facilities and internet connectivity in 
selected areas of the Congo Basin Region Countries.
Part B:
Assistance to Decision-Making and Improvement of Communication tools
1.
Carrying out of Subprojects for the development of reliable information database 
on natural resources and biological diversity.
2.
Carrying out of Subprojects for the dissemination of the information generated 
in paragraph 1 above to local populations, national decision makers and the public at 
large.
Part C:
Generation of Information and Decision-Making Products
Carrying out of Subprojects for the enhancement and development of information 
tools related to rural and peri-urban land planning of natural resource utilization, 
through: (a) generating topographical and land cover maps, remote sensing products, 
thematic maps and georeferenced databases; (b) developing planning tools including 
Page  9
land use zoning, forest and biodiversity management plans and coastal risk mitigation 
plans; and (c) developing monitoring tools in order to track environmental 
degradation.
Part D:
National Capacity Building.
1.
Carrying out of Subprojects for training, provision of technical assistance, 
transfer of technology and upgrading of equipment, as appropriate, in the Congo Basin 
Region Countries.
2.
Carrying out of Subprojects for the establishment of Centers of Excellence in 
each country devoted to important subjects of common interest for the sub-region, such 
as biodiversity, forestry, peri-urban and coastal environmental issues.
Part E:
Project Management.
Provision of technical assistance to the Recipient in the carrying out of the 
Project.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods, aerial photographies and satellite images shall be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans 
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods, aerial 
photographies and satellite images shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of 
Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods, aerial photographies and satellite images estimated to cost less than 
$400,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,100,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines, provided that the Bank agrees that such goods, 
aerial photographies and satellite images can only be purchased from a limited number 
of suppliers.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods, aerial photographies and satellite images estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
International and National Shopping
Goods, aerial photographies and satellite images estimated to cost less than 
$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international and 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  10
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project, which shall be included in the Yearly Work Plan 
referred to under paragraph 3 of Schedule 4, shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods, aerial photographies and satellite images 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods, aerial photographies and 
satellite images estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for the financial audits required under the Grant Agreement may be 
procured  under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  11
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Recipient’s Personnel.
The Recipient shall maintain a Project Unit headed by a regional coordinator 
whose qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank and shall 
include other qualified professional and support staff in adequate numbers as shall be 
required for the effective implementation of the Project.
2.
Manual of Procedures
(a)
The  Project shall be executed in accordance with the provisions of a 
Manual of Procedures approved by the Bank. 
(b)
The Manual of Procedures shall contain, inter alia: (i) the procedures 
for the carrying out of procurement activities by the Recipient; (ii) the procedures 
for financial monitoring of the Project; (iii) the procedures for financial reporting 
to the Bank; (iv) the detailed criteria for the selection of Subprojects and of the 
Implementing Agencies or National Management Teams to be charged with their 
implementation; (v) a model Implementation Agreement; (vi) the procedures for review 
and approval of annual work programs; and (vii) the procedures for periodical reviews 
of the Project to be undertaken jointly with the Bank pursuant to paragraph 6 of this 
Schedule.
(c)
The Recipient shall not amend or waive such Manual of Procedures without 
the prior written approval of the Bank.
3.
Annual work programs.
The Recipient shall submit, not later than September 30 of each year during the 
duration of this Agreement, an annual work program for the implementation of project 
activities. Such annual work program shall contain, inter alia, the activities 
proposed to be carried out in each of the Congo Basin Region Countries, and shall be 
subject to review and approval by the Bank. Following approval of the annual work 
program by the Bank, the recipient shall formally adopt it and implement all project 
activities in accordance thereto. Modifications of the annual work program shall 
require the prior written approval of the Bank.
Page  12
4.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects.
Without limitation to all other provisions of this Agreement, unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of this Agreement unless the Recipient has determined, on the basis of an 
appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Manual of 
Procedures, that the Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified below and 
in more detail in the Manual of Procedures, which shall include, inter alia, the 
following:
(a)
with respect to the location of the project activities, in order for 
Subproject activities to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
in a given country, it shall be required that such country shall have signed and 
ratified the Memorandum of Understanding and addressed a letter to the Bank requesting 
the Bank to make available the proceeds of this Agreement directly to the Recipient; 
and
(b)
with respect to the nature and scope of the Subproject activities: (i) 
the nature of the Subproject activities shall be fully coherent with the objectives of 
the Memorandum of Understanding and with the Project objectives contained in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement; and (ii) the scope and budget of the Subproject activities shall 
be consistent with that contained in the approved annual work program.
5.
Terms and conditions of Implementing Agreements.
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Implementation Agreements, to be 
concluded between the Recipient and Implementing Agencies or National Management 
Teams, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter 
alia, the following:
(a)
financing will be on a grant basis;
(b)
the obligation to carry out the Subproject in accordance with the Manual 
of Procedures, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
environmental, technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate 
records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Subproject;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the goods and services to be financed from the 
proceeds of the Implementation Agreement shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be 
used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(d)
the right of the Recipient to inspect, by itself, or jointly with the 
Bank, if the Bank shall so request, the goods and services included in the Subproject 
and any relevant records and documents, subject to any restriction agreed between the 
Bank and the Recipient concerning the territory of any of the Congo Basin Region 
Countries;
(e)
the right of the Recipient to obtain all information as the recipient or 
the Bank shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operations and 
financial conditions of the Subproject; and 
(f)
the right of the Recipient to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Implementing Agency or National Management Team to use the proceeds of the 
Implementation Agreement upon failure of the Implementing Agency or National 
Management team to perform any of their obligations under the Implementation 
Agreement.
6.
Project Reviews
The Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
Page  13
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
undertake, in conjunction with the Bank, yearly reviews of the progress 
of the Project, based on reports prepared in a format satisfactory to the Bank and 
submitted quarterly during the execution of the Project;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about  March 31, 2001, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(d)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2001, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to CFA Francs 
150,000,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, 
that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to CFA Francs 75,000,000, until  the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,300,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
Page  14
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the  Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated 
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories  
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
Page  15
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
