Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Rejot No. 9106
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
(LOAN 2192 -CO)
NOVEMBER 9, 1990
ition and Human Resources Operations Division
ry Department III
America and the Caribbean Regional Office
ment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
bl' duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



ABBREVIATIONS
DNP    -  National Planning Department
FER    -  Regional Education Fund
FONDO  -  Fund of the Ministry of Education
ICCE   -  Colombian Institute for School Construction
MEN    -  National Ministry of Education
MIS    -  Management Information System
SAP    -  Special Action Program
Key Terms
Escuela Nueva            A type of primary school in Colombia based on multigrade
teaching with special methods and learning material.,
designed to provide a full five-year primary program in
small rural schools.
Nuclearization System   A system for the administration of schools, which
organizes schools in the same geographic area into
clusters in which one of the schools serves as a center
for the provision of administrative and supervisory
services.  The clusters are organized into a network
linking clusters to a district and the districts to the
Department (State).
Nucleo                   A cluster of 8-15 schools linked to a district.



THE WORLD BANK                  1oa ornAL US ONY
Washemton, D.C 20433
U.S.A.
olac. of De.ctavGwja
Opesatim IVAhitasn
November 9, 1990
4ORMNDUM TO TUI  EECUTIVIE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Projoct Completion Reports  COLONBLA - Rural Primary
Education Subsector Proiect - (Loan 2192-CO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
'Project Completion Report:  Colombia - Rural Primary Education
Subsector Project (Loan 2192-CO)" prepared by the Latin America and the
Caribbean Regional Office, with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
I This docunent has a restricted distribuzion and may be used by reciPients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT
(Loan 2192-CO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pace No.
PREFACE   ..........................................................                                                                   i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                      ........................    iii
I.    PROJECT   REVIEW   FROM   BANK'S  PERSPECTIVE   .......................                                                          1
Project Identity .................................................                                                                     1
Project  Background ...............................................                                                                    1
Project  Objective   and  Description ................................                                                                 2
Project Design and Organization ..................................                                                                     2
Project Implementation ...........................................                                                                     3
Project Results ..................................................                                                                     5
Project Sustainability ...........................                                                                                     6
Bank Performance .................................................                                                                     7
Borrower Performance .............................................                                                                     7
Project Relationships ............................................                                                                     8
Consulting Services ..............................................                                                                     8
Project Documentation ......... ................. .................                                                                    8
II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ..................                                                                     9
The Bank's Performance ...........................................                                                                     9
-i'-e '.,rrower's Performance .......................................                                                                  10
Effectiveness of the Relationship Between the Bank and Borrower..                                                                       12
III. PROJECT PROFILE AT TIME OF COMPLETION
Related Bank Loans ...............................................                                                                     13
Project Timetable ................................................                                                                     14
Loan Disbursements ........................  .                                                                                         15
Project   Implementation ...........................................                                                                   16
Project CostB ....................................................                                                                     17
Project Financing ................................................                                                                     18
Allocation of Loan Proceeds .......                                                                                                     19
Project Results ..................................................                                                                     20
Project Studies ..................................................                                                                     21
Status of Loan Covenants .........................................                                                                     26
Use of Bank Resources ............................................                                                                     29
Mission Data .....................................................                                                                     30
Basic Data Sheet .................................................                                                                     31
ANNEXES
Annex I - The Escuela Nueva ......................................                                                                     33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT (LOAN 2192-CO}
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Rural Primary
Education Subsector Project in Colombia, for which Loan 2192-CO in the amount
of US$15.0 million was approved on July 27, 1982.  The loan was closed on
March 31, 1989, 33 months behind schedule. The total amount disbursed was
US$14,122,514 due to the cancellation of US$877,486. The last disbursement
was on May 5, 1989.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Human Resources Division of
the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, Department III (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started in November 1989 and is
based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Loan, Guarantee, and
Project Agreements; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION SUBSECTOR PROJECT - (LOAN 2192-CO}
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Prior to this project the Bank assisted Colombia in financing four separate
education projects, each of which was directed at improvements of secondary
education through the introduction of diversification in the curriculum. For
the Bank this was its first project in Colombia to address the main issues of
rural primary education.  It was also the first project in the LAC Region to
utilize the sector lending approach in an education project. It was designed
as the first of two phases in a ten-year development program for the subsector.
The second phase was initiated in 1988 with the Second Subsector Project for
Primary Education (Loan 3010-CO).   The project was appraised in two stages
(September 1981 and March 1982) and received Board approval in July 1982. (Total
costs were estimated at US$36.2 million, of which US$15.0 million was financed
by the loan.) Project completion required almost seven years; 39 months longer
than projected.  Actual project costs at completion were US$32.9 million (9%
below the appraisal estimate).   The main reasons for this variance were:
devaluation of local currency, economies realized during implementation, and some
over-estimation of costs during appraisal.
Obiectives and Prolect Content
2.    The project aimed to strengthen rural primary education in the context of
broader national objectives to decentralize and integrate social services in
rural areas. Improvemerit of rural primary education was pursued by (a) increas-
ing school completion rates; (b) increasing learning efficiency; and (c) improv-
ing the quality of subsector management. Using the sector approach--which speci-
fied that subprojects be prepared by local teams according to agreed eligibility
criteria and guidelines--the project called for the development and implementa-
tion of regional subprojects with inputs that consisted of: textbooks, equipment,
furniture, school supervision, teacher training, and school building rehabilita-
tLon. These inputs were used to replicate the highly successful school model
developed in Colo.Abia and known as Escuela Nueva. A series of national programs
were also included, consisting of assisting the National Ministry of Education
(MEN) to improve its management information system (MIS), studies in educational
research and evaluation, textbock printing, and furniture procurement.
Implementation
3.    Implementation was marred by delays (final completion came 39 months later
than the originally planned date) which were caused by: a complicated project
management structure, which MEN could not handle until the structure   was
modified; cumbersome public administration procedures; a  'ccasional intervals
of shortages of counterpart funds.   The wisdom of usinj the sector lending
approach for a project of such limited scope was questioned during project
development. During project execution, following the original design of project



iv
management, local groups were essentially unable to identify and prepare
subproject proposals. Appraisal and approval procedures of MEN became enmeshed
in lengthy and ill-defined processes. In retrospect, implementation may have been
more effectively conducted if a more traditional project design had been used.
Project Results
4.    The general nature of the stated project objectives, coupled with their
linkage to a broader ten year program, make it difficult to determine precisely
how well they were met. However, the two objectives dealing with improving
completion rates and learning efficiency were met to an acceptable degree, but
the third objective, relative to improving subsector management, was met only
to a limited extent. The main thrust of the project was to introduce the Escuela
Nueva model, previously tested on a quite small scale in the selected rural areas
The main project targets were met or exceeded with the exception of the classroom
construction/repair program. Finally, a major and high quality report on the
educaticn sector (organization, management and fina;ce) was prepared and issued.
Prolect Sustainabilitv
5.    There are good indications that project sustainability will extend well
into the future, given the continuation of the Government's policy of high
priority support for rural primary education and its goal of extending the
Escuela l.eva model nationwide.  The Government's commitment to this policy was
confirmed by its follow-up project, the Secona Subsector Project for Primary
Education, which is also receiving Bank financial assistance (under Loan 3010-
CO). Risk factors that merit attention are: weak rural school management at the
local level; and the effects of a relatively new decentralization program
transferring management functions to local municipalities.
Lessons Learned
6.    The main lessons learned from the experience of this project are:  (a)
The sector lending approach should be very selective in its usage, especially
in the education sector where chronically weak management systems seem to be
the rule rather than the exception. Sufficient managerial capacity on the part
of the prospective borrower should be a sine aua non for sector lending projects.
(b) Even if the prospective Borrower possesses good managerial capacity, the Bank
should be flexible in applying its guidelines for project development under
sector lending. For example, project execution improved when responsibilities
for subproject processing were changed to correspond more with existing
administrative arrangements, rather than the originally imposed and artificial
division between local groups and a control team. (c) The appraisal of projects
with new and innovative management models should include a rigorous check that
ensures that all operational procedures   are based on, or congruent with,
existing administrative practices and procedures.   (d) The sector lending
approach can be enhanced by designing sector projects which would be implemented
in two or three phases, with the scope of the first phase being limited to a
pilot type of operaticn which would serve to provide the Borrower with sufficient
training and experience to handle the implementation of subsequent phases with
greater success.   The value of having all arrangements for project start-up
completed in advance is also confirmed through experience with the project: it
took some 18 months to ready the project organization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION
(LOAN 2192-CO}
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Proiect Identity
- Project Name:  Rural Primary Education Subsector Project
- Loan No.:       2192-CO
- RVP Unit:      Latin American and Caribbean Region,
Country Department III
- Country:        Colombia
- Sector:         Education
- Subsector:      Primary Education
B.   Proiect Backaround
1.    Sector Develooment Obiectives.  At the time of appraisal the G;'ver-ient's
development plan (Plan for National Integration, 1979-82) identified objectives
for the improvement of education at all levels from preschool to higher
education. The plan, however, clearly selected rural primary education as th.
highest priority within the sector, and established the general objectives of:
(a) increasing the rates of student retention in school to improve school
completion rates; and (b) improving the quality of rural schooling by making it
more responsive to the socio-economic and cultural needs of the rural population.
2.    Policy Context.   The national development plan embraced the policy of
integrating the provision of social services, thus linking education, health
and social welfare with the aim of increasing the impact of those services on
the rural population. This policy fostered the development of more integrated
services in each of the social sectors for the purpose of enhancing efficiency
and cost-effectiveness.   Decentralization of administrative and operational
responsibilities was yet another policy embodied in the plan, with the
expectation that the social sectors would start the process of eventually
transferring management control to the local level.
3.    Linkaaes Between Proiect. Sector and Macro Policy Obiectives.  There were
excellent design linkages between the objectives of the project and those of the
sector and its policies. The project was mainly directed at the Government's
first priority, rural primary education, and the highly successful model of
Escuela Nueva was to be replicated in the project area with its integrated
educational packages of textbooks, teacher training, specialized methodology,
furniture and equipment, and improved classrooms. Further, the management design
established a structure for decentralization.



C.   Proiect Obiectives and DescriRtion
4.    Proiect Objectives.   Using the subsector approach the project sought to
improve rural primary education by (a) increasing rural primary school completion
rates; (b) increasing learning efticiency in the schools; and (c) improving the
quality of management of the subsector.
5.    Project Coimiponents.   In keeping with its sector approach, the project
called for the development and implementation of regional subprojects consisting
of integrated packages of inputs fo-: the rural schools being served.   These
packages included textbooks, school equipment, minimal rehabilitation of school
buildings,  school supervision and teacher training.   In addition there were
national s' )rojects which encompassed the development of a national management
informatior. system (MIS) in the Nazional Ministry of Education (MEN), educational
research and evaluation,  textbook printing and furniture procurement.   The
packaged inputs for the rural schools were those required for establishing a
particular rural school model known as Escuela Nueva in the project area (Annex
I).
D.    Proiect Design and Organization
6.    The project was among the first group of World Bank projects using the
sector lending approach in education, and as such it was the first of its kind
in education in the LAC region.   Consequently,  its  design was considered
innovative and potentially risky, mainly because of its implementation management
structure, which involved the process of implementation from the bottom-up in
a rural environment where the infrastructure for management was known to be weak.
The process called for the development of local subprojects, which in turn would
be processed through the coordinated interaction of local, departmental and
national entities and their respective management committees.   Acting as the
intermediary, MEN approved fundirg for the subprojects through its National
Management Committee, whose operational arm was a technical unit headed by a
National Executive Secretariats.
7.    Although the project had a clear conceptual foundation, there were elements
of the design that rested c,n untried assumptions, some of which proved to be
inappropriate in part or in whole.  During project preparation both the Bank
and the Borrower made every effort to ensure that there was a clear understanding
of the project among all participating parties, but the complexity of the
proposed management structure Lmade that goal elusive. In fact, the process of
preparing the main participants for project implementation had to be carried out
twice, because there was a change of government shortly after the loan was
signed, and this required repeating the preparation and orientaticn process with
the new group of top level officials. In this particular regard, the timing of
project development was not convenient.
8.    The original, overly complex design of the management structure was largely
responsible for the long delay experienced by the Borrower in initiating project
implementation. The bottom-up process of local formulation and central approval
of  subprojects  proved  to  be  too  complicated,  and,  for  the  most  part,
impracticable. Over 18 months were required by the MEN to assemble its project



3
management organization at the various levels. This was accomplished only after
certain adjustments were made, with Bank supervision and approval, to the
original management design.   The adjustments included:   (a) converting the
National Executive Secretariat from a project coordinating unit into an
implementation unit; (b) converting the Executive Secretariats in each
participating Department into auxiliary implementation units working under the
leadership of the National Executive Secretary; (c) making the National Executive
Secretariat and the Department Executive Secretariats both responsible for
developing local and national subprojects: and (d) char.ging the financ,al
management system for local subprojects by reducing the role of the Departmental
agencies known as the Fondo Educativo Bagional (FER), so that those agencies
would only handle funds for teacher training, while the rest of the funds were
channelled directly through the Fund of the Ministry of Education (Fondo),
created for project financial management.   Although frustrating to both the
Borrower and the Bank, this time consuming adjustment finally provided the
project with a functional implementation structurs. Bank/Borrower collaboration
in redesign of the management system also had other positive effects such as:
(a) providing "har.ds-on" involvement for MEN staff and giving them a thorough
understanding of the project; (b) impioving relations between the Bank and the
MEN as the Bank assisted in working out the management problems; and (c)
acquiring valuable experience which proved useful in designing the management
structure for the Second Subsector Project currently under implementation.
E.    Project Implementation
9.    Critical Variances in Project Implementation.  The most critical variance
was that project completion extended 39 months beyond the origina.lly planned
date.  There were three main causes for the delay: (a) the complexity ,.. the
original management structure which re-uired major modification (para. 8); (b)
complex and cumbersome public administration procedures, which impeded the
transfer of funds from the Fondo to the Colombian Institute for School
Construction (ICCE) and the participating Departments; and (c) intervals between
1984 and 1986 when budgetary constraints resulted in shortages of available
counterpart funds.  The first of these causes could have been avoided if the Bank
had been more rigorous in assessing the managerial capacity of the MEN during
appraisal, and less rigid in its adherence to the then fledgling guidelines for
sector lending. At pre-appraisal it was estimated that the loan would be around
US$70.0 million; however, later in May of 1981 the Government advised the Bank
that it was reducing its proposed investment for the project, and the scope of
the original project was reduced accordingly resulting eventually in an estimated
total project cost of US$36.2 million and a loan of US$15.0 million. Questions
arose during project preparation and appraisal as to the wisdom of using the
sector lending approach for a project of such limited scope, but it was
eventually decided to proceed with the orlginal design    In retrospect, the
implementation of the project might have been more successful if it had been
treated as a traditional project with a less complicated management design.
Under this approach, certain characteristics of a sector lending operation, such
as local subproject design and separate appraisal by higher level authorities
could have been incorporated into such a project with the aim of providing the
Borrower with experience in preparation for a larger sector investment operation.



4
10.   Project Rigks.  The most important risk, which involved the management
structure, was not correctly identified. At appraisal the SAR viewed this risk
only as the possibility that "bureaucratic resistance to the required changes
in operating procedures and attitudes could impede implementation" (SAR para.
6.09), rather than the real risk of the design being too cumbersome and at odds
with existing practice.
11.   Unfcre.le.n  Factors Affecting Project  Implementation.    The  Fondo was
supposei co be fully staffed when the project started, but this project entity
did not reach an acceptable level of staffing until 1985, and even then it
experienced difficulties in meeting Bank requirements for project accounting and
auditing.   It was also unfo,eseen that the School Mapping Program, on which
school nuclearization and administrative decentralization were based, would not
be  as effectivs as planned during the life of the project.   In view of this
deficiency, the National Executive Secretariat developed more direct methods for
obtaining the necessary school location and operation information. The eventual
role of ICCE in construction and procurement under the project was also
unforeseen, although both the Borrower and the Bank may be faulted for this
miscalculation.   Under the original implementation plan, ICCE did not have a
major role because it had lost considerable credibility in the opinion of the
Borrower and the Bank. However, once the project got underway ICCE claimed its
legal right to be involved because it was the only agency legally authorized to
handle construction and procurement for public schorls.  Resolving this issue
cost considerable time, and evern after ICCE became involved in the project its
performance was never cons4stent, consequently the construction component was
not fully carried out.
12.   Actions  or  Decisions  Taken.  or  not  Taken.  Which  Affected  Proiect
Implementation. The most important action taken by the Bank, and accepted by
the Borrower, was to include Colombia in a Special Action Program (SAP), designed
to accelerate loan disbursements for a given period. This took place in December
1984 but the Borrower's utilization of the SAP did not start until June 1985.
The SAP increased the Bank's percentage of disbursements in the main categories
of the loan; in some cases up to lOOX. This action was most fortuitous because
the project at that time had been at a standstill for about a year due to the
unavailability of national counterpart funds.   Taking advantage of the more
favorable disbursem3nt provisions of the SAP, the Borrower accelerated
implementation late in 1985, and realized its best year of project implementation
in 1986 with a t cal loan disbursement of US$4.2 million. In retrospect, this
action by the r tnk probably saved the project. Actions taken by the Bank and
the Borrower with respect to the project management design have been cited above
(paras. 8, 9). The Borrower's delayed action in adequately staffing the Fondo
was definitely detrimental to the project (para. 11). The same can be said about
the Borrower's lack of action with respect to the School Mapping Program (para.
11), which caused modifications to be made in implementation operations, and more
serious--y, to alter the original goals of decentralization of rural school
administration and supervision.   Lastly, the Borrower did not satisfactorily
carry out the procurement of computer hardware/software to adequately equip its
MIS.



F.    Project Results
13.   Project Objectives.    Since the objectives were so broadly defined and
linked to a ten year development program, of which the project represented only
the first phase, it is difficult to ascertain with precision how well they vere
met.   The first two general obiectives,  involving qualitative improvements
through the increase of completion rates and learning efficiency in rural
schools, were met insofar as initiating an upward trend (see Annex I).  The
third general objective, which aimed at improving the quality of subsector
management, was met but not within the framework arvisioned at project appraisal.
Subsector management was strengthened at the national level, but the extent of
management improvement at the Departmental and local levels was less than
expected. The project was supposed to promote the concept of decentralization
and the "bottom-up" type of developmental process, and part of this was to be
made possible through the implementation of a school nuclearization system in
which school districts would be created and linked to thei; respective
Departments. The school districts were to be key links in the system because
they were to provide decentralized administrative and supervisory services for
the local schools located within their respective jurisdictions.  This was not
accomplished, and the planned network of school districts never became
operational. The furniture, equipment and vehicles destined for the district
offices were not purchased, and rural schools were left without the improved
administrative and supervisory system envisioned originally.   Instead,  the
schools  continued under the existing  system of national  and departmental
supervisors.   The Bank repeatedly expressed its concern over this issue and
pressed the Bo *rower to resolve it, but the supervision system basically remained
unchanged, except for isolated cases where individual Departments applied
measures to improve school supervision. The end result was that only a limited
type of decentralization in school managemenc was achieved, which did not extend
below the Department level. Yet, the main thrust of the project was to in-roduce
the Escuela Nueva model in the selected rural areas and that objective was met
with physical input targets either met or exceeded.  The only major exception
was that the number vf classrooms constructed or repaired fell about 200
classrooms below the appraisal estimate. Although the original scope of proposed
studies was reduced, a major and high quality report on the education sector,
including sector organization, management and finance, was prepared and issued.
14.   Project Changes  Dur.ng  Implementation.        In addition  to management
structure changes already cited (para. 8), there were changes in project
coverage. Originally the project included selected parts of three Departments,
however, one of those Departments dropped out due to political complications and
was replaced by another Department. In 1986 this was changed by including all
parts of the three Departments in the project but limiting the inputs to
textbooks,  library sets and,  in some cases,  furniture.   A year 1r.ter five
additional Departments were brought into the project, and thes_ also received
the more restricted inputs.  These additions were made possible by financial
savings reali.ed. in project implementation, some over-estimation of costs at
appraisal, and by more rapid than expected devaluation of national currency
during the implementation period.  During the final year of implementat4 n, with
most of the original project objectives having been met, the project supported
the Government's National Rehabilitation Program by extending the provision of



6
textbooks and a few other inputs to the rest of the Departments. This resulted
in a considerable increase in the actual amount of financial resources spent on
textbooks and furniture.
15.    Additional changes  included the reduction of the original scope of
research studies, considered overly ambitious, and the cancellation of the
computer hardware in the MIS component due to misprocurement.   This latter
development forestalled the time when MEN would have its own in-house computer.
Nonetheless, the design of the MIS was completed and a major part of it became
operatioral utilizing contracted external computer services. Completion of the
system is being accomplished through the on-going Second Subsector Project.
16.   Impact of the ProJect.      The project has had significant impact on the
following: (a) It sought to implement the mainly untried policy of
decentralization in rural schools, exposed the many difficulties inherent in
that approach, and finally established a practical method for achieving a more
limited type of decentralization that is serving as a guide in MEN for furtlher
development of the policy. (b) It firmly established Escuela Nueva as the
national model for rural primary education to be replicated nationwide through
the Bank's folliw-up project. (c) It assisted MEN in its long-held plan for a
modernized MIS, and although the completion of the system was not realized, it
made considerable progress. (d' It has improved the quality of primary schooling
in the project schools, according to preliminary studies, although it is
understood that its full and lasting impact on quality and efficiency will have
to be measured in the future (Annex I).
G.    Project Sustainability
17.   There are good prospects that the project will maintain an acceptable
level of net benefits into the medium- and even long-term. The paramount reason
for this is that the Government continues ,ts policy of support for rural primary
education through its program of extending the Escuela Nueva model nationwide.
The strength of the Government's commitment to this policy is exemplified by the
satisfactory completion of the project, which constituted the first phase of a
broader development program, and by the substantial six year investment in the
suusector currently being made, with Bank assistance, through the Second
Subsector Project for Primary Education, which has established a successful
performance in the initial year of implementation and when completed will have
implanted Escuela Nueva in all Departments.
18.   Risk factors that could adversely impinge on the project's sustainability
are: (a) the inherent weakness of education management at the local level, which
the project was unable to strengthen as much as had been expected; and (b) the
effects of a national program of decentralization of public administration which
transfers a number of management functions to municipalities, many of whose
management capacity is weak. The first factor can be minimized as long as the
education management at the Department level remains strong enough to provide
reasonable supervisory and administrative support to the local rural schools.
The second factor is being addressed by the Second Subsector Project currently
under implementation, as decentralization of management to the municipal level
proceeds in some subprojects.



H.    Bank Performance
19.   Major Strengths and Weaknesses.  Bank performance during the early stages
of project development was strong in introducing the new and innovative design
of sector lending to the Borrower.   Considerable technical assistance was
provided by Bank staff during project preparation to complement the efforts of
the Borrower.   However, Bank staff adhered too strictly to the then current
sector lending guidelines during project preparation, and unknowingly
contributed to problems of design that were later to surface. At appraisal the
Bank failed to recognize the flaws of excess complexities and layering in the
project management structure that were to cause difficulties during the first
two years of implementation. In supervision of the project, Bank staff exercised
considerable flexibility and provided extensive technical assistance to diagnose
problems and apply remedies. Due to the difficulties encountered, the project
required far more supervision than had been anticipated. Lastly, the Bank took
appropriate action when it provided the SAP, which came at a critical time and
eventually gave the project new life (para. 12).
20.   Lessons Learned.  The main lessons to be derived from this experience are
as follows: (a) Despite its attractiveness as a lending mode, the sector lending
approach should be used on a selective basis in education projects, with
sufficient managerial capacity on the part of the prospective Borrower a pre-
condition. (b) Flexibility should be exercised as much as possible when applying
the guidelines for sector lending. In particular, the Bank should ensure that
local management is capable of preparing subproject proposals if this is
required. Project execution improved, for example, when responsibilities for
subproject  processing  were  changed  to  correspond  more  with  existing
administrative arrangements, rather than the originally composed design and
artificial division of labor between local groups and a central team.   (c)
Appraisal of projects proposing to use new management schemes also demands a
rigorous verification of key operational procedures to ensure that coordination
and decision-making will proceed as expected. (d) The sector lending approach
could be enhanced in similar cases by phasing, in particular, by undertaking a
pilot operation with the intent of building Borrower experience. The outcomes
confirm the importance of an advanced state of project readiness at the outset
of implementation.
I.    Borrower Performance
21.   Major Strengths and Weaknesses.  During project preparation the Borrower
had to follow the lead of the Bank, since the Bank essentially advocated using
the sector lending approach. Upper level MEN staff and a select number of mid-
level staff benefited from this experience, but these staff were perhaps remiss
in not challenging the Bank about elements in the proposed management structure
that they may have perceived as capable of causing delays in implementation.
Once implementation got underway the Borrower performed in commendable fashion
trying to organize the management structure according to the established design.
However, when these efforts e" -onstrated that the proposed approach was
impracticable, the Borrower propooed changes and the Bank joined in the effort
of making necessary adjustments in the management system. The contribution of
the Borrower in this respect was valuable and necessary because its operational



8
staff knew well the existing system and how much it could adjust.   Among
difficulties, failure to staff fully the Fondo in a timely manner and shortfalls
in counterpart financing for the project compounded the early delays.
22.   Lessons Learned.  The major lessons of experience for the Borrower were:
(a) the acquisition of technical knowledge and pra-'tical experience in macro
and micro educational planning and implementation; (b) specialized expertise in
dealing with rural primary education was enhanced in MEN and participating
Departments; and (c) the project served as a pilot exercise for MEN in
preparation for the Second Subsector Project.
J.    Proiect Relationships
23.   The impact achieved by the project would not have been possible without
the constructive and cooperative relationship between the Bank and the Borrower.
This relationship developed over a period of the initial two years of
implementation, when Bank staff worked closely with MEN staff on the adjustments
required to resolve management problems. This same type of relationship carried
over to the National Planning Department (DNP), which joined the Bank and MEN
in developing a major study on the education sector including education finance
in Colombia,  that had an impact on national planning for the sector.   The
Borrower developed excellent relationships with participating entities in the
Departments and local school communities during the process of project
implementation.
K.    Consulting Services
2.   Consultants carried out important roles in conducting the studies included
in the project and in assisting MEN to develop its MIS.  In all cases their
involvement was considered satisfactory by the Borrower, and MEN staff who worked
with these consultants benefited professionally from the experience.
L.    Project Documentation and Data
25.   The Loan Agreement for the project was satisfactory and proved useful in
project supervision and during the processing of amendments to the Loan
Agreement.   Working papers developed during preparation and appraisal, and
operational manuals prepared in the initial stage of implementation, were all
useful as guides and references. Essential information was readily available
for the preparation of the PCR.



9
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
M.    The Bank's Performance
26.   The Bank's involvement was key in project preparation and enabled the
technicians at MEN and some regional education secretariats to bridge the gap
between macro- and micro-planning.
27.   Following the conclusion of the planning and negotiation stages, Bank
supervision during execution--which began in  1983--promoted  continuity  and
interest in the project, which was affected and delayed by the change in
government. When the government changed hands again in 1986, the new political
and technical conditions favored full execution of the project.
28.   These two positive effects were fostered by the quality of the Bank experts
who visited the country and the continuity and timeliness of advisory assistance
provided by the various missions which were able to establish smooth working
relationships with the local technical groups.
29.   The Bank was flexible in accepting changes to the original program that
were vital for smooth implementation, without altering the basic objectives of
the project. The Bank was also able to help resolve any differences that arose,
especially regarding financial and accounting aspects.
30.   The  procedures  established  in  the  conditions  of  contract  for  loan
effectiveness, competitive bidding, project approval, contracting, accounting,
supervision and auditing, among other aspects, were reasonable and effective.
Nevertheless, the Bank could have provided more assistance on operational aspects
since the initial training of MEN personnel during project preparation was not
sufficient, and certain gaps become apparent only when the recriired procedures
were actually put into practice.
31.   In general, communications with the Bank were smooth and responses were
timely and pertinent.
32.   The expertise  of Bank specialists regarding work methods,  education
development, administration and planning in other countries helped Colombian
technicians refresh their skills and comparative education studies were useful
in refining sectoral analysis procedures.
33.   The success of this involvement by the Bank with the education sector in
Colombia as well as the importance of the subsector selected, namely primary
education for rural school children and marginal groups, became evident with the
preparation and negotiation of a second project that extends the benefits of this
project to the entire country.   The new project was  formulated with the
assistance of Bank experts durirg the final stages of the first project, drawing
on all the experience gained, which facilitated smooth and timely negotiations.
34.   Lessons learned: MEN technical groups became familiar with Bank procedures
and mechanisms and learned to use them properly. Additional advisory assistance



10
from the Bank would have been an asset, as the procedures are complex. When
changes were made in project design, such as in the management structure, they
were adopted by mutual agreement, and only after full and complete discussion.
35.   The  Bank's  involvement  was  consistent  with  national  autonomy  and
sufficiently flexible to accommodate the necessary changes for better project
execution, without affecting the basic conditions of contract. As such, this
project has demonstrated that duly justified changes can be sought where
necessary.
36.   Bank  supervision  missions  are  absolutely  critical  for  successful
implementation and must be used to the benefit of both parties in clarifying the
relationships on each side. In addition, ongoing communication with the Bank
is necessary to resolve any problems or uncertainties.
N.    The Borrower's Performance
37.   MEN and the regional offices involved in implementation of the project
were successful in reconciling political interests and technical capacity in
connection with a program that was accorded priority since it targeted the most
disadvantaged rural areas and towns with less than 7,000 inhabitants. This was
especially true after 1985 when the project entered its most active phase and
became a cornerstone of the national education policy.
38.   Under this project, MEN has established an organization that integrates
its own national level technical units with those external regional offices
responsible for the development of primary education.   This more functional
arrangement now encompasses administrative coordination and integrated training,
the provision of teaching aids, textbooks and school libraries, civil works,
furniture. as well as the financial resources and the formulation of appropriate
procedures. lixproved integration along with higher technical standards has been
a long-standing aspiration in theory, but one which had not been fully put into
practice before this project.
39.   Using the experience gained from implementation of the project, especially
in its final phase, the Fondo/MEN achieved an excellent degree of organization,
technical know-how and management of financial resources and the administrative
procedures  governing resource allocation,  as well as essential   skills in
administering external credit contracts. The Fondo has thus become a key agency
for the practical implementation of education finance policies. Prior to its
strengthening, MEN could only administer operating funds for the payment of
teachers; it now has the infrastructure for executing major investments. This
institutional development within MEN has been recognized by the National Planning
Department and the Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.
40.   The establishment and operation of the National Executive Secretariat
throughout project implementation was a major factor in its .uccess, as it
reached a high degree of coordination with the units specialized in the technical
components included in the programming.
41.   Improved coordination was fostered by continuity in the management of the
Secretariat and the quality of the supporting technical team. By se time the



11
Plan drew to a close, the technical, administrative and supervision procedures
had been improved, eliminating the difficulties that arose initially.   This
organization will be useful in the second phase of project expansion, although
some further adjustments will be necessary in view of the national scope of
actions.
42    Regionally, progress was made in micro-planning, educational administration
and involvement of regional governments and the community.   Nevertheless,
additional progress must yet be made at the regional level in order to upgrade
the regional executive secretariats and the secretariats of education and in
particular the offices of education and planning. To that end, MEN's Planning
Office continues to train its counterparts in the regional entities.
43.   Under the new project, and in conformity with the Government's on-going
program for decentralization, procurement and distribution of goods and
contracting of civil works, previously overseen by the ICCE, which the Government
has abolished, are now handled by Fondo/MEN, in conjunction with MEN's
specialized offices.   In this regard,  the project was a g-od vehicle for
enhancing  the effectiveness  of the new procedures.    The major remaining
difficulty is related to the timely and secure delivery of the goods to the
schools once they have reached the regions. There are also some difficulties
in the contracting and supervision of civil works under the new, more
decentralized regime. Correcting these problems has been a priority for MEN,
and as such the expansion of the project to the entire country is designed to
avoid the errors of the past.
44.   The studies carried out under the project have given rise to fundamental
changes in the sector, including the reorganization of MEN, improvement of
internal technical procedures, understanding of organizational bottlenecks in
regional education, and actions to improve that organization, and the design and
startup of the Education Management Information System (MIS), as well as the
development of a planning and management model by the technical team of the
National Executive Secretariat.
45.   Lessons learned:  The establishment and operation of a National Executive
Secietariat and the regional executive secretariats to coordinate the project
is critical throughout project execution. By the same token, in the measure that
those structures are integrated into the regular technical units, reforms and
more modern approaches will be introduced at the central and regional levels.
46.   The establishment of an office with general oversight for MEN's investment
resources, such as the Fondo, has helped ensure consistency of financial
management, appropriate expenditures, transparency of administration and
accounting consistency. The project has helped strengthen the Fondo and endow
it with a stable organizational structure.
47.   The integrated provision of services, as in the Escuela Nueva model, is
possible and--perhaps--the only way of making significant progress in the sector.
This was achieved for the Escuela Nueva program with the delivery of the services
under the project.   The effectiveness of this activity is contingent on the
quality of the technical groups, including their multi-disciplinary nature, intra



12
and intersectoral coordination and a clearcut assignment of functions and
responsibilities.
0.    Effectiveness of the Relationship Between the Bank and the Borrower
48.   The Bank dealt primarily with the Office of the Minister and Vice Minister
of Education, the National Secretariat for the Plan, Fondo/MEN, ICCE, MEN
Sectoral Planning Office and the National Planning Department.
49.   Excellent relations were maintained with the Minister and Vice Minister
of Education, who were kept informed at all times of the status and results of
Bank supervision missions. They and the Bank had a shared interest in resolving
the difficulties that arose during execution of the project. Initial delays in
project implementation were cause for concern on the part of the ministers, who
dealt tirelessly with the Ministry of Finance to obtain the counterpart funds
that had been reduced, especially during the early years.
50.   In view of the complexity of the original management system, and related
delays, relations with the National Executive Secretariat for the Plan and the
other executing agencies were difficult at the start. But once a technical group
responsible for implementation was organized and established with a full
complement of staff, the Bank was also able to work more effectively in making
the planned actions effective.
51.   Another cause for delay was the involvement of ICCE, which was responsible
for construction and procurement.   Despite its experience, the ICCE did not
perform as effectively as expected. When it was abolished by the Government,
its functions were transferred in full, for the purposes of the project, to the
Fondo/MEN, which with the support of the National Executive Secretariat, gave
new dynamism to the competitive bidding, bid evaluation, contract award and
supervision processes.
52.   The Bank's excellent relation with the Sectoral Education Planning Office
and the National Planning Department were manifested in efforts to enhance the
technical know-how of that Office and prepare the technical studies under a new
loan for the implementation of the Plan to Universalize Primary Education (the
Second Subproject Project), which is a prioritv in the education sector and part
of the Government's strategy to eradicate absolute poverty.
53.   The National Development Plan Committee provided the integration and
monitoring that ensured smooth relations between the Bank and the Government,
as its members represented all of the national bodies involved in the project.
54.   Another way of measuring the effectiveness of the Bank's relations is
based on the economic boost to certain sectors that produce school goods that
benefited from the actions funded by the loan and t'e local counterpart.
Examples would include local publishing houses, manufacturers of school furniture
and builders. The effect was to generate local manufacturing capacity and foster
economic decentralization.



13
PART III:  PROJECT PROFILE AT THE TIME OCOMPLETION
A. Related Bank Loans
Table1: IBRD LOANS RELEVANT TC THE PROJECT
Loan                          Year of
Title       Purpose           Approval   Status            Comments
0552-CO     Prevocational    1968         Completed        Problem free,
specialization               December 1973   except for
in secondary                                  substantial
schools                                       equipment
procurement delays
and unnecessary
reduction of
equipment
purchases.
0679-CO     Prevocational    1970         Completed        See above comments.
secondary                    July 1975
education II
0920-CO     Secondary         1973        Completed        Because of many
education and                March 1982       delays resulting in
training in                                   higher costs, scope
existing                                      of project was
schools and                                   reduced and
rural areas                                   undisbursed balance
was cancelled.
1352-CO     Second            1976        September        This loan contained
integrated                   1984             a primary education
rural dev.                                    component of US$1.1
(DRI)                                         million to support
rural education
development.



14
B. Project Timetable
Table 2:  PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date           Date            Date
Item                Planned         Revised        Actual
Identification                3/80                           6/16/80
(Executive Project
Summary)
(Project Brief)            9/80                            9/25/80
(Revised Proj. Brief)                                      4/20/81
Preparation                   11/80                          11/24/80
Preappraisal                                                 3/7/81
Appraisal Mission:
Stage I                     9/81                           9/14/81
Stage II                    12/81          2/18/82         3 a/82
Loan Negotiations             3/82            4/16/82        6/28/82
Board Approval                4/82            4/16/82        7/27/82
Loan Signature                5/82                           8/30/82
Loan Effectiveness            11/82                          3/30/83
Loan Completion               12/85                          3/31/89
Loan Closing                  6/30/86        4/87;10/87;    3/31/89
6/88
Comments on Timetable: At the time of project preparation, the concept
of sector lending was relatively new to the Bank. Since neither the Colombians
nor the mission members had ever prepared a sector loan, the mission devoted
considerable time in providing a package of materials to assist the Government
in the preparation tasks. On the basis of the mission's assessment of what
remained to be done and the Government's keen interest to accelerate project
processing, project processing was advanced by one year. Preparation assistance
by UNESCO was felt to be inappropriate at first because one essential test of a
country's readiness for sector lending is its capacity to use local technical
resources to produce the documentation required by the Bank. However, at the
request of the Minister of Education, a UNESCO mission provided additional
project preparation assistance.
It became clear that the Government's plan for a rural education
subsector program was too broad and vague in establishing appropriate criteria
for project evaluation and too expensive, given the Government's financial
constraints. Most major issues were resolved during the first stage appraisal,
but solutions were still needed for the design of the project management
structure. The second stage of appraisal, originally scheduled for December
1981, could not take place until Colombian authorities also finalized policy
decisions. A new administration took over in August 1982 and soon confirmed its
commitment to the project.



15
C. Loan Disbursements
lable 3a: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ million)
Bank FY                  1983    1984     1985    1986      1987     1988      1989
Appraisal Estimates           3.00    5.50    10.00    15.00
Actual)                       0.22    2.23      2.85     7.09     8.16    11.61   14.12
Actual as X of Estimates
Estimates                     7.33   40.55    28.50    27.27    54.40    77.40   94.13
Date of Final Disbursement:   May 5, 1989
Time Line of Planned. Revised and Actual Disbursement Schedules
Table 3b
Time Line of Planned, Revised and Actuai
Disbursement Schedules
1UA use million)
14-
12
4
USC       USC      1555 U11             10?       ele     logo
Apt not    -+R 4115108        RO- wV t11O164  Rt 811146
fv Rw1SIIS111  4- Rv r?/lse   -b Astwel



16
D. Project Implementation
Table 4: PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION DATES OF COMPONENTS
Planned           Actual           Months of
Project Components             Completion       Completion           Delay
Teacher Training                 12/85            07/89                 43
Administrator Training           12/85            07/89                 43
Educational Materials:
Student Textbooks              12/85            12/88                36
School Libraries               12/85            12/88                36
Classroom Materials            12/85            12/87                24
Physical Facilities:
Repair of Existing Units       12/85            12/87                24
Construction of New Units    12/85              12/87                24
Sanitary Facilities            12/85            12/87                24
Water Supply                   12/85            12/87                24
School Furniture                 12/85            12/88                36
Comments on Project Implementation
The management infcrmation system is not listed in the above table
because it was not completed (paras. 15,16), however, considerable progress
was accomplished on the technical design of the system. Key elements of
hardware have been financed by alternative sources. Additional components
of the decentralized information system are being financed under the Second
Subsector Project. The school district network component, consisting of
staff, offices, transportation facilities and equipment was not implemented
(para. 13).



17
E. Proiect Costs and Financing
Table 5: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
Estimated Costs                  Actual Costs
Local  Foreign  Total           Local  Foreign  Total
Category              costs   costs   costs            costs   costs   rosts
(1) Consultant
Services          5.33    0.28    5.61             1.70    0.22    1.92
(2) Vehicles,
Equipment
and Computer
Hardware          0.08    0.78    0.86             -        -       -
(3) Civil Work       14.23    2.51   16.74             8.43    1.49    9.92
(4) Textbooks and
Furniture         5.87    1.16    7.03            14.02    2.78   16.80
(5) Training          5.68    0.30    5.98             3.09    0.16    3.25
(6) Initial Deposit  -         -        -              1.02    -        1.02
Total            31.19    5.03   36.33            28.26    4.65   32.91
Comments on Proiect Costs
The total actual project cost was 9.1% below the appraisal
estimate because of several interrelated factors: gains in Colombian pesos
through the process of devaluation, reductions in the scope of some
components and over-estimations during appraisal. Only 59% of the
anticipated expenditure for civil works was realized (comments on Table 8).
On the other hand, 51% of the actual total project cost went to textbooks
and furniture, which exceeded the appraisal estimate by 2.3 times.



18
Table 6: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Planned
Source of Funds                    SAR          Revised            Final
IBRD Expenditure Categories       15.00           14.12             14.12
Domestic                          21.22           21.47             18.79
Total                             __3 92
Comments on Proiect Financing
The final amount of IBRD financing reflects the crncellation of
US$0.88 million because of misprocurement (para. 15). The amount financed
by the Borrower represents 5/X of the final total cost.



19
Tahle 7: ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
ORIGINAL             ACTUAL
CATEGORY                        ALLOCATION            DISBURSEMENTS
-__-___---- in USS -------- -
(i' Consultant Services and               5 183,000
training
(a) Consultant Services                                      800,000.00
(b) Training                                               1,155,163.46
(2) Vehicles, equipment, furniture        3,987,900            8,140,860.00
and textbooks
(3) Civil works and construction          1,694,500            2,578,000.00
materials
(4) Initial deposit into Special          2,500,000            1,022,675.54
Account pursuant to Section
2.03 of Loan Agreement
(5) Fee                                     221,675              221,675.00
(6) Unallocated                           1,412,925
Cancelled                                 - 877,486
I.D. To Special Account                                           204,139.31
TOTAL                          14,122,514            14,122,514.00



20
F. Proiect Results
Table 8: DIRECT BENEFITS OF PROJECT
Indicators                            Appraisal            Actual
Nucleos in Operation                       150                  248
Escuela Nueva Teachers Trained          5,000                 6,973
Administrators Trained                  1,269                 1,269
Classrooms Repaired or Replaced         1,460                 1,260
Students Provided With Textbooks    120,000                 574,000
Research Studies                          -                      22
Management Information System                1                    0
Comments on Direct Benefits
The addition of five Departments to the origi ,..l. three explains
the increase in the number of nuclNos and the number o. teachers trained.
The civil works component, which was limited to the oriF, nal three
Departments, did not meet the appraisal targets because 3;: counterpart
funding problems, management diffic;ilties in the school. construction
agency, and the needs for repairs wa3 not as extensive as -aticipated.
Almost five times as many students benefited by the prov.slion of textbooks
as estimated at appraisal, because textbooks were the pri%cipal input
provided to the new Departments that came into the project. Topics for
studies were identified at appraisal and it was left to MEN to determine
the specific designs and methodology in consultation with the Bank.
Lastly, the design of the management information system was completed, but
the procurement of computer hardware ana software were not completed under
the project.



21                                 Page 1 of 5
Table 9: PROJECT STUDIES
Purpose as
Defined at
Study               Appraisal          Status              Impact of Study
A. Group of studies   General purpose of
on priority            studies as to
problems in            increase MEN's
education.             decision-making
capacity by
expanding its
access to research
1. Aspects of the                           Completed.           Assisted in the
quality of basic                                                 preparation of the
primary education.                                               sector development
plan included in
the Social Economy
Plan of 1987-90.
2. Analysis of                              Completed.
current legislation
on the teaching
profession.
3. Program for                              Completed.           Assisted MEN to
universalizing                                                   prepare and
basic primary                                                    negotiate the
education.                                                       Second Subsector
Project.
4. Sectoral study                           Completed.           These two studies
on technical                                                     (4 and 5) are
education and the                                                being used in an
pre-service                                                      analysis of the
training of                                                      university system
teachers.
5. Toward a                                 Completed.           In use by MEN and
strategy for                                                     the Colombian
improving the                                                    Institute for the
quality of higher                                                Development of
education.                                                       Higher Education
(ICFES) in
formulating long-
term policy on
higher education.



22                                  Page 2 of 3
Table 9: PROJECT STUDIES
Purpose as
Defined at
Study                Appraisal          Status               Impact of Study
6. Sector Analysis                           Completed.           Used for
with emphasis on                                                  legislative action
administrative and                                                to reorganize MEN
financial aspects.                                                and related
sectoral bodies.
B. Group of studies   To assist in
on basic secondary    developing a
education in rural    relevant
areas.                 curriculum for
basic secondary
schools in rural
areas.
7. The quality of                            Completed.           To be adopted in
education with                                                    design of proposed
emphasis on basic                                                 Third Subsector
education.                                                        Project focussing
on basic secondary
education.
8. An education
model for basic                              Completed.           Studies 7 and 8
secondary education                                               assisted to
in rural areas.                                                   initiate an
experimental
program extending
C. Group of studies   To analyze the                              the Escuela Nueva
on educational         state of                                   program to the
finance.               educational                                basic secondary
finance and                               level.
develop
recommendations
for policy
formulations.
9. Financing
education in                                 Completed.           Enabled the MEN to
Colombia - a                                                      adjust more
problem of socio-                                                 effectively to the
economic planning,                                                1988 national
not of the                                                        reform of the
treasury.                                                         budgeting process.



23                                Page 3 of 5
Table 9: PROJECT STUDIES
Purpose as
Defined at
Study                Appraisal          Status               Impact of Study
10. Inter-                                   Completed.           Improved relations
institutional                                                     and coordination
relationships in                                                  among the three
budget management                                                 institutions.
among MEN, Ministry
of Finance and
National Planning
Department.
11. Financial                                Completed.           Assisted MEN to
mechanisms for the                                                improve the
education sector.                                                 allocation of
resources across
urban and rural
areas.
12. Student aid to                           Completed.           Provided basis for
finance higher                                                    improved
education.                                                        management of
Student Aid
Program.
D. Group of studies
on administration      To strengthen
reform.                administrative
capacity of MEN
and institution-
alize series of
reforms to enhance
efficiency of
education.
13. Analysis of                              %.ompleted.          Assisted in reform
human resources in                                                of MEN according
the administration                                                to Law 24/88.
of the sector.
Assisted in the
14. Administrative                           Completed.           reform of MEN and
modernization of                                                  in the
MEN.                                                              Departmental
Secretariats.
Assisted in
15. Draft                                    Completed.           defining budgetary
legislation for                                                   relationships
budgeting regional                                                between MEN and
funds.                                                            FERs.



24                                 Page 4 of 5
Table 9: PROJECT STUDIES
Purpose as
Defined at
Study                Appraisal          Status              Impact of Study
16. Models for the                          Completed.           Assisted MEN to
organization of the                                              develop plans for
Departmental                                                      improving capacity
Secretariats of                                                  of Departmental
Education.                                                        Secretariats.
E. Group of studies   To enable MEN's
on educational         Planning Office to
planning.              select and train
planning personnel
for the
Departments and to
strengthen at all
levels the
capacity for
educational
planning.
17. Regionalization                         Completed.           Assisted MEN's
and educational                                                  Planning Office to
development.                                                     give technical
assistance to
Departmental
Secretariats.
F. Group of studies   To prepare MEN to                          These studies
on project             delegate routine                           (18-21) assisted
management.            implementation                            MEN to disseminate
functions down to                         implementation
lower levels of                           guidelines to the
the system with                           Departments and
the aim of                                municipalities.
developing                                This was aimed at
additional                                strengthening the
criteria for                              administration and
processing                                implementation of
subprojects.                              educational
projects.
18. Basis for                               Completed.
designing the
implementation of a
plan for provision
of textbooks.



25                                 Page 5 of 5
Table 9: PROJECT STUDIES
Purpose as
Defined at
Study                Appraisal          Status               Impact of Study
19. The management                           Completed.
of civil works
under the Plan for
Universalization of
primary schooling.
20. A manual for                             Completed.
procedures for
budget management
for the Plan for
Universalization of
primary schooling.
21. Financial                                Completed.
management design
to serve the rlan
for Universaliz-
ation of Primary
Schooling.
G. The                 To plan the reform
Demonstration          of teacher pre-
Normal Schools.        service training
in order to
correct the
defects in the
existing
curriculum of the
normal schools.
22. Design of a                              Completed.           It is serving as
pedagogical model                                                 the basis for an
for the normal                                                    MEN project to
schools.                                                          restructure the
normal schools.



26
Page 1 of 3
G. Status of Loan Covenants
Table 10: COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
Section/Covenant                               Status of Compliance
2.03 (a) (i)  The Borrower shall             In full compliance.
open and maintain a
Special Account.
2.03 (a) (ii) The Borrower shall see         In full compliance by 1985.
to it that each FER of        However, the accounts were
each Department opens         used only for teacher training
and maintains a               after changes in management
project account.              structure were made.
2.03 (b) (i)  The Bank will deposit          In full compliance although
US$1.5 million in the         there was considerable delay
Special Account when          in complying with 2.03 (c).
the Borrower makes a
deposit equivalent to
US$1.5 million in the
Special Account, and
[2.03 (c)] the
Borrower shall deposit
by May 13, 1983 an
amount equivalent to
US$2.0 million in the
Special Account.
3.01 (b) (i)  The Borrower shall see         In compliance but with
that each of the             modifications that altered the
Departments and their         process and gave a greater
respective FER                role to the Executive
identify, prepare and         Secretariat in each
evaluate their local          Department.
subprojects according
to the operational
manual.



27                          Page 2 of 3
Section/Covenant                               Status of Compliance
3.01 (b) (ii) The Borrower shall             In full compliance.
have the National
Management Committee
review the subprojects
and approve them if
they comply with the
criteria stipulated in
the operational
manual.
3.01 (c) (i)  The Borrower shall             In full compliance.
submit the national
subprojects to the
Bank's approval.
3.01 (c) (ii) The Borrower should            In full compliance for the
submit to the Bank for        original 3 Departments.  For
its approval the first        the Departments incorporated
three local                   into the project later, the
subprojects, and              approval process was not on
thereafter all those          the basis of subprojects but
local subprojects             on submission of tender
whose estimate                documentation.
exceeds US$740,000.
3.01 (d) (i), When submitting                In full compliance (in context
(ii), (iii)  subprojects                   of changing project content in
the Borrower shall            later years).
provide or retain
for Bank review
information agreed
with the Bank in a
Manual (of Operations)
and in the case of
national subprojects,
including a work plan
or terms of reference,
and estimated costs.
3.02           The Borrower shall            In full compliance.
employ consultants
whose selection and
qualifications are
satisfactory to the
Bank.



28                        Page 3 of 3
Section/Covenant                               Status of Compliance
3.03 (a)       The Borrower must             In full compliance.
enter into a contract
with each of the
Departments and its
respective FER.
3.04          The Borrower must              In full compliance.
initiate by 2/28/84
the implementation of
a teacher training
program on the
methodology used in
the Escuela Nueva
Program.
3.08           The Borrower shall            In compliance with delay
submit, by December           (and in context of changing
31, 1982, guidelines          project content in later
on the rural basic            years).
education subsector
and the execution of
subprojects.
4.01 (b)       The Borrower must             In full compliance.
maintain the National
Management Committee
and the position of
the National Executive
Secretary.
5.02 (a) (i)  The Borrower must have         In full compliance but there
all project accounts         were delays and technical
audited on an annual          difficulties every year.
basis by independent
auditors acceptable to
the Bank.



29
H. Use of Bank Resources
Table llt STAFF INPUTS BY STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE IN STAFF WEEKS
Stage of
Project Cycle                 Planned        Revised         Final
Prep. to Appraisal
Departure                                                  82.30
Appraisal through
Board Approval                                             83.58
Board Approval Through
Effectiveness
Supervision                   21.0  a/                      129.09
TOTAL                                                  294.97
a/ No figures available prior to FY88.
Comments:
Planned and revised staff weeks are unavailable due to loss of
divisional records during reorganization in mid-1987.



30
Table 12: MISSION DATA BY STAGES OF PROJECT
Stag. of                Month/    No. of    Doyo In  SpocTollal t.   Performance    Typo. of
Prol ct Cyvle           Y,r       Persons    Field    Rorontod s/  Status b/          Prob..  a
1. Identification       J/80      1           12       E
2. Proparatlon          11/g0      a          22       E,aE,GE
3. Pro-Appraisal        8/81      6          107       E,GE,GEICS
EM,ER
4. Appraisal I          9/8l       7         18O       A,E,EM,GE,
GE,GE,FA
5. Appraisal II         3/82       5          64       E,QE,A,D,L
Total                                        U25
FMS
Supervioion I           10/82      1          1O       E              1 2  1  1       E
Supervision II          08/88     4           es       E,EP,GE,GE     1  2  1  2      C,m
Supervision III         07/88      1          14       GE             1 2  1  2       C,M
Supervision IV          11-12/83  4           se       A,OE,EM        1  2  1  J      P,D,M
Supervision V           05/84      2          24       A,GE           2  2  1  8      P,D
Supervision VI          10/84      2          24       A,GE           3  1  1  2      D,CF
Supervision VII         02/85     2           24       A,GE           a  1  1  2      D,CF
Supervision VIII        08/85      a          80       A,GE,D         3  a  2  3      CF,C
Supervision IX          04/86      2          20       A,GE           2  3  2  3      AR,MIS
Supervision X           06/86      1           8       FA             Not Rated       AR,MIS
Supervision XI          11/86     2           22       GE,GE          2  3  2  3      AR,CF,MIS
Supervision XII         04/87      2           5       FA,GE          Not Rated       AR,M
Supervision XIII        04/88     2            6       D,DP           Not Rated       D,M
Supervision XIV         06/89      1           9       FA             Not Rated       AR,M
Total SPN                                    295
-----------------------------------------------------_---------------__------__------------------
r/ A a Architect; CS a Curriculum Specialist; D a Disbusomant Officer; EM a Educ. MgNt
Specialist; E a Economist; EP a Educational Planner; ER a Education Rooearch; FA a Financial
Analyst; GE a General Educator; L a Loan Officer; OP * Operations Assistant; TE a Technical
Educator
/ F u Availability of Funds; M * Project Management; I a Development Impact; S * Overall Status
c/ AR * Audit Reports; C * Completion Delays; CF a Counterpart Funds; D a Disbureementel
E a Meeting Conditions of Effectiveness; M * Management; MIS a Mgmt. Information System;
P a Procurement;



31
COLOMBIA
Table 13: BASIC DATA SHEET
Data       Year
A.   General CountrX Data:
1.  Population Estimate (million)                     28.4      1985
2.  Population Growth Rate (X)                         1.8      1978-85
3.  Income Per Capita (US$)                          1,320      1985
4.  GDP Growth Rate (X)                                   5     1987
5.  Literacy Rate (X)                                   88      1985
6.  Area ('000 Sq. Km.)                              1,139      1988
B.   Education Data:
1. Primary Education
Enrollment Rate (X) *                             90      1986
2. Secondary Education
Enrollment Rate (X) *                             50      1986
3. Higher Education
Enrollmert Rate (Z)                               10      1986
4. Education Expenditures
as Share of Public Expenditures (X)               20      1987
5. Primary Expenditures
as a share of Ministry of Education
Expenditures (Z)                                  40      1985
6. Secondary Expenditures
as a share of Ministry of Education
Expenditures (Z)                                  29      1985
7. Higher Education Expenditures
as a Share of Ministry of Education
Expenditures (X)                                  21      1985
* Including over-aged children
Soure_:  IBRD, MEN, and Staff Estimates.



33
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4
THE ESCUELA NUEVA
1.       The Escuela Nueva program comprises a set of educational inputs
(software and infrastructure) designed to provide the full, five year
primary education cycle in small, rural schools. This program, the result
of almost a decade of experimentation, was officially launched in 1976 in
500 schools in three departments. By late 1987, the program had been
extended fully to about half of all rural primary schools.
Program Obiectives
2.       In providing the full primary cycle, the Escuela Nueva aims to
improve the quality and efficiency of primary education in the rural
setting. It further aim<s to integrate the student, school and community in
the educational process. The program incorporates multigrade teaching
techniques (many rural schools comprise only one or two classrooms). It
includes semi-programmed learning materials, small resource libraries and a
simple classroom design which allows groups of students to work on
assignments appropriate to their grade levels and progress. Older students
assist in supporting learning groups to allow the teacher or teachers to
manage up to five grades simultaneously.
3.       The Escuela Nueva curriculum is rural-oriented and flexible.  Some
materials are drawn from the community (e.g., a local artisan may be asked
to prepare clay for small children to form letters or numbers); other
materials, while prepared at the center, also relate to typical community
situations and encourage questioning and experimentation by the student.
4.       The curriculum recognizes differences in student aptitudes and the
inevitability of student absences, especially during periods of peak
agricultural activity. It thus incorporates a flexible promotion policy
that encourages students to progress at their own speeds and to reenter
school after periods of absence. Students advance on a learning unit basis
rather than a grade basis. Emphasis is given to student assessment and to
provision of remedial assistance, as needed. Student monitors and
community membsrs may be asked to assist in the provision of remedial
support for studenLs.
The Educational Package
5.       The Escuela Nueva is supported by an educational package which
includes materials, teacher and supervisor orientation and training, and
use of demonstration schools. Physical inputs include the teaching and
learning materials, tables and chairs for students, desks and chairs for
teachers, a 100 book library and a small shelf for the books and materials.
6.       The materials include guides for students consisting of sequential
activities and exercises. Teachers receive a basic teaching guide, a
practical teacher's manual and remedial materials. Teachers and
supervisors are prepared for delivering the program through a one-week in-
service workshop prior to introducing the materials and two follow-up



34
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
workshops, also of a week cach. The first workshop comprises an
introduction to the materials and other elements of the program, the role
of student leaders and helpers, and the layout and use of "activity
corners" for different learning groups. The second workshop is devoted to
use of the library, promotion procedures and multigrade teaching. The
final workshop reviews the earlier sessions and concentrates on educational
evaluation and problem solving. (Recently, a similar orientation to the
Escuela Nueva was incorporated into pre-service training for primary school
teachers). The workshops are provided through departmental centers
established to sup-irt educational reforms (the CEPs).
7.       School supervision is a critical input for implementing the
Escuela Nueva. Designed to provide follow-up support for teachers, it
emphasizes the pedagogical functions of the supervisor, rather than school
inspection functions. Supervision, mainly carried out by the CEPs, has had
a positive impact on the program, despite shortfalls attributable to
problems of communication, transportation and general budgerary
constraints. Demonstration schools, run by particularly creative
principals and teachers, have been designated to provide supplementary
support and informal workshops for groups of nearby Escuela Nueva teachers
interested in specific topics. At present, nearly 3,000 such schools have
been identified.
Evaluation
8.       Sustained evaluation of the Escuela Nueva shows sound results.
Most notably, evaluation outcomes confirm that the Escuela Nueva is a
viable means for providing the complete, primary cycle in rural areas. The
most recent evaluative data were published in December 1987. The study,
undertaken by consultants to the MEN is entitled Evaluacion del Programa
Escuela Nueva en Colombia.
9.       The 1987 evaluation cover9 a sample of 168 schools using the
Escuela Nueva program and 60 tradit_onal rural primary schools. The
majority of Escuela Nueva institutions had three or less classrooms while
the majority of traditional schools had four or more classrooms. The
average number of children enrolled was 44 for the Escuela Nuev and 83 for
the traditional schools. A shared characteristic of note was that over
half of all students included in the survey reported that they worked
outside school hours, and 40% reported some monetary earnings. Several
variables were compared under the study through tests designed to measure
creativity; self-esteem; self-evaluation of civic and social development;
and achievement levels in mathematics and Spanish. Overall outcomes are
summarized in a table attached to this annex. Somewhat surprisingly, the
evaluation concludes that self-esteem levels (not shown in the table) are
similar for the Escuela Nueva and traditional program students. (Earlier
results indicated that self-esteem among Escuela Nueva students was
higher). A slight, but st .~istically significant result was obtained in
favor of the Escuela Nueva students in terms of civic-social behavior.
Most significantly, academic performance was consistently higher for
Escuela Nueva students than for students in traditional schools for third
grade mathematics and for fifth grade Spanish and mathematics. The
academic achievement outcomes are all the more significant when the pre-
Escuela Nueva condition of the relevant, sample schools (offering less than



35
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
the full cycle, with inadequate supporting inputs) is considered, and when
delays and shortfalls in arrival of Escuela Nueva guides and materials over
the past several years are taken into account. In addition, the results
argue for the success of the multigrade approach to teaching (the Escuela
Nueva schools in the sample averaged less than two teachers each while the
traditional school averaged over three teachers each).
10.      Other points evaluated and worth mentioning are the generally
positive assessment of the Escuela Nueva by teachers (about 80% in favor),
increased participation of the teacher in community activities, and
increased participation of parents in school activities and children's
homework assignments. In terms of dropout, the difference between the
Escuela Nueva and traditional schools was nominal, with most occurring in
grades one and two. Finally, though the concept of repeating a year does
not exist per se in the Escuela Nueva program, a proxy comparator is
students' subjective assessment of falling behind their classmates: by
this measure, 47% of Escuela Nueva and 57% of traditional school students
report that they had repeated one or more years of schooling.



36
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
COLOMBIA
SECOND SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR PRIMARY EDUCATION
SUMMARY: SIGNIFICANT TEST DIFFERENCES
BETWEEN THE ESCUELA NUEVA AND TRADITIONAL SCHOOLS
BY DEPARTMENT SURVEYED
Self-Concept           Math        Spanish
Department    Creativity   Civic  Academic   Social  Gr.3  Gr.5  Gr.3 Gr.5
1. Boyaca                                                        N
2. Caldas                      N                                 N           N
3. Cauca                                                         T
4. Cordoba                                                                   N
5. Cundina-
marca                     N                           N     N     N     N
6. Huila                       N                  N              N     N     N
7. Narino           T                                                  N     N
8. Santander
del N.                              N
9. Santander
del S.          N          N                  N        N     N     N
10. Sucre           T                                      T
11. Valle                                                        T
Total National                 N                  N              N     N     N
N - Significant differences in favor of the Escuela Nueva
T - Significant differences in favor of the traditional schools
Blank - No significant differences



