Document of
The World Bank                       F 1  E
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3896 b -CO
COLOMBIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
July 6, 1982
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
(as used in this report)
Currency Unit  =  Peso (Col$)
US$1.00         =  Col$ 61
Col$ 1.00       =  US$.01639
Col$ 1,000      =  US$16.39
Glossary of Abbreviations
CEP       =  Pilot Experimental Center
DRI       =  Integrated Rural Development Program
ECIEL     =  Joint Program for Studies of Economic Integration
in Latin America
FER       =  Regional Education Fund
FONDO/MEN =  Fund of the Ministry of Education
ICCE      =  Colombian Institute for School Construction
ICETEX    =  Colombian Institute for Educational Credit
and Graduate Study Abroad
IDB       =  Inter-American Development Bank
IEA       =  International Association for the Evaluation
of Educational Achievement
MEN       =  Ministry of Education
Glossary of Key Terms
Escuela Nueva        =    An educational service, based on a multigrade teach-
ing technique, designed to provide a full five-year
primary course in small rural schools with up to
three classrooms and teachers.
Experimentacion
Curricular         =    An educational service, based on providing full
five years of instruction in separate grades,
designed to improve quality and content of primary
education in schools of at least five classrooms
and teachers.
Nuclearizacion       =    A program for management reform of the educational
system, based on decentralization of schaol admin-
istration to local levels.
Escuelas Normales
Demonstrativas    =    A program for improvement of the primary school
teacher training system.
Subsector Program   =    The Government's Subsector Program for Rural Basic
Education, whereunder the above four services would
be extended in three phases over a ten year period
(1981-1992) to all of rural Colombia.
a  Subsector Project   =    Execution of the Subsector Program  in approximately
150 school districts of selected areas of three
departments during the three year first phase of the
Subsector Program (1982-1984).
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Basic Data
I.   Introduction
A.   Previous Bank Education Assistance .....       ...........   1
B.   Proposed Project ..........................        .       2
II.   MAJOR ISSUES IN RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
Overview . . . .3............                                   3
A.   Completion Rates and Primary School Efficiency ....   5
Initial Access .       . .................... .         5
Incomplete Schools .      ....................          5
Repetition .............l     ....                      5
Dropout .......     6
B.   Learning Deficiencies ...................                  6
Curriculum                    ...  6
Teachers ................................               6
Educational Materials ...............                   6
Academic Supervision ...............                    6
Physical Facilities .............................       7
C.   Educational Management ....................                7
Structural Separation .     . ..........................   7
Lack of Local Education Administration    ...   7
Organizational Weakness at Departmental Levels...   7
Ministry Encumbered by Routine Administrative
Tasks .....    8
Resource Allocation ..............................   8
III.   SUBSECTOR PROGRAM FOR RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
A.   Strategy for Improving Rural Basic Education ......  9
B.   Delivery System for Rural Basic Education .... .....  10
Overview ...................................    10
Escuela Nueva ............     .......................  11
Educational Goals ................                  11
Social Objectives ....          ............  13
This report is based on the findings of a two-stage appraisal mission that
visited Colombia in September/October 1981 and March 1982. Mission members
included Messrs./Mmes. Ralph W. Harbison (Economist, Mission Leader),
Mario Alonso (Financial Analyst), Susana Augusto (Disbursement Officer),
Leonardo Concepcion (Architect), Nelson Fisher (Educator, Consultant), Mark
Hanson (Educational Management Specialist, Consultant) and Sherry Keith
(Educator).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- it -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
Experimentacion Curricular ......................   13
Student Learning Materials  ...................    14
School Supervision ...................               .        14
Teacher Training .............................   14
Escuelas Normales Demostrativas                  .      .         15
Nuclearizacion  ...................... ..15
Decentralization            ...............  16
Other Aspects of Nuclearizacion  . .17
Resource Allocation Policies                   .       .          18
C.    Quantification of the Subsector Program
for Rural Basic Education ..            ......................   19
IV.   MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Sector Approach .           ................................. 21
Subproject Organization           .        ................   21
Local Subprojects .          . ..................             21
National Subprojects .          . .......................   21
Role of Intermediaries  ...............           . .....    .   22
Multiple Sources of Finance                   ...   22
B.  Phased Implementation Schedule    ...22
Implementation Phases                 ...                        23
Implementation Schedule               ...23
C.  Organization and Staffing                  . . .24
Organization  ............................   24
Organizational Overview    ...24
National Level Organization                 ...   24
Departmental Level Organization  . .25
Local Level Organization                  ...   26
Staffing ....................................... 27
D.   Procedures  ...............................             .....   .   27
Identification                 .       .        ............  27
Preparation                 .        .         ............. 28
Appraisal  ...........................   28
Approval  ...............................   28
Supervision                 ...28
Monitoring                 .        .         .............. 29
Impact Evaluation                .       .       ...........  29
Bank Involvement in the Subproject Cycle . .29
E.    Criteria  ..................................   30
Selection of Departments                    ...   30
Allocation of Funds Among Departments  .              .31
Selection of School Districts                  ...   32
Appraisal and Approval of Subprojects . .                        32
F.      Choice of Borrower  ..............               . ...   33



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.   SUBSECTOR PROGRAM COSTS AND FINANCING
A.   Total Costs .......................................   34
B.   Investment Costs .................    35
Subsector Program Base Costs .................           35
Phase I Subsector Project Base Costs .35
Contingencies ..............................             37
Foreign Exchange Component .37
C.   Incremental Recurrent Expenditures ................   38
Overall Subsector Program .38
Phase I Subsector Project .38
Price Contingencies .............................   39
D.   Financing and Bank Contribution .39
Overall Financing Plan .39
Bank Financing .40
Retroactive Financing and Readiness for
Implementatlon ........................               40
Working Fund .41
Special Account .41
E. Disbursements .42
F.   Procurement ........................                       43
Civil Works .............................                43
Goods .44
Contract Review .................................   44
G.   Accounts, Documentation and Auditing .44
VI.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Benefits ..................-.-.-.-.-.-. 45
Coverage .                                               45
Equity .45
Quality .46
Efficiency .........                                     46
Institutional Development ........................   46
Impact ................................... 47
B. Risks .........                                              47
Management Risks .... ...........................   47
Politico-Legal Uncertainty ......................   47
Financial Uncertainty ...........................   47
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..          ...............   48



- iv-
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEXES
Comparative Education Indicators
1.   Educational Administration at Departmental Level
2.   Incremental Physical Targets by Implementation Phase
3.   Incremental Physical Targets for Phase I by Year
4.   Subsector Program Organization and Management Responsibilities
5.   Estimated Investment Base Cost of the Subsector Program
6.   Summary of Capital Costs
7.   Documents Available in Project File
MAP  -    IBRD 16419



BASIC DATA a/
EDUCATION                               Enrollments      Teachers      Schools
('000)          ('000)       ('000)
Primary
Rural as defined in census        1,453.0           48.5          24.1
Small towns and villages b/         463.0           16.9           2.7
Subtotal:  Rural Primary c/       1,916.0           65.4          26.8
As % national total                   46%           48%           76%
Secondary
Total
Rural as defined in census            64.3           4.4           0.36
As % national total                    3.5%          4.8%          6.5%
Public
Rural as defined in census            44.1           2.8           0.24
Small towns and villages            221.6
Subtotal:  Rural Secondary          265.7
As % national total                   26.6%
Literacy rate (1970)                                 80.8%
PrImary education participation rate                 76.0%
Primary education completion rate                    36.0%
a/ Data for 1980 except as otherwise noted.
hi/ 1,500-7,000 inhabitants.
c/ As defined for purposes of Subsector Program, to include both rural under
census definition and small towns.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Despite the remarkable progress in the last thirty years, Colom-
bia's formal education system has yet to overcome important weaknesses.  The
most acute of these deficiencies is the severe educational deprivation of
rural areas and villages. The loan here proposed--US$15 million to cover 34%
of estimated total project costs of US$43 million--would help the Colombian
Government finance initial implementation (1982-1984) in three departments of
a comprehensive ten-year Subsector Program to provide high quality, cost-
effective primary schooling to all children in rural Colombia by 1992. With
separate financial assistance from IBRD and IDB for the second phase of the
Integrated Rural Development Program (DRI-II), the Rural Basic Education Sub-
sector Program would be concurrently implemented as the DRI-I1 education com-
ponent in three additional departments. Contingent upon encouraging results
in this first phase and availability of resources, it is expected that larger
assistance would be sought from the Bank for continuing execution of the Sub-
sector Program during 1985-1991.
1.02      Total costs of the Subsector Program over the ten-year period
(capital and incremental recurrent, including price and physical contingen-
cies) are currently projected at US$630 million (March 1982 prices). As
rough orders of magnitude, this ten-year aggregate is equivalent to a maximum
of: (a) 10% of projected national government expenditures on primary educa-
tion; and (b) 3.4% of projected total national government expenditures on
education during the period 1982-91. l/
A. Previous Bank Education Assistance
1.03      The Bank has previously supported three education projects in
Colombia, for a total loan amount of US$35.3 million. 2/ The overall
1/   The projections assume 5% annual average real growth of GDP and of the
national government's educational expenditures--i.e., no change in
public education's share of GDP.
2/   The first and second projects (Loans 552-CO, 1968 and 678-CO, 1970) were
completed in 1974 and 1975, respectively. Through the establishment of
19 large comprehensive high schools (INEMs), they assisted the Govern-
ment in the introduction of diversified secondary education in major
urban areas. Project Performance Audit Reports were issued in January
and October 1976, respectively, for the two INEM projects (Report Nos.
992 and 1314). Impact Evaluation Report - Colombia: The First and
Second Education Projects (Report No. 3062, June 30, 1980) contains fur-
ther retrospective analysis of the INEM program. The third project
(Loan 920-CO, 1973) closed March 31, 1982. It provided for 24 common
facilities centers (CASDs) which offered the diversified component of
secondary education to satellite secondary schools in smaller urban
areas. The third project also included provision under a pilot scheme
of agriculturally-oriented basic secondary education in rural zones.



objective of all three projects was the diversification of secondary educa-
tion. None has involved significant assistance for rural primary education.
A rigorous impact evaluation of the diversification strategy assisted by the
Bank in Colombia is now being conducted jointly by the Ministry of Education
and the Instituto SER de Investigacion, with funding provided in part under
Research Proposal No. 672-45/DiSCuS.
1.04      Without prejudice to those results, implementatiorn experience rele-
vant to the operation here proposed, especially under the third project, has
revealed the importance of (a) providing adequate working capital to agencies
implementing education projects, given the cumbersome Colombian budgetary
process, and (b) of avoiding controversial educational concepts and inputs
whose effectiveness has not been demonstrated and accepted in prior field
trials.
1.05      The Bank also attempted to assist educational development in rural
Colombia through a component (US$1.1 million) in its support for the first
phase of Colombia's Integrated Rural Development Program (DRI) (Loan 1352-CO,
1977). The component was limited to the supply of school furniture for 2,300
classrooms and teaching kits for 3,800 existing schools in project areas.
This experience indicated that provision of individual educational inputs to
selected schools in a given project area is neither cost-effective nor con-
ducive to improvement in educational cutcomes. By contrast, when this ori-
ginal project concept was reformulated to include provision of integrated
packages of proven software and hardware items to all schools in a given geo-
graphical area, the desired educational changes appeared to be accomplished
within the schools; and the impact on other dimensions of a community's
development effort was also positive.
B. Proposed Project
1.06      In the 1970s, as progress accelerated in meeting the goais of
expanding educational coverage in rural areas, Colombian educational authori-
ties came to the conclusion that deficiencies of rural primary schools
deserved priority attention. Several new approaches to the problems of the
subsector were launched on a trial basis by 1975. Experimentation intensi-
fied with the most promising of these approaches later in the decade and
resulted by 1980 in specially developed educational software of proven effec-
tiveness in rural primary schools. Meanwhile, in 1978, the 1.inistry of Edu-
cation had published a report on the rural education subsector, 3/ which
included analysis of the economic waste associated with the inefficiencies of
student flows in rural primary schools. Colombia's current development plan
(Plan de Integracion Nacional, 1979-1982, PIN) thus accorded top educational
priority to improving schooling in rural areas. Following appearance of the
Plan in early 1980, the Government requested Bank assistance in the prepara-
tion and financing of a comprehensive program to provide full, high quality
primary education to all children in rural areas. Preparation began with a
joint examination of the development context in Colombia, especially the past
and projected future economic and demographic importance of rural areas, and
3/   Educacion para el Desarrollo Rural de Colombia (Ministerlo de Educacion
Nacional, Oficina Sectorial de Planeacion Educativa, Bogota, 1978).



- 3 -
an extensive study of education in rural Colombia. Findings are contained in
the Bank's report on Basic Education in Rural Colombia: A Subsector Analysis
(Report No. 3633-CO, April 5, 1982).
1.07      Based on those findings and subsequent detailed preparation over
the last year, the Government now requests financing for the first three year
time slice (Subsector Project) of a long-term Subsector Program for Rural
Basic Education focused on increasing the quality and efficiency of primary
schooling in rural Colombia. Bank support for the Subsector Project is
recommended because: (a) the deficiencies of the subsector, as analyzed in
Chapter II, are acute; (b) the Government's Program, described in Chapter
III, is an effective solution to the subsector's interlocking problems; (c)
the management arrangements, outlined in Chapter IV, offer reasonable assur-
ance of the feasibility of implementing the Program; (d) the estimated costs,
detailed in Chapter V, demonstrate that the Program is efficient and within
the financial capacity of the country; and (e) the potential benefits greatly
exceed the foreseeable risks, as explained in Chapter VI.
II. MAJOR ISSUES IN RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
Overview
2.01      In the thirty years since 1950, access to primary education in
Colombia has been extended to the majority of the population, rural and
urban. The expansion of school capacity in the 1970s increased enrollments
in public primary schools from 2.84 million students in 1970 to 3.54 million
in 1980. 4/ Public primary school enrollments have remained stable at
roughly this level for the past four years (1977-1980) and the net primary
enrollment ratio hovered around 80%. In the same decade, the teaching force
in public primary schools increased from 68,000 to 112,000 teachers. The
student teacher ratio in public primary schools thus declined from 42 in 1970
to 31 in 1980.
2.02      As stated in the Colombian analysis (para 1.06), these substantial
accomplishments mask three fundamental weaknesses of primary education in
Colombia, each of which is especially debilitating in rural areas.
(a)  Too few children in the age cohort finish the five-year primary
school cycle. In rural areas fewer than one out of every five
school-age children complete primary school, whereas in urban areas
more than half in the age cohort finish the five-year cycle. The
result is that in rural Colombia in 1980, society had to provide 21
student-years of services to produce a single graduate of the
five-year cycle. Translated into financial terms, a single rural
primary graduate costs society nearly US$1,700 in educational
4/   Over the same period, enrollments in private primary schools rose from
441,000 to 625,000 bringing total primary enrollments in 1980 to 4.17
million. Sixteen percent of Colombia's total population of 26 million
is enrolled in primary schools; enrollments in the rural primary subsec-
tor (including small towns) encompass about 7% of Colombia's total popu-
lation.



-4
resources rather than the roughly US$400, equivalent to five times
the average per student cost in 1980, which would have been
required in a system with no inefficiencies of student flows. Eco-
nomic waste of this magnitude demands priority remedial attention
in a country where 25% of public resources is spent on education,
5% of total public expenditure is for rural primary schooling, and
7% of the nation's population is attending rutal primary schools.
(b) Most children learn little while attending school. Among the seven
Latin American countries where IEA achievement tests 5/ were
administered to children in their final year of primary school, the
mean scores for Colombian students were the lowest in both language
and science components and were one standard deviation below
results obtained in thirteen developed countries of the northern
hemisphere. The sketchy data available further suggest that read-
ing achievement of Colombian rural fifth graders may be only half
that of their urban peers.
(c) The needed improvements in Colombia's rural primary schools are
impeded by a dysfunctional system of educational management. In
most areas there are no effective educational authorities below the
departmental level 6/, so that individual schools are left to
function in isolated fashion without an intermediate structure of
support and control. The several educational agencies at depart-
mental level are poorly coordinated, highly politicized and lack
appropriately qualified personnel. At the national level, educa-
tion sector resource allocation policies result (a) in maldistri-
bution of an overall surplus of teachers which leaves rural areas
poorly served and (b) in failure to provide teachers the basic edu-
cational tools which would make them pedagogically productive. The
Ministry of Education, itself overburdened with routine administra-
tive duties, is unable to concentrate on the performance monitoring
and systems evaluation essential to educational planning and policy
guidance.
51   During the 1960s IEA, the International Association for the Evaluation
of Educational Achievement, developed and administered standardized
achievement tests in core academic areas in 20 countries, of which four-
teen were developed northern hemisphere nations and only one, Chile, was
in Latin America. In the mid 1970s, ECIEL (Programa Conjunto de Estu-
dios de Integracion Economica en America Latina) used the IEA instru-
ments as a basis for examining learning outcomes in Mexico, Peru, Boli-
via, Paraguay, Argentina, Brazil and Colombia. Because the ECIEL sample
in Colombia was predominantly urban and because the tests incorporated
only the easiest half of the items from the original IEA tests, this
rough meassure of academic achievement underestimates the low level of
learning in Colombian rural primary schools.
6/   Colombia is divided for administrative purposes into 970 municipios
(counties), grouped into 22 departamentos (in some ways analogous to
states) and 10 national territories. The Distrito Especial de Bogota,
encompassing the metropolitan area of the capital, is treated for prac-
tical purposes like a department.



-5-
Each of these deficiencies is briefly sketched below. More detail is availa-
ble in the Project File.
A. Completion Rates and Primary School Efficiency
2.03      Too few rural children complete five years of primary school. Some
still lack any access at all to schooling; others have access only to rural
schools which do not offer all five grades of the primary cycle. Many repeat
grades several times (especially first and second grades), drop out before
finishing grade five, or repeat first and then drop out.
Initial Access
2.04      Too few rural children acquire full primary education in part
because some never enter school at all. According to the 1973 Census data,
56% of rural children aged 7-9 years old and 26% of the rural cohort aged
10-14 years had never attended school. It is estimated that about 10% of
rural children today still have no initial access to primary schools, either
because in the most isolated rural areas and frontier regions schools have
yet to be built, or because teachers willing to serve in extant schools in
such areas cannot be found, or because parents do not send the child to
school.
Incomplete Schools
2.05      Over 43% of the primary schools in rural areas and villages of
Colombia do not give the full five years of primary education, and nearly
one-fifth give two years or fewer. A sizeable proportion of rural primary
school children are therefore effectively locked out of higher elementary
schooling, because not all grades are given in the only school to which a
rural child has access.
Repetition
2.06      Repeaters accounted in 1980 for 22% of first grade enrollments and
15% of second grade students in rural Colombia. Repetition is the result of
the compound influence of high absence rates in rural areas, curricular
rigidity, inadequate evaluation standards and procedures, and the prevalence
of incomplete schools. In the Colombian countryside, absenteeism is higher
than in urban areas. Visits to rural schools suggest that on average each
child may fail to attend school one day in each four or five, with the more
frequent absences concentrated among the younger children. Poor health and
nutrition, long distances from home to school, and the students' vital econo-
mic roles also interfere with regular school attendance. The design of the
curriculum compounds their disadvantage, because it does not permit students
to pick up their studies where they left off prior to an absence. Students
must move at the pace of the entire class, or not move at all. Teachers tend
to view attendance as a readily available proxy for knowledge, and base a
significant portion of a final grade on it rather than on reliably assessed
academic performance.



-6-
Dropout
2.07      Dropout is also closely linked with absenteeism.  Students who get
behind with their school work are not motivated to stay in school because
their prospects of passing the current academic year are poor. Dropout is
often a consequence of migration, since families may move during the school
year and may not re-enroll their children upon relocation in another area.
B. Learning Deficiencies
2.08      The second critical problem besetting rural primary schooling in
Colombia is low levels of academic achievement of children who are in
school. The low quality of educational inputs (curriculum, teachers, educa-
tional materials, supervision services, and physical infrastructure) magni-
fies the negative impact of low completion rates in producing poor academic
outcomes.
Curriculum
2.09      The current curriculum is unsuited to the conditions of most rural
primary schools in Colombia. As presently designed, the curriculum presumes
the availability of one teacher for each grade of primary school. Since more
than two-thirds of rural primary schools are multigraded and have only one,
two or at most three teachers, it is difficult to implement the existing cur-
riculum in most rural areas.
Teachers
2.10      Colombia has an estimated excess of 25,000 trained teachers in its
urban areas. But field observations and discussions with departmental educa-
tional authorities reveal that some hundreds of rural primary schools are
closed for lack of teachers. In rural schools with teachers, half of the
teachers lack minimally acceptable academic and pedagogic qualifications,
while only a quarter of urban primary teachers are inadequately trained.
Furthermore, rural teachers are much more prone than their urban peers to
abandon their classroom, or even the profession, perhaps in the middle of the
school year.
Educational Materials
2.11      Two-thirds of rural Colombian school children do not have access to
any textbook at all; only 6% have access to more than one book. Financial
hardship prevents most rural primary students from obtaining the learning
materials which support the primary school curriculum. In the absence of
textbooks, the standard teaching method reverts to dictation, copying, and
rote memorization.
Academic Supervision
2.12      With each current supervisor responsible on average for 70 primary
schools, many rural schools are never visited by a supervisor. Those which
are receive at most an inspection visit, rather than technical assistance
with the school's academic program. The lack of academic supervision is
partly due to the absence of a local school administrative structure.



-7-
Physical Facilities
2.13      Rural primary schools often lack the basic physical facilities to
make them educationally functional. Roughly 80% of rural primary schools
lack minimum basic furniture (student and teacher desks and chairs). Most
also lack essential equipment, paper and writing materials, and sanitary
facilities, including running water and toilets. Approximately 31% of class-
rooms are in need of repair. Perhaps 6% are so dilapidated that they need to
be replaced completely in order to become functional. The shortfall of phys-
ical facilities stems from the administrative, financial and educational
neglect of rural schools.
C. Educational Management
2.14      Educational management in Colombia is complicated, frequently inef-
fective, and inefficient. Inadequate management places sharp limits on
Colombian capacity to diagnose problems, to generate alternative solutions,
to plan projects based on a selection among options, and most importantly to
execute approved projects and programs. The five central managerial issues
are noted in sequence below.
Structural Separation
2.15      The Colombian educational system is made up of 23 semi-autonomous
departmental educational systems (including the Bogota Special District) and
the national Ministry of Education. The President appoints the Minister of
Education, and also the Governors of the Departments. The Governor appoints
the departmental Secretary of Education, who is responsible only to him. A
structural separation between the national and departmental systems of educa-
tional administration is thus assured, a situation complicated by the hetero-
geneity of the departments in terms of ability to finance education, institu-
tional maturity, and size and distribution of population.
Lack of Local Education Administration
2.16      With few exceptions, there is no effective system of educational
administration below the departmental level. The absence of a local admin-
istrative framework means that assistance for and control over schools and
teachers outside the departmental capital city, and especially in remote
areas, are minimal. Centralization at departmental levels has also resulted
in a lack of mechanisms for the identification of local problems, for the
planning of local solutions, and for the controlled implementation of proj-
ects specifically designed to meet particular local needs.
Organizational Weakness at Departmental Levels
2.17      With three or four exceptions, the departmental Secretariats have
proven unequal to the task of managing a rapidly expanding school system, and
especially so at the primary level in rural areas. As a consequence of the
institutional debility of the Secretariats, a complex array of functionally
specialized organizations involved in educational administration has emerged
in the departments, although outside the exclusive control of departmental
authorities. Coordination among these agencies is intermittent at best.



- 8 -
Some functions are wastefully duplicated. Two others of particular import-
ance--educational performance monitoring and planning, and pedagogical super-
vision of teachers--are addressed only sporadically if at all.
Ministry Encumbered by Routine Administrative Tasks
2.18      Despite legislation in 1976 decentralizing all school administra-
tion to the department level, the confusion and institutional fragility of
the educational agencies in the departments has thus far prevented the neces-
sary freeing of the Ministry of Education from routine administrative tasks.
The effort required to oversee the routine day-to-day operations of the
nearly 500 secondary schools which report directly to the Ministry has pre-
vented the Ministry from effectively performing its proper functions of
policy guidance, promulgation of legal norms, overall system monitoring and
evaluation, macro-level educational planning, and resource allocation. The
Ministry's ineffectiveness is in large measure due to the inadequacy of
information at its disposal upon which to base decisions on policy and pro-
grams. Particularly notable is the lack of: (a) a modern management informa-
tion system (including the integration of routine educational statistics on
numbers of students, teachers, and establishments with data on student learn-
ing, physical plant, educational materials, costs, and budgeting) and (b) the
capacity to conduct educational research or even to tap the rich research on
educational innovations which characterizes the Colombian private sector.
Resource Allocation
2.19      The education sector in Colombia is characterized by an imbalance
between investment and recurrent expenditures. Approximately 25% of
Colombian public expenditures, equivalent to roughly 3% GDP, was spent on
education in 1980, and the public primary system received about 35% of the
educational expenditures readily identifiable by level. But less than 8% of
total public spending for education was for capital goods; at the primary
level, the proportion was approximately 2%. These figures are the reflection
of substantial deterioration in the balance during the 1970s when the decline
in investment resources for education accelerated from an average annual real
rate of 1.65% in 1970-75 to about 3% in 1975-1980. Education's share in the
public investment budget eroded from 10% in 1970 to 5% in 1980. By contrast,
recurrent educational expenditure by the nation rose comfortably over the
same decade at an annual real rate of 7.9%. In Colombia most of the cost of
curriculum development, teacher training, textbooks and other educational
materials, pedagogical supervision, school furniture and equipment, mainte-
nance of the physical plant, and minimum sanitary services, as well as school
construction, are counted as capital costs and so must be financed from the
investment budget.  Colombia employs enough primary teachers, but fails to
provide this labor force, especially in rural ares, with the educational
capital necessary to assure minimum productivity.
III. SUBSECTOR PROGRAM FOR RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
3.01      Based on experience gained in the 1970s (para. 1.06), the Govern-
ment has developed a Subsector Program to overcome the three main problems in
rural basic education. The Subsector Program consists of a comprehensive
strategy and a system for delivering educational services in rural areas



- 9 -
through which to implement the strategy. The strategy, conceptual in nature,
comprises hierarchically arrayed objectives, the means to their attainment,
and the actions required to put each mean into effect. As such, the strategy
is useful as a yardstick by which to assess the adequacy of educational
services. The delivery system, operational in nature, takes the form of four
integrated educational services which would be introduced in selected geogra-
phical areas of rural Colombia. Together, the strategy and delivery system
constitute an effective, feasible, and efficient Subsector Program for devel-
opment of rural basic education in Colombia. These two aspects of the
Government's Subsector Program are analyzed in sequence below.
A. Strategy for Improving Rural Basic Education
3.02      Reduction of educational deprivation in rural areas will require
dramatic increases in primary school completion rates, in student learning,
and in management effectiveness. These are the three main objectives of the
Subsector Program strategy. Attainment of the first, improvement in internal
efficiency, depends in part upon concomitant increases in student achieve-
ment. Attainment of these first two objectives depends in turn upon improv-
ing educational management at all levels.
3.03      Recognizing the interdependent nature of these three objectives,
the Government developed during the period 1979-1981 a coherent strategy to
address them, as summarized below and presented in greater detail in the
Project File. The strategy seeks to:
(a) increase primary school completion rates, by:
(i) providing the full five years of primary education in all
rural primary schools by 1991, including especially the nearly
15,000 small one- or two-classroom schools in isolated areas;
(ii) reducing repetition in primary schools;
(iii) reducing dropout in rural primary schools; and
(iv) increasing academic performance of rural school children, as
described below;
(b) increase learning efficiency in rural schools, by:
(i) introducing educational programs better suited to rural needs;
(ii) assuring more and better qualified teachers for rural schools;
(iii) providing educational materials free of charge to all rural
schools;
(iv) establishing an effective system for supplying pedagogical
support to teachers in rural schools; and
(v) instituting a series of management reforms, as described
below:



- 10 -
(c) decentralize educational administration, by:
(i) at the community level, organizing the schools into districts
for which a single director can provide effective administra-
tive oversight, elementary pedagogical support for teachers,
community-based planning, and simple project implementation
and evaluation capacity;
(ii) at departmental level, coordinating the ongoing activities of
the several agencies involved in educational administration
and establishing mechanisms to perform needed but missing
administrative functions;
(iii) at the national level, redefining the responsibilities of
certain key units of the Ministry; and
(iv) at all levels, strengthening capacity for education monitor-
ing, evaluation research, and planning; and
(d) allocate an increased proportion of resources for rural basic edu-
cation to investment expenditures, by:
(i) restraining the growth of recurrent costs; and
(ii) increasing overall real resource allocation to primary school-
ing.
B. Delivery System for Rural Basic Education
Overview
3.04      The Government has developed a delivery system to carry out its
strategy for rural primary education, consisting of four educational
services:
(a) Escuela Nueva would use multigrade teaching techniques to extend
the education offered in schools of three classrooms or fewer to
the full five-year primary cycle, while simultaneously introducing
into those schools the new national primary school curriculum;
(b) Experimentacion Curricular would provide the new curriculum and
supporting inputs needed to improve academic performance and reten-
tion in the complete graded schools with a minimum of five teachers
and classrooms;
(c) Escuelas Normales Demostrativas would initiate the reform of pre-
service teacher education needed to make it directly supportive of
the new curricular and methodological initiatives of Escuela Nueva
and Experimentacion Curricular; and
(d) Nuclearizacion would address the need for management improvement
through decentralizing educational administration and strenthening
capacity at all levels for planning, executing, and evaluating edu-
cational projects.



- 11 -
3.05      With the exception of Escuelas Normales Demostrativas just now
being started, each of these services has undergone extensive experimenta-
tion, field testing, evaluation, and modification as required over the past
five years. Each consists of a careful blend of the minimum education soft-
ware and improvements in infrastructure required for an effective response to
the problems of primary education in rural Colombia. Each is ready for
nationwide expansion.
3.06      None of these educational services alone responds to all essential
elements of the Government's development strategy for rural basic education
as sketched above and described in more detail in the Project File. And a
number of important components of the strategy, by contrast, are provided by
more than one of the programs. Together, however, the four effectively
address all the critical elements of the strategy, with the partial exception
of assuring a long-range increase in real resource allocation to primary
schooling. In operational terms, the Subsector Program consists of the coor-
dinated delivery of these four educational services in Colombia's rural
areas, initially in selected counties of three departments (Subsector Proj-
ect).
Escuela Nueva
3.07      Escuela Nueva comprises a package of inputs (software and infra-
structure) designed specifically to provide a full five-year primary course
of pertinent subject matter for the small rural school with one to two class-
rooms and teachers.  This program, the result of almost a decade of experi-
mentation with multigrade teaching, was legally established by the government
in 1976 and is currently operating in about 1,000 rural schools, roughly 7%
of the schools for which it was designed. It takes as its premise the facts
of the rural environment, and it seeks to achieve both social and educational
goals whereby to enrich the quality of life in rural Colombia. Among its
educational goals are: (a) the provision of the full five-year primary
course; (b) the improvement of the relevance and quality of education;
(c) improved student learning achievement; and (d) improved efficiency and
external productivity. Its social objectives relate to the integration and
involvement of child, school and community both in the educative process and
in community living.
Educational Goals
3.08      Providing the Full Five-Year Primary Cycle.  Essentially the means
to achieve this objective reside in the technique of multigrade teaching. To
enable teachers to meet the challenge implied by this procedure, Escuela
Nueva has developed a special classroom design, based on "resource corners"
and simple classroom furniture calculated to allow groups of students to work
on particular assignments appropriate to their grade and stage of progress.
Class organization is flexible. Semi-programmed learning material enables
students to work individually or in groups with only occasional direct help
from the teacher. A small library provides additional resource material for
a project approach to learning. With the assistance of popularly elected
student "leaders" in the organization and control of learning groups, the
teacher is thus able effectively to handle up to five grades simultaneously.
3.09      Educational Relevance and Quality.  The Escuela Nueva curriculum is
rural oriented and flexible. It deals with real life situations in inte-



- 12 -
grated learning units, and is readily adaptable to the circumstances of a
particular community. In content it favors simple and sequential themes. In
approach it promotes practical problem-solving experiences rather than rote
learning. What is taught is of sound quality, and is thoroughly mastered by
the child before he proceeds to the next assignment.
3.10      Improved Student Achievement.  Student textbooks and other learn-
ing/teaching materials have been prepared for Escuela Nueva with strict
regard for the psycho-physical maturation stage of the respective student.
The concepts are within the child's grasp. The vocabulary and language
structure are readily comprehended and the material is at once stimulating,
challenging and frequently amusing. The material incorporates activity
learning through projects, music, dance and drama. Yet it is appropriately
rigorous in its learning demands. Students enjoy the relatively free atmos-
phere in which learning occurs and the variety of classroom experiences.
They take readily to assignments which they have set themselves.
3.11      Educational Efficiency and Productivity.  Escuela Nueva is predi-
cated upon evidence that the built-in inflexibility of linear learning proce-
dures has been a major contr'butor to repetition and dropout rates. The pro-
gram recognizes the differing aptitudes of students, and the corollary that
children are subject to either falling behind their peers or becoming bored
by slow class progress. It takes as given the inevitability of student
absences during periods of agricultural activities, and seeks to enable
children to resume their studies after such absence without repeating the
course, or, frequently, being constrained to abandon their schooling. Escue-
la Nueva has therefore developed individualized learning programs composed of
different series of levels, among which the student can freely choose the one
most appropriate to his interest and abilities.  It insists, however, by an
in-built continuous assessment and evaluation procedure, that real learning
take place at each stage of the student's education. A principal impediment
to student achievement, and, by extension, to student retention, is thus
removed.
3.12      Escuela Nueva also provides in most cases an expanded school meal
program, based on community participation and on the production from a school
garden (whose purpose is didactic as well as nutritional). Problems of
undernourishment and related health deficiencies, which impact negatively on
retention, are thus addressed within the Escuela Nueva.
3.13      Finally, Escuela Nueva attacks directly two other contributors to
inefficiency and low productivity in rural schools: (a) the lack or poor
quality of teachers; and (b) inadequate school supervision. As regards the
quality of teachers, Escuela Nueva places special emphasis both on their ini-
tial training and their continuous in-service upgrading. Teacher training
courses are eminently practical exercises in the philosophy and content of
the program, school organization, the production and use of simple teaching
aids, and student evaluation. Escuela Nueva is not introduced in a school
until after the teacher has received the initial segment of this specialized
training; the remainder is supplied in two further workshops over about a
year, carefully sequenced to coincide with the teacher's needs for assistance
with the new materials and evaluation systems. Teacher shortages are mini-
mized by tying increased salary incentives for rural teachers to their
completion of the in-service training program and successful introduction of
Escuela Nueva methods in their schools. The training of supervisors in pro-



- 13 -
gram content, and in the pedagogical aspects of supervision is also an inte-
gral part of the Escuela Nueva program, as is regular and frequent school
visitation by trained supervisors. Finally, during negotiations the govern-
ment would be asked to provide assurances that a special emergency training
program would be launched by February 28, 1984, to enable underqualified
teachers presently excluded from training programs which give access to the
official salary scale, to attain qualified status and progressive profes-
sional careers.
Social Objectives
3.14      Escuela Nueva considers the integration of the student, school and
community as crucial not merely to the effectiveness of the school as a
learning institution but also to the assumption by the community of responsi-
bility for its own improvement and destiny. The interplay of the community
and the school is therefore sought by a Parents' Committee, and by joint
school/community projects, including the school meal program. To prepare
students for their future community roles, their participation in the above-
mentioned community-based activities is reinforced by training in group dyna-
mics and in leadership. Both individual and group learning situations are
engineered by the teacher.  The Student Council is popularly elected, its
membership regularly changes, and it is the constituent body for a group of
committees and "leaders." Between them, they assume responsibility for the
planning and execution of extracurricular activities (such as socio-cultural
programs, sports and recreational activities), the library, school mainte-
nance and the school garden. They assist the teacher in the organization and
smooth functioning of the school, for example by operating the attendance
record system.
Experimentacion Curricular
3.15      In contrast to Escuela Nueva, with its focus on the small "incom-
plete" rural schools, Experimentacion Curricular comprises a package of edu-
cational inputs designed specifically to improve the quality and content of
the program in the "complete" or graded school. Its goal, as enunciated in
Decrees 1419 and 1816 of 1978, was the introduction and evaluation of a new
curriculum in this type of school in both rural and urban areas. The produc-
tion of learning/teaching materials, the training of teachers in the new cur-
riculum, student evaluation and school supervision, were integral parts of
the program. The program is currently in use in some 240 departmental
schools and in all public primary schools in the Bogota Special District.
3.16      In common with Escuela Nueva, Experimentacion Curricular set out to
provide a child-centered, activity-based, and problem-solving primary educa-
tion, with a balanced approach with respect to theoretical and practical
content, and to social and academic education. The general learning objec-
tives of the two programs are the same. But the means used to attain these
objectives differ significantly, however, from Escuela Nueva. Organization-
ally, children continue to be taught in graded classes, with a separate
teacher for each grade. Conceptually, the curriculum is planned on a thema-
tic approach in the first three grades, followed by subject related study
blocks in the later grades, rather than on the integrated approach used in
Escuela Nueva. Pedagogically, the teaching method is currently predetermined
by the absence of student learning materials. Manuals and teaching units are
currently provided only to staff.



- 14 -
3.17      The program has substantially met the qualitative objectives of
curriculum reform, specifically in regard to student creativity, linguistic
and judgmental skills. Its effect on efficiency and external productivity,
especially in schools in small towns and rural areas, has been less certain,
because: (a) the lack of student learning material has perpetuated the
linear learning approach with its attendant problems of repetition and drop-
out; (b) resource limitations have resulted in inadequacies in the teacher
training and school supervision and follow-up programs; and (c) community
involvement has met with only modest success, largely because teacher train-
ing courses have not included the necessary changes in teachers' attitudes.
3.18      As Experimentacion Curricular is introduced into rural schools
under the Subsector Program, each of these deficiencies would be corrected.
Student learning materials would be distributed to all schools. Teacher
training programs would be intensified, and school supervisory services would
be expanded and improved.
Student Learning Materials
3.19      New textbooks, which conform in content and format with the needs
of Experimentacion Curricular, have already been produced by private publish-
ing firms. Conformity with program needs has been assured through the Stand-
ing Consultative Committee of Printers and Publishers and the Ministry of
Education. Selected materials, already available or in the process of publi-
cation, would be distributed to schools in quantities sufficient to permit
the adoption of individualized learning procedures. This would enable Exper-
imentacion Curricular schools to initiate the flexible promotion system,
already a feature of the Escuela Nueva. As a general rule, each book pro-
vided would be used by a group of two or three students; texts for individual
students would be the exception.
3.20      Additional resource materials (school libraries and basic educa-
tional equipment) would also be provided to schools, to promote active, proj-
ect-oriented learning.
School Supervision
3.21      The number of school supervisors in each Department would be
increased, so that each zone 7/ would have several full-time supervisors.
All would be trained, both in the content and approach of Experimentacion
Curricular and Escuela Nueva and in the pedagogical support function of the
supervisor. Transport facilities would be provided at zone level, so that
supervisors could readily visit districts and schools in their areas.
Teacher Training
3.22      In-service teacher training courses would be expanded and intensi-
fied to cover all teachers in the Experimentacion Curricular program. Spe-
cial attention would be paid to the role of the teacher as the agent for com-
munity integration and development, and to the student guidance and evalua-
tion aspects of teaching.
7/   A description of the newly decentralized structure of educational admin-
istration below the departmental level is contained in the section on
Nuclearizacion, below.



- 15 -
Escuelas Normales Demostrativas
3.23      In addition to meeting the training needs of practicing teachers by
in-service courses for those employed in the Escuela Nueva or Experimentacion
Curricular schools, the Subsector Program would initiate a much needed reform
in pre-service teacher education.
3.24      The pre-service primary teacher training system suffers from three
major defects:  curriculum inadequacies, low quality courses, and a surfeit
of training institutions graduating far more teachers than can be absorbed
into the schools. The Escuelas Normales Demostrativas would deal with the
first two of these constraints. Other government actions have already been
set in motion to rationalize the output of graduates (para. 3.27).
3.25      Escuelas Normales Demostrativas involve the selection of thirty of
the best training schools 8/, strategically sited to serve the main regions
of Colombia, for upgrading to the stage where they would be able to: (a)
provide a more relevant and better quality education to their own students;
and (b) to train the staff, and supervise the activities of other teacher
training schools within their own respective catchment areas. Six of the
thirty schools have already been selected and initial steps have been taken
to introduce the new program. The remaining 24 are included in the Subsector
Program, of which three would be incorporated in Phase I (1982-1984).
3.26      The program provides for: (a) minor building modifications, basi-
cally to ensure adequate facilities for science teaching and teaching aids
production; (b) essential educational equipment, especially library books;
and (c) training courses for the staff and administrators in the content and
teaching methodologies and the evaluation and guidance techniques of the
Escuela Nueva and Experimentacion Curricular programs, as well as in the
secondary school curricula presently being developed by the Ministry of Edu-
cation.
3.27      Meanwhile the government has initiated actions in the politically
sensitive field of rationalizing primary teacher output. Since 1978 two
dozen teacher training schools have been closed. Approximately seven others
have been converted into diversified schools offering several secondary
options, thereby reducing the number of students opting for teacher train-
ing. Together these initiatives have already produced a significant impact
on teacher output: between 1977 and 1980 teacher graduates declined by 22%,
from 8,100 to 6,350.
Nuclearizacion
3.28      Nuclearizacion encompasses those actions of needed reform in educa-
tion management, the core of which is administrative decentralization of the
sector.
8/   As identified in: "Evaluacion de las Escuelas Normales de Colombia"
(Ministerio de Educacion Nacional, 1978) on the basis of objective
measures of the adequacy of physical facilities and the level of train-
ing and experience of the teaching staff. In total there are still 190
Escuelas Normales.



- 16 -
Decentralization
3.29      The heart of the decentralization process is the school map, a
detailed and exhaustive survey of existing educational facilities, and an
inventory of broad needs. Based on the findings of the school map, admin-
istrative subdivisions are established in each Department. The Department is
subdivided into a small number (3-5) of homogenous zones (distritos); each
zone is further subdivided into similarly homogenous school districts
(nucleos) 9/, the number of which in the Department will vary between 70 and
150, depending on the extensiveness of the Department. The rural district
contains some 10-15 schools on average, the majority of them small one or two
classroom schools, with perhaps one or two complete (i.e., graded) schools.
In roughly half the districts there will also be one or more junior secondary
schools.
3.30      The overriding objective of Nuclearizacion is to remedy defici-
encies of student flows and learning efficiency in the rural primary schools,
thereby increasing the cost effectiveness of the subsector. The fundamental
means of doing so is to develop a three-tier system of school administration
in each Department. Annex 1 shows the system now being established. At the
head of each school district is the District Director responsible for the
administration and supervision of all schools in his area. At the next level
the Zone Chief, operating through a corps of school supervisors, is charged
with coordination of the activities of the District Directors. At Depart-
mental level, the Secretariat of Education, with technical support units,
shares the ultimate authority for school administration 10/ with: (a) Pilot
Experimental Center (CEP) charged with responsibility for training of teach-
ers for, and for pedagogical supervision of, all schools involved in either
the Escuela Nueva or the Experimentacion Curricular programs; (b) a Regional
Education Fund which handles all the money for the school system; and
(c) regional offices of the school construction agency, ICCE, and
scholarship/student loan agency, ICETEX.
3.31      Under Nuclearizacion, this administrative structure would be
strengthened. Significant progress has already been made. By Presidential
Decree 181 of January 22, 1982, national norms were established for:
(a) school mapping; (b) establishment of the districts and zones;
(c) appointment of district directors and zone chiefs; and (d) location of
all supervisory services at zone level and strengthening of pedagogical tech-
nical assistance to the schools. Decree 181 further provided for a fixed
personnel establishment in each school district, to be determined on the
basis of needs as assessed in the school map, and placed strict limits on the
authority of the Secretariat of Education to transfer teachers, especially
from rural to urban areas.
9/   The formal name for these districts is Nucleos de Desarrollo Educativo.
Unlike the connotation often given to nuclear patterns of school orga-
nization, these Colombian school districts do not generally involve edu-
cational articulation between a large and more complete central school
and smaller, incomplete satellite schools in peripheral areas.
10/  The Ministry of Education is still directly responsible for administra-
tion of 474 (mostly) secondary schools, control over which should, under
prevailing legislation, be passed to the Departments.



- 17 -
3.32      Prior to negotiations an addition to Decree 181 was enacted (Decree
1234), and the administrative rules that give operative force to it were
issued (Resolution 10406). Major points included in the addition are: (a)
the stipulation that all decisions on education resource allocation, not just
teacher appointments and transfers, shall be based on the regularly updated
inventory of needs contained in the school map; (b) the allocation of respon-
sibility for overseeing administrative supervision (inspection) and academic
supervision (pedagogical support to teachers) between the appropriate General
Directorates of the Ministry of Education and their respective counterpart
organizations at the departmental level. The administrative rules cover,
inter alia, (a) the specification of qualifications and detailed procedures
for merit-based selection and appointment of district directors, zone chiefs,
and academic supervisors; and (b) the detailed description of functions and
authority of district directors, zone chiefs, and supervisors.
Other Aspects of Nuclearizacion
3.33      The impact on rural basic education of the administrative decen-
tralization launched under Decrees 181 and 1234 would be limited in the
absence of complementary measures to assure: (a) that rural schools are
staffed with teachers; and (b) that the new personnel at all levels are
thoroughly trained for their new responsibilities; and (c) that the Ministry
of Education's capacity for performance monitoring, evaluation, project plan-
ning, and policy formulation is increased.
3.34      The Government took significant steps in February 1982 to remove
the constraints on the supply of teachers to isolated rural schools. The
most significant measures include: (a) a general limitation on transfer to
the urban areas of 100,000 inhabitants or more; (b) a requirement of two
years' service outside the cities for all newly appointed teachers prior to
becoming eligible for urban service; (c) the creation of fixed teacher estab-
lishments in each school district and proscription against transfer of a
teacher from an established position without simultaneously naming a replace-
ment; (d) the double counting of time of service in rural schools for pur-
poses of advancement in the salary scale; (e) the imposition of a national-
level review requirement for transfer of any teacher involved in a "special
program" of the Ministry of Education; 1l/ and (f) the decentralization to
the zone level of the current corps of administrative supervisors (inspec-
tors) and the establishment at zone level of a corps of academic supervisors,
which in combination assures both improved operational control and pedagogi-
cal support of rural teachers.
3.35      Accelerated appointment and training of district directors9 zone
chiefs, and academic supervisors, along with provision of the infrastructure
support needed to make them effective, would be key components of the Subsec-
tor Program. While construction of new office buildings is not envisioned,
conversion of current office space and excess classrooms in existing schools
would be required, as would be provision of minimum furniture and equipment
and, most important, transport facilities. When geographical circumstances
so require, district directors' offices would be provided appropriate trans-
port, whereas, typically, each zone would be provided with one or more jeeps
and several motorcycles, to be used by the group of supervisors.
11/ The Subsector Program enabling legislation classifies it as such a
"special program.



- 18 -
3.36      The impact of Nuclearizacion will ultimately depend upon strength-
ening the Ministry of Education's own management capacity, especially in edu-
cational research and planning. Fundamental to progress in these areas is
the early establishment of a modern management information system for the
education sector. This would include integrated components covering: rou-
tine educational statistics (number of schools, teachers, students), physical
plant, learning resources (including textbooks and other materials), academic
achievement and background characteristics of students, compensation-related
variables and basic biographic data on teachers, and education costs and
budgets. Initial design, testing, and personnel training for such a system
would thus be an early priority of the Subsector Program. The need for major
hardware purchases would also be assessed, although any required action
would take second priority in the early years to software development and
staff training. The Government brought to negotiations for Bank review two
technical proposals for the management information system. After negotiating
the financial terms for the one jointly judged best, the Government will
forward the contract for Bank approval.
3.37      Also important for increasing the Ministry of Education's deci-
sion-making capacity is enlarging its access to research on priority educa-
tional problems and to evaluation results concerning Colombia's rich tradi-
tion of educational Innovations launched by the private sector. The Subsec-
tor Program would therefore make provision for the channelling of public
funds to research and evaluation. A technical committee, comprising recog-
nized experts in social science research on education would be appointed (and
paid) by the Ministry of Education to screen research proposals submitted in
response to publication of the Ministry's list of priority areas and pro-
blems. Emphasis would be given to studies relating to rural primary educa-
tion and to curricular design and experimentation for junior secondary
schools in rural areas. The Government bought to negotiations for Bank
review its proposal for the expanded research program and, after incorporat-
ing agreed modifications, will present the final proposal for Bank approval.
Resource Allocation Policies
3.38      By increasing efficiency in the subsector, vigorous implementation
of the Subsector Program would tend to restrain the growth of recurrent costs
over what would otherwise be necessary. The proportion of subsector expendi-
tures dedicated to investment would tend gradually to rise (para. 3.03(d)
(i)). But the Government also needs to take effective measures to restruc-
ture education costs and finance so as to increase real resources allocated
to primary schooling (para. 3.03(d)(ii)). Serious examination of alterna-
tives in this area has not yet begun, despite growing recognition that educa-
tion's share of public resources 's close to the maximum sustainable limit.
3.39      The inauguration of a new administration in August 1982 offers a
natural opportunity for the authorities to address the fundamental issues of
educational costs and finance. Thus, although not funded within the Subsec-
tor Program, a high-level commission would be named by the new administration
and provided with an appropriate professional staff to examine the central
issues of educational costs and finance and make policy recommendations. The
Government brought to negotiations for review and comment by the Bank the
draft terms of reference for such a commission, including the list of major
issues to be addressed, the likely source of funding, and the size and
general composition of the commission and its professionals. The Government



- 19 -
provided assurances that, in accordance with agreed terms of reference, such
a commission would be appointed and appropriate arrangements made to provide
it with an professional staff before April 30, 1983 and that its final report
would be delivered to the Government with a copy to the Bank no later than
June 30, 1984.
C. Quantification of the Subsector Program for Rural Basic Education
3.40      Nationwide implementation of Escuela Nueva, Experimentacion Curri-
cular, Escuelas Normales Demostrativas, and Nuclearizacion will clearly
require careful sequencing, since both financial and managerial resources are
limited. As explained in greater detail in the following chapters, the
Government therefore proposes a three phase approach over ten years.
Detailed physical targets for each phase, derived from school map data and
pilot experience in implementing Escuela Nueva and Experimentacion Curri-
cular, are found in Annex 2, and highlighted in Table 3.1. A further break-
down for Phase 1 (1982-1984) is contained in Annex 3, and highlighted in
Table 3.2.
Table 3.1: INCREMENTAL PHYSICAL TARGETS BY IMPLEMENTATION PHASE
(Highlights of Annex 2)
Phase III
Phase I (1982-84)  Phase II (1985-87)  (1988-91)    Total
Subsector            Basic               Basic
Project   DRI II   Program  DRI II    Program
Primary Schools
Included in Program           1,650        440     4,620    880       10,285     17,875
Teachers Trained
Under Program (000)             6.1        1.6      15.3    2.9         29.8       55.7
Students Incorporated
in Program (000)                113         30       352      67         784      1,346
Textbooks and Manuals
Provided (000)                  344         92     1,362     287       3,884      5,969
Student and Teacher Desks
Provided (000)                   92         25       259      49         577      1,002
Classrooms Repaired             1,134        302     3,175    605       7,069      12,285
New Classrooms Provided           780        208     2,184    416       4,862       8,450



- 20 -
Table 3.2 INCREMENTAL PHYSICAL TARGETS FOR PHASE I
(Highlights of Annex 3)
DRI II
Subector Project (150 districts)   (40 districts)   Total
1982    1983    1984   Total        1982-84
Primary Schools
Included in the Program       85      490   1,075   1,650          440        2,090
Teachers Trained under Program   1,200   2,400   3,485   6,085        1,620        7,705
Students Incorporated in
Program                   16,700  73,000  22,450 112,500        30,000      142,500
Textbooks and Manuals
Provided (000)                57      221      66      344          92          436
Student and Teacher Desks
Provided (000)                18       65       9       92          25          117
Classrooms Repaired                60      345     729   1,134          302        1,436
New Classrooms Provided            40      230      510     780         208          988
IV. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
4.01      Special arrangements have been made to facilitate prompt implemen-
tation of the Subsector Program, as follows:
(a)  a sector approach, under which, with Bank and Borrower relying on
intermediaries, program activities are broken down into subprojects
and executed at local and national levels and financed from various
sources;
(b)  implementation scheduling in three phases over ten years, under
which for Phase I (1982-1984) rapid execution in 1983-1984 would be
sought through preparatory activities in 1982 prior to effective-
ness of the proposed loan from the Bank;
(c)  organizational and staffing patterns which are designed to be
effective for a variety of subprojects executed at the national and
local levels;
(d)  carefully defined criteria and procedures for allocation of program
funds to geographical areas of greatest need and for preparation,
appraisal, and execution of subprojects; and
(e)  choice of the Fund of the Ministry of Education (FONDO/MEN) as the
Borrower with Government guarantee, thereby avoiding cumbersome
Colombian budgetary procedures.
These arrangements, treated in sequence below, are based on conservative
assessments of the implementation capabilities of involved agencies and are
specifically tailored to overcome current weaknesses in educational manage-
ment.



- 21 -
A. Sector Approach
4.02      In the conception of implementation as a series of discrete sub-
projects, in the role assigned to intermediaries and in recourse to multiple
sources of finance, the Government's Subsector Program adopts a coherent and
pragmatic approach to the sector as a whole.
Subproject Organization
4.03      The Subsector Program would be executed through a series of sub-
projects, which would be of two types, local and national.
Local Subprojects
4.04      A local subproject is an investment plan to address the aggregated
minimum educational needs of two to five usually contiguous districts
(involving 20-70 rural primary schools and 1,800 - 7,200 pupils). The school
map is used to determine what each school needs of the particular mix of
inputs--curriculum, teacher training, educational materials, supervision,
repair or extension of physical plant, furniture, sanitary facilities--
provided by Escuela Nueva or Experimentacion Curricular. An investment proj-
ect is then developed which includes training of teachers, educational mate-
rials, school supervision, school furniture and equipment, and civil works
for repair, extension, or sanitary upgrading of the physical plant. Both
capital and incremental recurrent costs of local subprojects are calculated
from norms provided by the responsible implementation agencies.
4.05      Responsibility for carrying out these local subprojects would rest
with the departmental level authorities, assisted by the school district
directors from below and by the technical support agencies of the Ministry of
Education from above. By combining the educational needs of several dis-
tricts, subprojects would be of economical size for programming of teacher
training and supervisory services, rehabilitation of physical plant, distri-
bution 12/ of furniture and educational materials.  By limiting individual
subprojects to coverage of a few districts, the risk would be minimized of
the investment program becoming unwieldy and suffering implementation delays
due to difficulties of synchronizing activities over wide areas. Thirty to
forty local subprojects would constitute the core of the Subsector Project
during Phase I.
National Subprojects
4.06      In order to take advantage wherever possible of economies of scale
in the provision of certain goods and services, the local subprojects would
be supported by several national level subprojects. These would cover the
following areas:
(a) development of a computerized management information system for the
education sector (para. 3.36);
12/ But not necessarily the production of furniture and materials, which
will typically be handled in national subprojects, as described in the
following paragraph.



- 22 -
(b) expansion of applied research on education (including curriculum
development for rural junior secondary schools) (para. 3.37);
(c) impact evaluation of the Subsector Program, as described below;
(d) production of the textbooks and other educational materials needed
for Escuela Nueva and Experimentacion Curricular. Since the mate-
rials have already been developed and tested for Escuela Nueva,
only printing is involved. For Experimentacion Curricular, some
publishing activity will be necessary, although textbook firms
already have prototypes available. For each phase of implementa-
tion, textbook subprojects would be developed for Escuela Nueva and
Experimentacion Curricular;
(e) production of school furniture and equipment, probably accomplished
on a regional basis;
(f) training of administrators and planners at national, departmental,
and local levels.
These national subprojects would be implemented directly by the Ministry of
Education, in cooperation with departmental agencies where appropriate (e.g.,
training for District Directors).
Role of Intermediaries
4.07      In formulating the Subsector Program for Rural Basic Education,
the devolution of the routine implementation tasks to lower levels of govern-
ment has been emphasized so as to allow the Ministry of Education:  (a) to
concentrate on monitoring the impact of far-reaching policies it has promul-
gated for the rural primary subsector (and, incidentally, other parts of the
formal education system); (b) to develop further the criteria and methodology
for subproject processing on the basis of experience gained during implemen-
tation; and (c) to provide timely and high quality technical assistance to
lower level executing agencies.
Multiple Sources of Finance
4.08      The Subsector Program would draw on several sources of support.
The affected communities themselves would contribute labor and some materi-
als, but this on average would not exceed 10% of total resource costs.
Financial costs would be absorbed by the regular Government budget for educa-
tion as supplemented with foreign borrowing. During the early years of exe-
cution, and in addition to the loan here proposed, both IBRD and IDB would
assist the Subsector Program through loans for the second phase of the Inte-
grated Rural Development Program (DRI-II), of which the Subsector Program
would constitute the education component in selected departments.
B. Phased Implementation Schedule
4.09      Implementation of the Subsector Program has been planned with due
regard for its magnitude and complexity.



- 23 -
Implementation Phases
4.10      Execution would extend over ten years (1982-1991) in three stages.
The Basic Program for Phase I, for which funding is here recommended as a
Subsector Project, would incorporate 150 districts over three years (1982-
1984). DRI-II would finance implementation of the Subsector Program in an
additional 40 districts in 1983-84. Assuming adequate performance in this
start-up period, Phase II would expand the program to a further 500 districts
in a second three-year period (1985-1987), including 80 financed under the
DRI-II education component. Subsector wide coverage would be achieved in a
final four-year Phase III (1988-1991) in which the remaining 935 districts
would be added.
4.11      The slow start-up and rapid acceleration are designed to enable:
(a) incorporation of any needed mid-course alterations in the two standard
educational packages (Escuela Nueva and Experimentacion Curricular) as the
program moves from its experimental scale to widespread implementation;
(b) gradual development of implementation capacity in institutionally weaker
departments, so as to avoid overloading the administrative system with excess
project management burdens; this would be accomplished through early execu-
tion in all departments of Nuclearizacion; (c) evolution of the broad
national base of understanding of and support for the Subsector Program,
which is essential to successful implementation through a succession of
administrations.
Implementation Schedule
4.12      Subsector Program implementation began on January 1, 1982.  The
first three years (1982-1984) are conceived as a start-up phase, in which
emphasis would be placed upon: (a) testing the large-scale feasibility of the
Subsector Program components in limited geographic areas; and (b) by execut-
ing the Nuclearizacion component more widely, preparing the ground institu-
tionally in other areas for rapid acceleration of implementation in the
second phase beginning in 1985.
4.13      The same overall philosophy of concentrated and carefully monitored
pilot effort combined with institutional preparation would be applied within
the start-up phase itself. Activity in 1982 would focus on the preparation,
appraisal, approval and launching of five to eight Basic Program subprojects,
among them approximately three at the local level. Supporting national level
subprojects would also get underway in 1982, most notably in: (a) printing of
textbooks and construction of school furniture needed for implementation of
local subprojects; (b) personnel training for administrators and planners;
(c) design of the management information system; (d) final design and base-
line cost studies for the impact evaluation research.
4.14      It is expected that during Phase I local subprojects would be
approved on roughly this schedule:
1982        1983         1983         1984         1984
July-Dec    Jan-June    July-Dec    Jan-June    July-Dec
Subsector Project   3-4           6-8        10-14           10            4
DRI-II                 2            2            3            2            3



- 24 -
Following approval, subproject execution would normally take about twelve
months.
C. Organization and Staffing
4.15      As documented in the Project File and summarized below, the Govern-
ment has established appropriate organizational mechanisms and staffing
patterns for implementing the Subsector Program. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that no material changes in agreed organiza-
tion and staffing would be instituted without prior consultation with and
approval by the Bank.
Organization
4.16      In accordance with the decision to decentralize educational admin-
istration in Colombia (paras. 3.03(c) and 3.29ff), the government has identi-
fied structures at national, departmental, and local zone and district levels
among which responsibility will be shared for implementation of the Subsector
Program. The guiding principle has been to make maximum use of existing
organizational units, reinforcing their technical capacity where necessary.
New units would be created only when no effective alternative is available.
Organizational Overview
4.17      Annex 4 depicts the organizational structure for implementing the
Subsector Program. Decisions at both national and departmental levels are to
be made by management committees, each of whose members heads a unit within
the administrative apparatus which would have defined implementation respon-
sibilities. The collegial responsibility of the committees extends only to
decision making; execution is centered in the regular operative units of the
education sector. Further, each such unit at the departmental level has a
functional equivalent at the national level, upon which to rely for overall
policy guidance and technical assistance. Coordination would be achieved by
creation of a small executive secretariat for the committees at each level,
whose role is to oversee execution of committee decisions by channelling work
to the technical units whose executive heads constitute the committee. Divi-
sion of responsibilities between national and departmental levels would be
specified in both the Subsector Program enabling legislation and the con-
tracts between the nation and participating departments. At the zone and
district levels, responsiblity would rest with the chiefs and directors, each
working directly with, respectively, the supervisors and school directors.
At district level, two advisory committees (of teachers, and community
leaders) would assist the district director.
National Level Organization
4.18      Overall responsibility for the Subsector Program would be assigned
to the Rural Basic Education Subsector Program Management Committee. This
Management Committee was established within Presidential Decree 1839 which
gave the Subsector Program legal status and, inter alia, defined its manage-
ment structure. Chaired by the Vice-Minister of Education who is designated
National Director of the Subsector Program in the enabling legislation, the



- 25 -
Management Committee has ten permanent members. 13/ Except for the proposed
Executive Secretary of the Subsector Program, the members of the Management
Committee already meet regularly in the Ministry's three ongoing coordinating
committees (for operations, technical issues, and policy development). In
essence these standing committees would, when dealing with aspects of rural
basic education, declare themselves to be functioning as the Management
Committee for which purpose they will be specifically assisted by a full-time
Executive Secretary.
4.19      On the basis of procedures and criteria agreed with the Bank, the
Management Committee, as the highest decision-making body will: (a) formulate
general subsector policies; (b) approve distribution of program resources
among participating departments; (c) establish administrative procedures;
(d) review and approve each subproject proposal; (e) approve and periodically
review subsector work programs for the implementing units within the Minis-
try; and (f) approve all statements of expenditures under the Subsector Pro-
gram.
4.20      Before negotiations, the Government:  (a) promulgated Decree 1839
which creates the Rural Basic Education Subsector Program and establishes
its objectives, management structure at national and departmental levels, and
general operational policies; and (b) appointed the Executive Secretary of
the Subsector Program, in accordance with qualifications agreed during
appraisal.
Departmental Level Organization
4.21      In Decree 1839 establishing the Subsector Program, management res-
ponsibility in the participating departments was assigned to a Departmental
Subsector Program Implementation Committee, comprising the current seven
members of the Administrative Council of the Regional Education Fund (FER)
plus the Director of the Pilot Experimental Center (CEP), and a newly created
Departmental Executive Secretary of the Subsector Program (with voice but no
vote). As President of the FER Administrative Council, the Governor will
preside over the Departmental Implementation Committee and is designated in
the enabling legislation as the Departmental Director of the Subsector Pro-
gram.
4.22      Analogous to the Management Committee at the national level, the
Implementation Committees at the departmental level comprise the executive
heads of agencies which would necessarily have to plan and implement subproj-
ects. The Implementation Committees would thus constitute the maximum
departmental level decision bodies, responsible for: (a) reviewing subproj-
ect proposals and recommending them for final approval by the Management
Committee; and (b) oversight of their execution once approved.
13/  The Vice Minister of Education, the Secretary General of the Ministry of
Education (who would preside in the absence of the Vice-Minister), the
Head of the Social Sector Development Unit of the National Planning
Department, the Director-General of the School Construction Agency
(ICCE), the Head of the Sectorial Education Planning Office of the
Ministry of Education, the three Directors-General of the Ministry of
Education (for pedagogical improvement, school administration and ins-
pection, and administrative services), the Head of the Legal Office of
the Ministry of Education, and the Executive Secretary of the Subsector
Program (with voice but no vote).



- 26 -
4.23      Because capacity for educational planning and project preparation
is embryonic at the departmental level (and for complex institutional reasons
cannot within the short run be sufficiently strengthened to assure timely
implementation of the Subsector Program), remedial actions of two kinds would
be required.
4.24      The Subsector Program contracts between the Ministry of Education
and the FER Administrative Councils would provide, inter alia, for creation,
staffing, and operation within the Secretariat of Education of an education
planning unit according to criteria, procedures, and policies established by
the Ministry of Education. The current educational map staff of the depart-
ments would be incorporated into this planning unit, which would function
under the guidance of the Ministry of Education's Sectoral Planning Office.
One of the principal functions of this Office would be to help select and
train the planning personnel at departmental levels. It is expected that
several years of capacity-building effort would transpire before the depart-
mental educational planning structures would attain sufficent standards of
technical quality, professional stability, and institutional maturity to
place Subsector Program coordination (as well as other departmental education
planning tasks) under their exclusive responsibility.
4.25      In the meantime, provision has been made in Decree 1839 establish-
ing the Subsector Program for a Departmental Executive Secretariat. It will
comprise a minimum of three full-time professional positions: an Executive
Secretary and two professional staff; in addition, the Executive Secretariat
will have its own administrative and clerical support. In addition to record
keeping and coordination functions analogous to those of the National Execu-
tive Secretary, these Departmental Executive Secretariats will take on key
technical responsibilities for subproject preparation, appraisal, implementa-
tion, and monitoring. In doing so they will work in especially close colla-
boration with the emergent educational planning unit of the Secretariats of
Education, with which they are expected to be housed.
4.26      The Government brought to negotiations for review by the Bank the
model implementing contracts to be signed by the Ministry of Education with
the FER Administrative Councils. These contracts detail organizational and
operational aspects of the Subsector Program at the departmental level and
specify the division of responsibilities between national and departmental
authorities. Signature and coming into force of one implementing contract in
terms satisfactory to the Bank, as well as appointment of the Executive
Secretary and two professional staff, in one participating department would
be conditions of effectiveness.
Local Level Organization
4.27      Responsibility for planning and executing the Subsector Program has
been assigned in the first instance to the school district director. He will
be assisted in his role in subproject identification, preparation, implemen-
tation, and evaluation by two standing committees to be established when the
school district is created: (a) a Consultative Committee of heads
of community organizations (such as the parent-teachers association, the
community action agency, the integrated rural development program committee,
the producer cooperatives, etc.); and (b) an Operations Committee of direc-
tors or head teachers of constituent schools. Zone chiefs will be responsi-
ble for assuring that Subsector Program activities are synchronized in the
districts whose needs are addressed in a single subproject.



- 27 -
Staffing
4.28      The Ministry of Education has taken steps to assure that qualified
personnel in sufficient numbers are available in all implementation units at
national, departmental, and local levels. The creation and staffing of the
positions of Executive Secretary at the national and departmental levels are
the key actions at senior managerial levels, the first accomplished prior to
negotiations and the second, in at least one department, prior to effective-
ness. The National Executive Secretary will be assisted by one professional
and a secretary, both probably seconded from other Ministry positions. Pro-
vision has also been made to add technical staff as required within the three
operational Directorates and, especially, the Sectoral Planning Office of the
Ministry of Education. With the exception of the latter unit, where several
positions may be required as the management information system is developed,
the need for incremental staff is not expected to exceed two professional
level positions in any Ministry unit. Some 500 district directors and zone
chiefs are already at their posts, following merit-based selection and train-
ing in 1981. The appointment of directors and chiefs for all first phase
districts would be completed by mid-1983. Directors of all districts to be
included in the second phase would be appointed during the last two years of
the start-up period (1983-1984). Steps to stem the tide of teachers leaving
rural areas have already been taken (para. 3.34). Appointment of the Depart-
mental Executive Secretary and two professional staff would be a condition of
disbursement for each participating department.
D. Procedures
4.29      The Ministry of Education has designed and tested procedures to
implement the Subsector Program. These cover subproject identification, pre-
paration, appraisal, approval, supervision, monitoring, and evaluation. The
Government has codified procedures for each stage of the subproject cycle in
operational manuals. Before negotiations, the Government provided to the
Bank for review, and the Bank (with additions and amendments agreed during
negotiations) approved, the manuals for subproject identification and prepa-
ration, appraisal and approval, and implementation control and follow-up.
The Government provided assurances that: (a) remaining volumes of the opera-
tions manuals (general introductory material, and execution details) will be
furnished to the Bank by December 31, 1982; and (b) no material changes in
the agreed procedures as set forth in the manuals will be instituted without
prior approval of the Bank.
Identification
4.30      Identification of specific local subprojects would be accomplished
through execution of the school mapping process. The Sectoral Planning
Office of the Ministry of Education would provide technical assistance for
the school mapping. General identification of national subprojects has
resulted from Ministry analysis of the requirements for logistical and tech-
nical backstopping of local subprojects.



- 28 -
Preparation
4.31      Local level subprojects would be prepared by the district director,
with the active participation of the Consultative Committee and Operational
Committee (para. 4.27). Subproject preparation entails the conversion of
updated information on educational needs (drawn from the school map) into an
action program to introduce into all schools either Escuela Nueva or Experi-
mentacion Curricular, as appropriate. The investment proposals of two to
five contiguous districts would be aggregated into a single subproject. This
"packaging" process would normally take place at the zone level under the
direction of the zone chief.
Appraisal
4.32      District level subproject components would undergo a preliminary
review at the zone level during the packaging process. Zone chiefs would
check for compliance with program standards and procedures as stipulated in
the preparation manual. A more thorough appraisal would be undertaken at
departmental level under the direction of the Departmental Executive Secre-
tary and his staff, with assistance of the technical units of the several
departmental level organizations that share overall responsibility for the
Subsector Program. As specified in operational detail in the subproject
appraisal manual, the three major subproject evaluation criteria would be:
demonstrated need, feasibility, and economy.
Approval
4.33      The subproject proposal and accompanying report and recommendation
of the Departmental Executive Secretary would be considered by the Implemen-
tation Committee. If approved, the Implementation Committee would direct the
Departmental Executive Secretary to forward the subproject to the National
Executive Secretary for final review at the national level.
Supervision
4.34      Under the general leadership of the Vice-Minister in his capacity
as National Director of the Subsector Program, the Management Committee would
oversee implementation of both national and local subprojects. The National
Executive Secretary would have responsibility for overseeing the work of the
implementing agencies at the national level and would bring to the attention
of the Management Committee any deficiencies which persist following his
intervention with the head of the concerned unit.  Thus, ICCE would oversee
execution of infrastructure aspects of the subprojects through its depart-
mental offices. Educational components would be supervised by the Ministry's
Pedagogical Directorate through the CEPs and the corps of academic supevisors
being established at zone level. Subproject planning and evaluation would be
assisted by the Ministry's Sectoral Planning Office through the newly estab-
lished Planning Units within the Secretariat of Education. The Ministry's
Directorate for School Administration and Inspection would work closely with
the departmental inspectorates in the Secretariats of Education and through
them with the zone level administrative supervisors. The national Director-
ate for Administrative Services would supervise the FERs' control over flow
of funds. The Executive Secretaries at the national and departmental levels
would be responsible for assuring that the subproject implementation activi-
ties of the several agencies are properly synchronized.



- 29 -
Monitoring
4.35      Primary responsibility for coordination of progress reporting on
local subprojects would rest with the Departmental Executive Secretariat.
Using standard forms, each executing agency at the departmental level would
prepare quarterly reports of activity on each subproject under preparation or
implementation. The Departmental Executive Secretary would compile this
information into a brief status report in standard format, for submission via
the National Executive Secretariat to the Management Committee after certifi-
cation by the Implementation Committee. Quarterly progress reporting on
national level subprojects would be the immediate responsibility of the
implementing agency concerned, whose executive head would submit the reports
to the Executive Secretary for transmission to and review by the Management
Committee. Semi-annually, the Executive Secretariat would prepare a consoli-
dated progress report, which the Management Committee would submit to the
Bank. Financial reports (commitments versus expenditures, capital and recur-
rent, cumulative and for the period in question for each subproject) would be
prepared monthly by the FER in each Subsector Program department, consolida-
ted by the National Executive Secretary with financial reports on national
subprojects, and forwarded to the Bank.
Impact Evaluation
4.36      An impact evaluation of the Subsector Program would be undertaken
in the context of the larger effort to strengthen applied research capacity
in the education sector. The research on impact, which would constitute one
of the national subprojects (para. 4.06(c)), would compare educational effi-
ciency and learning achievement between school districts incorporated into
the program and those not yet incorporated. It could also include micro-
level analysis of a more qualitative nature of differences among classroom
environments. The Government brought to negotiations a preliminary impact
evaluation subproject proposal which was generally acceptable in its techni-
cal aspects. The Government will shortly proceed, in conjunction with the
firms involved, to produce and submit for final Bank approval the completed
impact evaluation proposal including reworked cost estimates.
Bank Involvement in the Subproject Cycle
4.37      The Bank's supervisory effort would concentrate on a semi-annual
joint review with the Management Committee of subsector policy development,
procedures for subproject generation and implementation, and compliance of
approved subprojects with agreed criteria. In addition, Bank supervision
would entail a field visit to at least one participating department on each
mission to assess, in company with Management Committee representatives, the
functioning of the Implementation Committee and local level execution agen-
cies.
4.38      Because local level subprojects would vary only to the extent of
differing mixes of standard components and because only the exceptional sub-
project would exceed US$1.0 million in total investment expenditures, prior
approval by the Bank of local subprojects would be limited to the first three
subprojects and to those whose capital cost component exceeds Col$45 million
(roughly US$740,000 at current exchange rates). Under these criteria, it is
estimated that roughly 20% of local subprojects following the first three--
essentially those covering more than four school districts--would undergo



- 30 -
prior review by the Bank. The Bank would, in addition, conduct an ex post
review of the appraisal and approval process for roughly a third of the
remaining local subprojects and all national subprojects in Phase I. These
reviews would be conducted during semi-annual supervision visits and would
involve all subprojects approved prior to effectiveness, plus a random sample
of those approved thereafter. Finally, the Bank would review, at negotia-
tions, prior to final consideration by the Management Committee, the national
subprojects in Phase I for development of the management information system,
educational research (paras. 3.36, 3.37) and impact evaluation of the Subsec-
tor Program (para. 4.36), all of which are expected to be ready for implemen-
tation beginning in mid-1982. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that subprojects as detailed above would be submitted to the Bank
for review and approval prior to final action by the Management Committee and
that Bank supervision missions would have full access to subproject proposals
for the ex post reviews.
4.39      The Government also prepared and appraised three local subprojects
in accordance with the operational manuals (para. 4.29). During negotia-
tions, these subprojects were extensively reviewed and, with changes stemming
mostly from agreed modifications in the manuals, found acceptable by the
Bank.
E. Criteria
4.40      The Ministry of Education has developed criteria to govern:
(a) selection of departments for incorporation into the Subsector Program;
(b) allocation of available program funds among participating departments;
(c) selection within departments of school districts where the Subsector Pro-
gram will be implemented; and (d) appraisal and approval of subprojects.
Application of these criteria would tend to ensure that the Subsector Program
attends first to areas of most need, that unproductive geographical disper-
sion of effort is avoided, and that the Subsector Program is both consistent
and efficient wherever it is being implemented. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that no material changes in these criteria
would be adopted without prior consultation with and approval by the Bank.
Selection of Departments
4.41      The Ministry of Education has developed an index for ranking
departments in terms of priority for inclusion in the Subsector Program.
The index is based on eight variables which measure the relative level of:
(a) development of the department, particularly its rural areas; and (b)
rural education deprivation. The development and education indicators are
given equal weight in the index, whose elaboration and underlying data base
may be examined in the Project File. Departments will be invited to partici-
pate in the Subsector Program in an order approximating their standing on the
index. Deviation from the priority accorded by the index would occur in the
start-up phase if: (a) departments lack capacity to implement the program
during Phase I, in which case the department would benefit in Phase I only
from priority access to the management development components of the Subsec-
tor Program (Nuclearizacion, (para. 3.28ff)); (b) invited departments are
unwilling to comply with the conditions set by the Ministry of Education for
program participation; or (c) the desirability of introducing the Subsector



- 31 -
Program in areas broadly representative of the geographical diversity of the
country would be precluded by an overly heavy concentration in one or another
region resulting from strict adherance to the priority ranking.
4.42      Funding constraints for the start-up phase, combined with the need,
for efficiency reasons, to achieve a high geographic concentration of effort,
will limit participation in the Phase I Subsector Project (1982-1984) to 150
school districts in three departments, chosen from among the eight with high-
est priority according to the index: Narino, Choco, Cauca, Cordoba, Sucre,
Guajira, Boyaca and Norte de Santander. In addition, with financing from IDB
and IBRD for the second phase of the Integrated Rural Development Program
(DRI-II) 14/, the Subsector Program will be implemented in about 40 dis-
tricts in two other departments in 1983-1984, and in 40 additional districts
of the same two departments and 40 districts of an additional department in
1985-87. The Minister of Education has selected Narino, Cauca, and Norte de
Santander for inclusion in the Phase I Subsector Project here recommended.
In addition, the Minister of Education and Director General of DRI have
tentatively agreed that implementation of the Subsector Program in Magdalena
(IDB) and Huila and subsequently Tolima (IBRD) would constitute the education
component of the second phase of the Integrated Rural Development Program.
The Government confirmed these decisions on Subsector Program coverage at
negotiations. The Government also provided assurances at negotiations that
any changes in proposed geographic coverage of the Subsector Program would be
initiated only after prior consultation with and approval by the Bank.
Allocation of Funds Among Departments
4.43      For the Phase I Subsector Project (150 districts in three depart-
ments in 1982-1984), the Government would establish for each participating
department a quota of funds available for local subprojects and a rough allo-
cation of the quota among the three years of Phase I. This departmental
quota would result from distribution of total program funds available for
local subprojects in proportion to the departmental scores on the selection
index, weighted by the rural primary school-age population of the depart-
ment. Departmental quotas so established help assure that limited resources
are distributed roughly in accordance with relative need and are not absorbed
disproportionately by politically influential or institutionally more
developed departments. The quotas are intended as guidelines upon which to
base planning targets at departmental levels; as such the yearly allocations
would be flexible enough to accomodate unexpected departures from those tar-
gets within and among departments.
4.44      Criteria for allocation of funds among departments in succeeding
phases of the Subsector Program (1985-1987 and 1988-1991) would be reviewed
in 1984 to balance the need to expand coverage in participating departments
with the effort to include new departments in the program.
14/  See paragraphs 4.08, 4.10 above, and Staff Appraisal Report, Colombia,
Second Integrated Rural Development Project (Report No. 3661-CO). DRI
selection criteria for departments are somewhat different from those
proposed for the Subsector Program, with the result that DRI would
finance implementation of the Subsector Program in departments in the
middle range of the Ministry of Education's selection index.



- 32 -
Selection of School Districts
4.45      Following establishment of the resource quotas at the departmental
level, the Ministry of Education would rank all counties of participating
departments according to an index of relative need. 15/ As in the case of
departments, the index would weight equally the indicitors of economic and
educational well being, although the component variables are not exactly the
same. The indices and supporting data for Cauca, Narino, and Norte de
Santander are available in the Project File. The Implementation Committee
would select counties for Subsector Program participation on the basis of
priority accorded by the index. All school districts in selected counties
would be invited to prepare subproject components. Those districts in which
institutional constraints would preclude elaboration of a project proposal-
--e.g., because no district director had yet been appointed--would become
priority targets of Nuclearizacion. They would present subproject proposals
towards the end of Phase I. The occasional district with a town exceeding
7,000 inhabitants would generally be instructed to exclude from its project
proposal all schools in that urban area. This is reasonable because the edu-
cational deficiencies in the large primary schools typical of such towns are
qualitively different from those of smaller schools in rural areas and thus
not necessarily addressed most effectively or efficiently with the inputs of
the Subsector Program.
Appraisal and Approval of Subprojects
4.46      Responsibility for appraisal and approval of local subprojects
would be shared among departmental and national authorities. At each point
in the process three criteria would be applied: relevance of the proposed
local subproject activities to the objectives of the Subsector Program, spe-
cifically improvements in internal efficiency and quality, as well as to the
specific needs identified in the school map; feasibility of implementing the
subproject; and efficiency of resource use.
4.47      Because Escuela Nueva, Experimentacion Curricular, and Nucleariza-
cion--the three standard program components of the local subprojects--have
already been successfully implemented on an experimental basis, their funda-
mental relevance and feasibility are not generally at issue. The mix of
these components within each subproject, however, would need to be examined
to assure consistency with local educational needs and requisite community
support. Rules for such an assessment are contained in the subproject
appraisal manual.
4.48      Subprojects would be specifically assessed in terms of their over-
all economy of resource use. In this connection each proposal would be
15/ The basic politico-administrative unit in Colombian departments is the
county (municipio). Each county contains at least one school district,
and sometimes more than two, even in sparsely populated rural counties.
It is normally the case that school districts are contained within a
single county; in a few instances a district may cover portions of two
counties. Because socio-economic data are readily available at the
county level, while only educational data are available at school dis-
trict level, selection of geographical areas within departments must be
at the county level.



- 33 -
closely examined for any deviations from: (a) standard norms on unit costs;
(b) the rules specified in the preparation manual for deciding when certain
educational investments are justified--e.g., replacement rather than repair
of a classroom, addition of a teacher to a school; (c) the optimal size of
subprojects (two to five school districts); (d) the geographical contiguity
of school districts in a given subproject; and (e) the three standard sub-
project components.
4.49      National subprojects would be assessed primarily in terms of the
direct contribution they would make to: (a) Subsector Program implementation
in Phase I departments; or (b) the readying through institution building of
other departments and supporting structures at national and local levels for
later implementation of the Subsector Program.
F. Choice of Borrower
4.50      The Fund of the Ministry of Education (FONDO/MEN) is a legally
independent entity established by Congressional Law No. 35 of 1979 "to
finance programs of the Ministry of Education and to increase its operative
capacity." FONDO/MEN is for the education sector the legal analogue of the
Ministry of Public Works's National Highway Fund (Fondo Vial Nacional), the
Borrower under Loan 2121-CO.
4.51      FONDO/MEN is administered by a Board of Directors comprising the
following five officials of the Ministry of Education, who together consti-
tute a majority of voting members of the Subsector Program Management
Committee: the Vice Minister (under delegation of the Minister), the Secre-
tary General, the Head of the Sectoral Planning Office, the Head of the Legal
Office, and the Director General for Administrative Services. The Minister
is the director and legal representative of FONDO/MEN. The regular staff of
the Ministry simultaneously serve as staff of FONDO/MEN. Under Colombian
jurisprudence, FONDO/MEN has the legal capacity to contract external loans
and to assume responsibility for execution through the Ministry of Education
of programs financed by FONDO/MEN. While it has minor independent sources of
revenue, FONDO/MEN derives most of its revenue from transfers from the
national treasury; standing alone, in absence of a government guarantee,
FONDO/MEN is not credit worthy.
4.52      For purposes of implementing the Subsector Program, FONDO/MEN
offers a significant advantage as Borrower over the Republic of Colombia.
FONDO/MEN must follow the same strict rules for contracting for goods and
services as any public agency, and comes under the same direct fiscal control
of the Controller General of the Republic. But, as the program execution
agency of the Ministry of Education, FONDO/MEN is able to execute contracts
of all sorts more quickly once they are let.  This greater administrative
agility, the fundamental reason for creation of FONDO/MEN, is due essentially
to FONDO/MEN's authority to manage resources put at its disposal indepen-
dently of the national treasury and its cumbersome procedures for central
government payments and inter-governmental transfers. For example, disburse-
ments against the proposed loan would typically take less than a week to be
transferred by the Central Bank to control of FONDO/MEN; if the Republic were
Borrower and the funds therefore were constrained to pass through the treas-
ury, several months would usually be required. Past Bank projects in educa-
tion (para. 1.04) and other social sectors have experienced implementation
delays due to unreliable flows of both counterpart and Bank resources.



- 34 -
Combined with the provisions for a Working Fund (described in the next chap-
ter), choice of FONDO/MEN as Borrower would alleviate that constraint to
prompt execution of the Subsector Program.
4.53       In Decree 1839 establishing the Subsector Program, FONDO/MEN has
been assigned responsibility for Subsector Program administration, finance,
and execution acting through the Ministry staff.
V. SUBSECTOR PROGRAM COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Total Costs
5.01      The Government's ten-year Rural Basic Education Subsector Program
(including the portion financed through DRI-II) is tentatively estimated at
about US$630.4 million (at March 1982 prices). This total program cost
includes: (a) investment expenditures (base costs) in the order of about
US$249.0 million and contingencies (physical and price) amounting to US$154.6
million, which are equivalent to 39.5% and 24.5% of total program cost res-
pectively; and (b) incremental recurrent expenditure (base cost) of about
US$135.9 million and price contingencies of about US$91.0 million, which
represent 21.6% and 14.4% of the total program cost respectively. As a
whole, investment costs represent 64% of the total program cost, and incre-
mental recurrent expenditures account for the balance of 36%. As a propor-
tion of projected national government expenditures on primary education over
the period 1982-1991, total investment costs of the Subsector Program are
approximately 6.5% and incremental recurrent costs are about 3.5%. The total
program cost, by phase of execution, is broken down as follows:
Table 5.1: ESTIMAT  TOTAL COST OF THE SUBSECTOR PROGRAM
(Prices in US millions as of March 1982)
Incremental
Investment Cost              Recurrent Cost
%of               % of
Basic              Sub-   Total              Total   Total
Program   DRI II   Total  Program    Amount Program   Cost
Phase I     Base Cost        28.16     6.52     34.68              7.58              42.26
(1982-84)   Contingencies     8.07     0.76      8.83              0.97               9.80
Subtotal        36.23     7.28     43.51    6.9       8.5a/ 1.4         52.06
Phase II    Base Cost        66.47    12.78     79.25             26.25             105.50
(1985-87)   Contingencies    33.87     4.16     38.03             12.02             50.05
Subtotal       100.3    16.94    117.28  18.6        38.27 DI 6.1    155.55
Phase III   Base Cost       135.03      -      135.03            102.03             237.06
(1988-91)    Contingencies   107.71     -      107.71             78.03            185.74
Subtotal       242.74      -      242.74   38.5    180.06 c/ 28.5    422.80
TOTAL BASE CDST             229.66    19.30   248.96   39.5    135.86    21.6    384.82
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES         149.65     4.92    154.57   24.5      91.02    14.4    245.59
TOTAL PROGRAM COST
(Including Continpencies)    379.31   24.22   403.53  64.0    226.88    36.0    630.41
a/ Incrpmpntal recurrent cost for the period; US$1.72 million is for 40 DRI-II districts.
b/ Incremental recurrent cost for the period; US$6.12 million is for 80 DRI-II districts.
c/ Incremental recurrent cost for the period.



- 35 -
5.02      The average unit investment cost (including contingencies) of the
ten-year program would amount to about US$296 per improved student place.
The average unit incremental recurrent cost would be about US$17 per student
year. These costs are economical; the unit investment cost compares favor-
ably with the median unit base costs in the region of about US$450 per
student place.
B. Investment Costs
Subsector Program Base Costs
5.03      The total investment base cost of the Subsector Program would
amount to about US$249.0 million (at March 1982 prices).  Annex 5 provides
details of the investment base cost by phase of execution, and by type of
expenditure.  Of the total investment base cost, expenditures for basic
educational inputs (teaching materials, training programs, school furniture
and transport facilities for supervision of the school districts) comprise
40%.  Basic improvements of school physical facilities (classroom repair,
provision of water and sanitary facilities, etc.) comprise 52%. Programs at
the national level (management information systems, research and evaluation,
and pilot facilities for the Escuelas Normales Demostrativas) comprise about
8%. The investment costs of the program are both economical and feasible and
do not present an undue burden to the country.
Phase I Subsector Project Base Costs
5.04      Investment costs by type of expenditure for the Subsector Project
(excluding DRI-Il districts financed separately) are detailed in Tables 5.2
and Annex 6. The total investment base costs for the Subsector Project
would amount to US$28.2 million (at March 1982 prices) and would comprise
about 11.3% of total ten-year Subsector Program investment base cost.



- 36 -
Table 5.2: SUMMARY OF INVESTMENT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
FOR THE SUBSECTOR PROJECT a/
(in US$'000 at March 1982 prices)
(See Annex 6 for detailed breakdown of investment costs)
Local     Foreign     Total     Category Cost  Foreign
Category of Expenditure           Cost       Cost     Investment     As % of     As % of
Component  Component     Cost        Base Cost    Total
Teaching Materials                489.2      489.2       978.4         3.47         50.0
Training of Teachers and        4,824.5      253.9     5,078.4        18.03          5.0
Administrators
Furniture                       4,112.6      457.0     4,569.6        16.23         10.0
Transport Facilities               20.4      183.8       204.2         0.73         90.0
Civil Works (new and repairs)  10,320.0   1,821.2    12,141.2         43.12         15.0
Equipment                          51.9      466.7       518.6         1.84         90.0
Technical Assistance            4,435.4      233.4     4,668.8        16.58          5.0
TOTAL BASE OOST:               24,254.0   3,905.2    28,159.2        100.0          13.9
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES:            6,953.8   1,115.3      8,069.1        28.65         13.8
Physical        1,754.9     312.4      2,067.3         7.34        15.1
Price           5,198.9     802.9      6,001.8        21.31        13.4
TOTAL INVESTMENT COST
(including contingencies)   31,207.8   5,020.5    36,228.3
Percent of Total
Investment Cost                 86.14     13.86       100
Interest during Construction         -          -         -
Front-End Fee on Bank Loan           -         0.22        0.22 b/
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED       31,207.8   5.020.72   36.228.3
a/   For the 150 districts to be financed under the loan herein proposed, exclusive of
DRI-II education component financed separately.
b/   Bank loan assumed as US$15.0 million.
5.05       Base costs of the various components of the program refer to prices
as of March 1982. These have been determined on the basis of: (a) recent
contracts awarded and tenders received by ICCE for civil works (of similar
design and location as the project schools), furniture for primary schools,
vehicles, textbooks and instructional materials printing and supply;
(b) current hiring rates of local specialists; (c) average training expendi-
tures for courses of 1-2 weeks and 2-4 months duration including cost of
training materials, transportation and per diem, honoraria and fees of train-
ers and support staff when contracted outside the public sector; and
(d) in case of research programs, staff requirements for the duration of the
study, and estimates of materials, supplies, transport and incidental
expenses required to complete the study. Assumptions of base costs for the
ten-year program are uniform for all three phases of the Subsector Program.



- 37 -
Duties and taxes on the project are negligible and program costs are esti-
mated net of taxes. The basis for estimation of unit costs for the physical
requirements of the average school district is contained in the Project File.
Contingencies
5.06      Total contingencies for the Phase I Subsector Project (150 dis-
tricts, excluding DRI-II districts financed separately) are estimated at
about US$8.07 million or 28.7% of the base costs (at March 1982 prices).
Physical contingencies would amount to US$2.07 million or 7.3% of the base
cost, and price contingencies would amount to about US$6.0 million or about
19.9% of the base cost plus physical contingency cost. Physical contingen-
cies are calculated as follows: 12% of the base costs of civil works; 10%
for furniture; 5% of the base cost of transport facilities for school super-
vision and equipment; 2.5% for student textbooks and 5% for teacher manuals
and learning materials; none are expected for training and 2% for technical
assistance (including research and evaluation programs, and the management
information systems). 16/ Price contingencies are estimated as follows:
Table 5.3: ESTIMATED PRICE CONTINGENCIES
Local Currency           Foreign Currency
Calendar Year               Components                Components
-------------------percentage------------------
Civil Works and       Other
Furniture       Categories
1982                 11.0            8.5               8.0
1983                  8.0            8.0                8.0
1984                  7.5            7.5               7.5
1985                  7.0            7.0                7.0
1986-90               6.0            6.0               6.0
Foreign Exchange Component
5.07      The total foreign exchange cost of the ten-year Subsector Program
is estimated at about US$56 million or equivalent to about 14% of the total
subsector investment cost including contingencies. Foreign exchange costs of
the Subsector Project would amount to about US$5.02 million or 13.9% of the
investment cost including contingencies. Foreign exchange costs are
16/ In assessing the adequacy of physical contingencies, the following
points should be considered: (a) Overall, the estimate is that 31% of
total classrooms need repair work and 21% of total classrooms required
are either new or replaced facilities. Due to lack of information about
the actual conditions of the classrooms needing repairs (this is gene-
rated in the course of subproject preparation) and difficult access to
most of the districts, a higher than normal physical contingency has
been applied for civil works; (b) 15% of the total number of student
texts are to be printed additionally to cover losses during deliveries,
damage, etc. Costs of these additional textbooks have been added to
base costs. (c) A 5% attrition rate per year has been added to calculate
base training costs.



- 38 -
estimated on the basis of:  50% for the provision of textbooks and learning
materials (assuming paper would be imported); 15% for civil works; 10% for
furniture; 90% for vehicles and educational equipment; and 5% for training
and technical assistance.
C. Incremental Recurrent Expenditures
Overall Subsector Program
5.08      The Subsector Program is expected to generate incremental recurrent
expenditures on the order of US$227 million over the ten-year implementation
period (including contingencies). This cost is equivalent to about 56% of
the total investment cost including contingencies over the same period, or
about 36% of the total cost of the Subsector Program. It is estimated that
the incremental recurrent expenditures generated annually by the Subsector
Program beginning in 1992 would comprise about 7.4% of the total annual
budget of MEN for expenditures for primary education. The total incremental
recurrent expenditure would comprise about 85% for salaries; 4% for supplies
and materials and maintenance; and 11% for other recurrent expenditures. In
assessing the magnitude of the incremental recurrent cost burden of the Sub-
sector Program, four facts are important: (a) the added incremental cost is
approximately equal to the potential operating economies obtainable by
increasing the student teacher ratio in urban public primary schools to 37
from its current level of 31; (b) the incremental costs, projected under
liberal assumptions especially regarding personnel, represent upper bound
rather than "maximum likelihood" estimates; (c) in net resource terms, incre-
mental recurrent costs are expected to be negative, since the economies
attributable to efficiency gains are greater than costs (para. 6.05); and
(d) approximately 40% of all Colombian primary school students would be
covered by the Subsector Program beginning in 1992.
Phase I Subsector Project
5.09      The Phase I Subsector Project (150 districts in 1982-84, exclusive
of DRI-II districts financed separately) is expected to include incremental
recurrent expenditures of about US$6.8 million, which represents 15.8% of the
total cost of the Subsector Project. The projected incremental recurrent
expenditures in 1984 represent less than 1.2% of expected MEN budgetary allo-
cations for primary education in 1984. In view of the high priority accorded
by the Government to the Subsector Program, this small increment is not
expected to pose any special problems for financing. Table 5.4 shows the
estimated incremental recurrent costs for the Subsector Project (exclusive of
DRI-II districts).



- 39 -
Table 5.4: ESTIMATED INCREMENTAL RECURRENT EXPENDITURES
FOR THE SUBSECTOR PROJECT (1982-1984)
(Exclusive of DRI II Districts - Millions of US$ at March 1982 prices,
including price contingencies)
Expenditure Category          National Level       Regional Level        Total
Salaries                           1.25                 4.60              5.85
Supplies, Materials and
Maintenance a/                    -                   0.22              0.22
Others                             0.16                  0.60             0.76
TOTAL RECURRENT COSTS              1.41                  5.42             6.83
a/   Community contributions to school maintenance cannot be determined and
are excluded from these costs.
Price Contingencies
5.10      Incremental recurrent expenditures projected for Subsector Project
include provision for price contingencies of US$0.87 million, equivalent to
about 12.8% of base incremental recurrent costs.
D. Financing and Bank Contribution
Overall Financing Plan
5.11      Sources of funding for the Subsector Program after 1984 are not yet
fully identified. For the start-up period 1982-1984, the overall financing
plan is presented in Table 5.5.



- 40 -
TABLE 5.5: OVERALL FINANCING PLAN
Government                     IBRD                 IDB
Subsector                   Subsector
Total Project a/ DRI-II b/ Total Project a/ DRI-II c/ DRI-II d/
Phase I - 1982-84
Investment                24.95  21.53      3.42     18.56   14.70      3.86
Incremental Recurrent      8.55   6.83      1.72       -       -         -
Total                  33.50  28.36      5.14     18.56   14.70      3.86        -
Phase II Costs
(Prefinanced under DRI II)
Investment                 7.94    -        7.94      4.5      -        4.5        4.5
Incremental Recurrent      6.12    -        6.12       _ -               - 
Total                  14.06    -       14.06      4.5      -        4.5        4.5
a/  That portion of overall Subsector Program proposed for financing in this report-i.e.,
150 districts in three departments, plus national level overheads.
b/   Counterpart costs of approximately 120 districts in three additional departments.
c/ Loan contribution (53% of total cost) to approximately 80 districts total in Huila and
Tolima, of which 40 districts implemented in 1982-1984 and rest in 1985-1986.
d/  Estimated loan contribution to approximately 40 districts in Magdalena, implemented in
1985-86.
Bank Financing
5.12      The proposed Bank loan of US$15.0 million (including the 1.5% front
end fee and US$14.7 million effective financing) for support of the Subsector
Project (1982-84 with 150 districts), would cover 34% of the total costs
(including contingencies) which are estimated at about US$43.0 million
(including investment and incremental recurrent costs). The Bank loan would
finance 100% of the foreign exchange requirements of the Subsector Project
and 25% of local costs. The Government would finance the remaining cost of
about US$28.4 million or 66% of the total cost of the Subsector Project.
Retroactive Financing and Readiness for Implementation
5.13       The Government began execution of the Rural Basic Education Subsec-
tor Program on January 1, 1982. The project is in an advanced state of
readiness. The policy framework is in place; educational software is ready
following extensive field testing; curricular reform and administrative
decentralization have been cautiously expanded over the past five years;
preparation is nearly complete for national subprojects; and several local
subprojects will be ready for implementation in 1982. About US$3.0 million
equivalent for the Subsector Project has been provided in the 1982 budget.



- 41 -
It is expected that the Subsector Program could accomplish about twelve
months of implementation activities prior to the effectiveness of the pro-
posed loan.
5.14      Retroactive financing of up to US$1.5 million or 10% of the loan
amount is recommended to cover expenditures on textbooks, furniture, tech-
nical assistance, and training incurred after January 1, 1982, and up to the
date of loan signing.
Working Fund
5.15      A Working Fund would be established by the Borrower (FONDO/MEN) for
the purpose of financing local investment expenditures of the Subsector Proj-
ect for which financing is here recommended (150 districts and associated
actions at national level, exclusive of DRI-II districts). In amount, the
Working Fund would equal US$6.0 million, equivalent to six months estimated
investment expenditures, and would comprise (a) monies deposited directly by
the National Treasury in the FERs of participating departments for local
investment costs of the Subsector Project to be incurred at the departmental
level; and (b) monies deposited (initial advance(s) and subsequent replenish-
ments) in a Special Account of the Borrower (FONDO/MEN) by the Bank and the
Guarantor (Republic of Colombia) for the remaining local investment costs of
the Subsector Project.
Special Account
5.16      The monies referred to in paragraph 5.15(b) above would be depo-
sited by the Bank and Guarantor into a single Special Account in the name of
the FONDO/MEN in a Colombian public bank acceptable to the Bank, and comin-
gled. To the extent that sums available in the FERs of participating depart-
ments for local Subsector Project investment costs at the departmental level
(para. 5.15(a)) are not sufficient to prefinance eligible local investment
expenditures at departmental levels, the Borrower would advance to sub-
accounts in the FERs the necessary amounts from the Special Account without
distinction as to whether the funds so advanced are loan proceeds (advances
or replenishments) or counterpart. The Government would channel its counter-
part share of the Working Fund (59% of six months estimated investment
expenditures, equivalent to US$3.5 million) either directly to the depart-
mental FERs (para. 5.16(a)) or to the Special Account, with the amount to be
deposited in the Special Account being determined as the difference between
US$3.5 million and counterpart funds for local investment expenditures
already made available to the FERs of participating departments.
5.17      The ceiling of the Bank's total deposits to the Special Account
would be US$2.5 million, equivalent to the Bank's 41% share of six months
estimated investment expenditures. The Bank's initial deposit to the Special
Account, in the amount of pesos equivalent to US$1.5 million would be made
after effectiveness upon receipt of: (a) a Procedure III withdrawal applica-
tion; (b) evidence that the Special Account has been established; and
(c) receipt of the Government's Acuerdo(s) de Gastos authorizing deposit of
US$1.5 million of Government's respective share to its Special Account and to
the regional FERs.
5.18      Following subsequent deposit in the Special Account by the Govern-
ment no later than May 15, 1983, of the remaining US$2.0 million of its share



- 42 -
of the Working Fund, the remaining Bank deposits to the Special Account,
totalling US$1.0 million, would be made against fulfillment of educational
performance criteria important to timely implementation as follows: (a) 10%
of the Bank's total contribution, the peso equivalent of US$250,000, when the
first five local subprojects in the Subsector Project departments are finally
approved by the Management Committee, and an identical amount when the second
five local subprojects are so approved, for a total of 20% of the Bank's
overall contribution to the Working Fund; (b) 6.65% of its total contribu-
tion, the peso equivalent of US$166,665, when the process of selecting,
training and appointing district directors is complete in any one of the
three Subsector Project departments, and a similar amount of US$166,667 when
this condition is reached in each of the remaining two Subsector Project
departments, for a total of 20% of the Bank's overall contribution to the
Working Fund. Detailed procedures for the operation of the Special Account
are contained in the Project File. The opening of the Special Account in a
Colombian public bank acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of effec-
tiveness.
E. Disbursements
5.19      Disbursements of the Bank loan for the Subsector Project would be
made over a period of three years against 41% of total investment expendi-
tures, equivalent to 34% of total estimated expenditures (including incremen-
tal recurrent expenditures). With the exception of payments for paper for
textbooks and equipment (including vehicles) procured outside Colombia, all
disbursements would take the form of advances to or replenishments of the
Working Fund. Disbursements for local contracts less than US$300,000, and
for miscellaneous small local expenditures for goods and services estimated
to cost under the equivalent of US$20,000 would be made against Statements of
Expenditures. Details regarding disbursements against Statements of Expendi-
tures are contained in the Project File. Disbursements for all other expen-
ditures would be made against fully documented withdrawal applications.
5.20      Based on the expected deposit by the Bank of most of its US$2.5
million contribution to the Working Fund within six months of effectiveness
and provision to reimburse up to US$1.5 million retroactively, Table 5.6
shows the estimated schedule of disbursements for the Subsector Project. The
poor disbursement performance of the previous education project (Loan 920-CO)
is expected to be improved upon under the Subsector Program due to the desig-
nation of the FONDO/MEN as the Borrower, which is expected to manage funds
better, the higher priority accorded the primary subsector by the Government,
and the greater readiness for implementation of the Subsector Program. The
nature of the Subsector Project--a three year time slice of a Subsector Pro-
gram--and the arrangements incorporated to speed execution preclude use of
the normal disbursement profiles for this operation.



- 43 -
Table 5.6: DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Subector Project (1982-1984)
(Costs in US$ millions)
Bank Fiscal                                 Accumulated
Year/Semester         Disbursements         Disbursements         % of Total
1983     2nd              3.0                    3.0                 20.0
1984     1st              0.5                    3.5                 23.3
2nd              2.0                   5.5                  36.6
1985     1st              2.0                    7.5                 50.0
2nd              2.5                  10.0                  67.0
1986     1st              5.0                   15.0                100.0
5.21      Disbursement of the Bank loan would be made on the following
basis for investment expenditures incurred under the Subsector Project:
(a) 15% of total expenditures for civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for vehicles, equipment, and paper
for textbooks; and
(c) 60% of all other (local) expenditures for furniture; locally pro-
cured equipment and paper; textbook production, printing, and dis-
tribution; training; and technical assistance.
This scheme for disbursements is proposed in order to focus Bank involvement
on the qualitative components of the project.
F. Procurement
Civil Works
5.22      Civil works contracts totalling about US$16.7 million including
contingencies, are small and scattered and comprise mainly the repair of
existing classrooms in poor condition (about 60% of total number of class-
rooms to be repaired, replaced and added); construction of new classrooms
including replacement of unserviceable ones (40% of total) and small
library/office/storage rooms, and the provision of sanitary and water facili-
ties for schools. Civil works costs including contingencies for an average
Escuela Nueva and Experimentacion Curricular would amount to about US$5,000
and US$25,000, respectively, whereas the average cost for an entire school
district (comprising 11 schools) would amount to about US$95,000. Contracts
would therefore generally be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidd-
ing procedures acceptable to the Bank. Foreign bidders would have the
opportunity to participate although it is highly unlikely that schools can be
grouped into packages that would be economic and at the same time suffi-



- 44 -
ciently large to attract big construction firms.  It is estimated that about
50% of civil works generally involving repair work would be carried out under
force account (with the assistance of the community which would contribute
labor and some locally available building materials (about 5% of materials
needed)). Construction materials in these cases would be procured separately
on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to Bank and
delivered to the school site.
Goods
5.23      Except for the procurement of paper, vehicles and educational
equipment totalling about US$1.3 million including contingencies, it is
unlikely that many foreign suppliers would be interested in participating in
tenders for goods including the provision of textbooks, as Colombia has well
developed and highly competitive furniture, publishing and printing indus-
tries which are expected to win all contracts.  Contracts for furniture,
printing and technical assistance would be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. Paper,
vehicles and most equipment would be procured on the basis of ICB. Qualify-
ing domestic manufacturers would receive a preference in bid evaluation of
15% or the import duty, whichever is lower. Miscellaneous items of equipment
in packages not exceeding US$20,000 equivalent each, and subject to an aggre-
gate total of US$500,000, would be purchased from the lowest of a minimum of
three price quotes.
Contract Review
5.24      All bidding packages for works and goods estimated to cost over
US$300,000 would be subject to prior review by the Bank. Such review is
estimated to cover about 10% of the total number and 30% of total value of
contracts awarded for works and goods. The nature of the project makes it
unlikely that many big contracts would be let.
G. Accounts, Documentation and Auditing
5.25      The Subsector Project includes numerous small items to be procured
locally. These include at least 90% of civil works contracts; off-the-shelf
purchases of miscellaneous items, such as building materials for community-
assisted civil works under force account; materials and services for training
programs; teaching materials, and expenditures in connection with research
and training programs. Submission of the numerous and small contracts,
invoices, receipts, and other supporting documents for these items would be
unduly burdensome and costly for both the Government and the Bank. Statement
of expenditure procedures (SOEs) would therefore be used to support reim-
bursement for these items.  Supporting documents would, however, be retained
and made available for review by visiting Bank missions. Disbursements
against SOEs would be made on the basis of a consolidated summary of quarter-
ly expenditures. To the extent possible, SOEs would be aggregated to amounts
not less than US$50,000 per withdrawal. Disbursements against remaining
expenditures would be made against full documentation.
5.26      Regular procedures employed by the Controller General of the Repub-
lic and the internal auditing department of the MEN would provide adequate



- 45 -
control over financial transactions under the Subsector Program.  Government
auditors are located throughout the departments to supervise transactions of
government agencies. Separate books of accounts would be used for the Sub-
sector Program to record expenditures from loan proceeds and government funds
in accordance with appropriate accounting and auditing procedures. Such
accounts, together with disbursement documents, would be audited annually by
the Controller General in accordance with standard government practices. The
annual audit report would be furnished to the Bank not later than three
months after each fiscal year.
VI.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Benefits 17/
6.01      The major benefits of the Subsector Program are increases in cover-
age, equity, quality, and efficiency of primary education; the institutional
development which makes these increases possible; and, ultimately, the impact
of higher levels of learning on the welfare of rural dwellers. While ex ante
estimation of the economic profitability of the Subsector Program would be
difficult, ex post facto analysis of investments in primary education in both
Colombia and elsewhere suggests that lower limit of the expected internal
social rate of return to the Subsector Program would be at least 20%.
Coverage
6.02      The net enrollment rate in the rural primary school subsector, now
78%, would increase to approximately 91% by 1995 18/. This would result
from a decline in the 7-11 year old age group from 1.8 million in 1980 to 1.7
million in 1995, combined with an increase in subsector enrollments from 1.4
million to about 1.5 million over the same period. The impact of the Subsec-
tor Program on coverage would not be significant in national terms during
Phase I, although effects would begin to be discernible in those districts
incorporated into the Subsector Program in 1982 and 1983.
Equity
6.03      Subsector Program resources would be distributed both to depart-
ments and school districts in accordance with needs criteria. The most dis-
advantaged rural areas would thus be awarded priority in implementation of
subprojects. The gaps in educational provision and quality between urban and
rural areas generally, among departments, and among school districts within
departments would be narrowed. Equity objectives would be directly served.
17/ The numbers of direct beneficiaries of Subsector Program activities-
--students, teachers, administrators, schools--are detailed in Annexes 3
and 4.
18/ Five years after the final schools enter the program in 1991.



- 46 -
Quality
6.04      Learning achievement of rural primary school children would
increase, both in basic skills of literacy and numeracy and in attitudinal
acquisition pertinent to life in rural areas. Prior quantification of learn-
ing gains is not feasible; however, monitoring and evaluation procedures
incorporated in the Subsector Program would enable ex post facto determina-
tion of the impact of the program on student achievement.
Efficiency
6.05      The overall efficiency 19/ of the rural primary school subsector
would be expected to double between 1980 and 1995 as a consequence of the
Subsector Program. Efficiency is between 24 and 32% in 1980 depending on the
method of calculation; it would approach 40% at the end of Phase I, 50% at
the end of Phase II, 60% at the end of Phase III in 1991 and 67% by 1995.
These overall gains in efficiency would be the result of substantial declines
in drop out and repetition rates attributable to the Subsector Program, as
summarized below:
Table 6.1   Projected Wastage Rates
Rural Primary Education Subsector
Grade One   Grade Two   Grade Three   Grade Four   Grade Five
Year      R    D       R    D       R       D       R     D       R     D
1981     .22  .31    .23  .23    .22    .22    .17   .18    .04   .04
1984     .22  .28    .20  .20    .20    .20    .16   .16    .04   .04
1987     .18  .24    .17  .17    .17    .17    .13   .14    .03   .03
1991     .15  .20    .14  .14    .14    .14    .11   .11    .02   .02
1995     .12  .16    .12  .12    .11    .11    .09   .09    .02   .02
R = repetition rate   D = dropout rate
In other terms, the opportunity costs, on conservative assumptions, of not
implementing the Subsector Program--i.e. the economies due to projected
efficiency gains in rural primary schools which would not be realized--would
exceed US$120 million annually by the early 1990's. 20/
Institutional Development
6.06      These gains in coverage, equity, quality, and efficiency of the
subsector would have been achieved in part through improvement in educational
management at local, departmental and national levels. But the impact of
management improvements would not be limited to the rural primary schooling
19/  Efficiency is defined as the ratio of the number of student years of
educational services which should ideally be necessary to produce a pri-
mary graduate--in Colombia, five student years--to the number actually
invested to produce a graduate.
20/  This estimate results from applying the expected change in efficiency of
.30 (from about .30 in 1982 to .60 in 1991) to conservatively projected
national government expenditures for primary education in 1991.



- 47 -
subsector. Primary education in urban areas would also benefit from
institutional development accomplished through the Subsector Program.
Impact
6.07      Higher levels of learning among the rural population (and those who
migrate from rural to urban areas) would result in increased labor produc-
tivity, higher incomes, and sociocultural behaviors more supportive of rapid
modernization. Among the latter would be greater occupational mobility for
rural youth, reduced fertility among rural women, improved health practices
among rural families, and enhanced participation in community affairs.
B.   Risks
6.08      The most important risks inherent in the Subsector Program concern
the management, politico-legal, and financial prerequisites for successful
implementation of the program's educational content. Management and
politico-legal uncertainties are most significant in Phase I, with financial
risk assuming greater weight later in the decade.
Management Risks
6.09      Several aspects of the management structure of the program are both
new and alien to long established practice. Bureaucratic resistance to the
required changes in operating procedures and attitudes could impede implemen-
tation, especially in Phase I (1982-1984).
6.10      Establishment of coordinating mechanisms at departmental and
national levels gives hope that resistance to change will be minimal. In a
departure from past practice, the units charged with implementation respon-
sibilities at all levels would be involved from the beginning in project
planning, and therefore are more likely to understand fully and support the
program.
Politico-Legal Uncertainty
6.11      Several actions already taken on teacher supply policies are areas
of possible conflict with teachers unions. Departmental authorities may also
view these actions, and others related to the new responsibilities assigned
to the district directors and the CEPs, as impinging on their traditional
prerogatives.
6.12      The logic of national policy which ensures that teachers of accept-
able quality are available for all schools, the willingness to protect the
career and financial interests of teachers transferred from one school to
another, and the undertaking to provide salary and professional incentives to
retain teachers in remote rural areas, would make resistance by union leaders
or departmental officials to these national proposals difficult.
Financial Uncertainty
6.13       The resources required for the Subsector Program are not beyond
the country's financial capability. But there is uncertainty as to whether



- 48 -
future administrations will make the appropriate changes in resource
allocation policies.
Financial Uncertainty
6.13       The resources required for the Subsector Program are not beyond
the country's financial capability. But there is uncertainty as to whether
future administrations will make the appropriate changes in resource
allocation policies.
6.14      The risk of changing priorities for educational development
resulting in a resource shortfall are smaller in regard to the rural primary
subsector than any other, since there is consensus concerning both the need
for and the educational effectiveness of the programs to be implemented. The
residual risk of an aborted program has been reduced by designing the first
phase as a geographically limited and concentrated input of high impact which
would stand on its own if for any reason the Subsector Program were later to
be abandoned.
6.15      On balance, the potential benefits of the Subsector Program are
substantially greater than the risks that accompany it. Furthermore, the
relatively slow pace of implementation proposed for Phase I would permit
design of supplementary policies and actions as may be required to contain
developing risks which appear to threaten successful execution of the Subsec-
tor Program in later phases.
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances on the
following matters:
(a) a special program to train teachers (para. 3.13);
(b) the national commission on education costs and finance (para.
3.39);
(c) Subsector Program organization and staffing, procedures, and
criteria (paras. 4.15, 4.29, 4.40);
(d) Bank review of selected subprojects and Bank supervision
missions (para. 4.38); and
(e) geographical coverage of the Subsector Program (para. 4.42).
7.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) signature and coming into force of at least one implementing
contract, acceptable to be Bank, between the Ministry of Edu-
cation and a participating department (para. 4.26);
(b) appointment of the Departmental Executive Secretary and two
professional staff in at least one department for which an
implementation contract has come into force (para. 4.26); and



- 49 -
(c) opening of the Special Account (para. 5.18).
7.03      A condition of disbursement for subprojects in each department
would be appointment of the Executive Secretary and two professional staff.
7.04      Retroactive disbusements up to $1.5 million are recommended for
expenditures on textbooks, furniture, technical assistance and training
incurred between January 1, 1982 and the date of loan signing (para. 5.14).
7.05      Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the Subsector Proj-
ect for Rural Basic Education constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$15.0 million equivalent to the Fund of the Ministry of Education, with the
guarantee of the Republic of Colombia. The loan would have a term of 17
years, including a four-year grace period, with interest at the rate prevail-
ing at the time of distribution of the documents to the Board.



- 50 -                                                                  Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
SUBESECTOR PROJECT FOR RURAL DASIC_EDUCATION
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION; INDICATORS
June 21, 1982
:CENTRAL:                                                      
*  :         ~~~~:GOVT.                       :                                                 
IEXP. ON?                 I                            PRI. :RECURRENT?                       : SEC.
*  .     ,         ~~~~~~:EDU. AS? EDUCATION    :LITER-   P RI. ICOMPLE- :STU- :UNIT COST!PROGRESS-?  SEC. ?STU-- IHIGHER:
*  .     .          IX~~~:  TTL. I RECURRENT    IACY    IENROLLITION       IDENTSIPRIM. ED. lION RATE IENROLLIDENTS:ENROLL?
*  IGNP/ I   GNOP   ?CENTRAL?EXP ALLOCATED?:  RATE :RATID :RATE FORIPER   :AS % GNP/:FROM PRI. IRATIO :PER  :RATIOD
BASEIP,OP.  ICAPITA: DEVOTED: GOVT. I           TO?       1(% OF  I NET   IPRI.SCH. ITEACH- CAPITA   :TO SEC.I NET  ITEACH- GROSS:
YRIMILLS.: (US$): TO EDU.I EXP.  IPRI. SEC. HI.IADULTS)I  (%)  :CYCLE(%8ER                                                 :   N    N    ER, I(N
:(1979):(1979):                                      :(1976)I          II               II 
() 1(2) 1(3)           (4)  1       (5)       1(6)  1(7)  I  (8)    1(9) I   10)   1(11)   1(12) : (13) 1(14)
DIEVELOF'ED COIJNTRIES
AUSTRALIA       80  14.6   8,670    6.38        14.6                100--  IOA   103X   100        21      --         99        73       13     20.90
CANADA          81  23.7   9,650A  7.7A         18.58? 308? 348'  238? 99    1066           100       21       19.9A?  100          92X      18     22.60X
GERMANY, F.R. 79  61.4  12,220   4.6             9.98  -.                    --    -- 89A  IO008-          --       IOOA        94A    ----   12.10A
NETHERLANDS   79  14.1  11,084   7.9             5.1   20   35       25   99?   96           95        18      15.3      99         82       13     12.40
NEW ZEAL ANni  s0   3.2   6,081   5.5W          13.4   37   31    28   99    100            100       24       11.6     100         82       15     25.80X*
SWEDEN          79   8.3  12,663   9.0          18.2   31   10       10   998    996        100        188     19.9     100         796      10AY  36.5GAY
EASTERN AFRICA
BOTSWANA        80   0.86      7206  6.3P       19,3   48   28       15   356    94          74       32       22.0      33**       20      18       1.50
BURUINDI        79   4.0       180   2 .8EW   22.0   448  336    226  25          25AX       34       35       11.0      17          26      17      0.80
COMOROS         80   0.46      260   6.5W       25.4   40   28       14   ---   996          65       45       16.0      58         21X    30        1.40
D,j IBEOLLTIT   81   0.3       460   5.4        10.8   60   40       .. ,  10     32         ---      41      --~        60          8      19       0.50
ETHI OPIlA      80  31.06      1308  2. 2P      11.1A  52   32       14A  15      38         ---      59       18.0      ---         9      41A    5.10
KENYA           79  15.3       390   5.9W       18.06  71    15      14   45      92         74       40       15.8      41         19      28       1.00
LESOTHO         79   1. 3      340   4.3BPG  20.06  4168 2966  208  52            68         51       49        8.06     65         15      23       0.908
MADiAGASCAR     77   8.5       330   4.0W       24.0   53   28       19   50      9466       33       556       8,0      38         14      23       3.10BY
MALAWI          s0    5.96     2006  3.SBRPW  10,28  406   156    238  25         5966       17       62        8.06     11          46     216     0.30
MALLRITIUS      79   0.9   1,0806   6.8?        17.58  50   26        6   ---   82Y          99       206Y   19.5?       90         736XY  278?    1.566
RWANDA          80   5,06      2006  3.2        21.3   62    17      11   236    576         62       40       14.0       6          46     13      0.40
SLJMALIA        78   3.8       185A  2.OW**  11.0** 55    10         21   506    266Y       ----      276      20.4      536         466    166      1.00
SUDAN           78  17.9       450   4.5W       19.9   48   36       16   206   5066         24       356      46.7      33         1666    196      1.07?
SWAZILAND       78   0.5       650   7.1W       12.2   36   33       18   656    806?        498      356?      7.7      668        3366?   208     2.00
TANZANIA        80  17.5       250   5. 7?      15.0   48   19       10   66      96         87       43        5.0       9          4      2OAU   0.38
UGANDA          80  12.86      290   1.8ASY  17.0W  236  376    20B  ----   45               466      34      ---         9         27A     23       0.60AY
ZAIRE           78  27.5       210A  6.OW       22.0   49   26       25   15      84?        44       42X       -        41         136     27      1106?Y
ZAMBIA          80   5. 76     5666  4.5P       11.1   48   23       22   446    95          80       48       12.9      19         16      22       1.50
ZIMBABWE        81   7.76      7006  5.1        19.5   62   32        6   446    90          55       39      20.0       85         15      23      0.50
WESTERN AFRICA
BENIN           79   3.46      3206  6.5W       35.0   43   21        5   116    42          30       46       14.0      30         11      43      1.00?
CAMEROON        78   5.2       590   2.9?       16.0?  338  438    208    -    74?           458      50?      11.88     208        14?     26       1.30?
C. A. R.        79   2.2       280   3.88?    20.68?                          ----    --  -     65AY     --         --?-                      0.70AY
CHAD            76   4.4       120   2.46WY  21.76              --    --15    25?         -       77       --          --        36?    21      0.20?
CONGO (6)       78   1.5       670   9.08W?  27.78?                           --.--    -- --    56BY     --        30         --      436?   4,008?
GABON           77   0.6   3,420   3.76?         8.4?                         ----    --  -     466?     --        --          -      196?   2.80AY
GAMBIA          77   0.6       220   3.3AW       6.56  46   258       68  106    40B?        908      276?    44.78      40         1266?   17
GHANA           76  11.3       400   4.0Y**  15.56                         --    -- 7166? --     27BY--                        3666?  21      --
GUINEA          77   5.3       270   4.3EIP   20.06  308  318    308  20          3466?      166      396     31.1?      866        1566?  24       5.106Y
IVORY COAST   81   8.26  1.0706 10.0            45.0   33   46       13   306    60          86       43      26.0       47         1586?  26       1.90AY
LIBERIA         80   1.9       520   4.6        19.6   43   23    24   30         52         32       35      20.0       76         22      20      2.90
MALI            77   6.76      1806  4.26       21.76  458  378    188  10        2866?      --       436?               508SO       66       -     0.90B?
MAURITANIA      78   1.66      3206  5.5        16.9   33   43    25   176    32             60       44      52.0       30          9      25      0.37
NIGER           78   5.2       300   4.38?    16.68? 528  438         58   8      17         568      418     38.78      40          2      246     0.20?
NIGERIA         77  82.6       910   4.1?        9.6                          --    -    --  -                                106?---  IX    25  0.17?
SENEGAL         77   5.5       450   5.0        23.0   46   34       20   10      3466?      --       436?     --        20         10      21      2.206?
SIERRA LEONE  77   3.4         250   4.06       16.06           --    --156    376       --       35      25.06      84         156     22      0.60BY
TOGO            78   2.4       400   6.5GW    26.50  308  28A   218  18    74                40       546?   38.0        52         3266?  486      1.606Y
UPPER VOLTA   78   5.6         180   3.OAW    19.38? 31    16    32        --   156?         23       536?    52.5?      19          366?  25       0.02?
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
ARGENTINA       78  27,3   2,210   2.7          10.9   438  318    188  936    89            52       17      ---        87         31       8    23.00
BAHAMAS         79   0.2   2,770   5.7          19.1   36   36       11   936    99          97       24      ---        97         7S      19     --
BARBADOS        78   0.2   2,680   8.5AWY  22.18  438  318    168  996  100?                 998      27?     19.98      998        78?     20?      -
BOLIVIA         80   5.4       550   4.18?    30.58             --    --63    74?        ---      20?     ---        ---        15Y    ---   12.60?
BRAZIL          79 116.5   1,770   3.8           6.2   51    -- 14   76    738?              ---      238?      4.56*9   61*        15AY   148?   12.626
CHILE           76  10.9   1,890   3,26?    13.06-   -                ----11966?            ---      346?    ---        ---        5566?  206?   11.906?
COLOMBIA        80  26.76   1,1806  3.3         25.0   35   20    20   816    78             36       32        6.6      ---        47      20     10.028?
CUSTA RICA    80   2.26  1,8106  8.4            31.1    40   27      33   90    93           77       33        5.5      77         40      27     14.00
CUBA            78   9.8        ---  8.0        11.0---- --96    11266?                     98       186?    ---        98         7166?   15     19.026?
DOMINICAN REP 78   5.3    1,030   2,1?          13.9?- -- --67                   ---        ---      --       --         --        --      -- --
ECUADIOR        80   8.46  1,110   6.OP         36.7   45   31       16   81   105           ---      36      12.6       86         47      16    29.00
EL SALVADOR    77   4.4        640   3.46?    23.16? 64        8    27   62    8266?         32       39      ---        41         2666?  276?    7.906?
GUATEMALA       78   6.8    1,010    1.78?    12.66-    -    ---- 6966?                     ---      356?    ---        69         1566?  196?    5.50?
GUYANA          76   0.8       630   8.16?    13.66?---    -                  -- 9966?      ---      326?    ---        ---        5966?  ---      3.O06?
HAITI           80   5.06      230   3.4VW       7.98? 65      9      6   236    50          20       41       19.0      628         48     27      0.80
HONDURAS        78   3.6       520   3.56?    14.36? 628  158    198  60    8966?            308      416?    12.88      688        216?    19      8.00?
JAMAICA         80   2.1    1,110   6.5         13.7   37   43       20   90      98         98       40        2.3      95         81      22      8.00
MEXICO          80  65.5    1,880   4.7         17.08  46   39       15   92      98         53       44        9.5      86         56      17     10.30
NICARAGUA       78   2.66      6106  3.06W    14.06- -- --906    8566                       24       376     ---        ---        2666    30B6     -
PANAMA          78    1.86   1,5506  5.56WY  21.88? 428  138    13   826    956?             ---      256?    11.6       858        506?    276?  20.406?
PARAGUAY        79   3.0    1,140    1.4W       14.2   42   17       20   84      63         32       26        3.1R     76         22      12      0.70
PERU            80  16.6    1,000   3.6         14.3   53   15       19   80      83         56       39        9.8      89         39      22     14.40?
TRINIDAD I T. 77   1.1   3,910   4.86?           8.86? 48   32       20   95      98         91       30       10.5?     49         62      24     --
URUGUAY         78   2.9   2,500   2.5           9.46--    -    --94    10566               ---      246      ---       ---        6466    ---   17.808?
VENEZUELA       78  14.4   3,440   5.1?         18.96- -- --82    10666                     ---      28       ---       ---        3866    17    21.10?



COLOCRIA
SIShXCTOS FW0J5s0 701 501L R65IC 0V cATro0
COPAILATIS I tDCATION  lttGCs
J-  21, 1982
I      I       I        JCENTRALI                I       I       I         I      I          I t           I   t        t
I  I   :         t SOUT.?                I t      t       I        I                 I          I       I     I
I   IEP  ON?                         I       I         IPRI. 3REIUSENTf           I?       talc.         I
I t    t         tEDU  ASt EDUCATION   tLITER- I PRI. JCOWPLE- :8TU- tlIIT CSTIPRMRESB-I MEC. 257T3-  NIlhCAh
I      I       I I      3  TTL. I RECURRENT   lACY    IEIEOLLSTION    IDENTSIPRIM. ED.100 RATE 3EIULLtEITs2EIULLU
t      I G  P/I I GWP   CENTRALIEXP ALLOCATED  IRATE IRATID IRATE FORtPER  IAS X ISNF/FRON PltrI.RATI0                I RARTIO I
BASEIPOP.  ICAPITAI DEVOTED? GOVT. I        TO:      l(X OF  I NET  IPRI.CH.ITENCH- CAPITA  ;TO SEC.  1 tET IT1MC- tT          s t
YR3MILLR.I (USA>? TO EDO.: EXP. IPRI. SEC. Hl.:ADULTS)>  (Z)  :CYCLE(1>1ER                     I 1  (1)    I ()  :ER   2 (5)I
(1979>)d(t979)                                     1 :7(1976> I            I                 I          I       I    :
I      :       :         :       :               :       I       :         :      :          :          :      :      :I
: (1)  I  (2) 1  (3)   I  (4>  I        (5)      I  (6)  1 (7)  :  (8)   I (9) I  (10)   I  (11)   1 (12) :(13) t(14)
EAST 6116 61ND THE PACtFIC
CHINA          79 981.8      260   3.3       6.6   29   34    27   66    91           64       22      8.0      63        47      19     2.80
INDOAESIA    B8  142.9      370   3.0        9.LAW 66   39           326   94AX      66       34        .4      44        23     16      2.00A
KOREA          76  37.8   L,510   2.7DY  17.48Y 35   29    36   93B  1007Y    94             483    ---        91        6937   393   12.4037
OALAYSIA       80  14.26  1,4608  5.2       22.0   39   32    13   60B   96x          94      28      ---       84        65     27      3.70
PAPUA M.G.    79   2.9       76    5.4      16.4   ---  ---    --   --   5ax         73P      31       1.1      ---       64)X   23
PHILIPPINES   79  46.3B    6903  2.68       14.0   64   36*8  ---  758   64           65      31       7.1      69        55     36    21.00
SINGAPORE      79   2.4   3,770   2.5AY   7.5AY9---  ---   _:---   99r               ---     29      ---       ---       58     23      8.OG4Y
SOLGhON ISLL.  6        0.2  460   4.2P W 10.06  41   34    20   ---   60             60      26      ---       35                      ---
THAILAND       60  47.38    723B  3.4       20.9   59   15    13   66B   96           ---     17       9.3      59        58     22      4.00
SOUTH ASIA
BANHLADESH    79  92.38       90    IP      10.167 51   17    20   225   63Y          ---     53       5.6      ---       14     23      1.43
IN81          77 659.6       210   2.97      9.987----                                                                           --- -.3049
NEPAL          B0  14.38    1408  2.4        9.9   27  I1    36   19    SH6           30      386    ---        24F       1441   304    2,04Y
PAKISTAN       79  79.7      270   2.0WY    5.1Y  39   26    27   24    56x           608     48       6.5      51        20X    27      6.00
EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
AFGHANISTAN   77  15.         ---  1.7       3.7   47   19    15   12    31BY         69      37B    ---        62         B     22BY   1.00Y
ALGERI         79  16.3   1,770   3.6S    12.3   346  26A   216  35    83Y            45A     37       7.0'    556        297    2       3.70Y
EGYPT          78  38.9      500   5.SPW    B.aP  31   35    26   44    748X          80      348      9.6      63        476X   2sB   15.00
'REECE         76  q9.3   4,140   2.6W    10:.6   37   26    21   ---    9787         ---     29B      6.2?    ---        79BX   27BY  17.809Y
IRAN          79  36.9        ---  5.7A6   14.1 7   50   IOI X                  ---      32A    ---        --       4441   246    4.9047
1AN          79  12.6   2.710   4.3AY    6.91Y --                      _ IO         ---      28      ---       ---      45AY   29A    9.304Y
IRELAND       01   3.48  440   6.3          11.    ---  ---   --- 9         9        94       29      ---       98        63     14    11.00
JORDAN         79   2.2   1,200   4.38       7.2   19   44    18   708   97x         85       32       7.2      94        44X    20    14.00
LEBANON        79 2           --- ---       10.6ASY9---  ---   ---  ---   96X         ---     19      ---       ---       46X    ---   27.8047
M3l8OCc        00  19.5      740   6.3AW   17.5A  36   44    20   26    56AY          35      39      19.7      40        25x    21      4.50
IRAN           79   0.9   3,530   3.766Y   44AY ---  ---   ---  ---   459Y            ---     236    ---        ---        7X     9      --
fIRTUGAL       77   9.68  2.1008  4.0       15.4   4l   21    15   70    92Y         60       19      ---       75       30Y    238   10.60Y
RD0A061        70  22.1   2,100   3.987    6.2Y7        9                 108  s--           23B    ---        90        6461   228   10.6067
SPAIN          76  37.0   4,920   2.1Y    16.8Y 7                       9687      ---      298    ---        ---      6787   ---   24.108Y
YRIA       -  70   8.6   1,170   4.4P    10.3   39   25    26   50    877 Y          80       358    ---        68       41BY   218   12.60
TUNISIA        79   6.4   1,130   7.OP    19.0   42   39    16   620  1oox           60       39B    12.8       30        30X    30      6.00
TORKEY         79   4.3   1,360   3.6AWYI67-186    100                              ---              ---      ----      415    27       7.0769
WYREN A.8.    80   6,8       420   5.OPW   12.0   94    7        7   218   37        126      36Y    67.0       65        3      20      1.10
YEMEN P.D.R.  S0   1.9       424   6.0      30,5   63   14       8   408   65        53       24      22.4      S1       22      16      2.50
SUMMARY FOR DEVELOPIAS COUNTRIES:
NUADER OF COUNTRIES:              80      94      66   65   63    73    55         57        91      54        67       46      83      84
RANGE:                          >1.4-  (2.0-   (19- >7-  >5-   >8-   >15-    (12-          >17-   (1.1-    >6-        (2-    (8-   (0.02-
10,0>   4500)   94)  46)  36)   99)   105)    99)         77)    67.0O      99>       81>    48>   29.0)
IUARTILES:  UPPER               5.5    19.9    51   35   21    SO    95           SO       41     20        84        55      26    10.6
MFDIAN:            3.9    15.0    43   28   18    50    02           62       35      12       60        22      22      3.1
LOWER1             2.9    10.5    36  I1   13    23    so            36       28       7       38        1L      16      0.9
IUARTILE DEVIATION:            20.0    23.7    16   17   16    19    14           14       23      13       17        11      20    21.0
NEAN:                           4.3    15.8    45   27  I1    52    73            61       36      16       50        33      23      6.6
STANDARD DEVIATION:             1.9      7.4    13   10    7    30    26          25       11      14       27        24       7      7.3
MEDIAN:                         3.9    15.0    43   20   19    50    83           62       35      12       60        22      22      3.1
SYMBOLS:                                            FOOTNOTES:
---  DATUM UNAVAILABLE                                A = DATUM PRIOR TO BSE YEAR
... MAGNITUDE NIL OR NEGLIGIBLE                       B   D 06TU7  MORE RECENT THAN BASE YEAR
I    DATUM GUESTIONABLE                               N = CURRENT PRICES
S    INCLUDtES PART-TIME STUDENTS                     P   GSP
6*   COMBINED WI8T  PRIMARY                           a   INCLUDES FOREIGN AID
8*8  COMBINED wITH HIGHER                             R = CENTR4L GOVERNMENT ONLY
S   MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY
T   MOE AND STATE GOaERNMENT ONLY
U   EXCLUDES CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
* INCLUDES PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
8  PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ONLY
X   INCLUDES OVER-AGE STUDENTS
Y   UNESCO SOURCES
SOURCES:
COLUMNS I AND 2: WORLD BANK ATLAS OR IRD ISSIONS.
COLUMNS 3 TO 141   8RD 8MISSIONS AND/OR UNESCO STATISTICAL YEARBOOK.
CDMPARATIVE EDUCATION DATA ARE USEFUL IN THE EVALUATION OF VARIOUS EDUCATION SYSTEMS AND ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE ST8ES OF EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT BETWEEN VARIOUS CONTRIES.  HOWEVER. ON THE BASIS OF THE PRESENT DATA, CROSS-NATIONAL COMPARISON SOOED BE   E                 DPR0AC
WITH GREAT CAUTION.  DATA PRESENTED IN THE ABOVE TABLE HAVE BEEN COLLECTED LARGELY BY BANE MISSIONS FROM  tO TENT  BOISCES  THE
RERAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OR DATA FROM UNESCO.  EFFORTS HAE BEEN MADE TO STANDARDIZE DEFINITIONS AND, WIThIN LIMITS, TO CHECK
THE ACCURACY OF THE DATA. NEVERTHELESS, SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESfECTS AND THE SAN  IS WORKING TO IMROVE THEM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE OCCASION OF ITS OPERATIONAL 8ORK.  IN THE USE OF THESE DATA, THE FOLLOWING GUALIFICATIDAR SOULD SE KEPT IN
MIND?
(1: 'EDUCATION' AS DEFINED IN THE TABLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, BOTH FORMAL AND NON-FORPAL.
(2) ;PRIMARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL AND 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCATION AT THE
SECONDARY LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AORICULTURAL>.
13) 'LITERACY R8TES' (COL. 6) ARE OFTEN OBTAINED FRON COUNTRY CENSUSES.  IN MNY COUNTRIES THEY ARE DLY APPROXIMATIONS AND
IT IS DOUBTFUL THAT ANY UNIFORN DEFINITION OF 'LITERATE' HAS BEEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLY.
(4) 'PUBLIC EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION' (COLS. 4 AND 5) REFERS TO ALL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT EXPENDITURES DEVOTED TO EDUCATION
BY PUBLIC AND OUASI-PUBLIC AGENCIES.
(5> 'ENROLLMENT RATIOS' (COLS. 7, 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND ARE THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIBIBLE CHILDREN ENROLLED FPLL-TINE
ON THE APPROPRIATE SCHOOL. PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL.  THEY ARE OFTEN SUBJIECT TO A WIDE MRGIN OF ERO  IN TE DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES OWING TO VARIATIONS IN THE ACCURACY OF BASIC DATA (I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS).  ENROLLMtENT
FIDURES FREOQENTLY ARE HIEOtR THAN THE NUMBER OF STUDENTS ACTUALLY IN SCHOOL.  OVER-ABED STUDENTS WHOE  INCLUSION IS
INDICATED BY FOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RNTi10.



-52-
ANNEX 1
COLOMBIA
SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
Educational Administration at Departmental Level
(* indicates new unit as a result of Nuclearizacion)
Approx.
No.       Executive             Other Agencies         Physical
Level      Per          Head                   or Staff            Location
Dept.
DEPARTMENT  1   Governor (in capacity Directors and staffs of Capital city
as President of        departmental organiza-  of department
Administrative Coun-  tions sharing respon-
cil of Regional Edu-  sibility for education-
cation Fund)           al administration:
- Secretariat of Educa-
tion
- Regional Education
Fund
- Pilot Experimental
Center
- School Construction
Agency
- Educational Credit
Agency
ZONE*      3-5  Chief                   Supervisors:              Small city or
large town
Administrative super- (10-35,000
visors or inspectors   inhabitants)
responsible to
Secretariat of Educa-
tion
* Academic supervisors
responsible to Pilot
Experimental Center
DISTRICT*  50-  Director*               * Administrative          Small towns
150                           assistant/Secretary   (usually
(part-time; large       under 10,000
districts only)         inhabitants)
SCHOOL     500- Principal               Teachers                 Widely dis-
3,00                                                  persed
throughout
rural areas.



-53-
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
Incremental Physical Targets by Implementation Phase
PHASE I              PHASE II          PHASE III      TOTAL
1982-84              1985-87            1988-91    SUBSECTOR
Subsector                                                  PROGRAM
Project    DRI II   Program       DRI II    Program
Participating Departments                             3          2          7           3 f/        9          22
Participating School Districts                     150          40        420          80         935       1,625
Schools Included in Program:
Escuela Nueva                                 1,350         360      3,780         720       8,415     14,625
Experimentacion Curricular                      300          80        840         160       1,870      3,250
Escuela Normal Demostrativa                       3           0          9           0          12          24
Teacher Trained under Program a!
Escuela Nueva                                 5,020       1,340    12,610        2,400     24,580      45,950
Experimentacion Curricular                    1,065         280      2,685         500       5,220      9,750
Escuela Normal Demostrativa                     100           0        382           0         712      1,194
Students Incorporated in Program
Escuela Nueva                                67,500      18,000   219,240      41,760    488,070    834,570
Experimentacion Curricular                   45,000      12,000   132,720      25,280    295,640    510,640
Administrators Trained under Nuclearization
District Directors                              650         120        855           0           0      1,625
Zone Directors                                   33           6j/       30           0           0         69
Supervisors/Inspectors                          500 b/       60 S/    370            0           0        980
Departmental Technical Staff                     50          15 g/      45           0           0        110
Ministry of Education Staff                      36           0         c/           0           c/         36
Educational Materials by Programs
Escuela Nueva:
Student text (000)                            248.4        66.2   1,010.6 d/   212.8 d/ 2,881.1 e/ 4,419.1
Teacher manuals (000)                          16.2         4.3       30.8         6.5       87.8       145.6
Supervisors/Administrators manuals (000)        0.54        0.14       2.05        0.43       5.85        9.01
Experimentacion Curricular:
Student texts (000)                            63.6        17.0     258.8        54.5       737.8    1,131.7
Teacher manuals (000)                          10.2         2.7       38.8         8.2      110.5       170.4
School Principal guides (000)                   5.1         1.4       19.4         4.1       55.2        85.2
Supervisors/Administrators manuals (000)        0.50        0.13       1.90        0.40       5.36        8.29
Libraries:
Escuela Nueva                               1,350         360     3*780          720      8,415      14,625
Experimentacion Curricular                    300          80        840        160       1,870       3,250
Classroom Teaching/Learning Packages:
Escuela Nueva                               1,350         360     5,130       1,080      14,625      22,545
Experimentacion Curricular                    300          80     1,140         240       3,250       5,010
a/ Including allowance for attrition.
b/ Including 76 Ministry Inspectors.
cl Physical targets dependent upon further specification of needs during Phase I.
d/ Including renewal of Phase I textbooks and manuals.
e/ Including renewal of Phases I and II textbooks and manuals.
T/ Of which two departments are partially covered in Phase I.
Includes administrators for 80 districts in Phase II of DRI II Program.



-54-
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
COLOMBIA
SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
Incremental Physical Targets by Implesentation Phase
PHASE I              PEASE II          PHASE III      TOTAL
1982-84              1985-87            1988-91    SUUSECTOR
Subsector                                                  PROGRM
Project    DRI II   Program       DRI II    Program
Participating Departments                             3           2          7           3 e/       9           22
Participating School Districts                      150          40       420          80         935        1,625
Physical Facilities
Escuela Nueva
Classrooms:
Repair of existing units a/                  924         246      2,587         493      5,760       10,010
Replacement b/                               0             0          0           0           0          0
New b/                                       0             0          0           0           0          0
Sanitary Facilities                             878         234      2,457         468       5,470        9,507
Water Supply                                    929         248      2,600         495       5,788       10,060
Furniture:
Student Desk/Chair Set                    50,550      13,480   141,540      26,960    315,095       547,625
Teacher's Desk and Chair Set               1,950         520      5,460       1,040     12,155       21,125
Bookshelves                                1,950         520      5,460       1,040     12,155       21,125
Blackboards                                4,050       1,080    11,340        2,160     25,245       43,875
Experimentacion Curricular
Classrooms:
Repair of Existing Units c/                  210          56        588         112      1,309        2,275
Replacement                                   23           6         63          12        140          244
New                                          780         208      2,184         416      4,862        8,450
Sanitary Facilities                             203          54        567         108      1,262        2,194
Water Supply                                    207          55        580         110       1,290        2,242
Office/Library/Storage                          168          45        470          90      1,047        1,820
Furniture:
Student Desk/Chair Set                    38,100     10,160   106,680       20,320    237,490       412,750
Teacher's Desk/Chair Set                   2,025         540      5,670      1,080      12,623       21,938
Bookshelves                                1,770         472     4,956          944     11,033       19,175
Blackboard                                 1,890         504      5,292      1,008      11,781       20,475
Cabinet                                      195          52        546         104      1,216        2,113
Reading Table/Chair Set (10 students)        360          96      1,008         192      2,244        3,900
Escuelas Normales Demostrativas                      3           0          9           0          12           24
District Supervisor's Office
Morotcycles                                     15            4         42           8          94          163
4-Wheeled Vehicles                               8            2         21           4         47           82
Desk/Chair Set                                 300           80        840         160       1,870       3,250
Bookcases                                      300           80        840         160      1,870        3,250
Others d/                                      150           40        420          80         935       1,625
a/ Average No. of existing Escuela Nueva Classrooms per district - 19; required 18.
b/ No additional or new classrooms required as existing numbers of classrooms exceed requirement.
c/ Average no. of existing Experimentacion. Curricular classrooms per district - 4.8; required 10.
d/ Set of two filing cabinets and two quest chairs.
e/ Of which two departments are partially covered in Phase I.



-55-
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
Incremental Physical Targets for Phase I
Subsector Project
TOTAL       DRI II       TOTAL PHASE I
1982      1983    1984    PEASE I  (40 Districts)         1982-84
Participating Departments                                                             3            2               5
Participating School Districts                                                      150           40             190
Schools Included in Program:
Escuela Nueva                                     70        400       880     1,350          360            1,710
Experimentacion Curricular                        15         90       195        300           80             380
Escuela Normal Demostrativa                        0          1         2          3            0               3
Teacher Trained under Program a/
Escuela Nueva                                  1,000      2,000    3,020      5,020        1,340           6,360
Experimentacion Curricular                       200        400       465     1,065          280           1,345
Escuela Normal Denostrativa                       30         70         0       100            0              100
Students Incorporated in Program
Escuela Nueva                                 10,000    44,000   13,500    67,500         18,000          85,500
Experimentacion Curricular                     6,750    29,300    8,950    45,000         12,000          57,000
Administrators Trained under Nuclearization
District Directors                               100        290       260       650          120 c/          770
Zone Directors                                     5         15        13        33            6c/            39
Supervisors/Inspectors                            75        225      200        500           60 c/          560
Departnental Technical Staff                      25         25         0        50           15 c/            65
Ministry of Education Staff                       18         18        30        36            0              36
Educational Materials by Programs
Escuela Nueva:
Student text (000)                              37.3      161.5     49.8      248.4         66.2           314.6
Teacher manuals (000)                            2.4       10.5      3.3       16.2          4.3            20.5
Supervisors/Administrators manuals (000)         0.27       0.27     0          0.54         0.14            0.68
Experimentacion Curricular:
Student texts (000)                              9.5       41.3     12.8       63.6         17.0            80.6
Teacher manuals (000)                            5.0        5.2      0         10.2          2.7            12.9
School Principal guides (000)                    2.5        2.6      0          5.1          1.4             6.5
Supervisors/Administrators manuals (000)         0.2        0.3      0          0.5          0.13            0.63
Libraries:
Escuela Nueva                                  270        945      135      1,350          360           1,710
Experisentacion Curricular                     140         80       80        300           80             380
Classroom Teaching/Learning Packages:
Escuela Nueva                                  270        950      130      1,350          360           1,710
Experisentacion Curricular                     140         80       8         300           80             380
a/ Including allowance for attrition.
b/ Including 76 Ministry Inspectors.
c/ Includes administrators for 80 districts in Phase II of DRI II Program.



-56-
A=Z  3
ite 2 of 2
COLOMBIA
SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
Incre-ental Physical Targets for Phase I
Subsector Project
L
TOTAL         DBI II     *      I
1982     1983    1984   PRASE I  (40 Districts)  19=-&
Participating Departments                                                      3              2             5
Participating School Districts                                               150             40         10
Physical Facilities
Escuela Nueva
Classrooms:
Repair of existing units al                 50       280     594      924            246         1,170
Replacement b/                             0         0       0        0                0             0
Nev b/                                     0         0       0        0                0             0
Sanitary Facilities                            44       260     574      874            233         1,107
Water Supply                                   46       280      603     929            248         1,177
Furniture:
Student Desk/Chair Set                  10,000   35,550   5,000  50,550           13,480        64,030
Teacher's Desk/Chair Set                   400    1,350      200   1,950             520         2,470
Bookshelves                                400    1,350      200   1,950             520         2,470
Blackboards                                800    2,850      400   4,050           1,060         5,130
Experimentacion Curricular
Classrooms:
Repair of Existing Units c/                 10        65     135      210             56           26
Replacement                                  0        10      13       23              6            29
Nev                                         40       230     510      780            208           me
Sanitary Facilities                            10        60     133      203             54           257
Water Supply                                   10        60     137      207             55           262
Office/Library/Storage                          8        50     110      168             45           213
Furniture:
Student Desk/Chair Set                   7,600   26,600   3,900  38,100           10,160       48,264
Teacher's Desk/Chair Set                   400    1,400      225   2,025             540         2,365
Bookshelves                                350    1,200      220   1,770             472         2,242
Blackboard                                 380    1,300      210   1,890             504         2,304
Cabinet                                     40      140       15      195             52           247
Reading Table/Chair Set (10 students)    70         250       40      360             96           456
Escuelas Normales Demostrativas                    0         1        2       3              0             0
District Supervisor's Office
Motorcycles                                     0        15       0       15              4            19
4-Wheeled Vehicles                              0         8       0        8              2            10
Desk/Chair Set                                 60       200      40      300             80           360
Bookcases                                      60       200      40      300             SO           380
Others d/                                      30       100      20      150             40           190
a/ Average No. of existing Escuela Nueva Classroom  per district - 19; required 18.
b/ No additional or new classrooms required as existing numbers of classrooms exceed requirmant.
c/ Average no. of existing Experimentacion Curricular classrooms per district - 4.8; required 10.
d/ Set of two filing cabinets and two quest chairs.



-57-
ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA
SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES
ADM                                                                                          IPEETTO
LEVEL                        MANAGEMENT                         IIMPLEMENTATIO
Vin ster of Edccation -
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
i -National 
A      ;      SEectreectuatry-is        Vice Mi n0ister                      0                0D      0  G
T                                     (Prograr Directorl         G         IA)    _P.?                          OSPE       CJ       ICCE
O      !       Secr etary_____________________
Li
TECHNICAL STAFF                             Oper,atonal Technical Staff Represenlatives
I  I                        I         t                  e
-  -t--------               ------------I.                                I                           I---------- -------------- -        - -
E                                  IMPLEMENTATATION                                           COMMITTEE
A DeAPartmenta      | Departmental Governor    I                           1 eTah
x         | ecutv     res dent of Junta FER  |                        Fi       CEP       SEC                         ICCE      Rep
r      i     Secretaroy-          and Chairman of Imple                          PLan
Executive            mentation Committee)
Secretariat
NTechnical
N            3/taff3'
FT     r            e                                        t        j g       |       T E C H N I CA L  S TA F F
i-                                          I i
A
L                                                                           uo         Sup       _    up          Pus           S
I i              C     i
D                                      DOStcH    00  0  0  @
TI      
S          I| Comm-nlty|             '
T      i H       c.nsultamie         ,      
R             Committee                                  
c             Op
Administratine/Managerial Linkages   ----   Implementation Linkages             0       Neo Appointments
jJ The National Executive Secretary is also the Secretary to the Program Managemeen Committee.
2  The Departmental Executive Secretary is also the Secretary to the Implementation Committee
31 The Executive Secretariat-Technicel Staff includes tio professionals plus secretarial support
Sec Gee       Secretary General                  DG (A)  DOrentur General (Admln,snratite Servicos-        DNP      Department of National Planning
DG (C)-       Director General (Peda.ogical      DG (1).  Directar General (School Adminstration          OSPE    Education Sector Planning Office
Improvement)                                 and Inspectionl                                ICETEX  Colomiban Institute for Educational
FER           Regional Ed-catio- Fund            ICCE      Colombian Iestitute for School Construct-on              Credit and Training Abroad
Sec Fin/Plae   Secretary for Finance and Planning   CEP?   Pilot Expeelmental Center                      SEC.    Departmental Secretary of Education
TPU           Technical Planning Unit             Supv     Supervisors
OJ:      Education Sector legal Office
World Bank-23710






-58-
ANNEX 5
CODLOMBIA
SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
ESTIMATED INVESTMEN BASE COST OF THE SUBSECTOR PROGRAM
(Prices in US$'000 as of March 1982, excluding physical and price contingencies)
Minimum           National
Educational                  Physical            Level            Unit Base
Requirements a/             Facilities b/      Expend. c/          Investment
Total
Basic     DRI      Sub-     Basic      DRI    Sub-   Basic               Cost Per
Program    II      Total    Program    II    Total  Program              District d/
Phase I e/   10,505   3,445   13,950   12,050   3,075   15,125  5,604    34,679    182.5
(1982-84)
Phase II f/  26,050   6,770   32,820   33,740   6,010   39,750  6,680    79,250    158.5
(1985-87)
Phase III g/ 52,700      -     52,700   75,100      -      75,100  7,230   135,030    144.4
(1988-91)
Total:       89,255  10,215   99,470  120,890   9,085  129,975 19,514   248,959    153.2  h/
a/  Includes printing and distribution of textbooks and teachers' manuals, provision of
school furniture, training and upgrading of teachers and district administrators, and
provision of transport facilities to district and zone administrators for supervison.
b/  Includes repair/replacement of classrooms in poor condition, construction of new
classrooms (Experimentacion Curricular), provision of water and sanitary facilities for
schools.
c/  Includes establishment of management information systems, research programs and pilot
facilities (including repair of inadequate existing buildings) for the Escuelas Normales
Demostrativas.
d/  The decrease in unit costs from Phase I to Phase III is due to the inclusion of the
training of academic supervisors and administrators for Phase II (500 districts) during
Phase I and those for Phase III (935 districts) during Phase II.
e/  For 190 districts, of which 150 districts (Basic Program) funded under the Subsector
Project and 40 districts financed under DRI II.
f   For 500 districts, of which 80 districts financed under DRI II.
g/ For 935 districts.
h/ Average unit base investment cost.



COLOMBIA
SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
SUMMARY OF CAPITAL COSTS FOR PHASE I BASIC PROGRAM
(in Col$ (US$1.0 - Col$61) 'OOOs at March 1982 prices)
(150 districts, excluding those financed under DRI)
Equipment                                                Total Base Cost
Textbooks/     Trans-                                 Technical           by Program
Programs              Civil Works    Furniture    Manuals         portation    Equipment    Training    Assistance    Col$             US$
Escuelas Nuevas                       329,967        181,175       36,423          -              a/        99,842           -         647,407    10,613.2
Escuelas Graduadas                    405,092        90,765        21,946          -              a/        50,956           -         568,759     9,323.9
Nucelearization/Admin. & Planning         -            5,340          570        6,457          6,T57      140,886           -         159,710     2,618.2
Escuelas Normales Demostrativas         5,555          1,464          745        6,000        18,302         1,297           -          33,363       546.9
Management Information System             -              -            -            -            6,875       16,800        88,800       112,475     1,843.9
Research                                                                                         -             -         168,000       168,000     2,754.1
Evaluation                                              -             -            -              -            -          28,000        28,000       459.0
toTAL BASE COST        Col$ OOOs      740,614       278,744        59,684       12,457        31,634       309,781       284,800    1,717,714        -
US$    OOOs    12,141.2        4,569.6         978.4       204.2          518.6       5,078.4      4,668.8         -       28,159.2
FOREX Component      %                   15.0           10.0         50.0         90.0           90.0          5.0           5.0                     13.9     1
Amount (US$)    1 821.2          457.0         489.2       183.8          466.7         253.9         233.4                 3 905.2    @
TOTAL CONTINGENCIES    Col$ OOOs      280,375        80,214        10,169        1,844         6,148        55,509        57,956      492,215      8,069.1      a
Physical:            Z of Base Cost      12.0           10.0          2.5 b/       5.0            5.0          0.0           2.0                      7.34
Amount (Col$)  89,053         27,874         1,278         623          1,582             -         5,696      126,106      2,067.3
Price:               X of Base Cost      23.06          17.07        14.58         9.33         13.74         17.92         17.99                    19.86
Amount (Col$) 191,322         54,340         8,891       1,221          4,566        55,509       52,260       366,109      6,001.8
TOTAL CAPITAL COSTS
incl. contingencies  Col$ OOOs   1,020,989        358,958        69,853      14,301         37,782       365,290       342,756    2,209,929        -
US$    OOOs    16,737.5        5,884.5       1,145.1       234.4          619.4       5,988.4       5,619.0        -       36,228.3
FOREX Component      Z of Total Cost    15.0            10.0         50.0         90.0          90.0           5.0           5.0                     13.9
Amount                2,510.6    588.4         572.6       211.0          557.5         299.4         281.0                 5,020.5
s/ Display materials included in textbook costs.
b/ 2.5% for student texts and 5% for others.
April 8, 1982



-60-
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
Documents Available in Project File
A.   Government Documents Related to Development of the Subsector Program:
Educacion para el Desarrollo Rural de Colombia (Ministerio de Edu-
cacion Nacional, Oficina Sectorial de Planeacion, Programa
Colombia-PNUD-UNESCO, Proyecto COL 76/003; Bogota 1978).
Plan de Integracion Nacional 1979-1982 (Departamento Nacional de
Planeacion, Bogota, Marzo 1980, 2 vols.).
Programa de Fomento de la Educacion en el Area Rural y Centros Po-
blacionales Menores 1981-1986 (Ministerio de Educacion y Departa-
mento Nacional de Planeacion, Octubre 190). First version of Sub-
sector Program.
Plan de Fomento a la Educacion en el Area Rural y en Centros Meno-
res de Poblacion (Ministerio de Educacion Nacional y Departamento
Nacional de Planeacion, Bogota, Enero 1981). Second version of
Subsector Program.
Plan de Fomento para la Educacion en el Area Rural y los Centros
Menores de Poblacion (Ministerio de Educacion, Julio 1981). Fourth
version of Subsector Program and basis for appraisal.
B.   Bank Documents:
Economic Position and Prospects of Colombia (Report No. 3566-CO, 2
vols., September 17, 1981).
List of Projects for External Financing - Colombia 1981-1984
(Report No. 3624-CO, October 6, 1981).
Colombia: Rural Basic Education - Project Brief (July 15, August
1, September 25, 1980 and May 4, 1981).
Basic Education in Rural Colombia - A Subsector Analysis (Report
No. 3633-CO of April 1982 and earlier versions).
Caracteristicas Curriculares de Programas de Educacion Primaria en
Colombia: Analisis Descriptivo y Comparativo (Julia Mora Mora,
Consultant, prepared for Bank Subsector Study Mission, April 1981).



-61-
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
COLOMBIA
SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
Documents Available in Project File
C.   Appraisal Mission Working Papers:
Strategy for Improving Rural Basic Education
Major Issues in Rural Basic Education
Educational Demography
Subsector Program Costs
The Special Account
Disbursements Against Statements of Expenditure
D.   Working Papers, Presented by Ministry of Education to the Appraisal
Mission:
Gestion del Plan de Fomento Educativo para Areas Rurales y Centros
Menores de Poblacion (Bogota, Marzo 1982).
Selection Indices for Departments and Municipalities (May 1982).



78                           76S                          4                            72                           7U4 -0        7   t
5JAN&AiA __ HhitiO-ICAN REP
C  A   P   1       b E  A-N               S   PA                                                      -OPURAS                        AT7AI'
-12-                                                                                                                                         .....  .NIt RC
Rio-h                                                     ''i/-K      VENEZUELA  '
Ri QUA J/RA/                                                      LOM h      - >ANO
-7rrttiquiLa; :).>arts  i/   /  ~   ECUADCRhPV
AIN/O. S. . . . . . . . . . .-  .>  .....t>7  
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~. OtagnX/.iD0...... 6.agIedU g_ B    (  R A Z   L
io-  0    t           X           - >,sCESAR  /                 gZ lape X                    loo-  rA<-rzC    A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y< OLIVIA 
< AMA N : ; 0 > < ~~~~~~~134 >j CHILE,iAAUYr
s   t  > :>                                      g    X                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V E N E Z U E L A     'h-"' .P
-P7k- --- ~   fgl  -~
[%pi    tAnrloy o, y nor         o--
i : 6% / \ g>Bu~cortogenci                                                                                                        \g 77             PAZac 
lh0 \    3IA N J                    U I A                 A ITADER                        ARAUCA
u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hr AcACZr  -/Belln                                                                                 ,binTh-.   6
el P A c   f  CHOCOioeoj  'o                                                                 mn~hZrm                         OeA 
ANAMA:                                                    '; 0 : Quibdov t j / t JB O YA CA     j CA SA NA R
0 0   0  -\)    R7NAS7AzDA->CA7A;l  /tD\                                T .    Yopcl                  /                                        8
0 O  C E- A Nj                                       I                     \                                                                           W     a   teo )or
Moetette( E4~S~"                                                     VENL U                        HA               e rR  to rh  t' a t
RURAL BASIC SUBSECTOR PROGRAM a A A~E                             T    A  ZO      
.5            \                                                                                                                                   rh dee1a'n coe an theprmnsI  hc  usetrPormwudb  mleetdC  dcto    X
11  I 111 component oF th: Second Phose of thr Integrted Rural Development Prolect   y                <ioondnietahoemon th ore
/DRl-lI) hnonced                                                                                                    dod:r  notD ior ond the3-1987  pan of-th
-z   25 Depltjen  4n                                                                                                                                        World Sekcto  andru  woto behaeo anymntd: euaio   
j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ copoen ofpieo noe theon                                                                                                 leoae oFtn of nertdRua  eeomn Po3raY
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                -fn7ao teorntmenys nwhc bstor anynogrom ol erFnonce n: 3DRrl~t
////m.3i~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                       -on,p' Edcrlo aS:ettnr e(oonhhPoseandadeo.4)
S Department capi7a ) P E R U /  I,   0M
_._  Vnt:rnotlonal                       Boondemoeo A                                     - TA  VA
A4T/-                                         LI/A            SANTANDdh, w   o f4-,Poegto Rarre,2 -
KDILOMTR f         bd, IBRo    I0 p -.                                                    CA8ANARJ
MIESD P., - --d byIDB,x8100 p     ISd  CA98  2u .198
78- Ed f-5t. --   /h6                N (198 2-984-
--;-N.t-oCot                          i                                                                                                            niid
/e." t I -I -    .
-4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
M5,    E               4 7 /,                      2 K)                                                                                 -..-
7B-                                7~~~~~~~~~~~~~'   ~ ~~~~~~2-                                7,0'~~~~~~~~'470 ,



