Document of
The World Bank                    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3364-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15.0 MILLION
TO THE
FONDO DEL MINISTERIO DE EDUCACION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
July 8, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso - Col$
Average Calendar 1980                 Average Calendar 1981
US$1  = Col$47.280                    US$1  = Col$54.491
Col$1 = US$0.02115                    Col$1 = US$0.01836
Exchange Rate Effective May 4, 1982
US$1 = Col$62.21
Col$1 = US$0.01607
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Fondo del Ministerio de Educacion
Guarantor:      Republic of Colombia
Amount:         US$15.0 million equivalent, including capitalized front end
fee.
Terms:          Repayment in 17 years, including four years of grace at 11.6%
interest per annum.
Project
Description:  The project aims at supporting the first phase (1982-84) of
the Government's 10-year Subsector Program for Rural Basic
Education, thereby helping the introduction of policy changes
as follows: (a) concentration of integrated packages of edu-
cational inputs in carefully selected areas; (b) decentraliza-
tion of educational administration; (c) incentives for reten-
tion of teachers for rural service; (d) establishment of an
academic (pedagogical) supervisory service; and (e) expansion
of new but tested educational programs adapted to the rural
setting. To this end, the project involves the carrying out
of (a) about 30 local subprojects (1,600 schools, 6,100 tea-
chers and 112,000 students in total) and (b) six national sub-
projects. Each local subproject is an investment plan aimed
at the educational needs of some 20-70 rural primary schools
and 1,800-7,200 pupils.  It includes training of teachers,
supply of educational materials and furniture, supervision,
equipment, and civil works for repair and upgrading of
existing buildings. The national subprojects are for (a)
production of the needed textbooks and other educational
materials, (b) production of furniture and equipment, (c)
training of administrators and planners, (d) development of a
computerized management information system, (e) expansion of
applied research on education, and (f) impact evaluation of
4                        the Subsector Program.
Project Benefits
and Risks:    This project will increase coverage, quality and efficiency
of primary education, and brIng about institutional improve-
ments. As a result of improvements in efficiency, the project
is expected to decrease the real recurrent cost per primary
graduate from US$1,700 to about US$700 in 1980 prices. At the
same time, the enrollment rate in participating areas would
increase from about 78% to over 90% and quality Improvements
in curriculum, teaching methods, and materials would lead to
higher student achievement.   The risks of this project are
mainly associated with the innovative and complex character
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents mnay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



of the Government's Subsector Program for Rural Basic
Education. In its first phase the project involves a
management risk as new systems of administration are
established, and, should the program be continued over the
10-year period, it will face uncertainty with regard to the
priority it will be given over time. These risks are
reasonable given the consensus within the country about the
need for improved rural basic education, the benefits to be
derived fran this project/program and the coordinating
mechanisms that have been established.
Estimated Cost: 1/
Local      ja4in         Total
--(US$ million equivalent)--
Teaching Materials                          0.5         0.5           1.0
Training of Teachers and
Administration                            4.8        0.2            5.0
Furniture                                   4.1         0.5           4.>6
Transport Facilities                        -           0.2           0.2
Civil Works (new and repairs)              10.3         1.8          12.1
Equipment                                   -           0.5           0.5
Technical Assistance                        4.4         0.3           4.7
Incremental Recurrent Expenditures          4.9        -              4.9
Total Base Cost Estimate              29.0        4.0          33.0
Physical Contingencies                      1.8         0.2           2.0
Price Contingencies                         7.3        0.8            8.1
Total ProJect Cost (1982-84)          38.1        5.0          43.1
Front End Fee on Bank Loan                    -           0.2           0.2
Total                                 38.1        5.2          43.3
Financing Plan:
Government                                 28.3        -             28.3                       i
IBRD                                        9.8        5.2           15.0
Total                                 38.1        5.2          43.3
1/   Total project costs are 18% for national and 82% for local subprojects.



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:                        FY83         FY84          FY85       FY86
…(US$ million equivalent) …
Annual                                 3.0           2.5          4.5        5.0
Cumulative                             3.0           5.5         10.0       15.0
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 3896-CO dated July 6, 1982.



I
A



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE FONDO DEL MINISTERIO DE EDUCATION
FOR A
SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Fondo del Ministerio de Educacion, for the equivalent of US$15.0 mil-
lion to help finance the Subsector Project for Rural Basic Education. The
Bank will finance the front-end fee of US$.22 million. The loan would have a
term of 17 years, including four years of grace, with interest at 11.6% per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An Economic Report on Colombia (3556-CO) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in September 1981. This section on the economy reflects
the major findings of this report. Country data sheets are presented in
Annex I.
Background
3.        The Colombian economy has become more resilient to external shocks
as a result of the structural changes that have occurred over the past 30
years. Rapid economic growth has resulted in a substantial structural trans-
formation of the country from a predominantly rural and self-contained eco-
nomy to a more diversified urban, industrial, services and open economy.
Colombia has reached a point where population pressure on land no longer
increases much, if at all. Public sector investment and output now play a
greater role, primarily as a result of increased activity on the part of
decentralized agencies and public enterprises. Also, greater emphasis on
foreign trade has allowed the external sector to grow with non-coffee ex-
4         ports, particularly exports of manufactured goods, expanding rapidly and the
range of products sold abroad widening considerably.  The growing urban-
industrial-services oriented economic activity and a rapid expansion of sur-
plus labor in rural areas attracted by higher wages and better services in
1/   Substantially unchanged from report for the Second Integrated Rural
Development Project (No. P-3325-CO, May 18, 1982).



-  2 --
the cities has given rise to rapid rural-urban migration.  This phenomenon,
together with the increased participation of women in the labor force, has
been instrumental in reducing poverty and improving income anddistr.bution
over time. Fti-.ancial and capital markets have evolved pari-passu with the
growing needs of the economy, and Colombia has become an active participant
in international capital markets.
4.        Real GDP per capita rose by 2.4% oi average during the 1950-80
period, with each succeeding decade registering greater gains in per capita
income.  This was the result of lower population growth, which had remained
in th 3.0% to 3.5% range during the 1950s and early 1960s, declined dramatic-
ally after 1965 as a consequence of a sharp fall in the fertility rate.
Greater economic and educational opportunities for women, rapid rural-urban
migration, rising per capita income and increased effectiveness of family
planning programs contributed to the decline in fertility.  Colombia's popu-
lation is currently growing at an annual rate of 2.1,. As a resijlt of the
high proportion of women now entering childbearing years, this rate of popu-
lation growth is likely to continue until the early 1990s.
5.        The combination of rising per capita income and expanded pulblic
services has brought about a significant improvement in the welfare of the
poorest, in absolute and relative terms. As a result of increased sanitation
control, improved diets and better health care, the crude death rate fell by
about 50% and life expectancy rose from 48 years in the early 1950s to 63
years currently.  The child mortality rate declined from 20 per thousand in
the early 1960s to 8 per thousand in the late 1970s. Infant mortality, one
of the best indicators of welfare, fell to 56 per thousand in the later
1970s, from about 124 per thousand in the early 1950s. School enrollment
ratios have increased substantially at all grade levels since the 1960s, and
by the late 1970s, 79% of urban children aged 7 to 14 were enrolled in
school. The poorest income groups have experienced the greatest increases in
electricity and water services in recent years and have benefitted more than
the average of the population from services of the national health system.
In spite of this progress, Colombia remains largely underdeveloped, with a
relatively small modern sector superimposed on a broad, traditional and eco-
nomically poor base. Development has been concentrated in relatively few
areas of the country, public services are still not available to many of the
rural and urban populations and unemployment and underemployment are rela-
tively high. The coverage of health care and water supply requires contin-
uous improvement and adequate housing is not available to a substantial por-
tion of the population. Rapid migration to the large and medium--sized cities
has created urban development programs, with attendant social difficulties.
Moreover, in spite of the steady increase in per capita income over the past
30 years, substantial efforts are still required to improve and extend the
benefits of development to the poorest income groups.
6.         In large part, the achievements of the past 30 years were the
results of government efforts to stimulate the productive sectors. provide
the required economic and social instrastructure and establish an effective
institutional base in the economy. In the 1950s and early 1960s, development
policy favored import substitution supported by high tariff protection and
the provision of economic infrastructure by the public sector. It was during
this period that the country's major communication and transportation net-



works were developed and the transformation to a semi-industrial economic
structure began in earnest. By the mid-1960s, the prospects for further
import substitution were substantially diminished and the country was con-
fronted with great economic uncertainty, arising from the fact that economic
activity and the balance of payments were heavily influenced by developments
in the world coffee market. In order to ease this constraint, during 1967
the authorities adopted an outward-looking development strategy, expanding
and diversifying exports and, among the export markets, increasingly tapping
the Andean Group countries. Export promotion policies, including frequent
exchange rate devaluations, export tax rebates and other export incentives
were introduced and the authorities began lowering tariffs somewhat and free-
ing capital markets from controls as means of raising efficiency and increas-
ing the competitiveness of Colombian goods in external markets. These mea-
sures were highly successful in relieving the foreign exchange constraint and
stimulating growth and employment. However, by mid-1970s the economy was
once again experiencing difficulties caused primarily by the world recession
and by excessive Central Bank financing of domestic budget deficits.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of fiscal and
monetary policies designed to correct the structural and policy weaknesses
prevailing in the economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully
effective, the economy was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising
from a sharp increase in world coffee prices. The increased receipts from
coffee exports, together with some official surrender of foreign exchange
from illegal exports, caused a turnabout in the balance of payments.  Incomes
rose rapidly and stimulated aggregate demand; inflation accelerated. Econo-
mic growth also accelerated and unemployment fell substantially, both in
rural and urban areas. Largely as a consequence of increased coffee tax
revenues, the public finances generated surpluses averaging about 7% of GDP
during the 1976-79 period, and by the end of 1979, net official international
reserves had risen to about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to nearly 12 months
imports of goods and non-factor services.
8.        While beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom has
had a somewhat negative impact on the evolution of the Colombian economy,
largely as a consequence of the need for measures to stabilize the economy.
Public investment was curbed, thereby delaying some badly needed additions to
economic and social infrastructure.  The rate of currency devaluation was
slowed and the conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to mode-
f        rate the growth of domestic demand, with adverse effects on export expansion
and diversification. Also, the Government was compelled to maintain high
reserve requirements and expand controls over credit thereby reducing, in
real terms, the financing available to the private sector via the official
capital market.
9.        The stabilization measures were virtually unchanged from early 1977
through 1979 but were partially successful irn restraining aggregate demand
growth; thus relatively high inflation persisted. In response to the in-
creasing stabilizing effects on aggregate demand and the troublesome finan-
cial market distortions caused by inflation and the extended period of mone-
tary restraint, the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust the stabiliza-
tion program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced to increase export
incentives and reduce borrowing abroad, and in early 1980, credit restraints



- 4 -
were relaxed by lowering reserve requirements. At the same time, interest
rates on time deposits captured by commercial banks and development finance
companies -- and on the lending therefrom -- were freed from controls. To
offset the inflationary effects of these measures, the authorities further
liberalized import payments and adopted the policy, supported by the emission
of new short-term certificates, of not expanding the subsidized selective
credit operations of the Central Bank in excess of the resources captured
fron private savings for this purpose. The authorities also increased the
surveillance and control of the illegal export trade. The effects of the
above measures were not immediately noticeable. Real GDP growth declined to
4% in 1980, unemployment started to creep up, and inflationary pressures con-
tinued.
10.       In 1981, manufacturing activity remained sluggish, hemmed in by the
slow growth in aggregate conisumer demand, and limited by power shortages
during most of the year. Coffee exports fell as a result of reduced world
demand and declining prices while non-coffee export growth weakened. On a
more positive note, construction activity, which had fallen sharply in 1979-
80, began to recuperate toward the end of the year. In response to favorable
price incentives, petroleum production is estimated to have increased by over
5% in 1981. Agricultural output registered some gains despite decreases in
the area planted resulting from a prolonged drought. Both public and private
investment expanded moderately. Real GDP growth is estimated to have reached
205% in 1981. Inflation continued to be a problem in 1981, however, with
consumer prices increasing by about 27% for the year. Despite world coffee
prices at relatively low levels for most of the year, Colombia's balance of
payments continued to remain strong, with net official reserves maintained at
about one year of imports of goods and non-factor services.
Development Strategy
11.       Achievement in this decade of the Government's objectives of
increased productivity and maximum economic growth, increased employment,
improved distribution of income and greater welfare for all Colombians will
require a major effort to remove from the economy the constraints of inade-
quate economic and social infrastructuire and insufficient demand. Infra-
structure needs are most pressing in the energy, transportation, and agricul-
ture sector.
12.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing its development objec-
tives are set forth in the recently formulated Plan de Integracion Nacional
(PIN). This strategy continues the previous emphasis on export promotion as
a means of supplementing domestic demand and assuring balance of payments
stability, and on policy measures, including further import liberalization,
designed to increase economic efficiency and raise institutional capacity.
It proposes a large increase in public investment, giving high priority to
energy projects and to the provision of transport infrastructuire. Economic
decentralization, regional autonomy and the uniting of regional growth cen-
ters through improved transport, communication and financial links are
directed towards creating an integrated national market, a strategic goal of
the PIN. The Plan also places emphasis on the promotion of both small-scale
and commercial agriculture as a means of diversifying and increasing exports,
assuring adequate domestic food supplies, holding down inflation and contrib-



- 5 -
uting to the Government's nutrition and welfare goals. Industrial policy
objectives are to Urovide an environment of certainty, along with adequate
credit and infrastructure, so that entrepreneurs are encouraged to invest and
expand output. Because of its benefits in opening foreign markets, creating
employment and bringing in new technology, private foreign investment is to
be encouraged.  The Government's approach to helping the poor takes on a new
orientation in the PIN. Its efforts are focussed upon improving efficiency
in the use of resources and strengthening the social service institutions.
Programs in the health and education sectors are to be better focussed and
integrated, and selected low income and disadvantaged groups, such as workers
in the informal sector, children and unemployed youth, are singled out for
special attention.  Combined with extensions of the Integrated Rural Develop-
ment (DRI) and National Nutrition (PAN) programs, the new directions given to
social programs are expected to raise significantly the welfare of low income
groups in Colombia.
13.      TWhile the PIN provides a good analysis of the development issues
facing the country and sets forth the general guidelines for policies and
programs to resolve these issues, there are two important aspects of bringing
off the development strategy that are expected to receive increasing atten-
tion from the authorities in coming months. The first involves a required
deepening of the sector analyses in order to improve coordination in planning
and executing sector strategies, and the second has to do with matters rela-
ted to financing the PIN. Given the large investment required to carry out
the PIN strategy, inadequate planning and coordination among sectors or
insufficient domestic resource mobilization would be likely to result in sub-
stantial resource misallocation and to delay execution of the strategy. The
two most important sectors where additional work is urgently required are
energy and transportation.
14.       Colombia became a net oil importer in 1976 and by 1985 petroleum
imports are projected to absorb about 20% of total merchandise exports. In
the absence of rapid energy development, energy shortages will become a major
constraint on growth later in this decade. Resolution of the energy problem
depends on the country's success in developing its abundant domestic energy
resources -- hydroelectricity, coal and natural gas -- and also upon increas-
ing petroleum exploration and development. The strategy for doing this will
*         require energy pricing policies that rationalize consumption with energy
resource availabilities, a least cost program of investments, sufficient
domestic and external financing for these investments, strengthened sector
(         institutions, improved program execution capability and rapid carrying out of
investments. Although planning and policy making have improved substantially
in many energy sector institutions in recent years, overall planning and
coordination in the sector in still weak.  A study about to be completed by
the National Planning Department is expected to provide the basis for
improvements in sector-wide planning and policy-making, and recent pricing
decisions have gone a considerable way towards providing the correct signals
for regulating consumption and encouraging production. The prices paid to
producers (primarily foreign companies) for "incremental" and "new" crude
have been raised to levels which provide adequate production incentives, and
the retail prices of petroleum products have been increased substantially in
recent years, which on the whole reflect international levels.
15.       Colombia's high transportation costs and inadequate services could
become a constraint on economic growth, affecting particularly the develop-



ment of the country's vast coal reserves and its agriculturee  The State
Railway is in poor condition and the road network needs mainten.ance and
rehabilitation,  The authorities have begun to take steps to 1nprove the
country's infrastructure and PIN assigns an important share of future invest-
ments to the eector. An important part of this effort are the recently
approved Rural Roads, Railway Rehabilitation, and Highway Sector Projects,
Investment and its Finacing
16.        A substantial increase and redirection of public sector ' i;estment
will be required in the next several years to carry out the development stra-
tegy outlined in the PIN.  Over the 1981-85 period, such inveetment is
expected to increase by about 15% p.a. in real terms.  The energy and trans-
portation sectors are expected to account for the bulk (59.53) of this
investment; however, sizeable real increases in investment are also expected
in the nutrition and health, small scale agriculture and industry (including
mining), water and sewerage, and educeationi sectors. Overall, public fixed
investment is projected to average 8.4% of GDP during the 1981-85 period, and
is expected to total Col$1,603 billion (about US$20.5 bilLion)   Private
investment will have to increase also during this period to provide the goods
and services required by the expanding economy.
17.        This increase in investment will demand a major resource mobiliza-
tion effort on the part of Colombia's public sector.  The buoyancy of the tax
system (excluding coffee tax revenues and receipts from earnings on foreign
exchange holdings), which has declined in recent years, will have to be
increased through new taxes and better tax administration, resources will
have to be used more efficiently, and the charges levied for public services
will have to be raised substantially in real terms.  Since this effort is
expected to coincide with increased private sector demand for investment
resources, the importance of measures to expand domestic savings cannot be
over-stressed. The recent capital market liberalization. should encourage
savings.  A significant increase in voluntary private savings is not likely,
however, as long as inflation remains high.  Consequently, stabilization
remains a sine qua non for the country's future growth and devel.opment.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.        Given the country's strong resource base and sound economic manage-
ment, Colombia's growth prospects for. this decade are good and significant
advances in economic welfare are anticipated.  The urgent need to relieve the
pressure on aggregate demand arising from the growth of foreign exchange
earnings and the necessity to increase rapidly imports to develop the coun-
try's resource potential and restore higher economic growth. requires a shift                      {
in the balance of payments from a small current account deficit projected to
average US$1,865 million, over the 1981-85 period.  By the eid of this
period, net official international reser-es would have fallen to a level
slightly over four months of imports of goods and non-factor services (a
level which is adequate for Colombia) without prej dice to the country's
creditworthiness.  This should be sufficient to support an average growth of
real GDP of 5.5% during this period.  Beyond 1985, the currenit account defi-
cit would fall to about 2% of GDP in 1987 and turft into a surplus of less
than 1% by 1990.  To achieve real GDP growth of 5.5% per aanum. gross domes-



- 7 -
tic investment will have to expand to about 25% of GDP, up from 18% in the
early 1970s and 20% in recent years, and to avoid too large an increase in
foreign indebtedzess, gross national savings.would need to average about 22%
of GDP.
19.       Gross external capital requirements (net of reserve drawdown) are
projected to total US$10.3 billion in current prices for the 1981-85 period,
for an annual average requirement of US$2,057 million. About 26% of this
amount will be required annually for debt amortization and the rest to cover
current account deficits. Multilateral and bilateral agencies are expected
to provide 33% of these requirements, 50% is expected to come from foreign
suppliers and financial institutions and the balance should come from private
foreign investment. At the end of 1980, Colombia's public and publicly
guaranteed external debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to US$4.3
billion, equivalent to 13% of GDP. The Bank/IDA share of this external debt
was 25%. Reflecting the recently increased lending by the Bank and the
decline by bilateral sources, this share is expected to increase to about 29%
in 1983, before falling to about 25% in 1986. The debt service ratio at the
end of 1980 was 10% and is expected to climb to 17% by 1985, peak at about
20% in 1988 and then decline gradually. The World Bank's share in public
debt service is expected to rise to about 26% in 1985 from about 25% in
1980. With continued sound economic and financial management, Colombia is
expected to maintain its creditworthiness through and beyond the 1981-1990
period.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
20.       The proposed loan, the 98th to be made to Colombia, would bring the
total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$3,560.5 million (net of cancel-
lations).  Of this amount the Bank held, as of March 31, 1982, US$2,736.1
million: IDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in 1961. Dis-
bursements have been completed on 59 loans and the IDA credit. During
1972-77 disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, then
declined slightly to US$82 million in 1978 but increased sharply to US$215
million in 1980 and US$249 million in 1981, representing a disbursement rate
of 27%, which was well above the average disbursement rate for the Bank as a
whole (22%) and that of Latin America and Caribbean Region (23%). The grad-
ually improving performance of social.sector institutions in the execution of
Bank-financed projects, the gradual containment of inflationary pressures,
which should allow relaxation of fiscal restraint, and the increased Bank
lending for infrastructure projects, all point to a higher level of disburse-
ments in the future.  IFC has made investments and underwriting commitments
of US$79.1 million in 26 enterprises and, as of March 31, 1982, it held
US$22.9 million. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, the
IDA credit and IFC investments as of March 31, 1982 and a brief report on the
status of the 36 ongoing projects.
21.       During the past 16 years, Bank lending to Colombia has become more
diversified. While before 1966, 22 loans out of a total of 25 loans made to
Colombia were for power and transport projects, since then, from a total-of
72 loans only 21 have been made to these sectors. In addition, all three
loans for education, 12 of the 14 loans for industry, 14 of the 16 agricul-



tural loans, one loan for nutrition, two loans for urban development and all
nine loans for water supply an  sewerage, were made after 1966.  The diversi-
f cation was indeed a desirable aim as it provided closer contact with
Colombia's development problems.  The experience gained has served to iden-
tify areas in which the Bank's role can only be a marginal one and, thus, to
enable lending to be focussed upon sectors in which the Bank's presence can
have a meaningful impact.
22.        Bank lending to Colombia in FY82 consisted of loans for watershed
management, railways, highways and rural development totalling US$291.3 mil-
lion equivalent.  In addition- to the loan preserted in this report, the FY83
program includes two loans for power generation and one each for small scale                        f
industry and mining. Work is also underway on projects for petroleum
development, oil refining, electric power, agricultural research and exten-
sion and marrketing, fertilizers, water supply and sewerage, and ports for
possible consideration by the Executitve Directors during the next two years.
23.        The proposed Bank lending confoms closely with the Goverment's
development strategy as outlined in the PIN (paragraph 12 through 15).  To
help Colombia develop renewable sources of energy, a sizeable part of the
proposed lending would be for hydropower. The Bank intends to assist in the
development of coal mines which hold potential to help Colombia meet part of
its energy requirements and in diversifying exports. In support of the
Government's objective to increase the supply of domestic petroleum, the Bank
plans to finance further petroleum projects as a complement to investments of
private firms and, for the first time, become involved in projects which
promote the efficient processing of hydrocarbons.  Bank financing in the
energy sector would also assi st in strengthening major institutions and in
mobilizing external finance as most: of the projects would require substantial
cofinancing. Other future loans would finance agriculture and industry to
support the Government in its efforts to raise overall productivity, income
and employment, and to increase and diversify exports.  Closely related to
these objectives would be Bafic lending for infrastructure, including the
Highway Sector Project, presented to the Board earlier this year, that would
facilitate the increasing inter-regional flow of goods and services.  A port
project under preparation is aimed at enabling Colombia to handle larger
volumes of non-traditional exports and the imported inputs on which the
modern sector of its economy relies for expansion.  To permit efficient move-
ment between inland points and the ports of bulk cargo, particularly coal and
agricultural exports, a Seventh Railway Project to reshape and modernize
railway infrastructure was recently approved by the Bank.  Finally, several
loans are being prepared in support of the Government's efforts to help the
lowest 50% of the Colombian population, including the project Lnder consider-
ation today, which is oriented to effecting permanent improvements in  rural
primary education.   Proposed lending for rural electrification, further
rtnral development, agricultural credit, water supply and sewerage, and irri-
gation projects is principally designed to improve the standard of livlng of
the poor.
24.        The operations of extern-al lenders in Colombia are shown in Annex
T9  li ile IBRD, IDB and bilateral. sources provided about 75% of total exter-
nal f inancing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share had decreased
since then to approximately 63% for the 1975-80 period and is expected to
decline further to about 30% of external capital requirements during 1981-



86. Like the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis to projects with a
poverty orientation and has financed projects in low-cost housing, urban and
rural development, agrarian reform, university education, water supply, rural
electrification and land erosion control. In the future, it proposed to
assist Colombia in developing sources of domestic energy and in expanding
productive sector activities to help generate increased employment. USAID
has supported programs in education, rural development and small farm devel-
opment, but is phasing out its program in Colombia. The Government of
Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provi-
ded concessional financing for basic needs and regional integration projects.
PART III - THE RURAL BASIC EDUCATION SUBSECTOR
The Role of Rural Basic Education in Colombia's Development Strategy
25.       Although agriculture contributes 25% of GDP and 27% of total
employment, it generated some two-thirds of merchandise exports in 1980. Yet
the rural population's capacity to adapt to a changing social and economic
environment is severely hindered by its limited literacy, numeracy and other
basic skills, and by its consequent inability to benefit fully from on-the-
job training and agricultural extension programs.
26.        As of 1980, Colombia's rural population (including those living in
villages and small towns of less than 7,000 inhabitants) totalled about 11.0
million people or over 40% of the country's total population. This rural
population is projected to decrease in relative terms to 30% of the total
population at the end of the century but to remain about stable in absolute
numbers. A more productive agricultural sector, and a more skilled rural
population is required under these circumstances. Presently, of the rural
population, about 1.9 million children are enrolled in 27,000 schools and
served by 65,000 teachers. As a percentage of the national total, these
figures are 46%, 76% and 48% respectively. Rural schools, given the dis-
persed nature of the local population and its location in remote and isolated
areas, are usually small (1-2 classrooms). These incomplete schools are
unable to offer the full five-year primary course, often are staffed by
teachers not trained for instructing students of different ages and grades in
the same classroom, and lack teaching/learning materials. As a result, there
is a major imbalance in educational opportunities between urban and rural
schools. The Government's Development Plan for 1979-82 identifies more equal
access to elementary education among income groups and regions, along with
improved quality and relevance of elementary education, as the most important
objective for the education sector. Because of the tight budget constraints
faced by the country, the Development Plan also stresses the need for
increasing the efficiency of the elementary education system.
Issues in Rural Basic Education
27.        The fundamental weaknesses of rural primary education are:  (a) too
few children finish the five-year primary school cycle (retention rates in
1980 were about 14% for rural and 54% for urban schools); (b) most children
learn little while attending school; (c) the needed improvements in
Colombia's rural primary schools are impeded by a weak educational management



- 10 -
system; and (d) resources for primary education are too few and poorly appoi
tioned between investment and .recurrent expenditures.
28.       A.  Completion Rates and Primary School Efficiency.  Too few rural
children acquire full primary education in part because some never enter
school at all. According to the 1973 Census data, 56% of rural children aged
7-9 years old and 26% of the rural cohort aged 10-14 years had never attended
school. The corresponding figures for the urban areas were 32% and 9%.
Presently, it is estimated that about 10% of rural children have no initial
access to primary schools for a variety of reasons. Moreover, over 43% of
the primary schools in rural areas and villages of Colombia do not give the
full five years of primary education, and nearly one-fifth give two years or                   v
fewer. High repetition (22% of first grade enrollment) is the result of the
compound influence of high absence rates in rural areas, inadequate teaching
techniques, and the prevalence of incomplete schools. Finally, dropout rates
are high (about 30% for first graders and half that for second graders),
largely because students who get behind in their school work are not motiva-
ted to stay in school as a result of their poor prospects of passing the
current academic year. In 1980, the combined effect of these factors was
that fewer than one-fifth of rural primary school entrants completed the
five-year cycle.  The urban rate is about three times as high.
29.       B.  Learning Deficiencies. The current curriculum is unsuited to
the conditions of most rural primary schools. As presently designed, the
curriculum presumes the availability of one teacher for each grade of primary
school. Since more than two-thirds of rural primary schools are multigraded
and have only one, two or at most three teachers, it is difficult to carry
out the existing curriculum in most rural areas. In addition, although
Colombia has an estimated excess of 25,000 trained teachers in its urban
areas, several hundred rural primary schools are closed for lack of teach-
ers. Over half of existing rural teachers but less than a quarter of urban
teachers are inadequately trained for their assignments. In terms of educa-
tional materials, two-thirds of rural school children do not have access to
any textbook at all; only 6% have access to more than one book. Financial
hardship prevents most rural primary students from obtaining the learning
materials required by the primary school curriculum. In the absence of
textbooks, the standard teaching method reverts to dictation, copying and
memorization. Moreover, supervision of rural primary schools is ineffec-
tive. Many rural schools are never visited by a supervisor, and those which
are receive at most an inspection visit, rather than technical assistance for
the school's academic program.  Finally, rural primary schools often lack the
basic physical facilities to make them educationally functional, such as
equipment, paper and writing materials, furniture and sanitary facilities
including running water and toilets. Approximately 31% of classrooms are in
need of repair. Perhaps 6% are so dilapidated that they need to be replaced
completely in order to become functional,
30.       C.  Educational Management.  The Colombian educational system is
made up of 23 semi-autonomous departmental educational systems (including ths
Bogota Special District) and the National Ministry of Education. The Presi-
dent appoints the Minister of Education and the Governors of the Depart-
ments. The Governors appoint the Departmental Secretaries of Education, whoc
are responsible only to them. A structural separation between the national
and departmental levels of educational administration is thus assured, a
situation complicated by the heterogeneity of the departments in terms of



- 11 -
ability to finance education, institutional maturity, and size and
distribution of population. With few exceptions, there is no effective
system of educational administration below the departmental level. The
absence of a local administrative framework means that assistance for and
control over schools and teachers outside the departmental capital city, and
especially in remote rural areas, are minimal. Centralization at departmen-
tal levels has also resulted in a lack of mechanisms for the identification
of local problems, for the planning of local solutions, and for the con-
trolled implementation of projects specifically designed to meet particular
local needs.   With few exceptions, the Departmental Secretariats of Educa-
tion have had difficulties in managing a rapidly expanding school system,
particularly at the primary level in rural areas. As a consequence of the
institutional weaknesses of the Secretariats, a complex array of functionally
specialized organizations involved in educational administration has emerged
in the departments, although outside the exclusive control of the departmen-
tal authorities.  Coordination among these agencies is lacking and, conse-
quently, some functions are duplicated. On the other hand, two other areas
of particular importance -- (a) educational performance monitoring, and plan-
ning, and (b) pedagogical supervision of teachers -- are not addressed under
the current educational management setup.
31.       D.  Educational Finances.  Over the last decade 20-25% of total
public expenditure and 2.5-3.0% of GDP has been spent on public education.
Within the sector, only 35% is allocated to primary education, which com-
prises 83% of publicly supported students. Of these public expenditures on
primary education, approximately 98% is for recurrent costs, which in
Colombian usage includes only personnel and materials with less than one year
of expected useful life.  All other expenditures -- including textbooks and
library resources, almost all educational materials, non-salary costs of
teacher training, as well as furniture, equipment and maintenance/construc-
tion of physical plant -- are classified as investment. Consequently, rural
teachers are not supplied with the minimal tools to make them educationally
productive: physical facilities, curricula which lead to pertinent learning
outcomes for children, teaching/learning materials, in-school technical
assistance in pedagogy, and professional upgrading.
Past Government Actions
32.       Successive Governments have sought solutions to the universally
A         recognized failings of rural primary education.  Some of the failings are
difficult to remedy:  the remote and isolated location of the typical rural
primary school; the dispersed nature of the local population; endemic absen-
teeism of the students for economic reasons; and the difficulty of attracting
and retaining acceptably qualified teachers. Others, however are more readi-
ly susceptible to change and improvement. The pressing need to deal with
these problems led to a number of experimental programs during the period
1960-1980. Most significant among these new programs are the Programa de
Experimentacion Curricular and the Programa de la Escuela Nueva. Experimen-
tacion Curricular comprises a package of educational inputs, built around an
improved primary curriculum, designed to improve the quality and content of
teaching in the "complete" or graded schools; Escuela Nueva is designed
specifically to provide a full five-year primary course of pertinent subject
matters for the small rural schools with one to two classrooms and teachers.
Escuela Nueva, comprising the same improved curriculum of Experimentacion
Curricular, uses the technique of multigrade teaching. To enable teachers to



- 12 -
meet the challenge implied by this procedure, a special classroom design has
been developed, based on "resource corners" and simple classroom furniture
calculated to allow groups of students to work on particular assignments to
their grade and stage of progress. Class organization is flexible. Semi-
programmed learning material enables students to work individually or in
groups with only occasional direct help from the teacher. A small library
provides additional resource material for a project approach to learning.
With the assistance of popularly elected student "leaders" in the organiza-
tion and control of learning groups, the teacher is thus able effectively to
handle up to five grades simultaneously. Experimentacion Curricular compri-
ses a new curriculum and the teacher training, materials development and
supervision program necessary to carry it out.  Its goal, as enunciated in                        7
Decrees 1419 and 1816 of 1978, was the introduction and evaluation of a new
curriculum in this type of complete or "graded" school in both rural and
urban areas.  The production of learning/teaching materials, the training of
teachers in the new curriculum, student evaluation and school supervision,
are integral parts of the program.  As of 1981 Escuela Nueva is being applied
in about 1,000 schools and EeentacionCurricla  in another 240 schools
outside the Bogota District.
33.        The Government's Subsector Program for Rural Basic Education is
based on these by now tested educational programs, and aims at extending
their coverage.
Previous Bank Experience
34.        The Bank has previously supported three education projects in
Colombia for a total loan amount of US$35.3 million (Loans 552-CO, completed
in 1974, 678-CO, completed in 1975, and 920-CO, completed in 1982). The
overall objective of all three projects was the diversification of secondary
education. The Bank also assisted educational development in rural Colombia
through a component (US$1.1 million) in its support of the first phase of the
Integrated Rural Development Program (DRI) (Loan 1352-CO, 1977). According
to OED's Project Performance Audit Reports of January and October 1976 for
the first two secondary education projects, implementation experience was
mixed, since these projects took much more time to carry out than originally
estimated. With funding provided in part under the "Diversified Secondary
Curriculum Study" (Research Proposal No. 672-45/DisCuS), a rigorous impact
evaluation of all three education projects is now being conducted by the
Ministry of Education and Instituto SER de Investigacion with guidance from
the Bank's Education Department.  Experience has also revealed, especially
under Loan 920-CO, the importance of (a) providing adequate working capital
to agencies carrying out education projects, given the difficult Colombian
budgetary process, (b) avoiding controversial educational concepts and inputs
whose effectiveness has not been demonstrated and accepted in prior field
trials, and (c) concentrating integrated packages of educational inputs in
judiciously selected areas, instead of spreading individual inputs so thinly
across greater numbers of schools that no impact is achieved.
35.        The Government's Subsector Program is specifically designed to
overcome these problems which have beset education projects in the past.
To speed up project execution, the Fund of the Ministry of Education was
selected as executing agency because of its administrative agility and a
working fund (with Government and Bank contributions) will be established



- 13 -
with sufficient funds to cover six months of investment expenditures. The
educational effectiveness of the concepts to be applied under this program
have been demonstrated during a period of several years' test-ing. There is a
widespread consensus within the country regarding the importance that should
from rural basic education is unlikely. Finally, this first phase will be
concentrated in few geographical areas to maximize its impact and to ensure
that progress can be monitored easily and, should the need arise, corrective
measures can be taken swiftly.
PART IV - THE SUBSECTOR PROGRAM FOR RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
36.       In mid-1980 the Government and the Bank began to prepare a basic
education subsector program to provide high quality, cost effective primary
schooling to children in rural Colombia. As a result of this effort, this
loan was appraised in two stages in September/October 1981 and March 1982. A
report entitled "Colombia - Staff Appraisal Report on a Subsector Program for
Rural Basic Education" (No. 3896-CO, dated July 6, 1982) is being distributed
separately. Annex III contains a timetable of key events in processing of
the loan and a description of the special conditions of the proposed oper-
ation. Negotiations for the proposed loan took place in Washington, D.C.,
from June 28 to July 2, 1982. The Colombian Delegation was led by Dr. Jose
Luis Acero Jordan, Vice Minister of Education and Dr. Lucila Castro, Director
of Public Credit, Ministry of Finance and Public Credit.
Sector Approach and Objectives
37.       The proposed operation has been designed as a subsector loan to
take a comprehensive approach to correcting the shortcomings of rural basic
education and to involve local and departmental educational authorities in
subproject processing. This delegation of responsibility for subproject pro-
cessing to the local and departmental level seems the most realistic approach
to improving rural basic education nationwide, given the size and diversity
of the country and the large number of scattered rural schools. This ap-
proach is feasible because of the kind of manpower available, the detailed
operational manual for subproject processing that has been developed, and the
legal framework that will be established between the national and departmen-
tal levels as reviewed during negotiations (see paragraph 61). In addition,
the subprojects will contain the same standard elements, only in varying
A        mixes and therefore people preparing them are expected to acquire the neces-
sary expertise rapidly. Finally, and most importantly, the Government's
decentralization policy, with its creation of local school districts staffed
by directors without classroom responsibilities, is in direct support of this
approach. These school district directors will be a key to this strategy
since they will be responsible in the first instance, among other things, for
preparing end executing subprojects. Administrative regulations have been
issued establishing qualifications, selection procedures, and functions for
district directors. Together with the in-service training and the organiza-
tional and managerial setup envisaged under this program, which provides for
national and departmental management committees where all the heads of decen-
tralized entities involved in Subsector Program execution would be brought
together, this delegation of first level responsibility for subproject
processing to the local level, under careful supervision of departmental and



- 14 -
national authorities, should constitute a major contribution to strengthen-
ing rural basic education over the longer run.
38.       To Lrprove rural education and overcome the weaknesses described
above, the Cavernment has designed a strategy that seeks to:
(a) increase primary school completion rates, by providing the
full five years of primary education in all rural primary schools by 1991;
and by reducing repetition and drop-out rates, mainly through introducing an
individualized system of student learning and increasing the involvement of
local communities in the education process;
(b) increase learning efficiency in rural schools and improve
student achievements, by providing educational programs more suited to rural
needs and better qualified teachers, and by establishing an effective peda-
gogical support service; and
(c) decentralize and strengthen educational administration by
improving the capacity of the Ministry of Education to plan, carry out, moni-
tor and evaluate educational programs, and by increasing at the regional and
local level the capacity to successfully implement new educational programs.
The Program and Its Implementation System
39.       To carry out its educational strategy for rural areas, the Govern-
ment has developed a delivery system consisting of national and local sub-
projects, reinforcing each other. National subprojects would be carried out
directly by the Ministry of Education, in cooperation with departmental agen-
cies where appropriate. They would cover the provision of furniture, text-
books, administrator training, and monitoring, evaluation, and research ser-
vices. A local subproject is an investment plan to address the aggregated
minimum educational needs of two to five usually contiguous school districts
(involving 20 to 70 rural primary schools and 1,800 to 7,200 pupils). The
school map (see para. 43) is used to determine what each school needs in
terms of specific investments. An investment project is developed which
includes appropriate software and infrastructure. Both capital and incremen-
tal recurrent costs of local subprojects are calculated from norms provided
by the responsible implementation agencies.
40.        Local subprojects would incorporate one or more of the following
educational services or components:  (a)  establishment and operation of
Escuela Nueva (see para. 32); (b) establishment and operation of Experimen-
tacion Curricular (see para. 32); and (c) actions designed to put into
effect the administrative decentralization of the education sector by
strengthening the capacity at all levels for planning, executing, and eva-
luating education projects.
41.       National subprojects would comprise:
(a) Development and printing of textbooks and other educational
materials required for the local sub-projects.
(b) Acquisition of furniture and equipment for the local
sub-projects.



- 15
(c) A program for the training of the education sector planning
staff at the national, departmental and local level.
(d) Development of management information systems for the educa-
tion sector.
(e) Expansion of applied research on education.
(f)  A program to evaluate the impact of the Subsector Program.
(g) A program for the upgrading of about three teacher training
centers (Escuelas Normales Demostrativas) by means of providing facilities
for science teaching and teaching aids production, educational equipment and
courses to rural schools' staff and management on the content and teaching
methods of Escuela Nueva and Experimentacion Curricular, as well as other
educational programs.
Policy Changes
42.       In the course of preparing the Subsector Program and to ensure that
it can be successfully carried out, the Colombian authorities have taken far-
reaching policy decisions. These decisions are contained in a series of
Presidential Decrees of January 1982 and cover:  (a) decentralization of edu-
cational administration, (b) concentration of integrated packages of educa-
tional inputs in carefully selected areas, (c) supply of teachers for rural
service, and (d) establishment of an academic supervision service.
43.       At the heart of the decentralization process as contained in
Decrees 181 and 1234 is the school map, a detailed survey of all existing
educational facilities, and an inventory of needs. This school mapping exer-
cise provides the basis for the establishment of a three-tier system of
school administration in each Department (district directors, supervisors and
zone chiefs, and Departmental Secretariat personnel) and the allocation of
all educational resources. Decree 181 further provides for a fixed personnel
establishment in each school district and places strict limits on the author-
ity of the departmental education authorities to transfer teachers, especial-
ly from rural to urban areas. It also gives incentives to teachers for stay-
ing in rural areas by double counting the time of service in rural schools
for purposes of advancement in the salary scale.
44.       Only one major policy area of concern remains:  the restructuring
of education costs and financing so as to improve the balance between invest-
ment and recurrent expenditures in the whole of the education sector and to
increase resources allocated to primary schooling, given that education's
overall share of public resources is close to the maximum sustainable limit.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that not
later than April 30, 1983, a specially appointed commission would be estab-
lished to study the education sector's costs and financing and that the
conclusions and recommendations of this study would be furnished to the Bank
for its comments by not later than June 30, 1984 (Section 3.02 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement).
Quantification of the Rural Basic Education Subsector Program
45.       Nationwide implementation of this Subsector Program would require



- 16 -
caref ul sequencing, since both financial and managerial resources are
limited. Therefore, the Govermnent intends to carry out this program in
three phases (1982-84, 1985-87 and 1988-91), whereby each subsequent phase
depends on the results of the previous and the availability of resources.
46.        In its initial phase and with the loan here proposed, this program
would be carried otut in three departments; Narino, Cauca and Norte de
Santander (see para. 57 for selection criteria). Concomitantly, under the
auspices of the second phase of the Integrated Rural Development Program
(DRI) financed by IBRD (Loan 2174-CO) and IDB, this program would also be
carried out in three more departments: Huila, Tolima and Magdalena (Map
IBRD 16419).  Educational content and management arrangements would be the
same but selection of school districts would be left to DRI.  Over time, the
rest of the country's departments would gradually be incorporated and all
rural primary schools would be covered.
47.       Following are the physical targets by implementation phase and
their breakdown:
INCREMENTAL PHYSICAL TARGETS BY IMPLEMENTATION PHASE
Phase III
Phase I (1982-84) Phase II (1985-87) (1988-91)  Total
Subsector-           Basic               Basic
Project DRI II2/ Program DRI I2/ Program
Primary Schools
Included in Program    1,650        440       4,620    880    10,285    17,875
Teachers Trained
Under Program (000)        6.1     Ei.6        15.3    2.9       29.8       55.7
Students Incorporated
In Program (000)           113       30         352     67        784      1,346
Textbooks and Manuals
Provided (000)             344       92       1,362    287      3,884      5,969
Student and Teacher Desks
Provided (000)              92       25         259      49       577      1,002
Classrooms Repaired        1,134      302       3,175    605      7,069    12,285
New Classrooms Provided    780        208       2,184    416      4,862      8,450
Incremental Physical Targets for Phase I (Subsector Project
1982        1983       1984      Total
Primary Schools Included in
the Program                              85         490       1,075      1,650
Teachers Trained under Program          1,200       2,400       3,485      6,085
Students Incorporated in Program    16,700         73,000      22,450   112,500
Textbooks and Manuals Provided
(000)                                    57         221          66        344
Student and Teacher Desks Provided
(000)                                    18          65           9         92
Classrooms Repaired                        60         345         729      1,134
New Classrooms Provided                    40         230         510        780
2/   Execution of the education component under DRI will extend over 5 years,
thereby running into the second phase of the Subsector Program.



- 17 -
Cost and Financing of the Subsector Program
48.       Expenditures for the first phase of the Subsector Program for Rural
Basic. Education, including contingencies, are estimated at US$43.1 million
(in March 1982 prices) excluding the amounts allocated to the DRI II educa-
tion component (US$18.3 million). Of this total cost, US$36.2 million (84%)
is for investment and US$6.9 million (16%) for incremental recurrent cost.
The projected incremental recurrent expenditures in 1984 represent less than
1.2% of expected budgetary allocations of the Ministry of Education for pri-
mary education. This small increment is not expected to pose any special
problems for financing. The foreign exchange component of the three-year
program is estimated at US$5.2 million (12% of total costs). Assuming suc-
cess of the first phase and the availability of resources, the implementation
of the 10-year program covering the whole country would require some US$630
million.
49.       A Bank loan of US$15.0 million is proposed to finance the foreign
exchange costs (US$5.0 million) and US$9.8 million or 26% of the local cost.
The proposed loan would thus finance 35% of the total cost of the three-year
first phase of the program. Local expenditure financing is recommended
because of the low foreign exchange content, which is characteristic of rural
education projects. The cost sharing that is being proposed is considered
necessary to give the Bank a meaningful role in this program.
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       Civil Works.  Contracts for construction of new classrooms, the
repair of existing classrooms in poor condition and small library/office/
storage rooms totalling about US$16.7 million would be awarded according to
local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Bank, since the
works are small (less than US$25,000) and scattered. Foreign bidders would
have the opportunity to participate although it is unlikely that the civil
works component of this program would attract their interest. It is esti-
mated that about 50% of civil works generally involving repair work and pro-
vision of water and sanitary facilities would be carried out under force
account with the assistance of the local communities. Construction materials
in these cases would be procured separately on the basis of local competitive
bidding procedures acceptable to the Bank and delivered to the school site.
51.       Goods and Services.  Paper, vehicles and equipment totalling US$1.6
million would be procured through international competitive bidding in accor-
dance with Bank guidelines. Qualifying domestic manufacturers would receive
a preference in bid evaluation of 15% or the import duty, whichever is the
lowest. Contracts for furniture, printing, provision of textbooks and ser-
vices and training, totalling US$17.4 million, would be awarded on the basis
of acceptable local competitive bidding procedures. Given the highly deve-
loped and competitive nature of the Colombian publishing ard furniture indus-
tries, it is unlikely that foreign firms would wish to participate in the
supply of books and furniture. Miscellaneous items of equipment in packages
not exceeding US$20,000 each and in their aggregate US$500,000 would be
purchased from the lowest of a minimum of three price quotes.



- 18 -
52.       Contract Review.  All bidding packages for goods and civil works
estimated to cost over US$300,000 would be subject to prior review by the
Bank.  Such review i's estimated to cover about 10% of the total number and
30% of total value of contracts awarded for works and goods. The nature
of the proje,z makes it unlikely that many big contracts would be let.
53.        In preparation of the launching of this program, apart from the
policy decisions taken, considerable preliminary work has been done and is
underway.  Contracts are about to be let for the hiring of consultants for
setting up the management information system, one of the national
subprojects, and for printing of textbooks and the acquisition of school
furniture.  To cover part of these costs, and not to delay execution of the                   (
program, the Bank would finance retroactively eligible expenditures made
after January 1, 1982, not to exceed US$1,500,000 or 10% of total loan amount
(Schedule 1, paragraph 4(i) of the draft Loan Agreement). The retroactive
financing disbursement percentage would be the same as the overall
disbursement percentage for the project. Also, a working fund would be
established in which the Government and the Bank would advance amounts of up
to US$3.5 million and US$2.5 million respectively (US$1.5 million initially
and US$1.0 million against fulfillment of educational performance criteria).
These amounts would be sufficient to cover about six months of investment
expenditures. Prior to loan effectiveness, the Government would establish
such a working fund (Section 2.03(a) and 7.01(d) of the draft Loan
Agreement). Subsequent disbursements to replenish the fund would be carried
out according to standard Bank procedures, but provided the Government has
approved the release of its share (Section 2.03 (c) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The operation and size of the fund would be reviewed by the
Government and the Bank, and, if required, modifications made (Section 3.04
of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
54.       Disbursements of the Bank loan would be made over a period of four
years, against the following expenditures: (a) 15% of total expenditures for
civil works and construction materials (US$2.3 million); (b) 100% of foreign
expenditures for vehicles, equipment, furniture and textbooks (US$5.5 mil-
lion); and (c) 60% of all other (local) expenditures for furniture; locally
procured equipment and paper; textbook production, printing, and distribu-
tion; training; and technical assistance (US$7.2 million). With the excep-
tion of payments for paper for textbooks and equipment (including vehicles)
procured outside Colombia, all disbursements would be made through the Work-
ing Fund. Disbursements for local contracts less than US$300,000, and for
miscellaneous small local expenditures for goods and services estimated to
cost under the equivalent of US$20,000 would be made against Statements of
Expenditures. All other disbursements would be made against fully-documented
withdrawal requests.
Management and Implementation of the Sub-Sector Program
55.       The Subsector Program would be carried out under the responsibility
of the Fund of the Ministry of Education (FONDO/MEN). FONDO/MEN is a legally
independent entity established by Law "to finance programs of the Ministry of
Education and to increase its operative capacity." The Minister of Education
is its Director and legal representative. FONDO/MEN has minor independent
sources of funds, but derives most of its revenue from transfers from the



- 19 -
national treasury. It was chosen as the program executing agency because of
its administrative agility; it has the authority to manage resources put at
its disposal independently of the-national treasury.   FONDO/MEN is adminis-
tered by a Board of Directors comprising the following officials of the
Ministry of Education: the Vice Minister (under delegation of the Minister),
the Secretary General, the Head of the Sectoral Planning Office, the Head of
the Legal Office, and the Director General for Administrative Services. The
regular staff of the Ministry simultaneously serve as staff of FONDO/MEN.
56.       At the national level, responsibility for carrying out the Sub-
sector Program would be assigned to the Rural Basic Education Subsector
Program Management Committee.  This Management Committee has been created by
Presidential Decree giving the Subsector Program legal status and, inter
alia, defining its management structure. Chaired by the Vice-Minister of
Education who is designated National Director of the Subgector Program in the
enabling legislation, the Management Committee has 10 permanent members,
mostly higher officials of the Ministry and heads of decentralized entities
pertaining to the education sector. Day to day operational responsibility
invested in a specially appointed National Executive Secretary of the
Subsector Program, responsible to the Management Committee.
57.       Selection of Departments and School Districts and Allocation of
Funds. The Ministry of Education has developed a system for ranking depart-
ments in terms of priority for inclusion in the Subsector Program. This
system is based on a number of variables which measure the relative level of
(a) economic development of the department particularly in rural areas; and
(b) rural education needs.  Deviation from this ranking will be made, how-
ever, if a department lacks institutional capacity to carry out the program.
Following identification of participating departments, the Ministry of Educa-
tion has ranked all counties according to an index similar to the one used
for selecting departments. These counties, which form the basic political
administrative units, contain at least one and in rural areas often several
school districts. The allocation of funds between departments for local sub-
projects would be made by the Government in proportion to the scores on the
selection index, weighted by the rural population of the department. Within
the departments these quota, together with available unit cost figures, would
be used to determine the number of feasible subprojects, and thus how many
counties can be included in the program.
58.       Subproject Cycle.  Local subprojects would be prepared and carried
out in the first instance by the school district directors and their Imme-
diate supervisors, under the close supervision and with the technical support
of the departmental and national educational authorities, who share responsi-
bility for appraisal and approval of subprojects.  Subprojects address the
aggregate minimum educational needs of two to five contiguous districts
(involving 20-70 rural primary schools and 1,800-7,000 pupils). Requirements
for teacher training, educational materials, repair or extension of physical
plant, furniture, sanitary facilities, etc., would be specified and costed
and converted into an action program. Each such action program or local
subproject would have to be appraised and approved at the departmental and
national level. In the review process each local subproject would be closely
examined for any deviations from (a) standard norms on unit costs; (b) the
rules specified in the preparation manual for deciding when certain educa-
tional investments are justified -- e.g., replacement rather than repair of a



20 
classroom, addition of a teacher to a school; (c) the optimal size of sub-
projects (two to five school districts); and (d) the geographical contiguity
of school districts in a given subproject.  The manual which codifies the
procedures for preparing and appraising subprojects is satisfactory. On the
basis of it the Government prepared and appraised three subprojects which
were reviewed during negotiations.
59.        On the basis of procedures and criteria described above (para. 57
and 58), the Management Committee, as the highest decision-making body would:
(a) select participating departments and school districts and approve distri-
bution of program resources among them; (b) establish administrative proce-
dures; (c) review and approve each subproject proposal; (d) approve and
periodically review subsector work programs for the Implementing units within
the Ministry; and (e) approve all statements of expenditures under the Sub-
sector Program.  Application of the selection criteria for inclusion of
departments and school districts will ensure that the Subsector Program
attends first to areas of most need and that unproductive geographical dis-
persion of effort will be avoided.
60.       At departmental level, management responsibility would be assigned
to a Departmental Subsector Program Implementation Committee,to be chaired by
the Governor, who would also be designated Departmental Director of the Sub-
sector Program. The Implementation Committee would be assisted by a Depart-
mental Executive Secretariat with three full-time professional positions.
61.        FONDO/MEN and the participating Departments would enter into imple-
menting contracts specifying detailed organizational and operational aspects
and the division of responsibilities between national and departmental autho-
rities. These contracts will have to be satisfactory to the Bank and assu-
rances were received that subsequent to signature no material changes would
be made prior to approval by the Barnk (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). A draft of the standard contract was reviewed and found satisfactory
during appraisal. Signature and coming into force of one implementing con-
tract, as well as appointment of the Departmental Executive Secretary and two
professional staff, in one participating department would be conditions of
effectiveness (Sections 3.03 and 7.01(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment). For each subsequent participating department appointment of the
Departmental Executive Secretary and two professional staff would be a condi-
tion of disbursement against departmental subprojects (Section 3.03 and Sche-
dule 1, para. 4(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
62.       At the local level, responsibility for planning and executing the
Subsector Program would be assigned to the school district director. He
would be assisted by two standing committees to be established when the
school district is created: (a) a Consultative Committee of heads of commu-
nity organizations and (b) an Operations Committee of directors or head tea-
chers of constituent schools.  Officials of the departmental and national
level would be responsible for assuring that Subsector Program activities are
synchronized in the districts whose needs are addressed in a single subpro-
ject. During negotiations assurances have been received that no changes
would be made in the legislation covering this program that would adversely
affect its execution, and that the manual for subproject generation and the
staffing patterns and management setup would not be amended without the
Bank's concurrence (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 21 -
63.       Manpower  Requirements.  The Government's objective in staffing the
Subsector Program has been to use current staff more effectively. The crea-
tion of new positions would be avoided as far as possible. Any such posi-
tions (e.g., district directors, zone chiefs, supervisors) would be staffed
preferentially with excess personnel drawn from elsewhere within the educa-
tion sector. Provisions have been made for the retraining of existing staff
for their new positions and functions. It is envisaged that under the first
phase of this program some 6,000 teachers would undergo in-service training
to familiarize them with the educational concepts to be used. In addition,
about 1,200 administrators at all levels would be trained.
64.       The Bank's supervisory effort would concentrate on a semi-annual
joint review with the Management Committee of subsector policy development,
procedures for subproject generation and implementation, and compliance of
approved subprojects with agreed criteria. In addition, Bank supervision
would entail a field visit to at least one participating Department on each
mission to assess, in company with Management Committee representatives,
the functioning of the Implementation Committee and local level execution
agencies.
65.       Because local level subprojects would vary only to the extent of
differing mixes of standard components and because only the exceptional sub-
project would exceed US$1.0 million in total investment expenditures, prior
approval by the Bank of local subprojects would be limited to the first three
subprojects and to those whose capital cost component in constant terms
exceeds Col$45 million (roughly US$740,000 at current exchange rates). Under
these criteria, it is estimated that about 20% of local subprojects following
the first three, would undergo prior review by the Bank. The Bank would, in
addition, conduct an ex post review of the appraisal and approval process for
one-third of the remaining local subprojects and all national subprojects in
the first phase.
Benefits
66.       The subsector project supports the Government's strategy to provide
basic education of appropriate quality to the school-aged rural popuilation.
The revised policies for educational subproject preparation and execution and
teacher training, retention and utilization will reduce urban-rural dispari-
ties in educational opportunity and raise the efficiency of the rural school
system. The revised policies for student evaluation and advancement will
lead to lower repetition and dropout rates. The new curricula, instructional
materials, and related staff upgrading will improve student learning and
ultimately would result in increased labor productivity and higher incomes.
67.       In quantitative terms, the enrollment rate in the areas of primary
schools covered under this first phase program, now 78%, would increase to
over 90% by 1990. The overall efficiency of the participating rural primary
schools, defined as the ratio of the number of student years of educational
services which should ideally be necessary to produce a primary graduate to
the number actually invested to produce a graduate would be expected to
double between 1980 and 1990. At present, in these rural schools 21 student-
years of service have to be provided to produce a single graduate of the
five-year cycle, while in the future fewer than ten will be necessary. In



- 22 -
financial terms, this reduction in wahtage (lower drop out and repetit-ion
rates) should lower the costs of a rural primary school graduate; fron
US$1,700 to US$700 in 1980 US dollars.  Extrapolating this figure to the
whole rural pr4mary school population, the opportunity costs of not implemen-
ting the 10-year Subsector Program would exceed US$120 million annually by
the end of the decade.
Risks
68.       The proposed subsector operation is a complex and innovative
approach to rural education in Colombia. The project focuses on the intro-
duction of revised policies and management practices.  The exact outcome of
these reforms, which may require further modification on the basis of expe-
rience, cannot be accurately predicted. In addition, the project entails
preparing and executing numerous subprojects with a maximum of responsibility
at the local level. These features are new. Consequently, in the short run,
the proposed subsector loan faces the risk associated with the normal resis-
tance to change on the part of officials in charge of carrying out the
reform. This risk has been minimized by the establishment of coordinating
mechanisms at all levels, whereby, in a departure fram past practice, the
people and organizational units responsible for implementation of sub-
projects would be fully involved and therefore are more likely to understand
and support the program. In the longer run, the expansion of this subsector
project to cover the whole country faces additional financial risks.
However, the resources required for the 10-year Subsector Program are not
beyond the country's financial capability.
69.       On balance, the potential benefits of the project are substantially
greater than the risks that accompany it, especially since it has been
designed as a geographically limited high impact operation which would stand
on its own if for any reason the Subsector Program were later to be
abandoned.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and FONDO/MEN, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank, and the
report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
71.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
72.       Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) signature and coming into force of at least one implementing
contract, acceptable to the Bank, between the Ministry of
Education and a participating department, and appointment of
the Departmental Executive Secretary and two professional
staff in at least one department for which an implementation
contract has come into force (para. 61);



- 23 -
(b) opening of the Special Account (para. 53).
73.       A condition of disbursement for subprojects in each department
would be appointment of the Executive Secretary and two professional staff
(para. 61).
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
July 8, 1982



Annex I
-24-                                           Page'l of 5
*COLOMBXA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLCMBIA                     REFRENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE4GES
ALE&   THOUSAND 50OTEEINT- MOST RECENT ESTIMATEY-
TOTAL            113B.IF9                                h MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCtE             HIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      356.0               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (0$)                   260.0        430.0    1180.0                    1902.0                    2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS- '0 CAL EQIVALET)        494.4        637.9      913.6                   1259.9                    2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATTiON, MiD-YEA THOADS) 15754.0           21266.0   26670.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 48.2          39.8       70.2                     65.7                      47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        39.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          60.2
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS RACNED'                   2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                        13.8         18.7      22.9                      35.2                      83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      44.9         60.7       73.4                     92.5                     155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          46.8         46.2       36.7                     39.7                      31.1
15-64 YRS.                          50.3         51.1      60.0                      56.1                      61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.9          2.8       3.3                       4.2                       7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.1          3.0        2.3                      2.4                       1,6
URBAN                               5.7          3.2        3.9                      3.8                       3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      4S.7         36.0      30,0                      31.4                      23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      13.6          9.7        7.9                      8.4                       9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.3          2.6        1.9                      2.1                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       115.4     142.1/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARIED WOMEN)    ..             .       46.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEiXOP FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          100.0         99.0     124.0                     110.0                     116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    97.7         89.1      97.5/c                   108.4                     12S.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           53.7         47.5      49.17c                    66.0                      92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        27.8         24.2      24.972                    34.0                      35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) ORTILl'IY RATE      11.2          6.0        3.7                      5.6                       9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    53.1          58.9       62.8                     64.2                      67.6
INFANT HORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            93.4         70.6       56.4                     64.2                      65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE'WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              30.0/d       63.0      64.0/e                    65.6
URBAN                              54.97i       88.0      73.0/                     78.9
RURAL                               6.72d       28.0      46.0/i                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         47.0      44.4/e                    59.3
URBAN                                           75.0      60.Oi                    75.3
RURAL                                ..          8.0      14.0/e                    30.0                        ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           2638.9       2189.5    1966.7/c                  1617.3                    1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4220.4/f    1486.1    1252.6/i                   1063.5                     634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             36Z.9        449.4     619.11c                   477.4                     286.8
URBAN                                 ..       377.5     542.0/i                   679.8                     192.0
RURAL                                 .            .         .                    1903.4
ADItISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         22.9      29.8/c                    27.3                      20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..           7
URBAN                                ..          3.5         ..
RURAL                                         ' 5.9i*
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           8
URBAN                                 .1. .6/
RURAL                                 ..         2.4/.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              47.0/d       58.1/B
URSAN                              83 . 07o     87.          .. * *'
RURAL                               8. O7E      13.27        .



- 25 -         .                                     Annex I
Page-2 of 5
COLOMBIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
COLOMBIA                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA91S
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   ' 1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATION
.   ADJUS'TED ENROlL4ENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 77.0       103.0      128.0                    104.3                     102.9
MALE                 77.0        101.0     127.0                    106.4                      107.1
FEMALE               77.0        105.0     129.0                    103.3                       99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 12.0        24.0       46.0                     41.3                      60.2
MALE                  13.0        24.0      46.0                     40.4                       66.4
FEMALE                11.0        24.0      47.0                      41.8                     54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY) 30.8/h        20.2       21.6/c                   33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            37.6        38.2       32.3                     29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                          10.9        17.2       20.8                     16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        63.0        80.8/j       .,                     79.1                      75.9
CONSUMPTION
FASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          5.7        11.2       18.1/c                   42.8                      51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        125.1       104.3      115.0                    270.5                     157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          9.5        38.1       76.6                    107.7                     123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  50.0           ..      48.7                     63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..       2.9                      2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      4726.5      6353.4    9006.8
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   19.2        24.8       24.7                     24.4                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              51.4        37.9       25.8                     31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.2        21.0       21.2                     23.9                      25.S
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.0        29.9       33.8                     33.6                      44.5
MALE                                 48.8        45.1       50.8                     50.4                      56.3
FEMALE                               11.5        14.8       16.7                     16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.7          1.6       1.2                      1.3                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   41.2/d,i    31.9/i
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  67.77dZ£    60. 17 r
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    2.1 d i      3.57i
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6. 87i      10.17        .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLtUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
tRBAN                                ..           ..     214.0/c
RURAL                                ..           ..     197.0/E                  184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
6                       LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     267..0/c                 518.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     122.0/I                  371.1                     406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      34.O/c                     .
RURAL                                ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977;  /d 1964; /e 1976; /f 1962; /_ 1973;  /h Including teacher training at the third level;
/i Economically active population.
May, 1982



A kq  T~~~~~~~~R20T100 Id*0
4R6%,0                                                                 600,10J   202  (  011   01,001-000   0*421 T:1000
-T:,, T.- 111,1~~~~~dd!!d                       00101A*00-  O1
RI 'no.dS; 0 010--   q1 9*-4    (Ti-- P00 -00q4   10T021) -Id-'1 (  -090"
- TTI100'oln   001 -101 01104  C    0.44'10000 170040 I'll,       :0
8znT,-,I,,    dd-  TI-   1-1  --T-T~dd  -1-4 - T ...T,-  11~ -1-1 -1  1" -A-q-                                 090T  00 AT-7  1T-  R2
P-.4-303   -i4  2)Td  00000 9Sn  000    ---101  4-- 00RATp0 ITl  TOO-SI1            0040000A0000500               1700) 0 -       O-  PTIId-  050T0002 Ald
1800: *'TI 001: P000450 ST 1000T 0004T  ':12000: 090 ~o 80000                   IRA 0401(00004204  .... A:  001o~ ITI-   W0TTI *- 4           Id...  A05010.,
- *on   0005040     100000 24 001   lon001   .111.000s1-I  o9  900001201            .510    pO00JU 0*o£ T02   -1005000 -- u61) 500  OTiOO !4TOSIO
'01-01  10-0d         - -0     -   ...om001104l4 AT*  50   SOIOSI Ulj0                               -;T1110  Sl  I0 ---54 40 A009-  00151-   - (I 1.051   1 T'l   0 050 101
'R0T01-000  Id                            .-P 0661 P00 OL6T *1961 !SOTOOT 0:1001POT*iRPTT
1   A91:4  9521-03  - (PldTA  2  00  01 lT4(1(  RO    -ISITTI4 00152 .....                01 PA .. dO1 IRI .99 1'0'MITI - (TR-S"1T1T)54 I%          TiOO (IV1,   Rf,) P.. 1
K01111100110]( 00M1(1        TIOT 0061 P., 061 's91961  1109 058 50AS 01  *50   P_0 0108T _ R; PR_0
'50003 -0-10  TROSO *90 02                                             _T09 1101 900 0461     9 '(-196T11OTS90P1
A    V- IS  09 P-0 CT TR900  M015TdddOl;  OTTOs    0101  0 0400  ,,000001                   p,Tq1004 0   .1 0v04 09 p-d-0(1044  'P1400 09   TOT2.-   d00 RISo 0T0
0  '9*11*01  100  90  *00T0180_50_  00J        -    A40000  0-RI SII-OT0             -P00002 '1034T00   (  10450000  1109  'U41S4  30.
SiT4 010410100  S0'1  009R0~  0000001   Rlp 061  (0  '061  091  9i SOTO 1  1040~(  00ASPTO£11104  TTT-              (0  SOI Id40000S011
100T000 00,3010 020110*  010000Td     00   18'00   0  00010 0I11   o   0:4 IdSO  0 901-11010--*040002 R,                                           10 101 0-0. 0:1
R-I  -,di 4090   1 I     920j V*10  12q   05 -   -00,000 04  SO-S                          P-- T,O'.0   Id(1    --a POOTO V.. Ap00  0d  T110d0 TO. AS.  -S  01 10.  4(0403 TT
T.010T0100-SSR   900_'310   M,00  -    _ II- (0.40    0,00104000£).  :04 0Ad   PI-TO: 00T04  -q 20j'1  " R.   0O 0I-  II 11100  00120 III
0009 0961 900 0061'- '0961                                 T Pdd;1ST00  902 I- 001  1-P1961 P--;S   PIO1A  S
'I'5l0 409l01    -   Rd02JO50T5144T-  00  00 STO 0-1201P90                               T  000   ,110044  1 ITAOS90  '010140   J   0dd(l4Ol  08I0
pm  9100 T 'o5To1-  *0090  21 TO  TOOO' P      -       AT280    -T01001              -U0f60           *01--dT5  01 $*00T01 90Pd   o*ojd90   1900.1100
50400Toot  blOT30.6200004 IS0000 .100 S4-(0002  011004nA       I-                      43900   'PO   1110 Pq      0                     881003 10    2020   0*001  005 P.,TOOS
.,.P 096T P_            '0109 -01.090 I0d  '0*6   1T3(1TO00  10T 551 T-00000T*1T-.kd-    . '01( 008  11001004q0 p010.0191I  .1-0                             0 
040 0*12000  SOOTTRA 03 ST3OO   -00T0                  I ..i.O0010100 -03IT-I- -,- 0110040    MI IOTP 0T 01-01-I  00018400 900  200  -0 P01:06 
''0'SOPT3'510000AId10   00P40000  0   000  9*0SO;9110  -(T0.0105 0d0200   0400  :  140   000   0
OTIPOIIT  *000550 O0TTO :11 -10000-0 T  (9009TT   004  O1' RT   T-a                 '015  096  1(00; '00T 1 '09191  11-0   0Td4 -001(:4 00000  1000110
0061 v-UL61  Dn -1    01000 0019                   00  000S0  04000-  (100  10-p         d 00-I001  0,0810   1T09T1000 000P 55
-11 --I-- ... I-R   PT  '--S- TTI 31      IT~d.d BITS                    00010:-..  A.5) 8    T1001 -T00  0020  900 0191  S--;  -T  (-4,00T-   b 0'M--
"T"  I. 1--I-..q  .TV.7-    -q        T I P    .....* I 0           0000000  '0') *00014211  00000" Id0T0 -               .1150(17. 41T-00 -0-  --
5*00- 0o004  0   00019013910   4,00 5-(0T101009 ---S S091n  011                          I0 Po 900  P_o SPISO   S07910094 !         '501I"19      90             T-IT0 0000 :00
10 1500004001 0  0500  - 4010.0  1(100  000*0009*0(1 1000090001:    10000  01140 0040 0091 - (01.10696-)02100  000R 011000,0TP1..0  11(I
'9250 0 0010 TOOJ00001 00  TOaOO- 1Tq0 Pk0---0(1 02                                                                  0211100A00  00
P140910000 51 II   SoOO TSTS0SOI 8.9000004 02 £po4;:8 9000059'T  OO1TTIQ....O£            I.      -   AMdA-.JIP .                        "    ..AI       .
T00190T04 00   900319  ,:.400ooO  000819  102001 1110   10011T,,'040000000  *1000 0I 145011
-£1  00400090SOOO-  0010100   90102(  00)o*,,7t1'~V0Wl0¶         0S2100   0100.9101 R0  090P- -5408                  -       P-01  pi0*4I(.T1000  *00
S0S000T54 41q 9000010 R09000    A01.100490000d   00801    1005009T1                     004300  0010001 Pd   IRVI 10010(  00014000R6j     0090  P00-009101100-901 ;       pJO
020S1 N0 r :;  44104  . A-3 1000S10         09009 IT   VITO   1                  0:0.000   5o    000      .90000    000    1T00     0001440
PR."    ~~ -T II   --   O.      '10100001   90903109 ",dAR;      150'60   00'01  0610  119  010-00.2-41   :100000 d11
0000  20   00000T3 041  3( -101000   900000 1  40 d)   I T..0;090                               00-304 -00(06 o.Wl OT(-P  100000) T- 10S01TT  *                     10   94
08111(134 ASP01110                                01p 0061 POO'0201 '0- 6  10011010400
0800041(103003  09000  1000041011 091  00  3100.0.0:             38-90  0 100000040  -T 111(1           . ...1.. ... A- 100009 I0T *0000  94
0000  010*0  0001000001-  0020100  900A0103) .0...AS25                                                                   0-001  90'0-091  09011 4)  0020
R                                                dZu:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01401091  .84OS1O00S0 T     100Ty.RSOT     AS90  -9 (....80  000T(*23  000
dyA  A..A dl P.. R.,                                               A..q~~~~~~~~~~~~0-06  90 0-001'0-06  001 0010100  £.1.'
'000 90T 000  01-". 900  P-10140  210d  10101 T0 .... A           0 0                 90  011 3  000.(1004 000    -              F10000      P--000  010 497103 0011010004
10:10 90  950  02  390  01109 RSTOI'1 -(000T00  000  100020 0ii 1(091pi                                                '00R1190'01'91010
01801I039000000'*44  00191  00001100S4 8  (000-0  80001p 091PSIT   d9'048 d99
M, 0  180900  J  5000149900  0104*  049000  900 44014                                   -A11 01. 3039000 '1000  91'01 004110 T RA- (0101100010 01101P010
Id90100  01009010. 1000RS-  £0300   0  '404 - (..M d       -0300 .99000-                                                                P- '009  16  9006 '09 015 Ad01..40
'000110000001  040900000 JO 02200089 0030 8100.         ---d --q 0901100110101  453   0 T 50 -0100*  _  9_001        ...V201-8 '00  AS £04
-90490   50T80001*000000  01040'11T0001'5009*T09100'000601  00001'061 A040100
0010000   10*0100 g  - "S. 0900000  30T00000 0.IIn11040    00010000                -PT  T100001  0011q-B  -- 0-2001(10006   400 00320     .40  4 091- 0           T0,4-
(.27- P    P... -   Tq.) -T-" -3 .. 3'90901000I                                                                                           1115(.."P  1 P03101T000
011800000 510 SOOT00O *00890004000400'.000 1001004 11 01 01 JO    .... 11oo30.OT-                              .  -.  - -           '9090004.(1 111  SOlO  9
8144   I PT 4041*1  0100: p   I  410S A 0 '10100500  'T-040008_ 00204                      0100    4400110.  80A  3I0010 -F90.000  01 00--           1000  000102  400
100310000801 0400114 90.0180 (0 04.01 000; 10011 200010601 00100,090                                                     '10111 100
M:09010 T 000*  00"2  T50000  - *10000d 90. 0130 '010  - 10(004900(                          "01m:£  00   ,114;  00309600040090   09(01*00
'to  0008  0110009  309   0  019  0  5144  00  003-00-0I0 T-   J  5121001400  000(4  01  0  1100T (0  0  02T                            15
000014 10190000 100150-T0'00  A.M.---9  1flS1061   011005001  0010'00   ,03.10 ..f   '4000P..3001.,000J
T10  00    --:10000910 -ISO     000100040  0Ii-10T.... T4*-400100100   00004  100119T 10-0b10  90001000T 51 01022  '00N10000 P-1
01003  00  10  '12028001    01301090SI  '1102- 1060 00014                 081  (1004  00010031 0100044 1000000  001- 0010100  1:00102
AIT-----g                       j. .-A ~~~S1000      Z 000100  9810(9-                                        '00440  00...0 I003901                 1110* T. 0..
~~d   -:d, 1-1 ..... 1:7               -T-2                0100           131040 J  501p01-0.1A03  0009  10              1(10180  001             -I4000   (100
:-, I   :, A,     I       I R. ~      ~     ~     ~ ~~ '000010   01018400110  90100   000   2  090000112.
.dI   M  L.1- oOd3JS00109100   8  'ROf  100  J                                              100109310(000001019   *0   01   O4  21130  0  300
001044008810  111   3£00413  0*100 OlTITaP 1001100100                                   .0004-'.1  '..04 AIT4 20 90301110901           ' 0001400P 0011 010000  090  '18
-  040  0  T0090  'M0001- 0S101-1009  -0T000400   d0114001   1SOT                     10000101100d I1000410000             0.-000001 91410*  0 040120  3111 10T-
001 P--   4- Z-IT--        T_-T'0104T    90161000                    000    IIOTO  0092dO 01,           001*  40110100  0031200800T012004
9008*00000  oo0040*.o89120 OOI(0    13000000   'bolToo                    '50*0  _1118   0   Jn4000190  0   0   1    90100    50
.-T01 ...0000'9014000   10009.     04  11-'I-.;T  -I004100.00348 0P01  0 900(1.01..0010000  8011*1,0-A404 080000 ;- ~TdAIU'1O1li
.oo 9 P-$-02  - 10200' 900 '00'9T-"                                     IR-0 '1-0PA101 - 000 200A02*0(0 1900  000400                                   000100001    .T-0020
_'I --Id .-RA-RA- I .       '00004004 q 1S.111402  TOO 910900000.090                                                   '0009 4I.p 9,00 '09   '091  003410000 0000
00T00000 P09 100 0*040 1000901 -10 P09*0 07   '5-100  01019:9000  JO1 101 190.00 T.0  T*000  80051000  I0*4 .0301019 
.10104 90.0 '0(110 '10000    (910900009 00 P0000001 0396T 009 JTT?0320001V0-  dPlO
01009               06  90'061'091M AI1T0' 3*I09 - (0-09900(-01 0001- -1- '001Id10204100
-.-.;- %"-IdATTRR A--d - TIA- R-M010130'91 001- 0*0119'1080
0.0401009 00 00  001*S109  00 .00900 1000   T--A9*1000   *  50130I 2(( Id02S-FIT-     T-T-                                   .    PT   AAI        -        d    .
'310   4900  39  99000  101010099011314    'i452  0                            600 T9  '006:09d S -A-1,110040   010160I    JO1 804011  01 ('11...I
'310108009  000001100400140 01101 0.901001510038T0(100(140 8004041I            10001  J1  P4*00  T 104.   JORd 000000 L1000(5-  01119  000- d014011-01  10
011109090(111 '*02000 - P10114500 . 0000    '99010  000000040 103                  -100014   090  00001  0  000dd1 P2 n0 :0   *      ll   041   1   0
901002  401000000  0000001 _90*5 04 T01001000   '40100 P*111111*50              'OS   01bOS;810   00099   001   0  0005P-                     "IS IOSO  'd-0  001
000(1 1204009JO 4010(0 00100400410(14  9 9001I  141000'010                     SoId11800   *11  0   0090   (01140*0  004`000- 40   .102-   WO
'1*001   0111000  -  500  000'0040  1020 -T01 l210  9  84T0100000                                                                                  ('160   8o.Io,11 
-qA,  (pIq..m J"  so-d) PIqv_o'0001l*04;4                                                          4000  52030500   50  200191  0
0000100 090  01000000 03  0(00~ 1300  20 00104000   0fl  '009000  01 1000010(1 *002 000380000 003403: 000(00P040000 6T.0m0   10001r'0000-010P  01 90
021900  010(1*100  00  00  90089  000019) 01 0800  011*01  JO00080000920109  '000190   009  00100  80  0*00    03  0 M0"00  09  JO11000*
RI40000in4  900 0040190 -001 40J 30       O010   9210   00000   0   oOOO0100940105J100*   (01IIO    S100
0010010 J  000009  0009     T.. J.099090   0119900-80013990.50T   *010*300000010    010  91.AOO   0001-4102  1(90-(P 0
004   40000009  3000000  019,0**0   *1 40040 1400000 0 (5) 000 ... ):              61420000 015(9T  092, t30  04101.0 -            9  (11 00I  040040.3.00401*1
A,y . IRS  -  I..p-  p-.1   '503420000.   *0A8d   1*0411  40(00T-    018000          T.010*004  - 900 '990     - 0000901  0900010  ..O *101  0400000  0    IT03'80(0-
-0(1d00 '300 009   .   '300  09T1 1000001100 01090000  0040119(1 T805430 ..                        000010 A3IRd08Id 0-1  0 1001 T092I -0000500  01ad100000 411000320
'43001 ..I09 000-T; 402  09   0100    01 9I9d01'09110002101090-                               00  629091  110I0  00P0  00  00..00009  00  *020    000
-IS-            I.-" .; 4o  £I   ';-T-'-   -3-                                 0 T 101P 1111 10300 8  1U114
R 'A U\)                                                                               9Z -dIA  y -.d2   .- p  WA    (Iq0-i iRRI    mVImd.X`d                     -q;1"



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                            Page 4 of 5
Population: 26,670,000 (mid-1980)
GNP Per Capita: US$1,180 a/
Amount                  Average Annual Increase (7.)         Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)
Indicator                                                 (aMil'lion USS               (at constant 1970 prices)                 (at current prices)
at current prices)
1980 b/                 1960-70   1970-75   1975-80         1960        1970       1975       1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product c/                                         32,686                      5.3        6.1          5.8       100.0    100.0        100.0    100.0
Agriculture                                                      8,197                     3.5         5.2         4.0         34.1      28.6        29.3      25.2
Industry                                                         8,799                     6.2         6.1         4.4         25.7      26.6        28.3      29.2
Services                                                        12,559                     5.9         7.3          6,4        40.2      44.8       42.4       45.6
Consumption                                                       24,435                      5.9        6.6          5.6        79.4      69.6        81.6      74.7
Gross Investment                                                   7,994                      5.1        0.6          8.5        20.5       22.0       17.8      24.4
Exports of goods and NFS                                           5,648                      3.1        5.9         10.0        15.6       14.2       15.1      17.4
*                   ImportS of goods and NFS                                            5,391                     4.3         1.1        12.7         15.5      15.8        14.5      16.5
Gross national savings                                             8,103                      5.2         5.3        10.8        19.4       18.0       16.8      24.8
Composition of Merchandise Trade
(at current prices)
1960    1970        1975      1980
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise Exports (FOB)                                          4,428                      3.3        1.4         10.8       100.0    100.0        100.0    100.0
Major primary                                                    2,871                     2.8        -4.6        12.8         72.5      69.4        51.2      64.8
Major manufactures                                                 686                       -        23.8          6.5          -        9.0        24.5      15.5
Other                                                              871                       -         3.8          5.4          -       21.6        24.3      19.7
Merchandise Imports (CIF)                                          4.533                      3.5       -2.3          9.0       100.0    100.0        100.0    100.0
Food                                                               364                    10.0        -0.1        13.4          2.4       4.5         4.8       8.0
Petroleum                                                          750                   -21.4        70.6        43.5          2.0        -          2.0      16.5
Machinery and equipment                                          1,750                      5.2       -8.5        11.0         42.7      50.6        36.4      38.6
Other                                                            1,669                     1.8         2.4          5.4        52.9      44.9        56.8      36.9
1974        1975        1976       1977        1978       1979      1980  b/
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE
GDP deflator                                                             27.6         20.8       23.6        28.3       17.1        23.9      24.5
Exchange rate                                                            27.1         31.2       35.0        36.9       39.3       42.6       47.3
Export price index                                                      155.4        159.7      214.5       303.6      260.2      262.2    294.9
Import price index                                                      210.3       217.3       233.5      254.3       202.0      220.6     252.2
Terms of trade index                                                     73.9         73.5       91.9      119.4       128.8      118.8    117.0
As 7 of GDP
(at current prices)
1970          1975          1980 f/
PUBLIC FINANCE d/
Current revenue                                                                                  10.6           11.1          12.1
Current expenditure                                                                               5.7            6.6           8.2
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                                                        4.9            4.5           3.9
Capital expenditure                                                                               1.8            4.6           4.6
Foreign financing ei                                                                              3.3            2.9           3.2
1960-70      1970-75        1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (U)                                                                               5.10          6.30          6.00
GNP per capita growth rate (B)                                                                    2.00          3.90          3.7D
Energy consumption growth rate (%)                                                                5.00          4,00          4.00
ICOR E7                                                                                           3.54          3.43         4.00
Marginal savings rate h/                                                                          0.13          0,13          0.16
Import elasticity                                                                                 1.17          0,16          2.20
a/  World Bank Atlas Method.
b/  Estimated.
c/  At market prices:  Components are expressed at factor cost and will not add because of exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
;i/  Central Government.
e/ Gross disbursements of external loans to the entire public sector.
f/ Includes Social Security and Fondo Vial.
,/ Lagged one year.
hi  Increment to gross domestic savings/increment to gross domestic product.
November 11, 1981



P.$. s of S
BALANCE OF PAYtENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
o'opolation         26,670.000 (mid-1980)
GNS  Per Capitta   USS1180  ./ (1980)                                                                               (million US  at --t price.)
Act..l                                                                           Projected
1974         1975         1976          1977         1978          1979          1980 b/         19d1          1982         1983          1984          1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export. of goods  nd non-fctor aervicee                                    1000         2165          2782          3404         4059          4910         5327            4932          5660          6367          7323         8193
Imp to of good. and  on-fsctor servicee                                    1149         2030          2302          2730         3722         4191          5376            6361          7369          8401          9446        10415
Reaoorc.  Balan..                                                              -149         -135          480           674          337           719           -49           -1429        -1709         -2034         -2123         -2222
Not fact=  payment.                                                        -180          -263         -279          -231         -2-47           1$7        -17-2                         -143            -1          -175          .319
Net unrequired transfer.                                                     27            48           21            16            7             4            26              35           40            45            S0            45
Current Account Balance                                                       -302           -80           222          455           97           596          -195           -1063        -1526         -1990         -2248         .2496
Net direct foreign investarot                                                    39           32            14           43            56          124           234             150           175           300          450           600
Medioa and long term  looa (oat)                                               202          308           131          192            72          703           838             713           951         1240          1448          1596
to public sector                                                            (160)         (254)        (109)         (195)         (92)         (603)        (781)            (691)        (912)        (1164)        (1335)       (1463)
to private sector                                                            (42)          (54)         (22)          (-3)        (-20)         (100)          (57)            (22)          (39)         (76)         (113)         (133)
Other capital                                                                    55         -121           195          162          391          -158           264              -             -             -
Capital Account Balance                                                        296           219           340          397          519           669          1336             863          1126         1540          1898          2196
Change in Reserves (- - increse)                                                  6         -139          -562         -852         -616         -1265         -1141             200           400          450           350           300
Interoational Reserve. (official)                                               152          547         1166          1830         2482          4106          5416            5216         4816          4366          4016          3716
R..srve .  mo-nth  of importo                                                   1.6          3.2           6.1          8.0          8.0          11.8          12.1             9.8           7.8          6.2           5.1 '         4.3
0RO6S DISBURSEMlENTS S/
OfficIal grant.
Cros.  diobursaments of IILT loanm                                           235           390          262           371          319          1036          1131
Conces.ional                                                                 102            39           47            27           60            36            53
Bilaterat                                                                  (100)          (37)         (44)          (21)         (53)          (28)          (16)
Other 1.Ittllteral                                                           (2)           (2)          (3)           (6)          (7)           (a)          (37)
Non-concesetonal                                                             133           351          215           345          260          1000         1078
Official export credits                                                     (26)          (14)         (0)           (14)         (19)          (47)        (113)
IBRD                                                                        (58)         (106)         (76)          (85)         (82)         (138)        (218)
Other oultilateral                                                          (14)          (19)         (27)          (31)         (33)          (31)          (82)
Private                                                                     (35)         (212)        (112)         (214)        (125)         (783)        (665)
EXTERNAL DEBT (and of pariod) c/
Debt outstanding and diobhroed                                              1249          2348         2453          2670         2803          3426         4295
Offiolal                                                                   1074          1716         1785          1862         1999          2151         2446                                                                 i
IBRD                                                                     (354)        (634)         (672)        (716)         (751)        (838)        (1035)
IDA                                                                       (20)         (22)          (22)         (22)          (22)         (22)          (21)
Other                                                                    (700)       (1060)        (1019)       (1124)        (1225)       (1291)        (1390)
Private                                                                   174          632           668          608          804          1275          1849
Vmdi.burs.d Debt                                                             602           663          909          1040         1516          1993         2409
DEBT SERVICE S/
Total debt servica payn..ta of which                                        119           249          278           313          398           664           568
I'tereat                                                                   44          114           125          137           171          231           268
Payantt aas 2 exports of goods and
Ill Services                                                             11.6         11.1           9.5          8.8           9.5         12.5           9.9
Payments a. 2 GNP                                                           1.7           1.9          1.9           1.6          1.9           2.4           1.7
Averoge itareat rate on nev loan.  (7.)                                     5.8           7.4          6.5           7.4          7.9          10.3          10.2
Official                                                                   (5.1)         (6.1)        (5.8)         (7.3)        (7.6)         (7.8)          (-)
Private                                                                    (6.9)         (8.2)        (7.5)        (7.6)         (8.6)        (12.0)       (12.3)
Average mst-rity of  n- loana (yeara)                                       22.4          15.1         14.8          16.0         14.1          12.6          13.7
Official                                                                  (30.1)       (26.1)        (20.0)       (17.9)        (16.2)        (16.8)          (-)
Private                                                                    (9.7)        (8.2)         (7.4)         (7.6)        (9.1)       (10.0)        (10.2)
BAXK GROUP EXPOSURE (%) SI
1BRD 00/total DOD                                                           28.4         27.0          27.4          26.8         26.8          24.5         24.1
IBRID diab.ra-erts/total grosh diaburaeo.to                                 24.6         27.1          28.9         22.9          25.7          13.3         19.3
IB8D debt aervire/total debt nervice                                        34.4         28.9          13.7          14.3          8.8          13.1         25.4
IDA 0OD/total DOD                                                            1.6           1.0          0.9           0.8          0.8           0.6          0.5
IDA dlbshr:et nt./total groas diaburamnta                                     -             -            -             -            -             -             -
IDA debt aervice/total debt .ervica                                           -           0.1           0.1           0.1          0.1           0.0          0.0
.1 World Bank Atlas Method
b   Pr.li.inary
4/ Poblic and p.blicly guaranteed debt
November 11, 1981
Colobio DiLvicio-
9'. 



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1982)
(US$ million)
Loan                                                            Amount (less Cancellation)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose           Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
59 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                    1,087.1      23.5 /1   --
920     1973  Colombia                          Education         21.2               4.4
1072    1975  Instituto Nacional de Fomento
Municipal                      Water Supply      27.0               4.7
1118    1975  Colombia                          Rural Settlement 19.5                2.7
1163    1975  Colombia                         Agriculture        21.0               9.2
1223    1976  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   80.0                1.8
1352    1977  Colombia                          Rural Dev.        52.0              12.4
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica            Agricultural Cr. 64.0                13.4
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de               Communications   58.3               47.8
Telecomunicaciones
1471    1977  Colombia                         Highways           90.0              26.3
1487    1978  Colombia                         Nutrition          25.0              14.2
1523    1978  Empresas Municipales de Cali   Water Supply         13.8               9.1
1558    1978  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment            24.8              20.1
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Power               126.0              71.8
1583    1978  Colombia                          Power             50.0              14.1
1593    1978  Zona Franca Industrial            Industrial
y Comercial de Cartagena         Export          15.0               8.4
1598    1978  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.  100.0               11.7
1624    1979  Colombia                          Airports          61.0              25.5
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                      Power             84.0              27.5
1694    1979  Colombia                          Urban Develop-
ment            13.5              11.7
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto
y Alcantarillado
de Bogota                     Water Supply       30.0              23.0
/1   Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1982) (Continued)
Number  Year  Borrower                          Purpose            Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
1725    1979  Interconexion
Electrica, S.A.                Power              72.0              68.7
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de
Fomento Municipal              Water Supply       31.0              31.0
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano
de la Reforma Agraria          Agriculture Cr.   20.0               16.7
1762    1979  Cerro Matoso, S.A.                Mining-Nickel      80.0               7.2
1807    1980  Empresa de Energia Electrica   Power                 87.0              77.7
de Bogota
1825    1980  Empresas Publicas de              Communications    44.0               43.8
Medellin
1834    1980  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.    32.0               20.4
1857    1980  Banco de la Republica             Industrial Cr.   150.0              146.0
1868    1980  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                125.0             123.0
1953 /1 1981  Empresas Publicas de Medellin  Power                 85.0              85.0
1966 /1 1981  Colombia                          Rural Roads        33.0              33.0
1996 /2 1981  Instituto Colombiano de           Irrigation         37.0              37.0
Hidrologia
1999 /2 1981  Corporacion Electrica de la    Power                 36.0             36.0
Costa Atlantica
2008 /1 1981  Empresa de Energia                Power             359.0             359.0
Electrica de Bogota
2069 /2 1981  Instituto Nacional de los         Watershed
Recursos Naturales             Management          9.0               9.0
Renovables y del Medio
Ambiente
2090 /2 1982  Ferrocarriles Nacionales          Railways           77.0              77.0
de Colombia
TOTAL                                           3,340.2      23.5
Of which has been repaid                          601.7       2.6
Total now outstanding                           2,738.5      20.9
Amount sold                         51.0
Of which has been repaid            48.6            2.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  2,736.1      20.9
Total undisbursed                                                 1,530.3
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   Not yet signed.



- 31-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Type of            Amount in US$ million
Year               Obligor                    Business           Loan   Equity   Total
1959       Laminas del Caribe, S.A.           Fiber-board          .50      -        .50
1960-1965  Industrias Alimenticias
Noel, S.A.                      Food products       1.98    .08       2.06
1961       Envases Colombianos, S.A.          Metal cans           .70      -        .70
1961-1968  Morfeo-Productos para el
Hogar, S.A.                     Home furniture       .08    .09        .17
1961       Electromanufacturas, S.A.          Electrical
equipment         .50       -        .50
1962       Corporacion Financiera             Development
Colombiana                        financing            -   2.02       2.02
1962-1963  Corporacion Financiera             Development           -   2.04        2.04
Nacional                          financing
1963-1967  Compania Colombiana de             Textiles           1.98    .15        2.13
1968-1969 Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970  Corporacion Financiera de          Development
Caldas                            financing            -    .81        .81
1964-1968  Forjas de Colombia, S.A.           Steel forging         -   1.27        1.27
1966       Almacenes Generales de             Warehousing        1.00       -       1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966       Industria Ganadera                 Livestock          1.00    .58        1.58
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74 ENKA de Colombia, S.A.             Textiles           5.00   2.60        7.60
1969       Compania de Desarrollo de          Tourism               -    .01         .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
(HOTURISMO)
1969-1973  Corporacion Financiera del         Development           -    .45         .45
Norte                             financing
1969       Corporacion Financiera del         Development           -    .43         .43
Valle                             financing
1970       Promotora de Hoteles de            Tourism              .23    .11        .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977  Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                  Tourism             .80    .24        1.04
1973-1975  Corporacion Colombiana de          Housing               -    .46         .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974       Cementos Boyaca, S.A.              Cement             1.50       -       1.50
1975       Cementos del Caribe, S.A.          Cement             3.60       -       3.60
1976       Las Brisas                         Mining             6.00       -       6.00
1977       Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.            Utilities         13.00   2.00       15.00
1977       Compania Colombiana de Clinker, Cement and
S.A.                                Construction
Material         1.95    .79       2.74
1980       Leasing Bolivar                    Leasing            9.00    .17        9.17
1981       Petroleos Colombianos Ltd.         Chemicals and
Petrochemicals 12.15  _3.86       16.01
-    Total Gross Commitments                              60.97  18.16      79.13
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                              47.37   8.89       56.26
Total commitments now held by IFC                    13.60   9.27      22.87
Total undisbursed                                    7.86    .42        8.28



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
As of March 31, 1982 1/
1.       1kn. No. 920 Education III; US$21.2 million, July 19, 1973.
Effective date: January 9, 1974
Closing Date:    original - June 30, 1977
current - March 31, 1982
Project execution was suspended in mid-1975 pending redefinition of
sector priorities by the Government. It resumed in 1977 after the Bank agreed
to redimension the project to give greater emphasis to primary education,
but suffered continuous delays. In June 1978, the Government proposed to the
Bank to reduce the scope of the project and to cancel a large portion of the
loan. However, the new administration, which came to office in August 1978,
retracted the proposal and decided to proceed with the project as modified in
1977. Since reactivating the project, the Borrower has made progress in
planning, construction, educational programming and personnel training, and
project execution is proceeding normally. Nevertheless, because of the delay
and higher costs, the scope of the project has been reduced. The closing date
will not be extended and the undisbursed balance will be cancelled. The comple-
tion mission is scheduled for June 1982. As of March 31, 1982, US$16.8 million,
or 80% of the loan, had been disbursed.
2.        Ln. No. 1072 Second Multi-City Water Supply and Sewerage Project;
US$27 million, January 16, 1975.
Effective date: April 14, 1975
Closing Date:    December 31, 1981
Five of the eight subprojects have been completed, but project
execution slowed during 1981 as a result of managerial problems; the
ground water component and subprojects in Barranquilla, Cartagena and
Villavicencio are now expected to be completed by the end of 1982. The
closing date will be extended by one year for these 3 sub-projects and for
19 of the 30 cities in groundwater program. INSFOPAL's management has been
urged to strengthen project supervision and to accelerate project execution
and disbursements. As of March 31, 1982, US$22.3 million, or 83% of the loan,
had been disbursed, and about US$850,000 will be cancelled.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
3.        Ln. No. 1118 Caqueta Rural Settlement Project; US$19.5 million,
June 2, 1975.
Effective date: April 1, 1976
Closing Date:    Original - October 31, 1979
Current - December 31, 1982
Project execution is behind schedule and the closing date has
been extended by one year to December 31, 1982. A recurring problem, which
imposes serious operational constraints, is the slow transfer of counterpart
funds to the project and weak financial management. Measures to correct this
problem are being considered. As of March 31, 1982, US$2.7 million, or 14% of
the loan, remained undisbursed.
4.        Ln. No. 1163 Cordoba 2 Agricultural Development Project; US$21 mil-
lion, September 12, 1975.
Effective Date:   March 30, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1983
A few months after effectiveness, the Government decided to give
responsibility for project civil works to another agency. This decision
delayed the initiation of the project and execution is still behind
schedule. One of the project's main problems continues to be inadequate
budget allocations to carry out project works and to provide sub-loans to
farmers. Maintenance of roads and drains constructed under the loan,
technical assistance to farmers and rate of land transfer to beneficiaries
are inadequate; the executing agencies are taking corrective measures. The
project's social component, schools, domestic water supply and health, is
progressing satisfactorily. As of March 31, 1982, US$11.8 million, or about
56% of the loan amount, had been disbursed.
5.        Ln. No. 1223 Sixth Development Finance Companies Project; US$80.0 mil-
lion, March 31, 1976.
Effective Date:   September 1, 1976
Closing Date:      June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and virtually all loan
funds are committed. As of March 31, 1982, about 98% of the loan had been
disbursed and the remaining balance will be cancelled.
6.        Ln. No, 1352 Integrated Rural Development Project; US$52.0 million,
January 7, 1977.
Effective Date: August 26, 1977
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is now in its fifth year of implementation and proceed-
ing well, in spite of its complexity. The project's components of credit,
technical assistance and training are proceeding satisfactorily, and institu-



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
tional coordination continues to be effective. The forestry, water supply and
health components have suffered some delays. Administrative procedures, such
as procurement and disbursement, continue to present some difficulties, but
they are much less serious than initially. Control and monitoring of project
execution is satisfactory and a comprehensive first stage evaluation is
currently underway. As of March 31, 1982, US$39.6 million, or 76% of the loan,
had been disbursed.
7.        Ln. No. 1357 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$64.0 million,
February 4, 1977.
Effective Date:   September 6, 1977
Closing Date:      December 31, 1982.
The US$25 million assigned to medium and large farmers has been fully
committed and disbursed. However, only 39% of subloans allocated to small
farmers have been committed; ways are being considered to speed up such commit-
ments. The Borrower has increased considerably its end-use supervision in
order to avoid possible diversion and substitution of subloan funds. About
85% of loan funds for credit to agroindustries have been committed for 160 sub-
projects. As of March 31, 1982, US$50.6 million, or 79% of the loan, had been
disbursed.
8.        Ln. No. 1450 Telecommunications IV; US$58.3 million, July 7, 1977.
Effective Date:  October 3, 1977.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982.
The project was originally delayed by personnel changes in the
Borrower. Current activities are concentrated on the procurement of project
goods, the planning of cable networks, trunk exchange expansion, and design
of buildings to house equipment. Satisfactory progress is being made in the
acquisition program of smaller local telephone companies and, overall, procure-
ment and construction have accelerated. As of March 31, 1982, US$47.8 million,
or 82% of the loan, remained undisbursed.
9.        Ln. No. 1471 Highways VII; US$90 million, July 5, 1977.
Effective Date: November 28, 1977.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The Project comprises three main programs: rehabilitation, main-
tenance, and vehicle weight control. After initial delays, the project is now
developing satisfactorily. All rehabilitation works have been contracted and
66% of the roads completed. The maintenance program began in March 1980;
consultants to assist MOPT in carrying out the program have been retained and
the bulk of the maintenance equipment has been purchased. The vehicle weight
control program is about to begin. As of March 31, 1982, US$63.7 million, or
71% of the loan, had been disbursed.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
10.       Ln. No. 1487 Integrated Nutrition Improvement Project; US$25 million,
November 10, 1977.
Effective Date: March 9, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
Progress has been achieved in the major components of health and water
supply but by and large execution is running about a year behind schedule.
Progress in the nutrition education component deteriorated in 1981 due to lack
of funding and personnel changes; corrective measures have been taken to accele-
rate execution in 1982. Initial delays occurred in two subsidiary components--
home food production and food quality control--but actions on these are now underway.
As of March 31, 1982, US$10.8 million, or 43% of the loan, had been disbursed.
11.       Ln. No. 1523 Second Cali Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$13.8
million, June 20, 1978.
Effective Date: January 31, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
Because of EMCALI's failure to comply with some of its obligations
under the Loan Agreement dealing with the finances of its Water and Sewerage
Division, on January 29, 1981, the Bank suspended disbursements under this
loan. Disbursements were resumed on September 4, 1981 once EMCALI undertook
to adopt corrective measures. Suspension of disbursements did not stop
project implementation but did result in a slow down; however, EMCALI estimates
this time can be made up and the project completion date of December 31, 1983
can be met. As of March 31, 1982, US$4.7 million, or 34% of the loan, had been
disbursed.
12.       Ln. 1558 Urban Development Project; US$24.8 million, July 21, 1978.
Effective Date: December 1, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
While project execution and coordination has recently improved,
overall progress is still running behind schedule. Plans for all the 23
cities have been approved by the Bank. The new General Manager of SIP
accelerated project execution and established a working unit to monitor
progress and evaluate the project and, in general project budgeting, staffing,
reporting, physical and financial execution greatly improved during 1981. For
some time, the Bank has been recommending a review of the project scope to
ensure its completion on time. Recently SIP has presented a proposal to
reduce the project and this proposal is currently being reviewed by the Bank.
As of March 31, 1982, US$4.7 million, or 19% of the loan, had been disbursedi



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
13.       Ln. No. 1582 San Carlos I Hydro Power Project; US$126 million,
July 14, 1978.
Effective Date:  April 5, 1979
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
Project works are proceeding on schedule, with good performance by
the Borrower. The first generating unit is expected to be in operation in
September 1982. As of March 31, 1982, US$54.2 million, or 43% of the loan,
had been disbursed.
14.       Ln. No. 1583 500 kV Interconnection Project; US$50 million, July 14,
1978.
Effective Date: October 17, 1978
Closing Date:    June 30, 1982
The Bank-financed component (transmission line) is proceeding on
schedule, at lower-than-anticipated cost. However, project completion is
likely to be delayed by about two years as a result of KfW's objection to the
contract award for substations (KfW was originally to finance this component).
The Government is contacting other sources of finance. The line is energized
temporarily at 230 kV, pending full completion of the works. As of March 31,
1982, US$35.9 million, or 72% of the loan, had been disbursed.
15.       Ln. No. 1593 Cartagena Industrial Export Processing Zone; US$15
million, August 1, 1978.
Effective Date: January 30, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1983
After an initial delay due to procurement problems, project execution
is now running smoothly. Construction and the promotional campaign are both
well under way, and by early summer most support infrastructure should be
operational. The soils and foundation studies necessitated by difficult soil
conditions encountered at the site have been initiated and will be completed
in May. As of March 31, 1982, US$6.6 million, or 44% of the loan, had been
disbursed.
16.       Ln. No. 1598 Seventh Development Finance Companies Project;
US$100 million, July 27, 1978.
Effective Date: November 28, 1978
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and loan funds are virtually
fully committed. As of March 31, 1982, 88% of the loan, or about US$88.3
million, had been disbursed.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
17.       Ln. No. 1624 Airports Project; US$61 million, December 29, 1978.
Effective Date:  July 24, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
Project works are well under way. Because of poor soils, there is a
construction delay at the future Rio Negro airport and instrumentation has been
installed in order to estimate amount of camber necessary to compensate for
future settlement.  As of March 31, 1982, about 58% oF the loan had been
disbursed.
18.       Ln. No. 1628 Mesitas Hydroelectric Power Project; US$84 million,
April 9, 1979.
Effective Date: August 21, 1979
Closing Date:    December 31, 1982
Project works are well advanced, although with about 1-1/2 year
delay. Higher-than-anticipated costs (estimated at US$98.5 million) are
expected as a result of higher bids than forecast at appraisal.  As of
March 31, 1982, 67% of the loan had been disbursed.
19.       Ln. No. 1694 Second (Cartagena) Urban Development; US$13.5 million,
August 31, 1979.
Effective Date: June 20, 1980
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984
The project is about 24 months behind schedule, with cost overruns,
which are mainly due to inflation, of over 35%. As of March 31, 1982, US$11.7
million, or 87% of loan funds remained undisbursed.
20.       Ln. No. 1697 Third Bogota Water Supply; US$30 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: April 22, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
Significant progress has been made on the Bogota River sewage treatment
and rectification study, the construction of water and sewerage systems in low-
income neighborhoods, the purchase of meters and of maintenance equipment. Con-
struction of major civil works, however, has been slow. Project expenditures are
only 10% of appraisal projections and project completion is now scheduled for
April 1984, i.e. 1-1/2 years behind appraisal schedule. The Borrower is taking
adequate measures to speed up project execution and further delays are not antici-
pated. As of March 31, 1982, US$23.0 million, or 77% of the loan, remained
undisbursed.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
21.       Ln. No. 1725 San Carlos II Hydro Power; US$72 million, November 30,. 1979.
Effective Date: June 19, 1981
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
Project works are proceeding well at lower than anticipated cost, and
with good performance by the Borrower. As of March 31, 1982, US$68.7 million,
or 95% of the loan, remained undisbursed.
22.       Ln. No. 1726 Third Water and Sewerage; US$31 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: February 28, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1984
After two years delay, preparatory work for the 23 subprojects
is nearing completion. The Bank has reviewed draft agreements for 22 of the
23 cities and INSFOPAL has committed to provide all corrected and signed
agreements, plus necessary documentation related to conditions of disbursement
for individual projects, by the end of April 1982. Once the agreements are
received and the conditions met, project implementation is expected to improve.
As of March 31, 1982, the entire loan remained undisbursed.
23.       Ln. No. 1737 Third Agricultural Credit; US$20 million, November 30, 1979.
Effective Date: October 1, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985
Disbursements are lagging, even taking into account the one year delay
in effectiveness, mostly because of slow on-lending commitments. The revolving
fund for credit is working satisfactorily. However, the Borrower's overall
financial management remains weak and steps are being considered to strengthen it.
As of March 31, 1982, 17% of the loan had been disbursed.
24.       Ln. No. 1762-CO Cerro Matoso Nickel; US$80 million, December 20, 1979.
Effective Date: July 3, 1980
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983
The project is expected to be completed on schedule by the end of
April 1982. Cost overruns (mostly financial) of about 29% and cash flow
deficiencies for the initial operations period, required a revision of the
financing plan and the Borrower is seeking the Bank's agreement for an additional
long-term loan from commercial banks and additional commitments from share-
holders. As of March 31, 1982, 91% of the loan has been disbursed.
25.       Ln. No. 1807-CO Bogota Power Distribution; US$87 million,
February 6, 1981.
Effective Date: September 25, 1981
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project execution is well advanced, with contracts awarded for most of
the equipment and materials needed for the project. As of March 31, 1982,
US$77.7 million, or 89% of the loan, remained undisbursed.



-39-
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
26.       Ln. No. 1825-CO Fifth Telecommunications; US$44 million,
December 19, 1980.
Effective Date: October 30, 1981
Closing Date:    june 30, 1985
This loan became effective on October 30, 1981. Procurement is well
advanced, and the project is proceeding satisfactorily. As of March 31, 1982,
US$43.8 million, or 99% of the loan, remained undisbursed.
27.       Ln. No. 1834-CO Third Small-Scale Industry; US$32 million,
December 10, 1980.
Effective Date: July 9, 1981.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1983,
Project execution is underway with commitments proceeding at a fast
pace. The loan amount is expected to be fully committed by year-end 1982.
As of March 31, 1982, US$11.6 million, or 36% of the loan, had been disbursed.
28.       Ln. No. 1857-CO Eighth DFC; US$150 million, December 10, 1980.
Effective Date: July 9, 1981.
Closing Date:    December 31, 1984.
This loan became effective on July 9, 1981 and is proceeding satis-
factorily. As of March 31, 1982, US$34.6 million had been committed to
sub-projects.
29.       Ln. No. 1868-CO Guadalupe IV Hydro Power; US$125 million,
December 19, 1980.
Effective Date: June 29, 1981.
Closing Date:    June 30, 1985.
The project is well underway, although the contracting of works has
taken longer than expected. The main civil works contracts for underground works
and power house were awarded in September 1981 and construction is underway. As
of March 31, 1982, US$123.0 million, or 98% of the loan, remained undisbursed.
30.       Ln. No. 1953-CO Playas Hydro Power; US$85 million, November 6, 1981.
This loan is not yet effective.
31.       Ln. No. 1966-CO Rural Roads; USS33 million, September 24, 1981.
This loan is not yet effective.
32.       Ln. No. 1996-CO Irrigation Rehabilitation; US$37 million, April 16, 1982.
This loan is not yet effective.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
33.       Ln. No. 1999-CO Village Electrification; US$36 million.
This loan was approved on May 21, 1981 but is not yet signed.
34.       Ln. No. 2008-CO Guavio Power; US$359 million, March 8, 1982.
This loan is not yet effective.
35.       Ln. No. 2069-CO Upper Magdalena Watershed; US$9.0 million,
April 16, 1982.
This loan is not yet effective.
36.       Ln. No. 2090-CO Railways VII; US$77.0 million.
This loan was approved on February 16, 1982 but is not yet signed.



- 41 -                      ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
COLOMBIA
SUBSECTOR PROJECT FOR RURAL BASIC EDUCATION
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project  -  15 months
(b) Agency which prepared the project - Ministry of Education
(c) First presentation to the Bank - June, 1980
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission - September/October 1981
and March 1983 (two-stage appraisal)
(e) Date of completion of negotiations - July 2, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness - November 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Initial close Bank supervision, especially of local subproject process-
ing and of the training program for administration and teachers, will be
required to ensure that no delays will be encountered in the carrying
out of this program. Procurement and disbursements will have to be
checked periodically to see to it that inputs will be provided in time.
Section III - Special Conditions
1.   Assurances were obtained that:
(a) not later than April 30, 1983, a specially-appointed commission
would be established to study the education sector's costs and
financing and that the the conclusions and recommendations of this
study would be furnished to the Bank not later than June 30, 1984
(paragraph 44);
(b) the operation and size of the working fund would be reviewed every
six months in light of the funding requirements for a timely and
efficient execution of the program (paragraph 53); and
(c) the Borrower would enter into contacts with each of the Departments
specifying their respective obligations and that such contracts
would not be materially changed prior to Bank approval (paragraph
61).
(d) no material changes in Subsector Program organization and staffing,
procedures and criteria as contained in the education sector legis-
lation establishing this program, the management plan, and the
manuals for subproject processing, would be implemented without
prior consultation with, and approval by the Bank (paragraph 62).



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
2.   Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a)  signature and coming into force of at least one implementing
contract, acceptable to the Bank, between the Ministry of Education
and a participating department, and appointment of the Departmental
Executive Secretary and two professional staff in at least one
department for which an implementation contract has come into force
(para. 61);
(b)  opening of the Special Account (para. 53).
3.   A condition of disbursement for subprojects in each department would be
appointment of the Executive Secretary and two professional staff
(para. 61).



7be                      74-                         it                         ,
2  -  A'    61  5
-j--C AJI/RA/I                                                           ,~ c4
CarIageo~    1/IAGDAZ       EA/A J®(                ,                                                    aW7   p 
__                         <'(N    ~~~~~~~~                    (                                                            5Ad,
P~ANAMA                                                                                                  -                                       775 
-1  (SC                                                                            44's~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h -cp has ee p-,oeld b, lEe
K                                                                                                                        Wana Bance staff exricsice!n too -f
>-,   ~~~~  f"  C'    >              /   N0RJT\                                                             re0rpnOSOccS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ohi5iC~,-  -d-ac(hU
xl  -        ¾;                    V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y-
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
0chAa~~~~~ /           '  <~~~~~8OYA  CAA   C
ISAA'AOA  CADAS"-                      >
0     C    t    A     IV                           COM90  A44AP501     "
Aznne'nn   18'CV '1--
(        Z/ hgu
>4    /~~~~~~~~~~~14F7---A
cv"'  >eiay  C    ~     ~    ~     O- j   d G- ,l--/A                                         '<
'~~.  (ACt A  K HC/,LA  8                                                            -                 --UAnIA--lt
~~"-1    /  A         V           - ~ ~ ~ ~ 1-VA                             PF
--- I IM  1 Y 
E   %C U   A           0     R      ,                                                               --
C'           .                                                                &AV/COLOMBIA--                                ~-
RURL AS/IC" SUSCTORPRORn4aIAM                                                     A     A            0 AA l5
Instf                                                      "                                         Mi-ta    I klR-   ll i,p
PI,.- I ~~ 1982                                                           c-98      N
COLOMBA                                                          C- 



