L.C  ]U   LON     NUMBER 2192 CO
Guarantee Agreement
(Sub-sector Project for Rural Basic Education)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPENT
Dated                    30      , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2192 CO
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT -
AGREEMENT, dated      A30                     , 1982, between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (hereinaf ter called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Fondo del Ministerio de Educaci6n Nacional (herein-
after called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to fifteen
million dollars ($15,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in
respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the.
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Gua-
rantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Sec-
tion 1.01 of the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applic-
able to Loan and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, the Preamble to this Agreement and in Sec-
tions 1.02 and 1.03 of the Loan Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guaran-
tor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not


﻿as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal
of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium,
if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punctual perform-
ance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set
forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes: (a) to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the Bor-
rower to be provided with such funds as are needed by the Bor-
rower to comply with its obligations under paragraph (f) of
Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement and to meet the expenditures
required for carrying out. the Project; and (b) to provide the
Borrower, through the technical and administrative organization
of MEN, with the staff, resources and facilities required by the
Borrower to carry out the Project.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ip  facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions which will or might
result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of such
external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution of


﻿-3-
foreign exchange, the Guarantor shall prouiptly and at no cost to
the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satis-
factory to the Bank, of the Guarantor or of any entity owned or
controlled by, or operating for the account or benefit of, the
Guarantor, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Gua-
rantor.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien aris-
ing in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a
debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor -or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Gua-
rantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall take all actions necessary
in order: (i) to carry out the Guarantor's Rural Basic Education
Sub-sector Program in accordance with appropriate educational,
administrative and financial practices; and (ii) to allocate in
an effective manner its resources for the Guarantor's education
sector and shall exchange views with the Bank from time to time
on such actions.
Section 3.03. The Guarantor shall exchange views and agree
with the Bank and the Borrower, by March I and September 1 of
each year, on the provision of fund requIrements for the Project
as provided under paragraph (h) of Section 2.03 of the Loan
Agreement.


﻿4-
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro de Hacienda y Cr&dito Publico
of the Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Republic of Colombia
Ministerio de Hacienda
y Cr6dito Pblico
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustin
Bogota D.E., Colombia
Cable address:
MINHACIENDA
Bogota
For the Bank
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿S5-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  9o      day of        198    .
FOR SECRETARY


