Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3279-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
April 20, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TURKEY
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Jan. 1980 /1    Jan. 1981       Dec. 31, 1981    March 1982
US-Dollar     -    TL  70.0          TL 91.00         TL 127.00        TL  143.7
TL 1          -    US$0.014          US$0.011         US$ 0.008       US$  0.007
iji
/1    Since January 1980, the rate is 'being adjusted for the differential
inflation between Turkey and its major trading partners. TL 127/$1.00
was used for Parts III and IV of this report.
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey            March 1 to February 28 (through 1981)
March 1 to December 31 (1982)
January 1 to December 31 (from Jan. 1, 1983)
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
KM          -           Kilometer
KGM         -           General Directorate of Highways
MPW         -           Ministry of Public Works
MTC         -           Ministry of Transport and Communications
NTMP         -          National Transport Master Plan
PT          -           Project Team
SPO         -           State Planning Organization
TCA         -           Transport Coordinating Agency
TCDD        -           Turkish State Railways
YSE         -           General Directorate of Insfrastructure
(Ministry of Village Affairs)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Borrower:           Republic of Turkey
Beneficiaries:      General Directorate of Highways (KGM)
Amount:             US$71.1 million (including capitalized front-end fee).
Terms:              Fifteen years including five years of grace, with
interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
Project
Description:      The project supports the Government's efforts to
rehabilitate and strengthen its existing highway
network, with emphasis on highways which play an
important part in foreign exchange earnings, and to
improve planning, highway safety, and vehicle load
control systems. The principal components of this
project would be: (i) a three-year time slice (1982-84)
of the Government's highway rehabilitation and
strengthening program; (ii) provision of equipment and
materials for development of a planning system for
highway rehabilitation and strengthening, a highway
safety program and a vehicle load control program;
(iii) provision of specialized highway paving and
quarrying equipment; (iv) technical assistance; and
(v) a fellowships program.
Benefits and
Risks:            Many highways in Turkey were not designed to meet
present traffic demands and, despite extensive
maintenance programs, are deteriorating rapidly. The
project would lead to savings in vehicle operating costs
and road maintenance costs, especially on quick benefit
yielding highway sections and on international routes
which play an important part in export earnings.  There
are no unusual technical risks in the project. The
principal risk is that a downturn in the Turkish economy
could reduce funds available for financing the local
cost component. However, performance under Turkey's
structural adjustment program has been good over the
last two years, and an annual review of budget adequacy
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
would give the Bank an early opportunity to press for
additional funding, if necessary. The Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development has confirmed its intended
participation in the project. If any of the Kuwait Fund
financing did not materialize, the Bank financed
subprojects would remain economically viable.
Estimated Project                            ----- $Million Equivalent ----
Costs:                                     Local        Foreign       Total
Highway Rehabilitation                111.7         105.6       217.3
Equipment                               0.5          10.4        10.9
Fellowships                             -             0.2         0.2
Technical Assistance                    0.1           0.5         0.6
Base Cost /1                          112.3         116.7       229.0
Price Contingencies                    11.7          23.3        35.0
Total Project Cost                    124.0 /2      140.0       264.0 /2
Front-end Fee on Bank Loan              -             1.1          1.1
Total Financing Required             124.0          141.1       265.1
Financing Plan:                              Local         Foreign      Total
Bank                                                 71.1        71.1
Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development                           -            70.0        70.0
Covernment                           124.0             -        124.0
Total                                 124.0         141.1       265.1
Estimated Bank Disbursements:                    --------- $Million -----------
Bank FY          83       84    85    86       87
Annual           14.1    10.4  13.1  17.0   16.5
Cumulative      14.1    24.5  37.6  54.6   71.1
Rate of Return;    Over 100 percent
Appraisal Report:  3793-TU dated April 9, 1982.
/1 Including physical contingencies.
/2 Includes about $35 million equivalent of taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of US$71.1 million (including
capitalized front-end fee) to help finance the Borrower's highway
rehabilitation program. The loan would have a term of 15 years including 5
years grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum. The Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development is expected to cofinance the project with loans
totalling US$70 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        The last economic report entitled "Turkey:  Policies and Prospeccs
for Growth" (No. 2657a-TU) and the Postscript thereto, were distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1979 and March 1980 respectively. Updating of
economic prospects as well as indepth economic analysis and dialogue has since
been undertaken through the continuing work on structural adjustment loans
(SALs) to Turkey, and two special economic missions. The report of the
special economic mission in November/December 1980 to evaluate the investment
program and entitled "Turkey: Public Sector Investment Review" (No. 3472-TU)
was distributed to the Executive Directors in December 1981. The report
entitled "Turkey: Industrialization and Trade Strategy" (No.3641-TU) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 18, 1982. Its analysis is
also reflected in this Part. Annexes I-A and I-B contain the Basic Country
Data and relevant details about recent economic developments.
Characteristics and Development Constraints
3.        Turkey is a country about as big as France and Germany combined,
with an estimated GNP per capita of $1,450 in 1980. With a population of
around 45 million, the density is low (78 per square kilometer of agricultural
land), although the rate of urbanization is high (about 45 percent).
Educational enrollments have expanded greatly, but the rate of adult literacy
remains relatively low (60 percent). Although population growth is not high
by middle-income country standards (2.2 percent per annum), the employment
situation has deteriorated steadily, with an unemployment rate of about 16
percent, despite rapid economic growth, substantial emigration of workers to
Western Europe in the early 1970s and the more recent flow of workers to the
Middle East. There is little or no absolute poverty, but income distribution
*         is still relatively skewed.  Data for more recent periods is incomplete, but
indicates a worsening especially of the position of wage and salary earners
over the last few years with a sharp real decline in the minimum wage. There
are also considerable regional differences, and large rural-urban disparities.
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report on the Export-Oriented Industries Project (P-3199 TU)
dated January 29, 1982.



- 2 -
4.       Agriculture is the most important sector in the economy. It
contributes 23 percent of GDP (1980), employs about 55 percent of the labor
force, and provides about half of merchandise exports. Turkey is one of the
very few developing countries which is self-sufficient in food. Yet,
agriculture has been given a secondary role compared to industry in the
development strategy.  The main sector obectives have been to:  (a) expand
food supply for a growing popul ation5 and (b) provide exports to finance
industrial development. Turkish agriculture is dualistic; a modern irrigated
commercial sector using modern inputs in coastal areas, produces cash crops
and most exports; traditional rainfed agriculture emphasizing grains and
livestock, is practised on the Anatolian plateau where only a small part of
the irrigation potential has beer. developed, despite massive investments
through slowly implemented and long-gestating projects.
5.       With its natural and human resources, Turkey has considerable
potential for expanding agricultural production and exports. The major
constraints on growth and productivity are: (a) limited development of
irrigation/ drainage facilities and poor utilization of what has been
developed; (b) small and fragmented farm holdings; (c) inadequately funded and
poorly coordinated research and extension services; (d) insufficient
availability of credit; and (e) inadequate marketing arrangements, especially
for exports. Increased productivity could be realized with a somewhat larger
and more efficient allocation of investments, backed by more coherent credit
and price policies and support services.
6.       Reflecting the heavy emphasis of the development strategy on rapid
industrialization, industry has absorbed up to 30 percent of total
investment. Consequently, it today accounts for 19 percent of GDP, 48 percent
of exports (mainly textiles, processed foods and leather products), but only
14 percent of employment. The private sector is overwhelmingly dominant in
exports, and accounts for some 60 percent of value-added and an even higher
share of employment. Industrial policy has sought to achieve self-sufficiency
through import substitution, use of advanced technology and greater depth of
integration in productive processes, with consequent priority for capital
intensive investments in basic and intermediate products. Exports have
generally been given a secondary role, and accounted for only about 4 percent
of sector output in 1979. The principal policy instruments used have been
large public investments in inefficient State Economic Enterprises (SEEs),
and generous incentives combined with high levels of protection for private
investments. These policies yielded high growth rates, domestic production
of some key basic and intermediate goods based on domestic resources, adoption
of modern technology, a skilled labor force, as well as some dispersal of
industries to less developed regions.  But they also resulted in the
establishment of a number of uncompetitive industries, wasteful of scarce
capital and too dependent on imported inputs, with low employment and limited
export possibilities.
7.       The major sector constraints which the Government is now attempting
to overcome, are: (a) low levels of capacity utilization; (b) limited export
capability in some subsectors; (c) inefficiency of the manufacturing SEEs;
(d) lack of sufficient long-term financing for industry; and (e) excessive
dependence on imported inputs and low productivity. Apart from import
protection, several factors have adversely affected productivity, of which a
marginal research and development effort and inadequate labor training are of
particular importance.  Export efforts have also been hampered by the
limitations of marketing facilities.



- 3 -
8.       Turkey has large underdeveloped energy resources (hydropower and
lignite), but little petroleum. Energy consumption has grown in line with
GDP, but remains below the per capita average for middle-income developing
countries. However, imported oil accounts for over 85 percent of oil
consumption and about 45 percent of total energy consumption. As a result,
the oil bill was $3.3 billion in 1980, equivalent to 113 percent of exports,
probably the highest figure in the world.
9.       Hence, the energy situation has become a major preoccupation of the
Government, and the sector has been accorded the highest economic priority.
Prices for most products - especially petroleum products - have since 1980
been brought into line with prices in Europe and other indices of real costs
to the economy. Investments in energy now have the largest share in the
public investment program. The principal sector constraints are: (a)
organization and management of institutions in the sector; (b) the lack of
comprehensive demand-management and conservation programs; (c) insufficient
resources for exploration; and (d) poor project implementation capacity,
especially in the power and coal/lignite sub-sectors.
Government Policies Until 1980
10.      Economic policies until the mid 1970s were responsible for the
achievement of rapid economic growth, with substantial growth in industrial
capacity. However, both the pattern of growth and the excessive recourse to
external finance, especially in the seventies, resulted in the substantial
problems which Turkey is confronting today. At the same time, income
distribution remained relatively unequal; employment creation inadequate;
savings performance poor; and the industrial sector mostly inefficient,
despite sizeable investments, and not contributing sufficently to either
exports or employment.
II.      In the past decade, economic management suffered further due to
political instability, which thwarted effective decision-making. At the same
time, economic problems were aggravated by serious economic shocks emanating
from abroad:  international inflation, leading to a sharp rise in Turkey's
import prices (including oil) and a significant deterioration in her terms of
trade; high interest rates resulting in an increased debt servicing burden;
and recession in Europe leading to reduced export prospects and emigration
possibilities. Inappropriate expansionary policies in response to these
factors delayed Turkey's adjustment to the changed international environment,
so that by 1977 the country was set on a course of rapidly growing inflation
and an inexorable foreign exchange crisis. By 1977, the inflation rate had
escalated to 25 percent against 15 percent in 1976, and was rising: the
budget deficit as a percentage of GDP increased to over 6 percent; with a
tripling of imports between 1973-77 to $5.8 billion and merchandise exports
and workers' remittances equalling only $1.8 billion and $1 billion in 1977,
the balance of payments deficit soared to $3.6 billion, or over 6 percent of
GDP. The Government's response to the crisis emerging since 1973 was to
increase external borrowing, mainly short-term. Consequently by end-1977,
total external indebtedness surged to $11 billion, of which short-term debt
alone was $6.2 billion. A crisis of confidence developed, the inflow of
external capital nearly ceased and Turkey faced a host of severe interlocking
domestic and external problems. Since January 1980, to achieve its goal of
reestablishing viable growth and increased efficiency of resource allocation,
through greater reliance on market forces and the introduction of an outward
orientation in economic policy, the Government has adopted a series of



4-
measures in the areas of exchange rates, export promotion, protection policy,
interest rates, SEE prices, taxes, investment criteria and incentives, and
institutional reforms.  A number of additional medium-term policies continue
to be initiated, and it is clear that the Government is determined to follow
through with its newly adopted development strategy.
Government's New Policy Priorities and Actions
12.      The new regime, which took over following the military intervention
on September 12, 1980, has vigorously pursued these new policies, pari passu
with efforts to restore political order following a period of rampant
terrorism, paralysis of the constitutional process, and widespread labor
unrest. It has also emphasized, like previous military regimes in 1960-61 and
1971-73, that it will transfer power to civilian authorities once order is
restored and a new viable democratic system suited to Turkish circumstances
has been constitutionally established.
13.      Especially since September 1980, there has been substantial action on
economic policies, although the severity of the economic crisis has forced the
new government to continue to focus much more on short-term than on
medium-term concerns.  In view of the severity of the crisis, and the urgent
need to bring down inflation and stabilize the balance of payments as quickly
as possible, it has accepted the need for a temporary sacrifice of growth and
social objectives. However, while financial aspects of economic management,
especially availability of foreign exchange and balancing the budget, have
come to dominate policy concerns, fairly drastic structural changes have been
made or initiated in the operation of the exchange rate regime, the tax
system, interest rate policy, export strategy, the SEE sector and public
investment policy.
14.      On development issues, a welcome change is beginning to be apparent
in the scope as well as in the sectoral emphasis to favor the development of
energy, infrastructure and agriculture, at the expense of manufacturing,
especially as far as the allocation of public sector resources is concerned.
There is acceptance of the division of labor between the public and the
private sectors, with the former now expected to concentrate on the provision
of infrastructure while the latter provides the main impetus to industrial
growth and exports. The administrative arrangements in the agriculture
sector are being drastically recast to provide better service support to the
farmers. The development strategy has also changed, to give much greater
weight to exports, relative to import-substitution. Finally, and most
significantly, reliance on the market mechanism is being emphasized as against
more centralized planning, including in the inefficient SEE sector. Given the
long period of inward orientation, detailed planning and administered prices
prevalent until January 1980, the impact of these changes will take some time
to manifest. They also need to be complemented by further actions, which the
-Government proposes to pursue, to fully implement the new development strategy.
15.      The retrenchment following the financial crisis resulted in both
public and private investment declining in real terms since 1977. The overall
level of investment in 1980 was around that in 1975, with private investment
being barely larger than in 1974. The extreme shortage of domestic resources
resulting from the Government's restrictive policies on credit and high
interest rates aimed at bringing down inflation, has necessitated rationing of
investible funds. The high oil import bill also forced a drastic reduction in
capital goods and raw materials imports needed for public and private sector



investments. The private sector, which to some extent has also continued to
adopt a wait-and-see attitude before investing, has been particularly affected
by the shortfall in resources, high cost of credit, and the lack of a
developed capital market.
16.      Despite the Government's attempts to reduce the investment-savings
gap and improve on the poor savings performance of the past years, the results
in 1979-80 continued to be poor as the Government had to bear the large
financial losses of the SEEs. However, as a result of major tax reforms in
late 1980/early 1981 and improved expenditure discipline, there was a
significant improvement in public accounts in FY81. The budget deficit is
expected to be about 1 percent of GDP vis-a-vis 4 percent in FY80; the SEE
financing requirements are estimated to have been reduced to 8 percent of GDP
in 1980, compared to 11 percent in 1979.
17.      The new Government's policies to reduce the size of public
investments, stimulate the private sector to take the slack, and overall,
further reduce the gap between savings and investments, will need to be
vigorously pursued. In the last three to four years, the strategy has been to
meet the gap by tapping external financing on a prudent basis, which practice
is expected to continue. Turkey obtained increased support and debt
rescheduling from OECD countries and diversified its aid relationships with
OPEC countries, especially Saudi Arabia and Libya. Loan commitments, which
totalled $2.5 billion during 1972-75, increased over threefold to $8 billion
during 1976-79, and the gross public M&LT disbursements in 1980 reached about
$1.5 billion.
Effects of the 1980-81 Policy Measures
18.      These new policy directions are beginning to show results.  The
recent results are provided in Annex I-B. Briefly, the average annual rate of
inflation has been successfully brought down from 107 percent between
January-December 1980 to around 35 percent for the same period in 1981. The
flexible exchange rate policy under which the TL has been adjusted daily since
May 1981, together with the new export oriented policies, has led to an
unprecedented export growth in 1981; exports are estimated to be over $4.5
billion, or over 55 percent higher in dollar terms than the 1980 level.
Increases were concentrated in manufactured goods, which experienced a rise of
nearly 120 percent; product groups with the largest increases included
textiles, clothing, cement, iron/steel, and non-electrical equipment, with the
Middle East becomming an increasingly important market.  A new and rapidly
growing source of foreign exchange is income earned from construction
contracts (with a gross value of nearly $7 billion in 1981) in the Middle East
and North African countries.  These activities are also expected to add to the
normal flow of worker remittances, which remained strong throughout 1981.
Although import growth continued to be strong in 1981 (around 14 percent of
GDP), import volumes had declined sharply in 1978-79, and as a proportion of
GDP, will remain well below the 1974-77 average. Given these developments,
the current account deficit in 1981 is expected to be about $2.6 billion (4.1
percent of GNP) compared to $3.2 billion in 1980 (5.5 percent of GNP).
19.      In response to the freeing of interest rates, total deposits in July
1980-June 1981 increased by 97 percent and time deposits (including
certificates of deposit) by an astonishing 265 percent over the corresponding
period in 1979-80. Since July 1981, private companies have been free to set
their own bond rates in competition with banks, and can use flexible rates, if



they so choose. The Capital Market Law was passed in July 1981 and steps are
being taken to establish a capital market. Following steps to improve SEE
financial performance - by freeing most SEE prices and gradually exposing SEEs
to market forces - the SEE losses are projected to be only TL 5 billion in
1981, compared to TL 72 billion in 1979. This gain was partly offset by the
increases in SEE investment expenditures which in 1981 stood at TL 534
billion, compared to TL 460 billion in 1980. The major tax reform initiated
in late 1980/early 1981, is now beginning to show effect. The overall deficit
on public account in 1981 is estimated to be about 1.5 percent of GDP,
compared to 4.5 percent in 1980.
Medium Term Prospects
20.      Making a reasonable assumption that the Government's new economic
policies will continue and be followed-up by further necessary measures, one
can tentatively project that the investment rate over the next 5 years could
average 23 percent of GDP and gross domestic savings 19 percent of GDP, with
the current account deficit remaining on average close to the 1980 level of
about $3 billion. This could allow the economy to grow at an annual average
of between 4-5 percent during 1981-85. The gross capital inflow required to
meet the financing needs would reach $6 billion in 1985, as against slightly
over $3 billion in 1981. The past and prospective movements of macroeconomic
indicators are summarized in the Table below.
awells             Average _I
Actual      Projected    Real Growth lotae /1
1975    19S0    1985      1975-80  1980-85
(Units)
A. GDP          1980 TLbn   3,818   4,325   5,287       2.5     4.1
- Consumption            3,342   3,660    4,244       1.8      3.0
- Investment      '        997    994    1,216        0.0      4.1
B. Exports of Goods  Current    1,402   2,910    9,086  6.4    18.8
Sbn
imports of Goods         4,739   7,667    13,842      -3.7     4.8
- Oil; value              808   3,552     6,585       -        -
Current Account
Balance     Current $bn  -1,892  -3,196    -3,164
Gross Capital
Inflows    Current $bn   2,067   4,057   6,010
C. Investment/GDP  2         23.7    23.0    23.0
Savings/GDP               15.3    15.4     19.0
D.  Exports of Goods/GDP   2  3.2    5.2      10.0
Oil imports/Exports
of Goods               57.6   122.1     72.5
E.  Debt Service Ratio /2    a 8     11.5     33.2
/I  This does not reflect the latest (January 1982) estimates of GDP growth (4.4 percent) and
exports of goods ($4.5 billion) in 1981
/2 Total debt service as percent exports of goods + NUS * workers' re.ittanees.



21.      The balance of payments picture in the 1980s could however be less
severe if: (a) worker remittances increase by 2-3 percent in real terms,
instead of remaining constant as assumed in the above table; (b) remittances
from overseas construction activities annually average about $300 million
during the 5-year period (instead of $15-20 million assumed earlier); and
(c) average import elasticity is between 1.0-1.1 (instead of an assumed 1.1-
1.2). The current account deficit in 1985 could then be below $2 billion,
necessitating gross capital inflow of $5 billion in 1985.
22.      The viability of prospects in the table is briefly discussed below.
Continuation of economic and fiscal policies give room to expect that the
inflation rate can be progressively brought down further between 1982-85.
Policies, including continuation of the present exchange rate policy, and the
excellent 1981 export performance, should also make it possible for Turkey
to achieve a real growth of exports of about 19 percent per annum during
1980-85. The export growth rate appears attainable, taking into account the
low export base and market prospects, especially in the Middle East and North
African countries, and the present underutilization of industrial capacity.
However, as the economy returns to a normal growth path, non-oil imports as
well as the demand for energy should pick up significantly. Although
Government policy is to substitute domestic energy resources, especially
lignite, for imported oil to the extent possible in all major consuming
sectors, Turkey will have to continue to rely heavily on imported oil. The
oil import bill is estimated to increase from $3.6 billion in 1980 to $6.6
billion in 1985; but as a percentage of exports of goods, it is likely to
decline to 73 percent in 1985 from 113 percent in 1980. The pressure of oil
imports on the balance of payments position will thus continue.
23.      A significant determinant of future prospects, in addition to
increased aid flows, will be the negotiation of substantive improvements
in trade policies towards Turkey. Revised agreements between the EEC and
Turkey in 1977 and 1980 have partly compensated for the erosion caused by
EEC restrictions on labor movement and textile exports, and offer hope for a
better future relationship. The EEC could provide a large and growing market
for Turkey's engineering products, as well as textiles and clothing - if their
quality and product composition is upgraded. Moreover, Turkey has recently
succeeded in diversifying its trade to include larger shares for the Middle
East and North African countries, from 14 percent in 1978 to 44 percent in
the first ten months of 1981. While these markets are becoming increasingly
important to Turkish firms, exports from Turkey represent only a small
proportion of the manufactured imports of these countries. Hence, while one
should cautiously interpret the recent upsurge in sales to Iran and Iraq,
Turkey has excellent possibilities to increase exports of relatively simple
engineering goods, cement, and various chemicals, in addition to processed
food, to these markets, in view of its geographical proximity and cultural
ties.
Creditworthiness
24.      At the end of 1978, Turkey faced an overwhelming debt burden of $7.5
billion in short-term debt and $6.8 billion in M&LT debt. Turkey was faced
with service payment obligations (mostly on short-term debt) of $5.1 billion
(including arrears), or nearly three times the value of merchandise exports
in 1977. Prolonged discussions with over 200 creditor banks resulted in an
agreement in July 1979 to reschedule a total of $3.0 billion in short-term



liabilities, including some $2.4 billion in convertible Turkish Lira deposits
and $400 million banker's credits (both at 1.75 percent above the London
Inter-Bank Offer Rate (LIBOR), with 7 years maturity including 3 years grace)
and $300 million in third party reimbursement credits (also at 1.75 percent
above LIBOR, but with an accelerated repayment schedule). Some $300 million
in oil loans were also rescheduled in 1979. At the end of 1980, arrears on
unguaranteed trade credits were consolidated in an amount of around $1
billion. As a result of these exercises, short-term debt outstanding at
end-1980 was reduced to $2.8 billion, the balance having been converted to
M&LT debt. Finally, in January 1981, leading commercial banks agreed in
principle to extend the terms of the 1979 commercial debt rescheduling. A
series of large-scale rescheduling operations relating to M&LT official debt
also took place. In 1978, 1979 and 1980, OECD member creditors rescheduled
$1.0, $1.1 and $2.5 billion respectively of debt service obligations and
accumulated arrears (the last exercise including some re-rescheduling).  The
terms of the 1980 rescheduling were 8 to 10 years including 4 to 5 years of
grace, and provided debt relief estimated at $1.1 billion in 1980 and another
$0.8 billion in 1981, with smaller amounts thereafter. Without these
reschedulings, the debt service ratio would have been around 29 percent
instead of 12 percent at the end of 1980, on short-term debt of $2.8 billion
and M&LT debt of $14.3 billion. Nevertheless, debt service obligations are
likely to remain high over the coming years. The ratio is likely to rise to
about 33 percent in 1985, and still be around 30 percent if the favorable
assumptions spelled out in para. 21 are realized. The high ratios in the mid
to late 1980's, are partly the result of repayment, which would amount to
about $1.0 billion in 1985 alone of rescheduled debt carrying a very high
interest rate, and partly due to the need to borrow additionally in the coming
years to enable the economy to achieve a modest level of growth and revived
vitality. However, despite the rapid increase, the debt burden should remain
manageable, provided current policies are successfully implemented, the export
drive is sustained, and Turkey continues to receive further international
support from private and official donors.
25.      On all aspects of economic analysis, the IMF and the Bank have
coordinated closely with each other, and Turkey continues to be in good
standing with the IMF. A three-year standby arrangement in an amount
equivalent to SDR 1,250 million was approved by the IMF's Board and became
effective on June 18, 1980. Under the arrangement, Turkey has thus far made
six purchases totalling SDR 760 million, including the tranche for SDR 100
million released in January 1982.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
26.      The Bank/IDA have to date lent about $3,432 million, through 67
projects. Agriculture accounts for 20 percent of funds lent, industry and
DFCs (including structural adjustment) for 41 percent, power for 12 percent,
and urban development, transportation, education and tourism for the rest.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1982, with notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.



- 9 -
27.      The implementation of private sector projects has been satisfactory.
Political instability, limited coordination amongst ministries, staffing
problems and the serious external and domestic financial crisis since 1977
have seriously affected project implementation in the public sector. A system
of joint project reviews between Turkey and the Bank was instituted in June
1975.  This has resulted in distinct, but modest, improvements.  The broad
reform of the public sector launched in January 1980, and pursued with new
measures since then, allows cautious optimism that performance can be
gradually improved further, provided it is not eroded by new factors,
including shortages of resources.
28.      Bank lending is aimed at supporting the economic policies initiated
in January 1980, especially: (a) the pursuit of an export-oriented
development strategy; and (b) domestic economic policies aimed at establishing
a macro-economic balance, increasing domestic savings, restraining public
investment and reorienting it to reflect the new Government priorities
(completion of ongoing projects, emphasis on quick-yielding new investments,
and balance of payments impact). The Bank has discussed with the Government
how its overall lending can best contribute to the latter's medium-term
objectives, and help remove past policy and institutional constraints. A
series of structural adjustment loans (SALs) is envisaged, at the Government's
request, to support its program of structural adjustments that is being
implemented. Agriculture, industry and energy will be the key sectors for
project lending. In agriculture, projects emphasize livestock, exports, and
rural development; in industry (including DFCs), the emphasis is on promotion
of exports and employment, and the gradual strengthening of the SEEs. Energy
projects underway are in power generation based on domestic hydro and lignite
resources; future projects will emphasize the oil/gas sub-sector and
coal/lignite. Projects for urban development and public utilities may
supplement these efforts. The close macroeconomic and sector dialogue
established with the Government in recent years is expected to be pursued on
key issues. The economic and sector work undertaken over the last 15 months
includes special studies of the public investment program, of
industrialization and foreign trade strategy, and of the energy sector, and
completion of sector memoranda on agriculture and industry. In addition, the
progress made in fostering structural adjustment will be monitored in the
context of each future structural adjustment loan.
29.      Besides the proposed project and the Fertilizer Rehabilitation
Project recently circulated to the Executive Directors, other projects
expected to be ready for consideration by the Executive Directors in this
fiscal year are for sewage disposal, and the third loan for structural
adjustment. Other projects being processed include: agricultural credit,
irrigation completion, development of gas reserves, rehabilitation of the
paper and cement industries, and a supplement to the Elbistan loan.
30.      The Bank Group's share of the estimated total external debt was 8
percent in 1980, and is expected to grow to about 11 percent by 1985. Its
share of total debt service payments (excluding debt rescheduling) is
projected to increase from about 10 percent in 1980 to about 12 percent in
1985.
31.      IFC has invested in synthetic yarns, pulp and paper, glass, aluminum,
iron and steel products, motor bicycle engines, piston rings and cylinder
liners, and tourism. It has also invested in the Turkish Industrial
Development Bank (TSKB). As of March 31, 1982, gross IFC commitments totalled
about $226 million, of which $87 million were still held by IFC. New
investment opportunities are being pursued.



- 10 -
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR AND THE HIGHWAYS SUBSECTOR
32.      Turkey has an area of about 780,000 square kilometers (km) of which
about 50 percent rises over 1,600 meters. The construction of the transport
system has been difficult because of the rugged topography and heavy winter
frost and snow. Nevertheless the network extends through all major provincial
areas, although access to some regions, especially in the east, is limited by
the difficult terrain. Until recently, the extent of the system had been
generally adequate in relation to the geographic distribution of the
population. However, the structural condition and the capacity of the system
are in many areas not adequate for existing traffic, causing high transport
costs, which hinder Turkey's development efforts. These costs are likely to
become even more serious given Turkey's economic strategy emphasizing
increasing exports and exploitation of new indigenous energy resources, which
will expand traffic and modify traditional traffic patterns.
33.      The present pattern of transport use reflects the rapid growth and
dominance of the road network. The share of highway freight traffic in total
transport increased from about 40 percent in 1960 to about 60 percent in
1981. In the same period the share of highway passenger traffic increased
from about 73 percent to about 93 percent. Total railway traffic remained
fairly stable in absolute terms until 1976, although its relative share
decreased. During the past five years, however, railway freight traffic,
which is the most important part of railway operations, declined by about 15
percent. Preliminary estimates of railway transport for 1981 indicate the
decline of freight traffic has been arrested; it now stands at 10 percent of
total freight traffic. Railway passenger traffic, which has increased by 50
percent since 1976, now stands at 5 percent of total passenger traffic.
Coastal sea freight transport has been increasing over the past two years and
now accounts for about 30 percent of total freight traffic.
34.      The state and provincial road system consists of about 60,000 km of
roads of which about 32,000 km are paved. Most of this network was built in
the 1950s and 1960s to relatively light construction standards and has had few
improvements in strength or capacity. In addition, Turkey has about 172,000
km of village roads, of which about 6,000 km are paved. Traffic has grown
rapidly in both numbers and size and weight of vehicles so that many parts of
the network are now beyond structural and volume capacity limits, resulting in
serious pavement deterioration and traffic congestion, leading to high vehicle
operating costs and heavy road maintenance expenditures.  The prevailing heavy
traffic is likely to lead to a serious worsening of the situation within the
next few years unless suitable rehabilitation measures are taken.
35.      The railways system, which consists of about 8,200 km of mainly
single standard gauge line, has been unable to meet traffic demand, resulting
in transfer of substantial amounts of bulk traffic to road transport. The
railways have also experienced substantial financial difficulties in recent
years resulting in a considerable drain on Government revenues and inadequate
resources for maintenance and development. The immediate problems of the
railways are operational and managerial, with solutions requiring adoption of
improved operational methods, recruiting operating personnel with experience
of modern methods, and provision of needed spare parts. However, as the



- II -
railways increase their share of bulk traffic, rehabilitation of their
infrastructure will become of increasing importance. A study financed under
the Bank railways loan (893-TU) identified opportunities for significant
improvements in the efficiency of freight operations and locomotive
maintenance, and the railways management has agreed to implement the study's
recommendations. In addition, tariff revisions to improve revenues were
introduced in October, 1981.
36.      Turkey's 7,300 km of coastline are served by 10 major public ports,
about 30 small municipal and other public ports, and about 35 specialized port
facilities owned by various industries. Operations in the main public ports
are hampered by inadequate equipment, shortage of storage capacity, poorly
trained port staff and outdated management techniques. The Bank loan for the
Second Port Project (Loan 1741-TU) addresses these issues through financing
key areas of port rehabilitation, providing support for improving port
coordination, and management and technical assistance for the preparation of a
ports master plan. Currently international shipping capacity is adequate but
that of coastal shipping should be kept under review since demand is
increasing.
37.      Ministerial responsibilities for planning, project execution,
maintenance and regulation in the transport sector are:
(a) Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) has overall
responsibility for (i) railways through Turkish State Railways
(TCDD); (ii) state ports through either the TCDD or the Maritime
Bank, and private ports which are operated by a variety of
groups; (iii) civil aviation through the Turkish Civil Aviation
Authority and Turkish Airlines; and (iv) posts, television and
telecommunications through Posts and Telecommunication and
Turkish State Radio and Television. In all of these sub-sectors
major civil and infrastructure works are undertaken by the
Ministry of Public Works (MPW) either through contract or force
account. In addition the MTC is responsible for fare and rate
regulation of road transport while the Ministry of the Interior
is responsible for the enforcement of these regulations.
(b) Ministry of Public Works (MPW) is divided into three main
directorates, with the General Directorate of Highways (KGM)
responsible for planning, construction and maintenance of State
(primary) and Provincial (secondary) roads, and two other
General Directorates responsible for the infrastructure of
airports and pipelines, and ports and railways respectively.
(c) Ministry of Village Affairs includes a General Directorate for
Infrastructure (YSE) which is responsbile for maintenance,
improvement and construction of village (tertiary) roads, in
addition to other rural infrastructure. The individual
municipalities are responsible for most of the urban road
network and municipal bus services.
38.      Until recently transport planning, policy and regulation have been
largely on an ad hoc basis, with only limited coordination between modes and
even less with transport users. In particular, there has been a lack of
adequate integration between developments in manufacturing, energy and



- 12 -
agriculture and planning of investments in transport infrastructure which
would be required to permit those developments to be effective. The State
Planning Organization (SPO) directly responsible to the Prime Minister's
Office, and the Ministry of Finance coordinate expenditures in the sectors but
until recently their influence has been limited to identifying deficiencies in
project planning and preparation and monitoring implementation problems. The
former Transport Coordinating Agency (TCA), set up within the Ministry of
Transport and Communications (MTC) to coordinate transport sector planning was
not able to attract or retain adequate competent staff and had little
effective authority to influence subsector agencies or ministries. The
Government has noted these deficiencies in its transport planning system and
in early 1981 organized a core of specialists in the SPO to prepare a draft
National Transport Master Plan (NTMP), taking account of the technical plans
and inputs of the various agencies involved. An Interministerial Committee
was also established to review the plan and related budget proposals.  The SPO
is adequately and competently staffed for directing and coordinating transport
planning, and collaborates well with the agencies concerned (about 100 in
number). It appears, therefore, that the transport planning system in Turkey,
into which the highway planning system in the proposed project will be
integrated, is now developing in appropriate directions. However performance
of the new system should remain under review. The draft transport master plan
was completed in February 1982 but has not yet been translated. The Bank
plans to review with the Government in June (and subsequently) the draft plan
and the functioning of the current transport planning system.
39.      For the next two or three years, Government policy will have to focus
on meeting immediate needs involving continued transport of bulk commodities
by road, and rehabilitation of highways and railway facilities. However,
during this period the transport master plan should promote solutions
consistent with the longer-term needs and resources of the economy. The
present short-term priorities are reflected in the current transport
investment plan, where major new investments are being postponed and efforts
are being concentrated on the maintenance and rehabilitation of the existing
transport system, and raising operational efficiency.
The Highway Subsector
40.      Road transport, which is the major carrier of passengers and freight
in the country, is largely in the hands of private operators and there is free
entry into the industry. The structure of road transport includes many
owner-driver operators, some grouped into associations, and also some very
large operators. Although official freight tariffs are set for particular
routes and commodities by the MTC, it is common practice to negotiate rates
with customers. The charges indicated compare reasonably well with total
vehicle operating costs. However, cost recovery from heavy vehicle operators
for the damage their vehicles cause to the network is inadequate, and this
will be examined in the proposed project (para 56). Passenger tariffs vary
according to area of operation and road condition and the quality of service,
and published tariffs are generally fixed after negotiation with local
authorities and the MTC.
41.      Traffic on the State and Provincial road system has grown
historically at a rate about 40 percent higher than the GDP, but during the
economic slowdown since 1977 traffic has fallen below its long-term 9-10



- 13 -
percent growth rate and is now probably growing at about 5 percent a year.
However, despite the decline in traffic growth, traffic already exceeds the
strength and geometric capacity of many of the roads.
42.      An exception to the slowdown of traffic growth is transit traffic,
especially that stimulated by the Iran/Iraq conflict. All goods originating
in Turkey or arriving at Turkish ports for trans-shipment by truck have to be
carried in Turkish vehicles. The net foreign exchange earnings on transit
traffic in 1980 before the outbreak of the Iran/Iraq hostilities amounted to
about $100 million per year, or about 2 percent of total exports of goods and
services. Since then net earnings on this traffic have increased to about
$300 million per year (excluding the benefits from the purchase of cheap fuel
in Iran and Iraq). Even following a resolution of the present conflict, truck
transit traffic is expected to continue at high levels for a considerable time
(see para 72).
43.      The KGM (General Directorate of Highways) is responsible for the
planning, design, construction and maintenance of the highways and bridges
which form the State and Provincial highway network. The organization of KGM
both at its headquarters in Ankara and its seventeen Regional Divisions is
appropriate for these purposes. To carry out construction KGM relies about
equally on force account and contractors supervised by the KGM staff, with
most major construction handled by contractors. Routine maintenance is
carried out by force account. The quality of KGM staff is generally high, and
availability of experienced personnel is not expected to be a constraint on
project planning and implementation.
44.      Planning in the highway sub-sector (excluding village roads) is
carried out by the KCM, subject to review by the SPO and the Ministry of
Finance for consistency with general planning objectives, resource and
financial constraints and transport demand. The current highway investment
program contains a large number of projects (over 400) but, due to financial
constraints, work has either not started or virtually ceased on many of them.
Following recommendations made by the Bank to the Government in early 1981 in
the preparation of the Public Sector Investment Review (Report No. 3472-TU of
December 7, 1981) and as part of the preparation of the NTMP, the KGM,
together with SPO, have carried out a review of the project list to establish
a reduced program in line with economic priorities. The review has resulted
in the postponement of some large new projects, and the diversion of resources
to urgent strengthening and rehabilitation of priority sections of the
existing network. The Highway Investment Master Plan developed by the KGM as
part of the NTMP and the highway rehabilitation planning program (para 54) are
expected to further improve this planning approach.
45.      KGM contract construction and road improvement is carried out
following competitive bidding open to prequalified contractors on the MPW's
register. The register is reviewed periodically and systematically. The
contracting industry is well established and adequate as regards capacity and
technical competence. KGM procedures and conditions for procurement and
contract administration are appropriate.
46.      Highway maintenance is extensive, well organized and well executed,
and it has been effective in preserving many roads. However, even good
maintenance cannot cope with the rapid deterioration of roads bearing traffic
loads significantly beyond their design capacities, and many of the more



- 14 -
heavily travelled routes are now failing drastically. Maintenance
expenditures are increased by the need to make temporary repairs in cases
where reconstruction to improved standards would be more economic. This
problem would be reduced by the reconstruction investments to be carried out
under the proposed project. The highway planning included in this project
(para 55) would also examine the appropriate balance between road maintenance,
strengthening and rehabilitation programs.  Responsibility for highway and
equipment maintenance is delegated to the seventeen divisions throughout
Turkey. The equipment fleet is large and comprehensive but much of it is old
and until recently, there have been some difficulties in obtaining foreign
exchange for the purchase of spare parts. Dependent upon the outcome of the
study on the balance between the maintenance, rehabilitation, and
strengthening programs, any further studies required for equipment needs could
be carried out under the supplementary studies provided for in the proposed
project (para 59).
47.      The maintenance, rehabilitation and new construction of the State and
Provincial highways are financed by (a) allocations from the general revenues
of Government; (b) earmarked revenues from toll roads, bridges and tunnels;
(c) duties on fuel sales; and (d) miscellaneous sources. Road user charges
are in total adequate to cover expenditures on road construction and
maintenance, which overall are reasonable. However, the incidence of these
charges on vehicles of different weights does not reflect adequately the
damage to the road system from the use of heavy vehicles. A component is
included in the axle load study under this project (para 56) to make
recommendations on a revised scale of license fees for heavy vehicles to
remedy this deficiency.
Prior Bank Loans
48.      The Bank has participated in three previous projects in the transport
sector. A $12.5 million loan for the First Port Project (Loan 28-TU),
approved in 1950, included extensions of several ports, one new port and
equipment for handling specialized commodities. Following agreed project
changes, a supplementary loan of $3.8 million was made in 1954. Although
completion was delayed from 1958 to 1962, most of the physical works were
completed by 1959, with procurement for a relatively small part of the project
leading to most of the delay.  A $75 million loan for a Second Port Project
(1741-TU), approved in 1979, is aimed at the rehabilitation of the 10 main
public ports through provision of equipment, infrastructure, and storage, and
improvement of port institutions through provision of technical assistance for
training, tariff and management studies, and port sector planning. The
project is being implemented smoothly with only minor problems. Due to some
delays in procurement, project completion may be about a year later than
originally expected. A $46.7 million loan for a railways project (893-TU),
approved in 1973, included track renewal, signalization and
telecommunications, manufacture of rolling stock, modernization of workshops,
training and technical assistance.  Although much of the project had been
completed by the planned 1976 Closing Date, long delays due to management
problems and slow procurement procedures resulted in completion of the balance
of the project only in mid-1981. Progress has been made in many areas, but
operational problems have persisted due to limited availability of locomotives
and inefficient traffic planning. Reluctance to raise tariffs resulted in a
very poor financial situation, but the October 1981 increase in tariffs should
lead to improvements. Recommendations resulting from a Bank-financed study



- 1 5-
for the improvement of freight operations and diesel locomotive maintenance
and greater availability of spares have been accepted by the Government and
their implementation should result in better operational performance. There
have not been any Operations Evaluation Reports prepared on transport sector
investments in Turkey but a completion report on the railways project is
currently under preparation. In general, the problems encountered in the
First Port and the Railways Projects resulted from procurement delays
reflecting deficiencies in Turkey's administrative and coordinating
arrangements. Given the improved experience under the Second Port Project,
the relatively simple nature of the physical work under the proposed highway
rehabilitation project, and the good quality of KGM staff, the proposed
project should not experience the type of difficulties and delays faced by the
first two projects in the transport sector.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
49.      The proposed project was identified in November 1980 during
discussions concerning the preparation of the Public Sector Investment Review
Report (see para. 44). KGM prepared the project with guidance provided by a
Bank Mission in June 1981 and during KGM visits to Washington in April and
August 1981. The project was appraised in November 1981. Negotiations were
held in Washington in March 1981 with a Turkish delegation headed by the Chief
Financial and Economic Counselor of the Turkish Embassy and including
representatives of the Treasury and KGM. The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development has indicated that it expects to cofinance this project.
Project Objectives and Description
50.       The Government's strategy in the transport sector gives priority to
rehabilitation and strengthening of the existing network, and facilitating
exports and the transport of bulk commodities, especially those related to
energy. The objectives of the proposed project are: first, to improve,
through rehabilitation and strengthening, priority and quick benefit yielding
sections of the highway network, particularly those sections which play an
important part in carrying exports and transit traffic; second, to promote
improved planning and control systems; third, to support Government efforts to
improve highway safety and to develop a suitable vehicle load control system;
and fourth, to provide training for highway staff.
51.      The components of the proposed project are:
(i)    a three-year slice of the highway rehabilitation and
strengthening program, covering road sections to be started
during 1982-84 (about 775 km) and completed by the end of 1986;
(ii)   some priority specialized equipment for highway rehabilitation
works;
(iii) equipment and materials for:
(a) the preparation of future programs of highway
rehabilitation;



- 16 -
(b) a vehicle axle load monitoring and control system, and a
program to evaluate pavement performance and related road
user charges; and
(c) a highway safety program;
(iv)   consultancy services for supplementary studies (likely to
include follow-up on specific aspects of the NTMP such as bulk
transport needs and possibly studies to improve the highway
planning process and road maintenance); and
(v)    fellowships for training.
Details of the project are provided below, in the Loan and Project Summary, in
Annex III and in the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3793-TU dated April 9, 1982)
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
Highway Rehabilitation Program and Related Planning
52.      Many highways in Turkey were not designed to meet present traffic
demands and despite an extensive program of highway maintenance, the condition
of these highways is deteriorating rapidly. Therefore, the Government
proposes to step up its program of highway rehabilitation and strengthening
for priority sections of the primary network, and it is a three-year slice
(1982-1984) of this program that is included in the project. According to an
indicative program prepared by the KGM, this three-year slice is likely to
comprise about 10 individual priority highway sections totalling about 775
km. The actual length and number of sections may differ from this estimate
depending upon the results of the technical and economic analysis of each
section. The roads will be selected and the program designed in accordance
with agreed economic and engineering criteria which were developed as part of
project preparation. The detailed engineering and feasibility studies for the
first year's time slice, covering three priority sections totalling 251 km,
were reviewed at the time of the appraisal mission, and are consistent with
the agreed engineering and economic criteria. The rehabilitation program for
subsequent years will be agreed during annual reviews to be held not later
than September 30 of each year, beginning in 1982 (para. 65). Feasibility
studies of all highway sections in the program, whether externally financed or
not, will be submitted to the Bank for approval before construction bids are
invited, or before force account rehabilitation commences (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.04).
53.      Most of the rehabilitation and strengthening works will be carried
out by contract. However, the KGM will prepare quarry stockpiles at various
locations by force account, and will also carry out small rehabilitation works
by force account in remote and scattered areas. To assist the KGM in these
force account works, the project includes a component ($5.9 million) for the
procurement of specialized quarrying and paving equipment.
54.      The proposed project includes $1.0 million of equipment to assist the
KGM to develop its planning process and carry out the detailed planning and
engineering of the remainder of this rehabilitation program. The equipment
includes pavement deflection measuring instruments, which would be used to
develop a pavement evaluation system and to monitor pavement performance.



- 17 -
With the assistance of this equipment, KGM staff would aLso carry out planning
for a longer term rehabilitation program for three years following completion
of this project. This longer term program would be prepared by September 30,
1983 in accordance with terms of reference agreed by the Bank (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.09 (b)) and would be reviewed with the Bank during annual project
reviews (see para. 65).
55.      In this planning process, KGM will include an overall technical,
economic and financial assessment of the appropriate balance between KOM's
maintenance, strengthening and rehabilitation programs for the next five
years. If, following this review, a further detailed study of road
maintenance and rehabilitation is required, it can be agreed in the course of
the annual project reviews and be carried out under the supplementary studies
component of the project (para. 59). The Bank expects to have an opportunity
to comment on KGM's planning system by the date of the first of such annual
reviews.
Vehicle Axle Load Monitoring and Control
56.      Axle load legislation in Turkey was amended in 1980 to bring it more
in line with European standards. The Government is currently preparing
supplementary legislation and regulations for enforcing the new limits. In
order to reduce damage to the road system, KOM staff will carry out a study in
accordance with agreed terms of reference to develop by December 31, 1983 a
program for implementing vehicle loading controls. Thereafter, in
consultation with the Bank, the Government will implement its load control
program (Loan Agreement, Section 3.09 (a)(i)). To assist KGM develop and
subsequently implement this program, the project includes a component (0.9
million) for the procurement of equipment to monitor and control vehicle
weights. Included in the vehicle loading control study is an analysis to
determine the costs of the damageto the highways caused by heavy vehicles and
to develop a revised system of road user charges to cover these costs.
Highway Safety Program
57.      The Government is concerned about road accident rates and KCM staff
will complete a highway safety study by July 31, 1984 in accordance with
agreed terms of reference: (i) to identify accident "black-spots"; (ii) to
determine an appropriate program of highway surface marking and signing; (iii)
to determine the need and requirements for emergency after-accident services;
and (iv) to assess the adequacy of existing traffic procedures, legislation
and driver education. To assist the KOM in preparing this study and
implementing the highway safety program, this project includes a component
*         (3.6 million) for the procurement of highway safety materials and equipment.
58.      Arising out of the highway safety study would be proposals for
implementing safety measures and a program to monitor and evaluate highway
safety. Thereafter, in consultation with the Bank, the Government would
implement the safety program (Loan Agreement. Section 3.09 (a)(ii)).
Consultancy Services for Supplementary Studies
59.      Following the preparation of the NTMP and the setting up of the KGM's
proposed planning system, or during the preparation of the axle load control
and highway safety programs, it is expected that high priority supplementary



- 18 -
studies requiring consultants services will be identified, for which $600,000
has been allocated under the project. Likely subjects for these studies could
include (a) follow-up studies on the NTMP in areas such as bulk transport; (b)
traffic forecasting methods; (c) data collection, storage and retrieval; (d)
vehicle operating costs; (e) follow-up studies on future budget requirements
for road maintenance and rehabilitation and the appropriate balance between
maintenance and rehabilitation work; and (f) assessing measures to make more
effective use of the KGM's redundant labor. It is expected that about 80
man-months of consultancy services will be provided.
Fellowships
60.      To assist KGM in improving its planning and construction techniques
and in the preparation of feasibility studies, a limited number of fellowships
abroad (about 60 man-months, depending upon costs) are proposed for engineers
and economists in transport economics, highway planning, contract evaluation
and project supervision and control. The fellowships will be provided,
probably in Western Europe, by agencies such as contractors, consultants,
highway departments and universities, and will be arranged by the KGM Training
Department directly with the agencies concerned. The fellowship program would
be reviewed each year as part of the annual review (para. 65).
Cost Estimates and Financing
61.      The estimated total cost of the proposed project is $264 million,
including $140 million in foreign exchange and about $35 million of taxes and
duties. Of this amount about $251 million is the estimated cost of
contractors' services for highway rehabilitation, including about $128 million
in foreign exchange. The remainder of the estimated foreign exchange costs
consists of $5.9 million for equipment for highway rehabilitation; $5.5
million for equipment and materials for planning, load control, and highway
safety; $0.2 million for fellowships; and $0.5 million for consultant
services. The above estimates include 5 percent physical contingencies for
the first year's highway rehabilitation program (for which detailed
engineering has been completed), 10 percent physical contingencies for all
other components, and about 21 percent price escalation. (While local costs
are expected to increase at a faster rate, the floating TL automatically
accommodates the difference between local and foreign inflation.) The
equipment estimates include 15 percent for purchase of spare parts. The
foreign exchange component of pavement rehabilitation works is 51 percent
overall based upon the expectation that half the contracts will be won by
local firms, while the foreign exchange component of earthworks contracts
associated with these rehabilitation works is estimated at 35 percent based on
the expectation that local firms will win all of these contracts.
Consultants' services are estimated on the basis of $12,000 per man-month
(including salary, costs, fees, international travel and subsistence) for
foreign consultants and $6,000 (including salary, costs,, fees, and
subsistence) for local consultants. Fellowship costs are estimated at $3,000
per man-month.
62.      The Government has requested that the 1.5 percent front-end fee of
$1,050,739 be financed out of the proposed Bank loan. The balance of the loan
amount (about $70 million) would finance the foreign costs for contract
construction of slightly under half the highway rehabilitation program, the
foreign costs of half of the supplementary studies, and all the foreign costs
of equipment, materials and overseas fellowships. The Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development has confirmed its intention to provide parallel financing



- 19 -
of the remaining foreign costs (estimated at about $70 million equivalent) of
contract construction for highway rehabilitation and supplementary studies.
The Kuwait Fund financing is expected to be one loan made in two tranches, the
first to be made in fall 1982 and the other in 1983. To avoid delays, the
Bank would finance the three road sections included in the first year's slice
of the rehabilitation program, with the Kuwait Fund expected to finance an
increased number of road sections in subsequent years. The Government would
finance the remaining project costs (including force account rehabilitation
costs) estimated at $124 million equivalent. This amount of Government
financing for highway rehabilitation over the project period is in accordance
with the Government's planning figures and with the recommendations of the
Bank's Public Sector Investment Review mission (para 44). No cross
effectiveness provisions with the Kuwait Fund financing are proposed since the
Bank and the Kuwait Fund are expected to finance separate subprojects and, if
any of the Kuwait Fund financing did not materialize, the Bank financed
components could proceed independently. The proposed loan documents provide
cross default provisions with the expected Kuwait Fund loan (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.01).
Implementation
63.      The KGM would be responsible for implementing all components of the
project except for any supplementary studies in support of the NTMP which
would be implemented by SPO. The KGM will also be responsible for overall
loan and project administration. Project implementation would be spread over
a period of five years ending December 1986, based upon a detailed
implementation plan for the first year's program, drawn up as a critical path
diagram. The implementation schedule has been adjusted, following a check
against historic disbursement profiles, and it provides an allowance of one
extra year to complete the 1982-84 rehabilitation program, to cover unforseen
circumstances. Despite the efficient performance of the KGM in preparing the
project, this extra year is considered reasonable in view of this being the
first Bank project in this sub-sector. Engineering for this program started
in 1981 and tenders have been invited for the 1982 rehabilitation program from
contractors prequalified following international advertisement in September
1981 (para. 68). The first rehabilitation contracts are expected to be let in
mid-1982. Engineering work is expected to continue through 1983, allowing
contracts to be let on a phased basis year by year. Where earthworks and
paving works are required, the earthworks would be advanced by letting
contracts separately from the paving works. The KGM would supervise the
rehabilitation contracts with its own staff through its field divisions, and
has adequate resources for this purpose. The details of KGM's arrangements
for supervision of construction were reviewed at negotiations and are adequate.
64.      Equipment and materials would be procured by the KGM in two
tranches. About 80 percent of the total allocated would be procured in
1982/83. Interest in supplying this equipment was solicited through
international advertisement in December 1981. The remainder of the equipment
would be procured in 1984, when the various studies and programs proposed
under the project have been further developed. The list of equipment and
materials to be procured under the first tranche was agreed at negotiations.
The highway planning, axle load control, and highway safety studies would be
carried out by the KGM and are scheduled to commence by July 1982 and would
all be completed by July 1984. The supplementary studies to be financed by
the Bank would be agreed between the Government and the Bank as the need for



- 20 -
them is identified, inter alia during reviews of the NTMP, annual project
reviews, or during reviews of the various studies provided for under the Loan
Agreement. Financing of individual studies would be allocated by agreement
about equally between the Kuwait Fund and the Bank. The Bank financed studies
would be implemented, on the basis of terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank, by consultants selected in accordance with Bank guidelines (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.03).
65.      In order to control and assist in the timely implementation of the
project, annual project reviews would be held between the Government and the
Bank not later than September 30 each year beginning in 1982: (a) to review
the indicative plans for the highway rehabilitation program for the next three
years; (b) to select and agree on specific highway sections and supplemental
studies to be started during the next fiscal year for financing by the Bank;
and (c) to agree on an implementation plan for the remainder of the project
and a detailed work and training program for the next fiscal year, including
non-transferable budget allocations for the project (Loan Agreement, Section
3.02). These meetings would also review project performance during the
current year and the progress of transport planning, and will identify
problems requiring further study under the studies component of the project.
66.      Since coordination both within KGM and with external agencies is
critical for successful project implementation, the Government has agreed to
maintain within KGM a Project Control and Coordinating Team (PT) with
organization and functions acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section
3.05). A Project Coordinator has been appointed and participated in the loan
negotiations. The PT was formally established in April 1982 with adequate
staffing for initial operations.
67.      The Government has agreed to submit appropriate reports to the Bank
to monitor and control the project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.07). The
Government has also agreed to submit audit reports to the Bank within nine
months after the close of each financial year (Loan Agreement, Section 4.03).
These audits are expected to be prepared by the Inspector General of the
Ministry of Finance (Auditor General's Office) which should be satisfactory.
Procurement and Disbursement
68.      Civil works, to be financed under the Bank loan, for contracts
exceeding $3 million equivalent each, and estimated to cost in total about
$100 million, would be awarded following international competitive bidding for
which prequalification would be required, and in which suitably qualified
local contractors would also be invited to participate. The time schedule for
civil works tenders would be set so as to allow bidders to take account in
their bids of cost savings arising from the possibility of winning more than
one contract. Nine Turkish firms and two foreign firms have been prequalified
for the first year's slice of the highway rehabilitation program. Contracts
expected to be less than $3 million each and in total not to exceed $20
million, may be procured under local competitive bidding procedures, which are
adequate. These contracts are scattered or of a nature not likely to attract
foreign firms. Foreign prequalified firms would be allowed to participate in
local bidding. For civil works not being financed by the Bank, the KGM would
be expected to carry out the work either through contracts awarded under the
procurement procedures of the Kuwait Fund, or by force-account from its own
budget.



- 21 -
69.      Equipment and materials contracts, estimated to cost in totaL about
$9 million, would be awarded following international competitive bidding in
which local suppliers would be invited to participate. Local suppliers would
be allowed a margin of preference of 15 percent or actual customs duty,
whichever is the lower. Highly specialized equipment (such as for measuring
pavement deflections), estimated to cost in total about $2 million, may be
purchased by negotiated contracts with qualified suppliers. Contracts between
$10,000 and $50,000 each, and not to exceed in total $300,000, may, with the
prior approval of the Bank, be awarded through local competitive bidding
procedures which would not preclude foreign firms from participating.
70.      The Bank loan would be disbursed against: (i) 51 percent of the costs
of paving contracts and 35 percent of earthworks contracts agreed for Bank
financing; (ii) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures and local expenditures
ex-factory and 60 percent of other local expenditures for road rehabilitation
equipment and for equipment and materials for the highway safety, load
control, and planning components; (iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures
for fellowships; and (iv) 85 percent of total expenditure for studies selected
for Bank financing. So as not to discriminate against the local consulting
industry, the Bank would disburse against costs of local consultancy firms
awarded contracts in accordance with Bank approved procedures to the same
extent as would occur if foreign consultants were employed.
Project Benefits and Risks
71.      The economic benefits of the proposed project have been analyzed
based upon reductions in vehicle operating costs and road maintenance costs.
However, in view of Turkey's economic problems and, in particular, its large
balance of payments deficit, special attention has also been paid to the
importance of highway improvements on those roads which contribute directly to
foreign exchange earnings through facilitating Turkey's exports and earnings
on transit traffic. The three road sections selected for the first year's
tranche of this project are the Toprakkale-Komurler (74 km),
Gaziantep-Birecik (61 km), and Akinci-Saklan (116 km) sections on the
international trade route between the port of Mersin and Iraq. All three
sections carry heavy traffic loads far beyond design capacity and are on the
verge of pavement failure or have already failed. As noted earlier (para 42),
net earnings on truck transit traffic in 1981 were about $300 million per
year. Of this amount, an estimated 85 percent comes from the
Mersin/Iskenderun-Iraq road traffic. In addition, an estimated two million
tons of cement and 0.5 million tons of agricultural and livestock products
were exported along this road in 1981.
72.      The economic rates of return on the first year's proposed
rehabilitation program, based upon vehicle operating cost savings and
maintenance cost reductions, vary between about 100 percent for the
Akinci/Saklan road to about 350 percent for the Gaziantep/Birecik road. These
calculations are based upon the assumption of base year transit traffic at a
level half way between pre-Iran/Iraq war levels and mid-1981 war-time levels
and total traffic growing at 5 percent per year. This is considered
reasonable since even after resolution of the Iran/Iraq conflict, (i)
reconstruction needs will increase the demand for commodities beyond port
capacities in these countries; (ii) considerable trading relationships have
now developed via this route; and (iii) the distance of many consuming areas
of Iran and Iraq from Persian Gulf port facilities and the longer sea journeys



- 22 -
to these ports from Europe make the trans-Turkey route cost competitive for
some portions of these countries. It is estimated that the foreign exchange
costs of rehabilitation, with predicted traffic flows, would be recovered in
about two years. Even if traffic should return immediately to 1980 levels
with no increase thereafter and if construction costs should increase by 50
percent, the rate of return would still be acceptable at more than 20 percent.
73.      Although some individual sections to be selected in future annual
programs may not result in the high base-case rates of return shown above, it
is expected that they will easily exceed the cut-off rate of 20 percent in
view of high average traffic flows, the large proportion of heavy vehicles and
the severe maintenance and congestion problems at present on large portions of
the highway network caused by traffic exceeding design capacities.
74.      Given the competent performance shown to date by KGM in its
maintenance and construction programs and in preparation of this project, the
risk of delays due to institutional deficiencies is considered minimal. There
is a risk that a downturn in the Turkish economy could reduce funds available
for financing the local cost component. However, performance under Turkey's
structural adjustment program has been good over the last two years and
progress is expected to continue. The annual reviews of budget adequacy (para
65) would give the Bank an early opportunity to use its leverage to obtain
adequate funding. If an unexpected problem interfered with the Kuwait Fund's
intended cofinancing, the economic viability of the sub-projects selected for
Bank financing would remain high although the losses to the economy from
delaying the potentially high benefits of the full rehabilitation program
would be considerable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank
and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The special features of the Loan Agreement are referred to in the
text and listed in Section III of Annex III. There are no special conditions
of loan effectiveness.
76.      I am satisfied the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART IV - RECOMMENDATION
77.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachment
April 20, 1982
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I-A
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
TURKEW--TAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURKEY                            REFEREIENC  CROUPS (WIITED AVE,RAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            MTST  RECENT  ESTIMATE)-GE
TOTAL            780.6                                 MOST REC ENT          MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL     554.5              1960  /b    1970 /b gSTIMATE /b              EUROPE              MAgKET ECONOMIES
.NP PER CAPITA (US5)                 300.0        550.0    1330.0                 2609.1                    9444.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PEk CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     254.3       504.1      806.5                 2368.4                    7896.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POFULATION, MID-YEAR (TNOUSANDS) 27509.0     35321.0   44237,0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.7        38.4      46.5                    53.2                      76.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2DOO (MILLIONS)                      69.1
STIATIONARY POPULATION (MILLiONS)                       114.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KH.                       35.2        45.2      56.7                    80.6                    142.7
PER SQ. KH. AGRICULTURAL LAND     51.0        64.0       77.8                  133.9                    523.3
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         41.2        41.0       39.2                   30.1                     22.8
15-64 YRS.                         55.2        54.3       56.3                   61.5                     65.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.6         4.7       4.5                     8.3                     11.6
POPULATION .ROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.8         2.5        2.5                    1.5                      0.8
URBAN                              6.1         5.1       4.6                     3.1                      1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     42.5        38.0       34.2                   22.9                     14.5
CRUDE DLATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     15.5        12.5       9.7                     9.1                      9.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1         2.6       2.3                     1.6                      0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTURS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        65.6      66.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   5.3         8.2      38.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODLCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71'100)          96.0       100.0     112.0                   119.8                    112.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  110.0       111.0     115.0                   125.7                    131.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          81.0        80.0      82.0                    92.5                     98.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       24.0        26.0      24.0                    39.7                     62.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     23.0        15.0       9.0                     3.4                      0.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    50.8        57.1      61.6                    68.9                     73.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATS (PER
THOUSAND)                          194.0       153.O/c      *.                    25.2                     12.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        52.0      75.0
UR8AN                                         51.0      70.0
RURAL                                         53.0      80.0
.CCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..      20.0.
RURAL                               ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2799.6      2227.6    1770.3                  973.3                     621.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      1883.8   1461.3                   896.6                     217.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            590.0/d     490.3     505.8                   262.3                    119.4
URBAN                            19o.o7-    313.4      312.5                   191.8                    120.9
RURAL                                       5912.2        ..                      .
ADHISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           . .       20.2      22.3                    18.2                     17.9
HOUSUNG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.7         5.9
UR aAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               '-         2.2
URBAN                              2.0         1.9        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             29.0        41.1      57.0
URbAN                               ..        78.2
RURAL                              2.0        18.0



- 24 -
ANNEX I-A
TABLE 3A                                           Page  2  of  5
TURKEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TURKEY                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b               EUROPE              MARKET ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 75.0        110.0     105.0                    105.9                      99.6
MALE                  90.0       124.0      115.0                   109.6                      102.1
FEMALE                58.0        94.0       95.0                   102.2                     101.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 14.0         27.0      41.0                     66.3                      89.3
MALE                  20.0        38.0       57.0                    73.2                      83.3
FEMALE                 8.0        15.0       26.0                    59.5                      85.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  18.0          14.0       18.0                    28.4                      18.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            46.0         38.0      30.0                     26.8                      21.2
SECONDARY                          19.0         28.0      27.0                     23.6                      16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        38.0         55.5/e    60.3/h                   75.4                      98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0          3.9       11.5                    83.9                     349.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         49.1         87.7     101.3                    181.6                    1018.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.0          1.8      54.0                    131.1                     400.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  51.0           ..         ..                   123.8                     336.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.1           6.7         ..                     5.7                       4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13782.1       15817.7   19220.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   40.2         37.2      36.3                     32.9                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              78.0         67.7      54.3                    34.0                        6.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.0         12.1      12.9                    28.7                       37.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                50.1         44.8       43.4                    42.3                      45.7
MALE                                  58.7        55.7       54.4                    56.5                      58.9
FEMALE                               41.2         33.6       32.1                    28.5                      33.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9         1.0        1.0                     0.9                       0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   33.0/f        32. 8/
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.07         60.6      56.5/i 
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.27f         2.9/g     3.47-                             
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.6LW         9.47     11.47.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     342.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     270.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..     220.0                   385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1967;  /d 1962;  /e Six years and over;  /f 1963;  /S 1968;  /h 1975; /i 1973.
May, 1981



T-03  10  01  '003*  707304'030   2003    IO   m0
0010713033 33. I0.   70011 "071770404 - 00030  00700*00  001070
-7   - T- 0 103300 ...0 0000M    10 0-    lol
-  903  m                   170  -             "1000   30 1003000  7PT001  I030   000
Pm.-0)00101040  3   I0030 _- 7730                                                 P79707Sl3  00    0031S    7117   701P                           0030*qom
nin   Oj      -1 "070Tf  4071'70 - P0*70                 04   1)0*   OOq17 0-010*90m    0030~-00500
'000   047010)0731040o.~~30  oopo0731                              0  00o     003   on  4  0915*000  7017lOdml   o  1100
70.0.4  71  033P00.00   l *03  *040  '3oao 00 3  nf;  oooT"        p..             no'94    0         '.o1o14  o)lodo -1TM) 30010103
.o 04 .'ao   oc-. 170          1  3304  07003737                     -(lI  Lo;o   P   .3)4000S3=  0:,10  n;  01I.:.000
- 700ZPm0(0700*047) 70**005)1403  001007  710111               01        T-01* P0- 0900337  00- 0010o00n01I 70P(40  fi
1*007 *1l0&00 P03"    101-09 T -113 -007   017 10 '070303                           T390   01701000   03(03'   m'03    70)044~ 
T-,".   q.T"  -Tq T-470011311 1                                                  7000  70'09*   710   307014  0  090*)  004  30  0noOf
*00   007 1001P 7"7     11  00340)709                                                                     743   01  m0q334d
- 903Pm*03  -(7151o   m    0~33 70100400707   01010                     00  00          0030  0  900    ~      )m001007  13  17047   *05
001000' 019030770003 7100 pOlOOd.000067 TqP-7U610 Om                                 !1071 -;IT  --m 0047'03P  9101  10~
*,'   zo    ; to     o0*0m_-  .00034.10   00*;0    3000 S0 093                         PnomT041 300 T0 30- 0095 obo.. -T  -TR (000  7107   00   T o~.eo  000
tq                  4T") --I ""Va ;~~~'0p7900l03   30                            *000" 4)_7 Pm 006 P'0767  00190  0317 0030           10   03
0*030  0  oj4Pm  1*034  7000  *030  0  09713 30034             -00301400p  0*  303   !' 4000   sO   0170  TI   P-0770  01300            1 no  o
1*031  4709103o     p07  m 1901 307  Sf   0000  o 0010034      1 p0907  304 07T- 9  70               P -  T(0007  04  0100 'T-00 ",7  90)p07
n03311T 4111 UC1            '37007R-06  '914    0  004!P~. so- 00W              0  Pm 010w*3 91
19  11 11-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~0  m 3 1400113   07   m100003  707  113 010  0
-T.   TITT    -,ml    P-"   7 ~0030"  300)100007   00                                              0007 0a,61 Pmd 0061'(9-l 7347   001  P00 P-TT0
O  P....  .07  001 '      Pm  01000   7   0000030oooo173103-09   070';1o T..710  Aq P7d- 50 07- 9339  30; '1.04Td 010
090   0101110   ,710  PS   30P  00   00   00   7  '07'06                      7010003   *000   004700T1104110   0                     300   0  05(
)T0l10~3  030770  0 0110040  075   07  070 '000  30040*104*3'   0  00103470                              P Sq 1  09977000 T003090  110 303- 010*0
903300) 0151        .I0'll* '7700  00 ...    0000040003                      -00  '007  00  -Pm130  *1 0003 30. 7440  003 p- op 004 Pm   0  )
30.00010204-  75    m  070  700  -(1030)  30   oj00013j      110304  0  0000  1003-              000dd 30  50  070100  30T  00   1400
0000 6041Pm 0061                                    010  007Pm  '004  '(197T,0dd00701
'047030  370  700  0  loooood0  *0 0.    300..03I.07 IT70T.                   000000.30  0-00401 t00). .00'0010140 P-            0 0070700J.      0   P
00b3003w*0  00)03130000  '0071001     ~. 00003  0  ....  (0030  30907       o..0.1..0.0010170**0700310100   000   m~
'010 447Pm  047'041  0004  010  110130oOoooo0400  00013-100  *030  03  70070)00o107410  mS  07  4 T        0000030 000
Pm00010    30003'0134  1030  37')- 0000)  007030           03*7  0117310  0 0007P   '000334P3  )P00090009
..3303070    P0000 T30 .110334 P0030T 070  05 --P(030)*a                           'po  P;10o   070   o7 ' 000  '73010T 01 001007  Pm'03030
'007lolPm001  040'070000  01                      00700007'010003 T0T-P.,700.)47  01701007  LOpm 304d
000 0 1300  00030 0-1   ft01070130   'oO  710. l 30  010140  303030700o4003  )07100-0140P3  0  010040037
''310  00*0p00 '00~O0Sq301    ..710 .07   30410   07000IT,                     0$07.o      00*07003   *0)010003000710   0
'077  190   0           01300'0   0000 T-*1043000 073T-0  '0003040700   00 01
073p100  0  0   '*0  13009307330  0 4113010 T-l1O  00700111704-1Z6Tl:::T;
'31000)  mII700IIOO   1*0'Ol  00 061'001I    '1Pm 00003000 , 000-913)o.o "00303- 40077
-T  ITT-"  --T1 '-01775  30111                                                                    '0107 0001 Pm-06 '0671  10101l       0
Pm  0000  '000139 00000   00004  3310  07  *01 *T .0  0003               30    A-07  3  000770 -3111  0311007      0007  300) 007P-             l   p
(01-TmI    m   0  77)  000E1000'  T170301  10010011-000                                                                         '0100 4061 PmqMT  - TI  -b. -'~d   '0061 '091  001301.
07 017000 0*0070 7100   007000   P    '0010  -  701  0Sq00-IT 74'000lOlI00 o-  '794   700
P00171=   0  Loyoo3   lmlTdp0  30 10                                    m1  00010130300070-             0000-  71  0017730'0-045
-p007701040717   003   070  0'171070  '100010701                                                                    00   0)0'061'9103  00
001010117110t-   (0700   00504)20700   701003010000   0    05)1006   0   03734  04.1    0   0   0
4100 l0 00.0973.0.700000.0 3000.).30  3.11003100..                                                                                                       01003
wldSoo00o;OOoOlAO3loO,003oOl3o'100)-OOo')..:OOOlIIo 3)043010033303-000011371...030=090d-100',
4370.   07  0   9707-053P T0Jl)- 17040410                                          00030000o) 433 501)3__3001030   07  '00  3004 7131-0
'ot1300   0030   0   0700  007000)40P."0103)0)04041401030037  010)od003000'7T0  7770
0*- 00 I07 090000                              ...   ..0 OI. ..0000)000071000000  0413  000T00  0007000P0..0 4300101   34- '110070  000700)0 R10 30
0753  Pm  1*0 '100300030    0153  Pm T1  7010 -. 1   'T 13071  .37. 00000 .43300   00)304  :0)".,.0,            300030T,-   7)00   30011
00110  3307- 07T-    700307'050414 0000)0q   00 I                                              Pm   4001100  070
T....     (-TT-  1-  --) 'T I                                        _4140077 001)003  30001007    0017" 0907  3300   07_10  07  0        T4170 47
P- ~ ~   ~ ~ 000004010100010    010)00003)3000010
4)07 3000003010001000070'370  '1104                          701)0d-=00010)'34   0407   1031)  000000
00000000.0000-  0000101  1)10010-                                                                    'T)"07""1700700-03-34'003  0301)73  003000  017 Aq5   Pm-T   T'100
-700  P'OIO'0l0-)707)0p310000300030)    )0007                                  05P701000T030000000000000373    003000.170
'03003-7-0I300000 0                       ..0000000330)00000...0000333o33010(3
Pm0000.3   0703430   070000)70    4003000'l)l07'00 ..1300;. 00. 01030   3)001   0007'o3701)44701
1000070007400.10.   00'.7    11T100310000P0o)                                         0330I00000l;-PT3003003-0000))01T=T000lOo
A- oloo0-0000 R3030 700-000300.3.....                                                                                                                   ",
I  _4.   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~03000110030                                                                                             000010004 0000000
1.  T                      -A  . ..)000   100)0)300 .00  7)070003  000                                   0)703) T-'06d'9 1'0100000-
0)007000  03  .  330F-7)  0030  0   01000 T---- 0)0  31000000-0.1)0330   030000000403   l)1)000 3p
-7030070  0700  1003-  7)07070700030030)710000070000)00307                                                                                      '011    06    06    - - -~J:b    --107
~~~11-       IIIT:,            71100              03)70  33   '0(   )  )0'3000-_00000    '0-T _AT'10710700  10100
'IT._                                                       T                                    .2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10014  771   3000700
0033710)  3003 00)0007330 30P3  T00                                                   T 700T033307  004 00700107                                        '000
'10000300)0  00)1)03  003307  711)30) 00330-)1 000 '04I'31  0)-0  303-01-)00070   000300 I(303
303000 00 )~)P   73  0110013033  000' 30  00_ 0101000 Id   7   0                 01   00300   700)0   -004700313                        00004'007   0
000000)03007':'03T0...   (00T77)0)0)00             '0010                   -11  '000100370  30TT    300 30 - 000- 0  03)1 Oo  o30    d0))704700
-007. 71.  003  31)71000d  000- -3)17103 0-0)T00-T-00)  00
0733100  )00070.04 00001301000000109          30300001100                       1000)'000)133370   073770077   03100'43   0
-03 00 )0000047001))000   I0 )000000 0000   0   )70   )0001004000.103.-000*370   00   00)030  00010,-)30710
0070)03    00703010033))   007))    00370'000'300  0)07000)0   0)300030030)03-                                                                          OO
'10001) 00030)03o0 - (0300 000 '0004") '10)03 - 001 103)0000 340"'30330)0-70'j                            ('0700 00000070) 717`7 007.'I). .....
0000003.0000 0003000.3.  o.0 ..    )30..    010307.07
30000000   00000000  'J000)00000000000004     0)3300000300000003000o03000)00001-033300070-o..300.'03300300707
00170407)30130000300700310-0 TP-00)     -10003700100- 0030-)000030o   07007   '03007073000007.....00    .3 033310)
303034)0031   70330)71 00103  000  03003007000700)3)03430003000)0)7303   0100M0  33 0)..00)                                   .......)~-~'1
0o3003000)  073050)  oooo  00)0003000))030003000    (3  70077030)00033;oooooooo   00000  4300000000330   03
Jo  as'd
V-I X3N4W



-   26  -                                               AJM=  I-A
Pap * of 5
TURKEY-COUNTRY DATA
Population.        44.8 million (1980)
GNP Per Capita.  US$1460 (1980)
Amount               Average Annual Increase (2)           Share of GDP at Market Prices (M)
(million Us$            (at constant 1980 prices)                     (at current prices)
Indicator                                    at current prices)
1980               1965-70    1970-75    1975-80          1965       1970      1975      1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a                         56,617                  6.6         7.5         2.8         100.0     100.0      100.0    100.0
Agriculture                                   12,112                   3.1        4.4         2.7          30.7       26.4      26.2    21.4
Industry lb                                   13,529                   9.5        9.5         2.9          16.6       17.2      18.0      23.9
Services                                      27,925                   8.2        8.0         3.7          42.9       46.5      46.0      54.5
Consumption                                       47,918                  5.8         7.0         2.5          84.6      82.8       84.8    82.4
Gross investment                                  13,022                 11.7        12.9         1.8          16.7      20.1       23.7    25.4
Exports of goods and NPS                           4,130                  7.9         7.3         0.9           6.1       5.8        6.1      7.1
imports of goods and NFS                           8,453                 11.2        13.8       -3.5            7.4       8.7       14.5     14.8
Gross national savings                             9,764                 11.6        11.9         3 .3         15.8      18.8       18.4     20.1
Average Annual Increase (%)           Composition of Merchandise Trade (x)
(at constant 1980 prices)                   (at current prices)
1970-75        1975-80             1965      1970       1975     1980
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                                2,910                      -0.8        4.6                 100.0     100.0      100.0   100.0
Primary /c                                     1,863                      -4.3         4.6                 80.0      83.0       64.1    64.0
Industrial products                            1,047                      17.0         4.7                 20.0      17.0       35.9     36.0
Merchandise imports                                7,667                      12.4       -4.7                 100.0     100.0     100.0   100.0
Food                                             308                       9.9       -17.6                  6.0        9.3       8.3      4.0
Petroleum                                      3,620                      18.5         9.9                 10.0        7.0      17.0    47.2
Machinery & equipment /d                       1,435                       9.9       -16.2                 39.9       39.8      38.5      18.7
Other                                          2,304                      12.1        -6.4                 44.1      43.9       36.2    30.1
1975       1976        1977        1978       1979        1980
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE
GDP deflator                                                   15.1       17.7        22.1        30.2       48.3       100.0
Exchange rate                                                  14.4       16.1        18.0        24.3       36.4        76.4
Export price index                                            60.4        62.8        68.9       73.0        85.9       100.0
Import price index                                            48.6        49.1        54.2       61.7        72.8       100.0
Terms of trade index                                         124.3       127.9       127.1       118.3      118.0       100.0
As I of GDP
(at current prices)
1965        1970        1975        1980
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                          15.0         22.6        22.0       19.8
Current expenditure                                                      10.0         11.8        12.6       11.5
Surplus (t) or deficit (-)                                               -2.0         -2.3       -0.4        -4.8
Investment expenditure                                                    4.7          5.7        4.2         3.9
Transfers                                                                 5.0          7.5         5.5        9.2
Foreign financing                                                         1.8          1.6         0.3        0.2
1965-70    1970-75    1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (X)                                                              6.8         7.7         2.6
GNP per capita growth rate (2)                                                   4.1         5.0        0.3
ICOR                                                                             2.9         2.9        5.7
Marginal savings rate (M)                                                       28.2        19.5        30.8
Import elasticity                                                                1.7         1.8       -1.3
/s   At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and aubsidies
lb   Includes mining and quarrying, manufacturing, and electricity, gas, and water.
/c   Includes agriculture and mining and quarrying.
7Th   Includes metal products and machinery, electrical appliances, and transportation vehicles.
EM2DA
11/2/81
(0184I)



- 27 -
A11 118-A
p.ge S of S
7118I-ALAC     O? PAIIIS. IITIUOL  CAPTAL AIM1188IT
WiMlie.  M1 *et 0.-*at p"i.e.)
Popalationc       44.8 .illion (1900)
GNP Per Capit.2  USI1460 (1980)
1970      1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980        1981    183    19
bMANCE. OF PAYMZNTS
Neo  .npoott  of good. 6 NPS                                                 342       3067      2993      3880      193      2442      4293        3053    3937    3537
uEpor-t  of *ood  A IIFS                                                  754      2152      2742      2556      3106      3257      4102         5530    8295   12271
Ispo-t. of good. A NFS                                                   1096      5219      5735      6436      5059      5699      8396        9303   12232   ISS08
W-oke-.' Rittanc-                                                            273      1312       983       982       993      1694      2071        2500    2916    3354
Net tra..fe-                                                                  91        23         15        12         -         -         -           -        -        -
Currenct  count b-loce                                                        -58    -1992    -2295    -3572    -1710    -1771    -3196             -2634   -3035   -3164
Di..ct priv-te ijOOMt_nt                                                      92       251        163       169       147      200        100         220      204      369
Public 1ALT (t0-) /.                                                         271        334       720       997      1017     4321 /d  2489          2453    3002    3521
Aeot i-tiaon on  oLT 0 (.-I. debt -olif)                                   -146      -173      -203      -234      -336      -414      -914         -982   -1992   -2424
Poblic NLT bee) /:                                                            125       159       517       763       681      3907      1575        1471    1090    1097
Oebt  Relief (      - oti.tioo  only)                                           -         -         -         -         -         -      814          531      all    -224
Otb06    -apit.1 /b                                                           27      1065       1503     2074       1030    -2410       1099         651    1072    2175
Ch-ab   inorooo (- * ioOOOaOO)                                              -186       417        112       566     -148         74      -392        -241    -222    -253
Into..otiool r--orvo.                                                       612      1404      1292       726       074       800       1192        1433    1825    2312
R.e.:r-..  -onth.o f i-p00t.                                                    7         3         3        .1         2         2         2           2        2        2
1972      197      1976      1977      1978      1979      1900
GROSS DISW0RSENENS
Officiol 000t00
Goos. di:bur. *ente of MALT 1-...                                            372       324       720       997      1017      4321 /n  2489
Co_o. i-`l                                                                261       100       167       193       227       596 -     909
BilatlsoI                                                              139       65         81       130       192       510       049
ID13                                                                     4        19        21        19         8         3         -
0th-.  Itilte-al                                                       L19        13        65        44        27        83        60
Noo-ioll00iel                                                             111       224       553       804       790      372S /0  1580
Officiel  0p0rt 0 rdit.                                                  1        47        57        47        91       202       283
IBRD                                                                    25        91       117       146       165      277        313
Dther -Itilt ...l                                                       27        48        54         5        35        11        35
Poi-ato /u                                                              58        38       325       606       49q      1235 /c   949
EXTIRtNAL DEbT
Debt ouO.t.di.g *nd di-bur-ed /d                                            2538      4475      6893    10943    14313    15791        17119
Offitijl                                                                 2273      2980      3275      3648      5970      7198      9265
1000                                                                   92       28e       391        512      648       890       1157
IDA                                                                     99       144       163       191       188       190       184
t040                                                                2082      2545      2721      2955       5134     6118      7924
Private /0                                                                246       340       558      1104      1144      4101 /0  5007
5h00t-00-3                                                                    19      1155      3050      6191      7199      4492      2847
Debt octateodiog i-cl.di.g aodi.b.-a.d (pbli4  *nd p-rit.)                 3560      6086      9207    13736    17554    19794    22075
DEBT SERVICE
Tot0l debt service /                                                         224       291       368       418       532       689       712
Payent.                                                                   161       175       203       234       336       414       100
IoteOes"                                                                   43       116       165       284       196       275       612
Total debt -eroioo .S l eopoot. of Soode * NPS
00004000e' oe.ioo.ittn-                                                  11.8       8.4       9.9      11.8      13.0      13.9      11.5
T7t.l debt  soito a.. 2 CP0                                                  1.3       0.8       0.9       0.9       1.0       1.2       1.2
AvrOag        - IoOeOt r-Ce on oo loan. (2)                                  4.4       7.3       7.2       7,6       6.9      11.2       8.5
Offiial                                                                  4.5       6.4       7.1       7.6       6.3       4.4
Priv-te                                                                   6.8       8.7       7.8       7.6       R.,      13.7
A--g0a9  st-oity of .ev 10-n- (y7.0.)                                       22.1      13.1      12.7      11.7      13.2      11.1       0.2
Official                                                                 26.0      18.6      17.3      14.5      15.6      23.5
pri-ate                                                                  11.0       5.1      10.2       8.9       7.6       7.1
BANr GROUTP EXPOSUREf2
IRD DOD/total 1DOD                                                           3.7       8.7      10.2      10.8       9.5       7.7      648
IBRD di bu__.e eI/tot.1 g.os. dijbu-ee,.t.                                   6.7      27.2      16.3      14.6      16.2       6.4      12.5
r1RD debt ervic./tot.1 debt -eevi-o /2.1                                              00.5      11.7      I5.0      15.4      15.3      18.8
IDA DDD/tot.l DOD                                                            3.9       4.3       4.3        . 5      07        1.6       1 .1
4IDA di.bu-e .et./total 50000 di.buoo..t.                                                              1 1       5 4       2 9       1.9       0 .      0 1        -
IDA debt .eooio./too.1 debt ceroin. /o                                       0.4       0.6       0.6       0.5       0.4       0.4       0.4
t   of Debt Ote.tedi
YT. (1980)
TERMS STRUCTURE
Maturity otr,,tu-o of debt oot t..dig (f2)
_tateoitio  due vithin 5 ye.r:                                                                    40 7
I8tt-itiee due vithin 10 y....                                                                    60.3
0ter--  structurt   of debt out.tsoding (2)
nt eret doe  bithin fi-.t y70-                                                                     5.7
-   Include, privo-t  gua.-teed  nd  oon-uaraote.d debt.
/b   Ioclude.  -rrors   d miesi.s.  and f-r projected year.  it include, net IIF9  *nd uoidentifi.d c-vital iofle..
/c   Inclod.. $2,635 .illion of noneolidated ohort-toos debt.
7    Includes otock of  hobot-ots  sd debt relief. but  xloId.. IM29  b-oruvig.
le   Take- account of debt relief duo to debt resoh.duli.X  nd  -nolude.  iot-re.t nn short-t-oo  debt.
E02DA



- 28 -
ANNEX I-B
Page 1 of 4
Recent Economic Developments and Policy Changes
1.       Against a background of deepening economic crisis, the authorities
announced a policy framework in January 1980 to initiate a major shift
over the medium-term in the orientation of economic policy from detailed
regulation of the economy towards greater reliance on the market
mechanism. Overall, progress in the program to date has been encouraging.
(a) During the second half of 1980, there was a marked decel-
eration in the rate of inflation from a peak of 120 percent in March 1980
to 80 percent by December 1980, and less than 35 percent by October 1981.
While this deceleration did not proceed evenly, the overall trend is
unmistakable, and is due to a combination of factors. First, the effect of
the major upward adjustment of SEE prices in February 1980 and the large
depreciation of the lira in January 1980 which contributed to the initial
upsurge in the rate of inflation has largely passed.  Second, a tight
monetary policy was maintained, together with a marked increase in interest
rates to positive real levels on deposits which arrested the flight into
goods. Third, with some easing of external financial constraint, there was
a marked improvement in the availability of fuels and other key inputs;
(b) From September 1980, once work stoppages were terminated by
the military government and the supply of imported inputs was eased,
economic activity rebounded somewhat from the severely depressed levels
earlier in the year;
(c) With domestic demand still weak, much of this increased pro-
duction was channelled into exports, which improved markedly; during the
first eight months of 1980 the year-on-year rate of growth was only 6
percent, while for the rest of the year the rate increased dramatically to
60 percent. This reflected a major expansion in industrial and mining
exports. These trends have continued over the whole of 1981; as a result,
export earnings are likely to exceed $4.5 billion in 1981, i.e. a growth of
about 60 percent over 1980. The direction of export trade has been
generally shifting away from the industrial countries of Western Europe and
towards Middle Eastern and East European countries, partly reflecting the
sluggish growth in many of the industrialized countries, and also Turkey's
interest and success in developing new export markets within its region.
Their share in total exports rose from 14 percent in 1978 to 44 percent
during the first ten months of 1981. The war-affected economies of Iran
and Iraq were a factor influencing these developments; export receipts from
these countries over the first eight months of 1981 were nearly four times
the level of the same period of 1980. Iraq is now second only to Germany
in Turkey's export trade. Exports have responded to the exchange rate
depreciation and the strengthening of the export incentives which have been



- 29 -
ANNEX I-B
Page 2 of 4
further improved during the first half of 1981 through better preferential
credit facilities, increased tax rebates for industrial exports, and the
instituting of a system whereby exporters may deduct 20 percent of their
foreign exchange receipts from taxable income.
(d) Workers' remittances also picked up sharply between
July-December 1980 in response to the interest rate adjustment and the,
flexible exchange rate. They have remained strong in the first half of
1981, prompted by further increases in interest rates and a new savings
scheme for workers abroad which allows them to deposit their foreign
currency in Turkish banks, and redeem in Turkish lira on maturity at the
prevalent rate of exchange (they are not redeemable in foreign currency).
In addition a new and rapidly growing source of foreign exchange is income
earned from overseas contracting activities, mostly in the Middle East. By
August 1981, contracts outstanding totalled nearly $7 billion, of which $5
billion were in Libya.
2.       Serious imbalances, however, persist on the external account.
While total current receipts have grown considerably over the last 12
months, the same is true on the payments side. Substantial external assis-
tance permitted an increase in import volume of around 12 percent in 1980
(compared to export volume growth of around 9 percent), and import growth
has continued to be strong in the first half of 1981. Import volume,
however, had declined sharply in 1978-79, and, as a proportion of GDP,
remains well below the average for the years 1974-77. The terms of trade
have deteriorated for the fourth consecutive year, with import prices in
1980 rising more sharply than in any year since 1974, due mainly to the
increase in oil prices. As a result, the current account deficit rose to
*3.2 billion in 1980, (about 5.5 percent of GNP, compared to about 2.5
percent in 1979) and is expected to be about $2.5 billion in 1981 (4.2
percent of GNP).
3.       The problems connected with external indebtedness continue to
constrain rapid recovery. As of end-1980, the total external debt was
estimated to have increased by around 11 percent to $18.2 billion, inclu-
sive of IMF debt, reflecting substantially increased disbursements by the
OECD member countries, Saudi Arabia, IMF and World Bank. The maturity
structure has improved over previous years, partly on account of three
rescheduling arrangements with OECD member countries and two rescheduling
arrangements with commercial banks. Consequently, the share of M&LT debt
in the total has grown from 48 percent in 1978 to 79 percent in 1980.
Moreover, commercial arrears have declined $722 million since December
1980. While the term structure of the total external debt has improved,
debt service payments have grown rapidly on account of new borrowings to



- 30 -
ANNEX I-B
Page 3 of 4
finance the expanded current account deficit in 1980, the inordinately high
interest rates on rescheduled commercial debt (close to 20 percent because
of the surge in LIBOR rates), and higher interest rates even on the debt
rescheduled with OECD countries than when the debt was originally
contracted. Equally worrisome is the possibility that net capital inflows
from M&LT sources might decline markedly over the next few years. This is
due to the substantially higher debt amortization payments to be made over
the period 1984-89 when the debt relief afforded by the rescheduling
arrangements falls due, as well as to expected reductions in official debt
relief, in new commitments and disbursements of OECD and in credits from
banks.
4.       Domestic savings have for years lagged behind investment needs.
In 1980, the investment rate was 23 percent of GDP while the savings rate
was about 16 percent of GDP; the latter represented a decline of about 3
percent since 1978. Public savings have declined particularly sharply,
from 8 percent of GDP to 4 percent of GDP over these years. The
Government's response 1981 has been to implement a major tax reform, grant
greater pricing autonomy to the SEEs, restrict public investment, and
improve private savings through increased interest rates and a regulated
capital market. The need for a major tax reform had become critical.
During the years of rapid inflation in 1978-80, the elasticity of the tax
system with respect to GNP declined from around 1.2 to 0.8-0.9, and the
ratio of tax revenue to GNP declined from 19 percent in 1978 to 16 percent
by 1980. There had also been a marked shift in tax structure due to the
failure to adjust the tax system to inflation.  The distribution of the tax
burden had become highly skewed and inequitable, the incentives were
distorted, and tax administration had become even weaker. A major tax
reform package was passed in late 1980/early 1981 with the objectives of:
(a) increasing the yield and future buoyancy of the system; (b) making the
tax structure more equitable; and (c) improving the efficiency of
collection. The package is now being implemented, but it is too early to
evaluate the results; the main impact of the new taxes, especially those on
non-wage earners and the agricultural sales tax, will only be seen later in
the year, and progress in their implementation is being monitored under
SAL II.  Initial indications are that the tax reform is generating more
revenue than originally expected.
5.       Following the deregulation of commercial bank interest rates in
July 1980, and particularly after the breakdown of the "gentlemen's
agreement" between the banks at the beginning of this year, interest rates
have increased sharply and are now positive in real terms. There has been
a sharp rebound in bank deposits, particularly in time deposits (including
the new certificates of deposit). Between July 80 and June 81, total
deposits increased by 97 percent and time deposits (including certificates
of deposit) grew by an astonishing 265 percent.  The deregulation of
interest rates has been further extended by the freeing of private bond
rates in July 1981. Private companies are now free to set their bond rates
in competition with the banks and can use flexible rates if they so chose.
In addition, the Government announced an increase in three-month Government
bonds' interest rate to 34 percent, comparable in after tax yield to bank



- 31 -
ANNEX I-B
Page 4 of 4
deposit rates. In response to the recent emergence of "brokers" offering
monthly interest rates of 10 percent, which threatenes to destabilize the
financial system, the Government issued a decree requiring all dealers to
register with the Finance Ministry and obtain Central Bank approval of
their advertising.
.
6.       The long-awaited law setting up a regulatory framework for the
capital market was passed in July 1981. This law among other things:
(a) regulates the public offering and sale of financial assets; (b) sets up
an independent Capital Market Board with seven members selected by the
Council of Ministers, with one seat nominated by the bankers association
and the rest nominated by the Government; (c) regulates non-issuing
secondary institutions and provides for investment funds and companies; and
(d) provides that the companies and intermediaries coming under the law are
subject to audit by the Board's auditors. The Board is expected to be
functioning within six months, and all institutions must conform to the
requirements of the law within 12 months.
SEEs
7.       To improve overall SEE financial performance, the Government began
in 1980 by freeing most SEE prices and by initiating steps to begin to
expose SEEs to market forces. This was followed in 1981 with additional
steps aimed at furthering their market exposure and improving their opera-
tional efficiency, culminating in a far-reaching reform package which has
been finalized as a draft law to be submitted to the "Parliament". The
initial steps taken were: all SEEs (except two agriculture service SEEs)
were cut off from the Central Bank, and a larger portion of budgetary funds
was channelled through DYB. These steps, particularly the freeing of
prices, have had some effect. SEE losses declined substantially, from
TL 72 billion in 1979 to TL 23 billion in 1980, and are projected by
Government to be further reduced to about TL 5 billion in 1981. However,
in terms of its impact on Government finances, this was more than offset by
the increase in SEE investment expenditures from TL 172 billion in 1979 to
TL 476 billion in 1980. As a result, budgetary transfers to the SEEs as a
proportion of total Government expenditure rose to around 20 percent in
FY80 as against 15 percent in FY79. IMF limits for 1981 on public sector
borrowing from the Central Bank and budgetary transfers to SEEs are
designed to reduce this drain in real terms. While the granting of pricing
autonomy to SEEs was a necessary adjustment, there was little improvement
in SEE operating efficiency, so that in many cases users of SEE products
and services were paying prices set at levels high enough to cover SEE
inefficiencies. In addition, there was a sharp build-up in commercial
arrears and tax and social security arrears, amounting to TL 209 billion,
in 1980, or 44 percent of total investment (compared to 10 percent in 1979).



ANNEX II
- 32 -                        Page 1 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Loan
Number    Year   Borrower                    Purpose                           Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
Thirty loans and fourteen credits fully disbursed                             1097.7      177.4
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey          Ceyhan Aslantas                    44.0                 12.3
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey         Antalya Forestry                    40.0                  0.1
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                    Elbistan Power                     148.0                 25.8
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey          Rural Development                  75.0                 28.0
1194-TU   1976   TEK                         Power Transmission II              56.0                  0.7
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)           Agriculture Credit                 54.3                 27.2
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)        Newsprint                           70.0                  4.1
1265-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey          Livestock III                      21.5                  8.1
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey         Tourism                             26.0                 19.3
1379-TU   1977   DYB                         Industry                           70.0                 12.1
1585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Northern Forestry                   86.0                 56.6
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Livestock IV                        24.0                 19.4
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey         Erdemir Steel Stage II              95.0                 49.6
1741-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Ports Rehabilitation                75.0                 60.1
1742-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Grain Storage                       85.0                 84.3
1748-TU   1979   TSKB                        Industry                           60.0                 35.9
1754-TU   1979   TSKB                        Private Sector Textiles            65.0                 48.5
1755-TU   1979   SYKB                        Private Sector Textiles            15.0                 13.7
S-15-TU   1979   Republic of Turkey         Ankara Air Pollution Control         6.0                  5.7
1844-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Karakaya Hydropower                120.0                104.7
1847-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey          Sumerbank Cotton Textiles          83.0                 80.2
1862-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Livestock V                         51.0                 50.9
1916-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Petroleum Exploration               25.0                 24.6
1917-TU   1980   Republic of Turkey         Oil Recovery                        62.0                 55.2
1952-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         Labor Intensive Industry            40.0                 40.0
1967-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey          Second Fruit and Vegetables        40.0                 39.8
1985-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                  110.0               109.2
1987-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey          Second Structural Adjustment   300.0                    60.7
1998-TU   1981   Republic of Turkey         State Industrial Enterprise
Finance                            70.0                 70.0
2093-TU   1982   TSKB                       Export-Oriented Industries         100.0               100.0
2094-TU   1982   Republic of Turkey         Erzurum Rural Development          40.0                 40.0
Total                                                      3254.5      177.4   1286.8
of which has been repaid                                  298.1        8.1
Total now outstanding                                      2956.4      169.3
Amount sold                        3.6
of which has been repaid         3.6                      - 0 -      - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a                          2850.9      169.3
Total undisbursed                                          1405.4      -0-      1286.8
/a Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 33 -
ANNEX TT
Page 2 of 9
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                                     Amount in US$ Million
Year     Obligor        Type of Business                   Loan   Equity    Total
1964     TSKB          DFC                                  -        0.92      0.92
1966     SIFAS I       Nylon Yarn                          0.90      0.47      1.37
1967     TSKB II       DFC                                  -        0.34      0.34
1969     TSKB III      DFC                                  -        0.41      0.41
1969     SIFAS II      Nylon Yarn                          1.50      0.43      1.93
1970     Viking I      Pulp and Paper                      2.50      0.67      3.17
1970     ACS           Glass                              10.00      1.58    11.58
1971     NASAS         Aluminum                            7.00      1.37      8.37
1971     SIFAS III    Nylon Yarn                           0.75       -        0.75
1971     Viking II    Pulp and Paper                        -        0.14      0.14
1972     SIFAS IV      Nylon Yarn                           -        0.52      0.52
1972     TSKB IV       DFC                                  -        0.43      0.43
1973     TSKB V        DFC                                10.00       -       10.00
1973     Akdeniz       Tourism                             0.33      0.27      0.60
1974     Borusan       Steel Pipes                         3.60      0.43      4.03
1974     AKSA          Textiles                           10.00       -       10.00
1975     Kartaltepe   Textiles                             1.30       -        1.30
1975     Sasa          Nylon Yarn                         15.00       -       15.00
1975     Aslan         Cement                             10.60       -       10.60
1975     DOKTAS        Steel                               7.50      1.37      8.87
1975     TSKB          DFC                                25.00      1.23    26.23
1976     NASAS         Aluminum                            1.58       -        1.58
1976     TSKB          DFC                                25.00       -       25.00
1976     Asil Celik   Steel                               12.00      2.20    14.20
1977     Borusan       Steel Pipes                          -        0.06      0.06
1978     DOKTAS        Steel                                -        0.09      0.09
1979     Ege Mosan    Engines for Mopeds                   2.15       -        2.15
1979     ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories        8.85      0.45      9.30
1979     Asil Celik   Steel                                 -        1.80      1.80
1979     Trakya Cam   Glass                               33.15      2.25    35.42
1980     TSKB          DFC                                  -        1.09      1.09
1980/82  ISAS          Motor Vehicles & Accessories         -        1.26      1.26
1980     MENSA         Textile and Fibers                  4.00       -        4.00
1981     Kirklareli
Cam Sanayii
A.S.        Glass Tableware                   13.20       -       13.20
Total Gross Commitments                        205.91    19.78   225.69
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                    134.48      4.31   138.79
Total Commitments now held by IFC                71.43    15.47    86.90
Total Undisbursed                                4.17      0.11      4.28



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1982 1/
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973.  Effective Date:  March 20,
1974. Closing Date: December 31,1983.
Initial delays occurred due to difficult rock conditions and
inappropriate tunnelling methods. Political problems in 1980 further delayed
the project. In December 1981 the project was extended for a two-year
period. The main dam construction is progressing satisfactorily, with 95
percent of the earth works completed and the spillway ready for evacuating the
floods in the 1981/82 season. The installation of the power plant has been
started. The construction of the irrigation systems is progressing
satisfactorily. It will be completed and be operational for half of the total
area in the 1982 season. On-farm works are progressing steadily, with about
two-thirds completed. Tile drainage is expected to be completed in 1983.
Staffing of the extension service is satisfactory. Its backing up by
consultants is soon to materialize in a satisfactory manner. The project is
expected to be completed by end-1983.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project: US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974.  Effective Date:  May 26, 1976.  Closing Date:  June 30,
1982.
Construction is substantially completed. The saw mill is ready for
operation and the pulp and paper plant is expected to start operation in
May/June 1982.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
Project implementation had been delayed by critical problems,
including insufficient staff, inefficient management, inadequate coordination
among various agencies and unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors.
Following continuous Bank and co-lender reviews of the situation with the
Turkish authorities from early 1977, the remedial measures initiated by the
Government resulted in some improvement of project execution, until mid-1979.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
However, continuing and serious shortage of local funds then affected project
progress, which has been aggravated by staff and management deficiencies. The
Government's timely provision of adequate local funds for this high priority
project from the Structural Adjustment Loan counterpart funds has helped
resume momentum. The colenders and the Government agreed in November 1980 on
a detailed program of action to overcome remaining implementation problems;
this program is now being implemented. Further measures to strengthen project
implementation by strengthening site management with expatriate assistance,
increasing suppliers' involvement in equipment erection, and changing
contracting arrangements for the major civil works, and to meet remaining
foreign exchange needs are being considered by the colenders and the
Government.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date: January 22, 1976. Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is in general progressing satisfactorily although because
of disruptions of construction in 1980, the irrigation works will be completed
only by end-1983. In November 1981 the closing date was extended 2-1/2
years. The Corum dam has been completed including the works to divert run-off
from 5 nearby watersheds. The Kumbaba pumping station is operational, and
irrigation has started in 1981. The Alaca dam, delayed because of extra
excavation required due to bad rock, is expected to be completed by end-1982.
Damage to the Alaca diversion tunnel, because of rock slides, has been
repaired and the tunnel lining is completed. Construction on the scheme's
irrigation system has been started. Contracts for completion of the dam and
for the irrigation system of the Guldercek scheme have been awarded and work
is in progress. The project extension service is operating successfully and
its impact on agriculture is promising. Village roads, small irrigation
facilities and most of the water supply and electricity works will be
completed by end-1982. The project is expected to be substantially completed
by end-1983.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date: April, 21, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Procurement action is complete, somewhat behind schedule, but
deliveries of some equipment are delayed. As of December 31, 1981, an amount
of $5 million was held in the loan accounts pending settlement of final
payments. Of this, about $4.3 million have since been disbursed. The loan is
expected to be closed shortly.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.3 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date: May 11, 1977. Closing Date: June 20, 1984.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on and
roll-off ships purchased under this project and the First Fruit and Vegetable
Export project are now operating a regularly scheduled service between ports
in Turkey and two ports in Italy. The implementation of the agro-industries
component is delayed, mainly due to investors' reluctance to assume the
foreign exchange risk. The Government is reviewing possible measures to
overcome this problem. The Agricultural Bank (TCZB) has introduced improved
lending procedures for its ongoing supervised credit program, and this



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
component is being implemented satisfactorily. After considerable delay, the
consultants have completed the study of TCZB's structure and procedures. TCZB
has begun implementation of some of the consultants' recommendations.  At the
Borrower's request, a cattle-fattening component of the Project, and US$7.7
million of the original loan amount of $63 million allocated for this purpose,
were cancelled on May 5, 1977. Also, as provided for in the Loan Agreement,
$1.04 million for training was cancelled on December 22, 1977, following
approval of UNDP funds for this purpose.
q
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint: US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date:  October 15, 1976.  Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
The project is nearing physical completion. The newsprint plant has
begun operations and appears to be operating well. The sawmill is physically
complete but is not operating due to marketing problems because of a depressed
construction industry.  Energy savings through using bark as fuel are not
being achieved since the Forestry Department continues to deliver logs with
bark removed. Remaining loan funds are being used for technical assistance
and spare parts.
En. No. 1265 Livestock III: US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation has
improved. About 760 dairy farms are being developed, more than anticipated at
appraisal, and a higher than expected proportion of sub-loans has been made to
small farmers. The Government is taking action to recruit 3 technical
specialists to help train the project staff and beneficiaries in forage
production and in strengthening extension services. If this action is
completed by end July 1982, the Bank plans to consider the Government's
request for a further extension of the closing date to permit utilization of
the remaining $8.5 million undisbursed loan funds.
Ln. No. 1310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Though delayed, project implementation is now progressing
satisfactorily. Highway connecting the project area to Antalya and water and
electricity supply systems are completed, the construction of Kemer marina is
in an advanced stage, and all other major construction works are contracted.
The Government's request for a two-year extension of the closing date, and
some modifications in the project scope, is under consideration.
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date: December 31,
12.
The loan has been fully committed. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by December 31, 1982, which is the extended closing date. A
comprehensive study of DYB's institutional aspects and objectives is to be
carried out by the Government under Loan No.1998.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry: US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date: October 30, 1978. Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Depressed timber sales have reduced complementary funding for the
project but action has been taken to remedy the situation through stimulation
of sawn timber exports and expansion of housing construction. Revision of
forest management plans has been completed and proposals have been approved to
prepare new plans for all productive forest areas. Action for recruitment of
project consultants and fellowship training is underway. Procurement is
making steady progress.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV: US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978. Effective
Date: October 31, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The supervised credit program is behind schedule as demand for
sub-loans was affected by increased feed costs and low milk prices. Following
the Government's actions to correct the situation, the project is picking up
momentum. Recruitment of technical specialists is under way. Government is
reviewing measures to attract qualified staff and train them to provide
effective extension and animal health services to farmers.
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II Steel: US$95.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Effective Date: July 30, 1979. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Procurement for the phenol treatment plant, the raw material handling
system and the hot rolled shear line has been completed. The depressed
domestic market for steel is effecting sales and internal cash generation. As
a result of lack of cash, raw materials and operating supplies have been
inadequate from time to time, and shortfalls of local funds for the project
are projected. The Government has agreed to reschedule some loans and
increase its equity. The company is considering approaching its private
sector shareholders for increased equity, selective price increases, and
seeking export markets.
Ln. No. 1741 Ports Rehabilitation: US$75 million of July 2, 1979. Effective
Date: January 22, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement of
equipment is well advanced, but a delay in project completion of about one
year is anticipated due to delays in finalizing designs of some equipment.
Technical assistance, training, costing and port sector studies, as well as
procurement of civil works are in progress.
Ln. No. 1742 Grain Storage: US$85 million of July 2, 1979. Effective Date:
January 21, 1980. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Project implementation has begun. Consultants have been appointed
for engineering design and supervision of construction. Preliminary
engineering designs for silos have been completed. A prototype of hopper
wagons has been designed and is under evaluation.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. 1748 TSKB XIII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$60 million
of July 12, 1979. Effective Date: October 25, 1979. Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
After initial delays, the progress is now satisfactory with over 85
percent of the loan committed.  Targets for SMI and least developed regions
are not likely to be met, because of current policies' impact on small
enterprises, the need to focus on rehabilitation of existing firms, and export
promotion projects. However, approvals of export-oriented projects have
almost reached targets despite depressed investment demand. The planned
program for training and export development has been implemented.
Lns. Nos. 1754 TSKB (USW65 million) and 1755 SYKB (US$15 million) Private
Sector Textiles loans of September 17, 1979. Effective Date: February 29,
1980. Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The consultancy and extension service are now supplying useful
assistance to private firms. Only about 40 percent of the loan has been
committed, due to depressed conditions in the textile industry.
Ln. No. S-15 Ankara Air Pollution Engineering: US$6 million loan of December
12, 1979. Effective Date: April 4, 1980. Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Equipment for modification of the Seyitomer plant has been installed,
and is expectd to be commissioned in April 1982. Pollution monitoring
equipment is being procured. Consultants are being selected for project
studies.
Ln. No. 1844 Karakaya Hydropower: US$120 million loan of May 21, 1980.
Effective Date: August 15, 1980. Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
Project implementation is making satisfactory progress.
Ln. No. 1847 Sumerbank Textiles Modernization and Rationalization: US$83
million loan of May 28, 1980. Effective Date: February 27, 1981. Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
Project implementation is about one year behind schedule due to
delays in loan effectiveness and staffing problems in the project
implementation unit. Physical implementation is now progressing
satisfactorily. The plan for reorganization of the Cotton Textile Division
was approved by Sumerbank's Board in March 1982 and a contract for financial
technical assistance was finalized in February 1982. The main problem facing
the project at present is difficulty in recruiting competent personnel for the
project unit due to salary limitations on State Economic Enterprises.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Ln. No. 1862 Livestock V:  US$51 million loan of June 6, 1980.  Effective
Date:  October 22, 1980.  Closing Date:  June 30, 1987.
Project implementation, though behind schedule, is picking up
momentum, with the recruitment of consultants and progress in procurement of
goods.
Ln. No. 1916 Petroleum Exploration Project: US$25 million loan of November
24, 1980. Effective Date: June 30, 1981. Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Geophysical and geological studies are making progress and seismic
surveys have begun. Recruitment of consultants for carrying out energy audits
is underway.
Ln. No. 1917 Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery Field Demonstration Project:
US$62 million loan of November 24, 1980. Effective Date: June 30, 1981.
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily.  Detailed
engineering designs for the Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery sub-project have
been completed, and all major equipment ordered. The stimulation of the
Thrace gas field, has been completed. Progress in separation of TPAO's
import-related operations is behind schedule, pending Government's decision on
overall SEE reform.
Ln. No. 1952 Labor Intensive Industry Project: US$40 million loan of
March 13, 1981. Effective Date: June 12, 1981. Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Sub-loan approvals (about $3 million) have been slower than expected
because of the depressed investment climate.
Ln. No. 1967 Second Fruit and Vegetable Project: US$40 million loan of
April 6, 1981. Effective Date: August 4, 1981. Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Projection implementation has begun satisfactorily. Recruitment of
consultants for horticultural production marketing and studies underway. The
articles of agreement for the Regional and the Central Marketing Corportions
have been finalized, and the Government has initiated efforts to establish
them as private entities.
Ln. No. 1985 Fertilizer Rationalization and Energy Saving Project: US$110
million loan of May 15, 1981. Effective Date: August 28, 1981. Closing
Date: December 31, 1986.
This project is currently making good progress in its initial phase
of implementation. Some consultants have been appointed, and negotiations are
in progress with others.  Procurement action also has begun.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. 1987 Second Structural Adjustment US$300 million loan of May 15,
1981.  Effective Date:  August 17, 1981.  Closing Date:  November 30, 1982.
A mission in November 1981 reviewed progress in carrying out the SAL
economic program, especially in the areas of trade policy, tax reform, SEE
reform and energy prices and found progress satisfactory. The second tranche
of $100 million was, therefore, released on December 29, 1981.
Ln. No. 1998 State Industrial Enterprise Finance Project: US$70 million loan
of June 3, 1981.  Effective Date:  August 27, 1981.  Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Project implementation has commenced satisfactorily. Action has been
initiated for recruitment of consultants by the beneficiary enterprises and is
expected to be completed by June 1982.
Ln. No. 2093 Export-Oriented Industries Project: US$100 million loan of March
5, 1982. Loan not yet effective. Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
The loan is expected to become effective on schedule.
Ln. No. 2094 Erzurum Rural Development Project: US$40 million loan of March 5,
1982. Effective Date: July 8, 1982. Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Loan not yet effective, but project implementation has begun.



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
TURKEY - HIGHWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by Government to                Twelve months
prepare project:                           (November 1980
to November 1981)
(b) Agency which prepared the project:         General Directorate of
Highways (KGM)
(c) Project first identified:                  November 1980
(d) Date of Bank Appraisal Mission:           November 1981
(e) Negotiations completed:                    March 29, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:             August 1982
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
(i)  Review by the Bank and the Government, not later than
September 30 each year commencing 1982, of the annual
project program and budget, the allocation of subprojects
for financing by the Bank, an overall review of the
implementation schedule for the project and the indicative
program for highway rehabilitation for the next three years
(para. 65);
(ii)  feasibility studies of all highway sections in the program,
whether externally financed or not, to be submitted to the
Bank for approval before construction bids are invited or
force account construction commences (para. 52);
(iii)  the KGM to prepare in accordance with an agreed
implementation schedule and terms of reference an
indicative highway rehabilitation program for the next
three years, a highway safety program, and an axle load
control program (including an analysis of road user charges
for heavy vehicles), and thereafter, after consultation
with the Bank, to implement the safety and load control
programs (paras. 54, 56 and 58);



I



~~~ ~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~ T~~--                                        ~       --- i-                                                                                                 -R. --7 ; -  n-  1,'   ,_
| B UL GARI  a<Ihael                                                                                c  ,    k     .                       e>n F  a  : ;:0:::i::;\ ln:0;A;  : A       ::   :                    2                : ;g;  
O''A                                                      ;t anc lff                                                                                                                                                9    
X en 8   k  t  /      Munavgul                             Nders 1l>v=-i-                                     >    ~~~~~~~ s ~  /; < L t R g (; - dmi his
3'      f   /    f '          nvn<                                g0                       :            S       ;        ,,.              '),i i  :i0|0f  0i@i)   i   t;4     22:  i5: 
f  '     *                               -,          -                 :: \0 i    W           ;00;: i2: 0 0 i :0 :; ;:t?   2 i 5:02:7  }0 SURikEtki0:it ii ;  ;0 5Di 5ikV  at
xL             l Me drite rr fn`ea/                                Sa'<qPlisx        i 0RNPR,.............. TO A  ........5
ikes~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                         f ' 1'  ;g(0                                           ULe  Hj,0q2dfT   'DSh    Xili      XidXtirSE'r                         ZiEe                           =      .
'                     I                                                                                                                                    fU;          iSSSS;\A\-D       AR,jESL\(:                                            =      
t   4-+RrXwhys                                           PO8ULA1-SN1LFNtE5  25fD3030                                                    ;           t        .t                          <     ,  ,N
[  Frovinciol bounderies                                M           5'on                        :  2 j; ,0 i  )   0:  t: :; | i &:   t;       t      3U=G/:4RtA7;            ,                 /_.<          E i         . 
| O~~~~~e (I  OO   ,oooo Ln :;2j ;  ;2   aZW7T  t:frfi'- Akr   
j  U         OKOir 3                                         GO\O   OC                                               /ehir:                                 7         i             <       itT              hEY
m^-':~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ing:F .t i



