MoPH at of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6156b-BM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
September 22, 1986
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Bahamian Dollar (B$)
B$1 = '!S$ 1
MEASURES
I Imperial Gallon (IG) = 1.20095 US gallons
I Imperial Gallon (IG) = 0.00455 cubic meters
Million Imperial Gallon = MIG
Million Imperial Gallons/Day = MIGD
1 MIGD = 0.0526 cubic meters/sec.
1 foot (ft.) = 0.3048 meters
I mile = 1.6129 kilometers
1 acre = 0.4048 hectare
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDB - Caribbean Development Bank
EIB  -  European Investment Bank
MOPH - Ministry of Public Health
MOWU - Mini1stry of Works and Utilities
NIB  -  National Insurance Board
WSC  -  Water and Sewerage Corporation



* *         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FOR OFFICIAI. USE ONLY
R86-237/1[REV.]
FROM:  Vice President a-ad Secretary                 October 28, 1986
BAHAMAS: Country Brief (R86-237/1)
Revision
Attached is a revision (underlined) of paragraph 1O of the
Country Brief on The Bahamas (R86-237/1 dated September 24, 1986), as
agreed at the meeting of the Executive Directors on October 14, 1986,
when considering The Bahamas New Providence Island Viter Supply and
Sewerage Rehabilitation Project (R86-237).
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Senior Vice Presidents
Senior Management Council
Vice Presidents, IFC
Directors and Department Heads, Bank and IFC
This dociumenit has a restricictd distribution anid m.av hc used h! ievipierltN onlk in ihe performance
ol their official duties. Its Worltenti nia% n10  oherscr\%i  he disclosed \kuihout World Balnk authornation.



A;tachment
The following text shows the corrected paragraph 20 of the
Country Brief on The Bahamas, dated September 18, 1986, referred to in the
Secretary's memorandum entitled "THE BAHAMAS:  New Providence Island Water
Supply and Rehabilitation Project" (R86-237/1), dated September 24, 1986.
New Text
20.       The Bank, through its economic reviews, has maintained its
dialogue with the Government on matters concerning economic policies and
development priorities. Under the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in
Economic Development (CGCED), it has also convened informal meetings of
multilateral donors for discussion of The Bahamas' financial and technical
assistance requirements. While the country's overall development strategy
and development policies are basically sound, its developmental
institutions, which are relatively your.g, need further strengthening and
could benefit from the Bank's technical guidance through project financing
and technical assiscance. A document entitled "TtIE BAIHAMAS: Graduation
from the Bank" (R84-31) of February 13, 1984, which was distributed to the
Executive Directors, provided for a graduation strategy involving a
phase-out period for Bank lending from FY85 through FY88, with a lending
program of two projects for a total commitment of US$20 million and
technical assistance in selected areas to be identified. The graduation
strategy outlined in this paper was discussed with the Government of The
Bahamas. The authorities indicated that they accepted, in general, this
strategy, but that they would have liked to receive a larger amount of
assistance from the Bank than envisaged during the phase-out period. We
felt that the commitment limit should not be altered at that time. The
Government also wanted to consider further the sectors in which Bank
assistance would be most useful. Subsequent to this, it was agreed with
the Government that the two projects to be financed by the Bank would
consist of the proposed New Providence Island Water Supply and Sewerage
Rehabilitation project, and a New Providence port development project.
Recently, the Government requested that Bank financial assistance be
provided for a second education project instead of the port project.



FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
THE BAHAMAS
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
FOR NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECTCTMASUMMAR.........................................   i-iii
I   TNH SECTOR. .         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     1
The Setting. . . 9 . *    * .   . . . . . . . . a   . . . . .    1
Sector Organization. . . . . . . . . . . . . * . . . . . .    2
Investments, Performance and Constraints in the Sector . .    2
Past Sank Experience in the Sector...... ......               3
The Bank's Sector Development Strategy . . . . . . . . . .    4
II*  THE PROJECT  9 * * o * * 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9                       4
Project Crigin . . . . . , * * .  . ..a. #  *   . ... . . . ..    4
Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement. . .    5
Project Description. .99  99999  999    99                    6
Project Cost o                     . .                        7
Project Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
The Borrower and Executing Agency. * . . . . . . . . . . .   10
Implementation and Status of Project Preparation . . . . .   10
WSC's Financial Performance and Prospects. . . . . . . .    11
Operational Performance and Monitoring . . . . . . . . . .   12
Changes in Service Responsibilities. . . . . . . . . . . .   14
Accounting and Auditing. .................    14
Procurement. *  . . . . .  . . .  . .  . . . . . . . . . . .    14
Disbursement , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     15
Progress F     iorting                                       16
Justification, Benefits and Risks. . . . . . .               16
III.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . .   18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
the Bahamas from November 9 to November 20, 1985.  The mission was com-
prised of Messrs. Luis Pereira, Financial Analyst; Roy Ramani, Engineer;
and Emmanuel Mbi, Economist.  The mission was assisted by Mr. Christopher
Wright, Shipping Consultant.   Mmes. E. Torda and N. Quinones (LCPWS)
assisted in the production of this report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
LIST OF TABLES
Summary of Project Costs                                          8
Financing Plan Summary ..       ..................                9
Procurement Overview      .     ..................               15
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   Existing Facilities. ...........  .                 .....         19
2.   Project Description. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . .    26
3.   Technical Assistance and Training Program. . . . . . . . .    41
4.   Detailed Project Cost. .. . . .. . ..    .  . .  '. ....    . 61
5.   Detailed Financing Plan by Year and by Funding Source. . .    62
6.   Institutional Overview of WSC. . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .    64
7.   Project Implementation Schedule. . . . . . . . . . . . . .    67
8.   Financial Performance of WSC ....  ........   ,..                 71
9.   Key Monitorin Indiators            . *                    * ................  84
10.   Procurement Schedule for Major Contracts . . . . . . . . .   85
11.   Bank  Loan Disbursement                                     ..................  86
12.   Benefits and Justification . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . .   87
13.   List of Selected Documents in Project File .            . . . . . .    94
MAPS
IBRD No. 19733R - Water Importation Improvements
IBRD No. 19734 - Sewerage Improvements
IBRD No. 19735 - Water Supply Improvements



- i -
THE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Water and Sewerage Corporation (WSC)
Guarantor:             Commonwealth of The Bahamas
Amount:                US$10.0 million equivalent
Terms:                 15 years, including a grace period of 3 years, at the
standard variable rate.
Project Objectives:   The proposed project has been designed to assist the
WSC in:  (a) improving its organization, a'-counting,
financing, commercial and engineering operations, and
maintenance, through technical assistance and train-
ing: (b) increasing water supply and sewerage system
reliability through short- to medium-term rehabilita-
tion measures; and (c) exploring ways to improve
water resources management for the New Providence
Island, with alternative solutions for meeting the
long-term water demand.
Project Description:  The proposed project, to be executed over an eight-
year period from 1986 to 1993, would comprise:   (a)
water supply rehabilitation works, involving improve-
ments to ground water abstraction facilities in about
3,400 acres of wellfields, relining and/or replace-
ment of about 26 miles of mains to reduce water
losses, and construction of about 7.5 miles of new
mains to improve water distribution in New Providence
Island; (b) water importation improvements from
Andros Island, involving seawall protection for the
water shipping facilities at Andros, and associated
dock repairs in New Providence;   (c) sewerage reha-
bilitation works, involving sewer replacement (about
3000 feet), conversion of a frequently malfunctioning
vacuum sewerage system to a simple gravity system,
improvements to existing sewage disposal faeflities
and construction of a new sludge/solid disposal
facility, all in New Providence; (d) supply of
construction and maintenance equipment and water
meters; and (e) technical assistance and training
programs related to: (i) institutional improvements
to the WSC; (ii) formulation of an improved tariff
structure for the WSC's services; (iii) implementa-
tioni of a program to reduce unaccounted-for water;
and (iv) water shipping and monitoring. The project
would also support studies in water supply alterna-
tives and resources management, and preparation of an
updated sewerage plan for New Providence Island.



- ii -
Benefits:              The project, while supporting programs to minimize
water losses and to promote conservation, to improve
distribution, coverage and quality, would also
support an increase in water production through
better utilization and necessary expansion of the
existing facilities, from the current 6.5 MIGD to 8.0
MIGD, to meet the medium-term demands of the New
Providence Island. The project would also assist in
improved collection, treatment and disposal of
sewage and in handling of septage from households,
thus contributing to a better environment.  Improved
operation and m.aintenance of the WSC's water and
sewage   facilities,   as   well   as   institutional
improvements to the WSC itself, as a result of
actions envisaged under the project, would generate
cost savings, increase efficiency and contribute to
lasting improvements in the sector.
Risks:                 The multiplicity of the project components and the
need for the WSC to absorb and implement in a timely
manner the results of the various studies under the
project    -    particularly    those    concerning
unaccounted-for water reduction and improved WSC
operation/maintenance programs - may pose difficulty
and  involve  some  risks.      Without  such  timely
follow-up and implementation of the results by the
WSC, the projected cost savings would not be fully
realized.    This  risk  should  not  be  overrated,
however,  considering  the WSC's  commitment  to  the
project  objectives,  assistance  to be provided  by
consultants, training programs and the annual reviews
between WSC and the Bank, as envisaged under the
project.
Estimated Costs:
Local      Foreign       Total
…US$ million  ----
A.  Water Supply Rehabilitation               4.5          5.9         10.4
B.  Water Importation Improvements            1.3         3.3           4.6
C.  Sewerage Rehabilitation                   3.1         3.3           6.4
D.  Equipment Procurement                     0.3         2.9           3.2
E.  Technical Assistance and Training         0.3          1.2          1.5
Base cost (Jan. 1986 prices)                  9.5        16.6          26.1
Physical Contingencies                        0.9         1.7           2.6
Price Contingencies                           1.7         3.1           4.8
Total Project Costl/                         12.1        21.4          33.5
1/ Includes US$0.5 million in stamp tax and duties on applicable items.



- ili -
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign        Total
-  US$  milion  -…--
Government (equity)                       10.9         0.1           11.0
IBRD                                       -          10.0           10.0
Caribbean Development Bank (CDB)           -           4.3            4.3
European Investment Bank (EIB)             -           7.0            7.0
National Insurance Board (NIB)             1.2         -              1.2
Total Financing                           12.1        21.4           33.5
WSC  would  finance  interest  during  construction,  estimated  at  US$7.0
million.
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994
--…--------- US$ Million---
Annual                      0.5   1.5   2.2   1.8   1.8   0.9   0.8   0.5
Cumulative                  0.5   2.0   4.2   6.0   7.8   8.7   9.5  10.0
Rate of Return:   About 15% (ref. para. 2.25)



I. THE SECTOR
The Setting
1.01       The Commonwealth of the Bahamas is formed by an archipelago of
approximately 700 islands and cays covering nearly 100,000 square miles of
the Atlantic Ocean.   The Bahamas population (about 218,000 in 1982) is
currently growing at an annual rate of 2.1%.   This rate of growth is
expected to remain steady over the coming years.  Most of the population of
the country is concentrated in the island of New Providence, where the
capital city, Nassau, is located.1/ Due to employment availability and
other factors, such as better housing, schools, etc., there is a large
migration from the Family Islands2/ to New Providence.   The 1980 census
placed the resident population of New Providence Island at 135,000 or 64%
of the total population as compared to 120,000, or 60% in 1975.  There is
little absolute poverty in the Bahamas, but relative poverty (estimated at
about US$560 per month--in 1986 prices--for an average household of five)
is a  social  and  economic  problem.    About  25%  of households  in New
Providence have incomes below the relative poverty level.
1.02      The water service coverage for this island, mainly through indi-
vidual connections, is at a high 90% as a result of major water infra-
structure improvements undertaken in the past decade in meeting tourism
and household demands.   The total production capacity of water supply
currently amounts to about 6.5 million imperial gallons per day (MIGD).
Unaccounted-for water is estimated at 46%, which is high. A substantial
portion of the water distribution network is ver" old and is in need of
repairs or replacement.   Maintenance of the overall system--particularly
the wellfields--has been inadequate. About 20% to 25% of the total 26,000
connections on the island rely heavily on private wells built to avoid
paying the high cost of piped water or as a result of past unreliability of
the public water system.   Water quality is also jeopardized by high
salinity caused by an overabstraction of wellfields, which has led to the
use of private desalination plants on the island, particularly by the hotel
industry.
1.03       Only about 12% of the resident population of New Providence is
connected to the sewer system. Sewerage service is limited to a portion of
the Nassau area and a few housing subdivisions, where the wastewater is
discharged into the ground through injection wells of questionable perform-
ance.  The remaining population uses on-plot disposal devices, including
septic tanks which, because of a high water table, could result in contami-
nation of groundwater. Operation and maintenance of the sewerage systems
continue to suffer due mainly to the old age (50 years or more) of most
severs (particularly in the old Nassau area) and to the frequent malfunc-
tioning and technically unsuitable systems (such as the vacuum sewer system
in two subdivisions) installed in the past.   Several major hotels and
resort establishments use their own package treatment plants with waste-
water  recycling  facilities,  which  are  believed  to  be  functioning
satisfactorily.
1/  The five largest islands, after New Providence, are the Grand Bahama
(Pop. 25,860), Eleuthera (9,470), Andros (8,845), Abaco (6,500) and
Long Island (3,860).
2/   This is the name given to the other islands,  not including New
Providence and the Grand Bahama, that form the archipelago of the
Bahamas.



-2-
1.04       In the Family Islands, piped water is supplied to an average of
80% of the population. As in New Providence, groundwater of variable qual-
ity constitutes the principal water resource on these islands. Due to the
sparsely distributed population, sewerage service is almost non-existent.
Most households use septic tanks or other leaching systems for wastewater
disposal. The problems regarding water and sewerage on the Family Islands
are: a lack of adequate operation and maintenance of the systems built in
the geographically remote settlements, an inadequate cost recovery and
financing structure, and a lack of technical personnel.
Sector Organization
1.05       The water supply and sewerage sector is under the responsibility
of the Ministry of Works and Utilities (MOWU), which, in coordination with
the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH), formulate national sectoral poli-
cies. In 1976 the Government established the Water and Sewerage Corpora-
tion (WSC--para. 2.09) to replace the then existing Water and Sewerage
Department of MOWU.  WSC's main functions are to:  (i) control and ensure
the optimum development, use and protection of national water resources;
(ii) provide adequate supplies of suitable water for domestie and industry
use; and (iii) provide adequate facilities for rainage and the safe dis-
posal of sewage and industrial effluent.   WSC, with a current staff of
about 331, may be called upon to undertake other nationwide responsibili-
ties. However, existing charter provisions of the Corporation--amendable
by the Minister of Works--limit its service provision to mostly New
Providence Island.
1.06      The Family Islands' water supply division of HOWU's Public Works
Department is in charge of providing water and sewerage services for urban
settlements outside of New Providence Island.3/   This division, with a
staff of about 65, is in charge of surveying, planning, building and oper-
ating water supply systems. In general, the water supply services in the
Family Islands are heavily subsidized due to an inadequate tariff structure
and an extremely poor collection efficiency.   The water division of the
Family Islands currently operates about 50 water supply systems, located on
some 13 islands with a total installed production capacity of about 1.6
MIOD. The responsibility for providing rural water, as well as solid waste
collection services are under the Sanitation Division of MOPH.
Investments, Performance and Constraints in the Sector
1.07      Between 1978-82, investments In the water and sewerage sector of
New Providence averaged US$9.1 million (current dollars) per year. These
investments were primarily directed at improving water supply in order to
maintain tourism.   About 80% of the investments during the period were
financed out of the proceeds of a Bank-assisted water supply project (Loan
1320-BM--para. 1.10), which also involved cofinancing from the Caribbean
Development Bank (CDB) and local commercial banks. Government equity con-
tributions and WSC's internally generated funds constituted the remaining
major sources of finance.  MOWU provides for water supply investments in
the Family Islands.  The funds for this purpose are allocated annually in
the national budget.    These annual  allocations have  typically  ranged
between US$1.0 to US$1.2 million in recent years.
3/  The city of Freeport located on the Grand Bahama Island, however, has a
private concessionaire system managed by the port authority.



-3-
1.08          WSC's investments  to date have not kept pace with either
maintenance needs of the water system or with the required expansion of
sewerage.     Most  of  the  existing  water  and  sewerage  network  have
deteriorated due to their old age and a lack of preventive maintenance,
warranting substantial investments to improve the system. A major portion
of these deferred investments would be carried out under the proposed
project. Key constraints affecting WSC's performance include:
(a) the current high levels of unaccounted-for water (about 46%)
resulting in the need for costly investments for additional water
production;
(b) lack of adequate operation and maintenance programs, particularly
for the wellfields and sewage treatment plants;
(c) lack of an appropriate tariff structure for WSC's services, par-
ticularly for sewerage which is heavily subsidized by the water
tariff (the current sewage tariff does not recover capital costs
and only partially meets operational expenses);
(d) lack of manpower training programs oriented to meet WSC's organi-
zational and technical needs; and
(e) lack of adequate regulatory and institutional arrangements for
controlling groundwater protection, extraction and utilization in
New Providence (para. 2.02(e)).
Both WSC and the Government are aware of the above constraints.   As dis-
cussed more fully in Part II, the proposed project has been designed to
address the above constraints through the provision of relevant technical
assistance programs which would be action-oriented (para. 2.04, Part E and
Annex 3, Attachment 1).
1.09       The constraints with regard to the water sopply in the Family
Islands relate to the inadequate levels of maintenance, commercial account-
ing, and cost recovery. Furthermore, as with WSC, medium-term -1enning is
mostly non-existent due in part to the fact that for programming capital
expenditures at the central government level there is no system in place
for planring public  investments  beyond  the presenc fiscal year.   The
Government is currently seeking ways te improve water tariff collection
from the Family Islands.   Appropriate training of the operational staff
involved in the Family Islands' water system would address most of the
maintenance-related problems. It is recommended that this training program
be undertaken in conjunction with WSC's manpower training program, to be
formulated as part of the proposed technical assistance under the project
(para. 2.04).
Past Bank Experience in the Sector
1.10       To date, the Bank has made one loan for US$10.0 million (1976;
Loan 1320-BM) for water and sewerage development in the Bahamas (total
project cost--US$36.5 million).4/   The project was designed  mainly to
alleviate New Providence Island's severe water shortage problems which
4/ About US$17.1 million of the project cost was cofinanced by the Carib-
bean Development Bank and local commercial banks.



-4-
otherwise would have had an adverse effect on tourism. An equally impor-
tant project goal was to nurture the development of WSC as an independent
and a strong sector institution during its formative stages.  The project
was completed in 1982, about three years behind schedule due to chronic
delays in the award ot contracts and in their completion. A Project Com-
pletion Report (PCR) was issued on June 15, 1983.  The project was never-
theless successful in relieving the chronic water supply shortage in New
Providence, in the gradual transformation of WSC into a stable, autonomous
organization, and in the introduction of commercial accounting and new
administrative systems in WSC.  Key issues identified in the PCR related
to: (i) persistent operational problems experienced in the importation of
water from Andros Island; (ii) lack of progress in the reduction of
unaccounted-for water due to the absence of a comprehensive leak testing,
detection and pipe replacement program; (iii) high levels of accounts
receivables; and (iv) lack of organizational and technical skills and
training. These shortcoming, which still persist in varying degrees, would
be addressed under the proposed project through the implementation of
specific commercial and operational improvement and training programs
(para. 2.04, Part E).  The experience gained from the first project has
been reflected in the formulation of the proposed project.
The Bank's Sector Development Strategy
1.11       The Bank's general development strategy for the Bahamas empha-
sizes addressing critical institutional bottlenecks which impede the econo-
mic development of the country.  The Bank lending operations have, there-
fore, paid particular attention to development of relevant manpower skills
and to strengthening major developmental institutions in key areas of the
economy.  The water suppl; and sewerage sector, which i3 of crucial import-
ance for the health and welfare of the population, has also been a mainstay
of the all-important tourist industry. The Bank's objectives in the sec-
tor, shared with the Bahamian authorities, have been to secure adequate
supply of clean water and dependable sewerage services and, towards this
end, to help strengthen the management and operational capabilities of
1SC. The attainment of these objectives involves a more rational utiliza-
tion of the country's resources and existing facilities, together with pro-
tecting the environment from water pollution.   Institutionally, the Bank
aims at enhancement of the efficiency of WSC's operations, to secure a more
efficient use and maintenance of infrastructure and equipment, and
upgrading of WSC's commercial and financial operations.
II. THE PROJECT
Project Origin
2.01       At the Government's request, a Bank mission visited the Bahamas
in September 1984 to discuss possible Bank assistance as a follow up to the
first Bank-financed water supply and sewerage project.  The mission con-
cluded that technical assistance would be needed by WSC to address critical
institutional and other shortcomings affecting the sector, together with
improved and expanded water and sewerage services to meet the growing
demands.  Consultant services were provided to WSC for the detailed prep-
aration of a project responsive to these requirements.   The project was



-5-
completed during 1985 and appraised in November 1985.  Negotiations took
place in Washington during July 28-August 1, 1986. The Bahamian delegation
was led by Mr. George Moss, General Manager of WSC.
Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.02         The broad objectives of the project would be to improve the
institutional performance of WSC in the key areas of management and finance
and promote system reliability and performance through the rehabilitation
of deteriorating water supply and sewerage facilities and by introducing
improvements in their operation and maintenance.
Specifically, the project would assist WSC to:
(a)  strengthen its current management structure and operations, par-
ticularly in che financial, commercial and engineering/mainte-
nance areas, and to undertake requisite training programs;
(b)  improve water quality (in specific regard to salinity) and dis-
tribution through wellfield rehabilitation (resulting in a con-
trolled extraction of 3.0 to 3.5 MIGD groundwater), mains
replacement and relining;
(c)  meet short- to medium-term water demands through the establish-
ment of (i) conservation programs Ircluding leak control and
meter replacement (as part of an overall strategy to reduce un-
accounted-for water of the system by at least 14 percentage
points to an acceptable level of 32%), and (ii) shipping
improvements and expansion programs (from the current 2.0 MIGD to
about 4.0 MIGD) requiring rehabilitation of facilities at both
loading (Morgan's Bluff Harbor, Andros Island) and unloading
(Arawak Cay, New Providence) terminals;
(d)  protect the environment by rehabilitating portions of the sewer-
age and solids disposal system that are currently deteriorating
or not operating satisfactorily; and
(e)  Ci) establish an adequate tariff structure for water and sewerage
services,   (ii)   introduce   policies   and   procedures   for
unaccounted-for water reduction for the overall system, (iii)
develop a suitable resource management program to exploit the
national water resources including any necessary protective leg-
islation or regulatory actions as needed and (iv) explore long-
term water supply alternatives.
2.03       The above objectives are consistent with the Bank's strategy to
assist in addressing critical institutional and developmental issues in the
water sector during the phase-out period for the Bahamas.   Additionally,
the Bank's involvement in the project represents .ts catalytic role in
securing a broadened exposure of WSC to external financial capital markets
aimed to facilitate its current and future borrowing needs. The project
would thus provide an opportunity to WSC in seeking credits from several
cofinanciers including principally the European Investment Bank for the
first time.



-6-
Project Description
2.04      A summary description of the existing water and sewerage facili-
ties is provided in Annex 1.  The proposed project is fully described in
Annexes 2 and 3. Attached maps (IBRD Nos. 19733R through 19735) show proj-
ect location and components. The project is divided into five major parts,
namely water supply rehabilitation (US$10.4 million or about 40% of the
total base cost), water importation improvements (US$4.6 million or 18%),
sewerage rehabilitation (US$6.4 million or 24%), equipment purchase (US$3.2
million or 12%), and technical assistance programs, including training
(US$1.5 million or 6%).   The salient features of the project are noted
below:
Part A. The water supply rehabilitation component includes: (i)
rehabilitation of about 3,400 acres of wellfields and improved
operation of all Corporation-owned wellfields (about 6,000 acres)
in New Providence; (ii) relining and/or replacement of about 26
miles of transmission and distribution pipes ranging between 2 to
21 inches in diameter; (iii) installation of about 7.5 miles of
new mains ranging between 12 to 24 inches in diameter; and (iv)
related engineering services involved in the above.
Part B.  The water importation improvements component includes:
(i) reconstruction of the seawall (about 900 feet long) at Mor-
gan's Bluff Harbor in Andros; (ii) rehabilitation and improved
abstraction of water from  existing  Andros wellfields  (6,000
acres); (iii) repairs to the loading dock at Morgan's Bluff
including installation of larger size hoses for faster lcading;
(iv) replacement of the fendering system at the Arawak Cay termi-
nal in New Providence and provision of a 3.0 MIG additional stor-
age at this unloading facility; and (v) related engineering ser-
vices involved in the above.
Part C.  The sewerage rehabilitation component includes:   (i)
replacement of about 3,000 feet of sewers, ranging between 8 and
15 inches in diameter, in the downtown Nassau area; (ii) conver-
sion of the frequently malfunctioning vacuum sewer system into a
more reliable gravity collection system for about 600 households
of two subdivisions (Yellow Elder and Big Pond); (iii) irprove-
ments to the Malcolm Park sewage pumping facilities in the dis-
posal of the Bay Street area sewage effluent (about 2 to 3 MIGD)
through the installation of a new pre-treatment plant (to separ-
ate flotables and heavier solids) and a new injection well (dual
casing; 21-inch diameter and 600 feet deep, approximately,) and
through the rehabilitation of the existing injection well to act
as a standby unit; (iv) construction of a septage/solids disposal
facility (about 45,000 square feet pond area or other appropriate
systems,) aimed to facilitate, inter alia, a safer handling of
septic tank sludge from households; an dv) related engineering
services involved in the above.
Part D. The equipment component includes: (i) acquisition of 40
to 45 district meters, about 16,000 household consumption meters
and associated fittings to be used as part of a systematic meter
replacement program to help reduce unaccounted-for water; (ii)



-7-
procurement of equipment for construction (mainly to serve well-
field rehabilitation purposes) and maintenance needs (related to
installing or replacing water mains, sewers and pumping water
from construction trenches); and (iii) installation of telemetry
and controls at approximately 41 water and sewage pumping loca-
tions.
Part  E.    The  technical  assistance  and  training  component
includes:   (i) an institutional rehabilitation program, which
would involve a management audit of WSC in the key areas of
organization,   functions  and  development;   (ii)  operational
improvements, which would involve (a) improvements in commercial
engineering and operation/maintenance functions of WSC, (b5
formulation   and   implementation   of   an   adequate   tariff
structure and charges for WSC's services, (c) reduction in the
unaccounted-for water (both commercial or non-physical and
physical leaks) for the overall system, (d) improvements in
Andros shipping performance and monitoring, and (e) related
training in the above areas; and (iii) sector development studies
in the areas of (a) development of alternative strategies for
meeting medium- to long-term water demands of New Providence, (b)
development and implementation of a management program for the
protection and exploitation of the water resources of New Provi-
dence  including  any  necessary  legislative  or  regulatory
actions that are needed, and (c) development of an action plan to
guide sewerage system construction in New Providence for the
medium-term (next ten years) and establish treatment levels for
adequate sewage disposal.
2.05        Finally, the project provides for implementation of specific
training programs identified under technical assistance components des-
cribed earlier.  The estimated completion timeframe and the draft terms of
reference for the execution of various technical assistance programs are
presented in Annex 3.
Project Cost
2*06          Project costs are detailed in Annex 4 and summarized in
Table II - 1. The total cost of the proposed project (including contingen-
cies and an estimated US$0.5 million in taxes but excluding US$7.0 million
for interest during construction) is about US$33.5 million.  The foreign
costs are estimated at US$21.4 million or about 64% of the total project
cost.   Base costs are expressed in January 1986 prices (same as the
cofinanoiers), and escalated for (i) a physical contingency factor of up to
15% for physical components, and (ii) price contingencies assumed as 5% in
1986-88, and 4% thereafter, for foreign costs, and 4% in 1986, 5.5% in
1987-88,  5%  in  1989  and  4.5%  thereafter  for  local  costs.    The
above-mentioned annual price escalation factors would parallel projected
inflation levels in the United States which would be considered appropriate
to the Bahamian conditions.   Construction costs are based on unit costs
developed by WSC that reflect actual costs of recently completed and/or
ongoing similar works in the Bahamas.   Total man-month estimates for
consulting services are estimated at 80 man months (mostly foreign) for the
technical assistance component.



-8-
Table II - 1: Summary of Project Costs
Foreign        Total as
US$ Million or B$ Million    as % of        % of Base
Part    Component      Foreign    Local    Total       Total           Cost
A   Water Supply         5.9       4.5      10.4      56.7           39.8
Rehabilitation
B   Water Importation   3.3        1.3       4.6     71.7            17.8
Improvements
C   Sewerage            3.3        3.1       6.4     51.5            24.4
Rehabilitation
D   Equipment
Dl   Water Meters &    0.13       0.1       0.9     95.0             3.5
Serv. Connec.
L2   Const. & Maint.   1.3        0.1       1.4     95.0             5.4
Equipment
D3   Telemetry &       0.e        0.1       0,9      95.0            3.5
Controls
E     Tech. Assist.      1.2       0.3       1.5     80.0             5.6
& Training
Base Cost
(Jan. 1986 Prices)   16.6        9.5       26.1    63.6           100.0
Physical Contingencies   1.7        0.9        2.6    65.3            10.1
Price Contingencies      3.1        1.7        4.8    64.5            18.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST      21.4       12.1       33.5    63.8           128.6
Project Financing Plan
2.07      The project financing plan is summarized in Table II - 2 with the
details shown in Annex 5. The Bank loan would finance US$10.0 million or
about 28% of the total project costs. The Bank loan proceeds would be used
to finance Part A, Part Dl, and Part E of the project and would cover about
80% of the total foreign costs of these components.  The financing plan,
approved by the Government, also includes the following external loans: (i)
US$4.3 million from the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) which would exclu-
sively 'inance Part B of the project;  (ii) US$7.0 million (the Government
and WSC negotiated a loan of 8.5 million European Currency Units, that at
present is equivalent to about US$8.5 million) from the European Investment
Bank (BIB) which would cover investment needs under Part C and Part D2 of
the project; and (iii) US$1.2 million (cash loan) from the National
Insurance Board (NIB) of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas which would
finance Parts Dl, D3 and Part E. The loans from CDB and EIB would finance
100% of the foreign costs of their respective componenta and the NIB loan
would be used to cover local expenditures.   (The interest rate and the
repayment period for these loans would be as follows: 5.0% (variable)



-9-
and 18 years (including five-year grace period) for the BIB loan; 8.8%
(blended and variable interest rate) and 18 years (including three-year
grace period) for the CDB loan; and one-half point below the prevailing
Bahamas Prime Rate, and 18 years for the NIB loan).  The Government would
contribute a total of US$11.0 million in equity participation and WSC would
finance the interest during construction from internal cash generation.
The CDB, EIB and NIB loans have already been approved by their respective
Boards. In light of the involvement of several cofinanciers, exchange of
information and reporting among all cofinanciers would take place during
project implementation.
Table II - 2: Financing Plan Summary
Total Cost
including
Part     Component           Contingencies            Financing Source
(US$ million         World      Cofinanciers
or B$ million) Govt. Bank    EIB    CDB   NIB
A   Water Supply                  13.5       6.0   7.5     -       -     -
Rehabilitation
B   Water Importation              5.9       1.6    -      -      4.3
Improvements
C   Sewerage                       8.5       3.1    -     5.4      -
Rehabilitation
D   Equipment
DI  Water Meters &                1.1        -    1.0     -       -    0.1
Serv. Connec.
D2   Const. & Maint.              1.6        -     -     1.6      -     -
Equipment
D3   Telemetry &                  1.2       0.3    -      -       -    0.9
Controls
E   Tech. Assist.                  1.7        -    1.5     -       -    0.2
& Training
Total Project Cost a/         33.5      11.0  10.0    7.0    4.3   1.2
a/  Interest during construction (about US$7.0 million) would be financed
by WSC.
2.08          Agreements were obtained during negotiations on the timely
availability of counterpart funds from the Government and that these funds
would be provided according to the actual financial needs arising from the



-10-
implementation of the project. Completion of all necessary steps required
by the cofinanciers for the disbursement of their respective loans will be
a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
The Borrower and Executing Agency
2.09      WSC would be the Borrower of the proposed Bank loan and also the
executing agency for the project.   WSC is a relatively new organization
established in July 1976 with the primary responsibility for providing
water and sewerage services to New Providence Island (para. 1.05). It is a
statutory corporation, wholly owned by the Government and is governed by a
six-member Board of Directors, chaired by the Minister of Works and Utili-
ties.  WSC's chief executive officer, the General Manager, is appointed by
the Board.
2.10        WSC's current structure,  (most recently revised in February
1985), includes five departments: Planning and Engineering, Operations and
Maintenance, Accounting and Finance, Persotnel, and Marine Operations. An
institutional overview of WSC is shown in Annex 6. Since its creation in
1976, WSC's management has improved and noticeable progress has taken
place, principally in the area of financial management, which is currently
further enhanced by the use of a new in-house data processing system and
micro computers.   Also, sound personnel management procedures have been
recently introduced.   However, WSC needs to upgrade its organirational
structure (particularly in the commercial and shipping operations) and
allocation of human resources, as well as improve management information
systems and cost accounting.   Coordination and horizontal communication
among departments needs to be improved. The size of WSC's staff has been
reduced moderately to 331 employees from a peak of 362 at the end of 1978.
Nonetheless, WSC is overstaffed (currently with an equivalent of 14.5
employees per 1000 connections) and itscomposition is imbalanced with an
insufficient number of qualified staff at the mid-technical level, and an
overstaffing at  the lower levels.   While WSC carries out short  term
planning  through  annual  budgeting,  it  lacks  long-term  planning  and
forecasting capabilities.   Improvements are also needed in the areas of
operations and maintenance of water and sewerage facilities to help prevent
their rapid deterioration and in related training areas (for example,
training in the shipping operations is practically non-existent, even
though the above operation constitutes about one-fourth of the total water
production).   Inefficient commercial practices in the areas of billing,
collection and reconnection compound the problem of an already high (46%)
unaccounted-for water situation.   The proposed project would address the
above problems through the provision of the requisite technical assistance
and implementation programs (Annex 3).  Assurances regarding WSC's timely
implementation of agreed institutional strengthening programs were obtained
during negotiations (para. 2.13 for details).
Implementation and Status of Project Preparation
2.11      Project execution would take ilace over the period 1986-93 (Annex
7 provides an implementation bar chart and a cumulative completion progress
schedule for various components). An earlier completion of the project is,
conceivably, well within the implementation capabilities of WSC. The proj-
ect management unit would be located within the existing Planning and



-11-
Engineering Department of the Corporation and would be headed by a senior
level Project Manager assisted by a Deputy Project Manager.  The Project
Manager's responsibility would include, inter alia, mobilization of and
coordination among the required personnel from various other departments -
particularly Operations - to be involved in project irplementation.  The
day-to-day administration of the project would be handled by the Deputy
Project Manager. Both the Project Manager and the Deputy Project Manager
were appointed in December 1985. As with the earlier Bank-financed proj-
ect, the Finance Department of the Corporation would be charged with the
responsibility of keeping a separate account for project-related expendi-
tures  and  disbursement activities.    Assurances were  obtained  during
negotiations that WSC would maintain at all times competent project staff
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank for project management an4
implementation.
2.12        WSC would also be assisted by expatriate consultants (for an
estimated 155 man months) in the areas of detailed engineering, bid docu-
mentation, bid evaluation and construction supervision. WSC has recently
appointed key engineering consultants. The preparation of most components,
scheduled for early implementation, is well advanced, particularly for the
wellfield rehabilitation, seawall construction, and vacuum sewer conver-
sion.   The bidding of sewer pipes (Part C) and construction equipment
(Part D2), to be financed by BIB, was commenced in May, 1986.  Project
preparation conforms to the implementation schedule shown in Annex 5.
2.13      As with the engineering assistance stated above, execution of the
proposed technical assistance program would involve an extensive use of
expatriate consultants (for an estimated additional 80 man months.)  Key
areas of assistance include the carrying out of institutional rehabilita-
tion, and operational improvement programs for WSC and the sector studies
(para. 2.04).   Both  the  institutional rehabilitation and  operational
improvements program would be divided into three distinct phases: a diag-
nostic phase involving a comprehensive assessment of WSC's current organi-
zational structure and its systems, practices and procedures, a design
phase proposing a detailed action plan for undertaking the needed improve-
ments and an implementation phase (including training) for the agreed
action plan. During negotiations, agreements were reached on draft terms
of reference for technical assistance programs and their completion
timeframe  (An-ex  3, Attachment 1).   Assurances were  obtained  during
negotiations that WSC would undertake to discuss with the Bank the findings
and recommendations of the technical assistance programs and studies and
present an action plan for implementation of agreed recommendations. The
agreed timeframe for the availability of results and an action plan for key
technical assistance programs and studies would be as follows:  March 31,
1987 for unaccounted-for water reduction program; May 31, 1987 for tariff
study; June 30, 1987 for management audit and institutional improvement
program; March 31, 1988 for commercial and engineering operational
improvement program; and October 31, 1989 for national water resources and
conservation study. The Bank would closely monitor the progress of these
programs during project supervioion.
WSC's Financial Performance and Prospects
2.14        While the Bank's first project for water supply and sewerage
development in the Bahamas has been successful in making WSC a stable



-12-
institution in setting the bases for management improvements as well as in
meeting the critical water shortages in New Providence (para. 1.10), the
attainment of the project's financial objectives (i.e. major improvements
in WSC's finances) has lagged behind.   During the project implementation
period (1976-82), WSC's finanoial performance remained less than adequate
mainly due to: (i) inadequate water production and sales; (ii) failure to
reduce materially unaccounted-for water; (iii) high levels of accounts
receivable; and (iv) delays in undertaking the required tariff increases,
particularly for sewerage services.   The net result was that, during the
project implementation period, WSC incurred a cumulative loss of US$6.3
million.   In addition, WSC's financial needs related to its investments
were US$10.4 million higher than what was planned before.   To fill the
financial gap, the Government provided the necessary funds through a
combination of equity contributions and grants. After project completion,
WSc took important measures which included:   (i) actions to improve its
management efficiency; (ii) increases in water production and sales; and
(iii) a declining trend in accounts receivable, particularly as related to
the Government agencies. As a result, WSC's 1984 financial performance was
satisfactory, with a net operating income of US$631,000--compared with a
net income of only US$40,000 in 1983 and a net loss of US$475,000 in 1982.
In 1985 the net operating income increased to US$890,000.
2.15       Increases in WSC's sewerage and water tariffs were last made in
1978 and 1982, respectively.   WSC intends to raise its average quarterly
sewerage tariff by 25%, from the current US$8 per fixture to US$10 per
fixture, to apply to the Bay Street area that had benefitted significantly
from recent investments.   WSC's financial projections for the 1987-93
period (Annex 8) assume an annually compounded increase of about 3% for
water tariff, which would be less than the anticipated rate of inflation
and would thus result in a net decrease in water charges in real terms
(such a decline would be justifiable considering the already too high water
rate, which is about twice the calculated average incremental cost of water
assuming a 10% discount rate).   However, a real decline in the water
tariffs would be adequately compensated by the projected annual increases
in the sewerage tariffs (which could result in a net increase of about 25%
in real terms by the end of the 1987-93 period), and by various cost-saving
measures envisaged under the proposed project (para. 2.17)..  A change in
the WSC tariff structure along these lines would be worked out under the
proposed project's technical assistance component (para. 2.04, Part E).
2.16       Consistent with WSC's financial projections and in view of the
anticipated slow growth in WSC's service coverage and consumption in New
Providence over the medium term, a working ratio covenant, complemented
with a debt-service covenant, would be appropriate under the proposed proj-
ect, to ensure the financial viability of WSC.   Agreements were reached
during the loan negotiations that WSC will:  (a) take all necessary meas-
ures to maintain during the project execution period a working ratio of not
higher than 75%; and (b) obtain the Bank's agreement before incurring any
additional long-term debt if, as a result of such debt, WSC's debt-service
coverage ratio will be less than 1.5 during the term of the debt.
Operational Performance and Monitoring
2.17       The financial projections (Annex 8) are predicated on improve-
ments in USC's operational performance and efficiency, which would allow



-13-
reductions in operational expenditures and effect cost savings. Thus, the
financial projections have been made with the assumption that WSC would
continue taking measures during the project implementation period to main-
tain sound financial performance and to generate internal funds sufficient
to cover not less than 25% of its investment needs.   Important measures
which WSC would have to take in subsequent years include:
(a) introduction of an interim sewerage tariff increase5/-effective
in late 1986--and the maintenance, from 1988-89 onwards, of
appropriate water and sewerage tariffs (which would reflect WSC's
true costs of providing water and sewerage services following the
recommendations of the proposed tariff study;
(b) attainment of at least a 14 percentage point reduction (to about
32%) in the unaccounted-for water ratio for the overall system by
project completion;
(c)  keeping at a minimum level the amount of water purchased from
private wellfields (about 80% reduction of current levels by
project completion), parallel to improvements to be attained in
shipping of water from Andros;
(d) reduction in the number of employees per 1000 water/sewerage con-
nections from the current level of 14.5 to 12.5 by project cor-
pletion; and
(e) improving billing/collection performance, to attain a reduction
in accounts receivable from about 4.5 months at present to 3
months of billing by 1987 and maintaining this level in the fol-
lowing years.
2.18      In support of timely implementation of the foregoing operational
Improvements, the Bank has reached agreement with WSC on a list of
monitoring targets for review annually between the Bank and WSC.   During
these project implementation reviews, WSC and the Bank would evaluate the
progress made in attainment of the targets and determine any corrective
action that might need to be taken.   To that effect, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that, before October 31 in each WSC fiscal
year, WSC would furnish to the Bank for its review and comment:  (a) its
investment plan, financial projections and monitoring indicators for the
current year and following three years; and (b) specific measures, as
necessary, including adjustments to tariffs and enhancement of other
sources of revenues and operational measures, to attain fully the agreed
performance and financial targets.
5/ The cost-recovery principle for on-site sewerage works under the vacuum
sewerage conversion component-involving the installation of conven-
tional gravity flow toilets and related plumbing, estimated at about
US$1000 per household--would involve a direct recovery of costs through
a medium-term installment payment program.   Off-site costs would be
fully recovered through appropriate tariffs (para. 2.04, Part E(ii-b)
and Annex 3, para. B(ii).



Changes in Service Responsibilities
2.19       In the event that the Government decides to expand the area of
service responsibility of WSC from its present limits--not an unlikely pos-
sibility in light of recent indications from the Ministry of Public Works
concerning WSC's potential future involvement in the water supply opera-
tions of certain tourist islands outside of New Providence--this expansion
would have to be carried out under terms which would not jeopardize WSC's
overall administrative and financial position.  If the Government decides
on any change of WSC's responsibility in the sector, the Bank would be con-
sulted regarding the terms and conditions of any change. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations to that effect.
Accounting and Auditing
2.20      WSC's accounting practices are overall satisfactory (except for
certain areas of cost accounting and commercial operations) and follow gen-
erally accepted principles applicable to a water utility. WSC's financial
statements are audited by independent auditors whose performance in the
past has been found satisfactory to the Bank.   Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that WSC would continue to have its financial state-
ments audited by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank and that the
auditors' reports, together with the letter to management, would be sent to
the Bank not later than four months after the end of each accounting year.
The auditors would also audit the Special Account and provide a separate
opinion on the disbursement accounts under SOE procedures (para. 2.23).
Procurement
2.21       Procurement arrangements for the overall project are summarized
in Table II - 3 (see Annex 10 for details).   Procurement of components
under the project is designed on a parallel-financing basis and would fol-
low the applicable guidelines of the financing agency (the Bank, EIB or
CDB). Procurement of components A, DI, and E, to be financed by the Bank,
would thus be in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines (May
1985). Contracts for civil works estimated to cost US$750,000 or more and
materials and equipment purchases for US$100,000 weuld be procured through
international competitive bidding (ICB).   Local competitive bidding pro-
cedures (LCB), reviewed and accepted by the Bank, would be used to award
contracts valued below these limits.  In the evaluation of ICB bids, local
manufacturers will be accorded the usual margin of preference (15Z of the
CIF price or level of tariffs, whichever is lower).  Given the nature of
the civil works involved and the absence of a well established local con-
tracting industry in the water and sewerage sector in the Bahamas, most
civil contracts under the project would be performed by foreign firms, who,
however, would employ local labor.   Certain components such as the Bank-
financed wellfield rehabilitation and small mains replacement, which would
constitute routine work of the Corporation and, the EIB-financed vacuum
sewer conversion scheme, which would require a close cooperation with the
residents would be executed by force account involving in-house and hired
labor. The above procedure, which was also used for execution of similar
works  under  the  Bank-financed  first  water  project,  is  considered
satisfactory to the Bank.  For contracts of less than US$50,000, prudent



-1.-
shopping would be permitted on the basis of at least three price quotations
with the aggregate value of such contracts not exceeding US$0.2 million.
Consultants for Part A and Part E components would be engaged in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines. The limits for prior review of bidding docu-
mentation by the Bank--namely US$500,000 for civil works and US$100,000 for
goods--would result in a coverage of more than 90% of the total estimated
value of the contracts for these two categories.
Table II - 3: Procurement Overview
(US$ million or B$ million)
Procurement by Bank               Procurement
Project              ICB    LCB    Prudent   Other Subtotal         By
Category                           Shopping                    Cofinanciers
Civil Works             5.3     -         -       3.3 a/  8.6        11.1
(3.5)                      (0)    (3.5)       [6.9]
Material and            4.3    0.3       0.2      -        4.8        4.2
Equipment           (3.7)  (0.2)    (0.1)             (4.0)       [4.01
Consultant              -      -         -        2.9 b/  2.9         1.9
Services                                      (2.5)   (2.5)       11.6]
Total                   9.6    0.3       0.2      6.2    16.3        17.2
(7.2)  (0.2)    (0.1)    (2.5)  (10.0)       [12.51
a/ Execution by force account.
b/ Consultant costs.
Note:     Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
Bank loan for indicated items, and figures in brackets refer to
cofinanciers' (CDB, EIB and NIB) total loan amounts.
Disbursement
2.22      The Bank loan would be disbursed as follows (Annex 11):
(a)  for civil works - 100% of foreign expenditures and 65% of local
expenditures;
(b)  for materials and equipment - 100% of foreign expenditures, 65%
of expenditures, if procured locally; and
(c)  for consultant services and training programs - 100% of foreign
expenditures and 80% of local expenditures.
Disbursements would be made against Statement of Expenditure (SOE) for eli-
gible expenditures and contracts valued at under US$100,000 equivalent.
Supporting documentation for these would be retained by WSC and made avail-
able for review by the Bank during supervision. All other disbursements
would be made against normal documentation submitted to the Bank.



-16-
Retroactive financing in an amount not exceeding US$0.5 million would be
provided for expenditures on project preparation activities and wellfield
rehabilitation incurred since September 1, 1985.
2.23          In order to expedite project execution, and should WSC so
require, a Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank of the Com-
monwealth of the Bahamas (or any commercial bank acceptable to the Bank)
with an initial deposit of US$0.5 million.  These funds would be used to
reimburse WSC for the Bank's share of the project cost, as well as to
effect in an expedient manner direct payments in foreign currency.   The
closing date of the Bank loan would be June 30, 1994, based on an eight and
one-half year disbursement profile for similar projects in the Latin Amer-
ican region.
Progress Reporting
2.24      The format of the progress reporting system and an overall super-
vision strategy involving the Bank were discussed during negotiations.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that WSC would submit to the
Bank semi-annual reports (due February 28 and August 31, for preceding
semesters ending December 31 and June 30, respectively) giving adequate
information on project progress pertaining to procurement antd operational
and financial performance (paras. 2.16 and 2.17). WSC also would prepare a
project completion report to be submitted to the Bank not later than six
months after the closing date of the Bank loan.
Justification, Benefits and Risks
2.25      More than 70% of the proposed investments under the project would
be to repair, rehabilitate and replace existing systems and infrastructure,
and for WSC's institutional and financial strengthening, so as to establish
a firmer basis of WSC's operations.   The project would finance items of
high priority, with immediate and medium-term impact which are consistent
with long-term objectives.   The project components would represent the
least-cost solution for achieving the project's objectives (para. 2.02) and
would not involve the use of unusual or unproven technologies. The project
benefits would include both direct (cost savings) and indirect benefits
(such as increased productivity, improved water quality, system reliability
and on-the-job training for WSC staff).   The proposed project would also
have a positive environmental impact, given the nature and composition of
the physical components involved. Due to the nature of the proposed proj-
ect, not all the benefits can be quantified reliably. However, an attempt
has been made to estimate the project-related cost savings which are
expected to be substantial (about US$1.6 million--1985 dollars-per year by
project completion). Also, based on the estimated cost savings from the
increases in efficiency and better system management, the project would
have an indicative overall economic rate of return of about 15%.
2.26        The benefits from each of the key project components are sum-
marized below and detailed in Annex 12.  Under the project's water supply
rehabilitation component, benefits would accrue from two key activities:
(i) the New Providence Island wellfield rehabilitation; and (ii) the



-17-
replacement and relining of mains.  The benefits from these items, aside
from increased efficiency, would derive from the cost savings to be real-
ized, including savings in electric power due to reduced pumping, and from
staffing costs as equipment (including telemetry installation) becomes
available for improved operation, maintenance and monitoring. The replace-
ment and relining of mains would result in higher system pressures to con-
sumers and potentially greater revenues for WSC; they would also permit the
transportation of over 50% more water on the eastern portion of the system,
resulting in potentially 15% more sales of water, and result in power sav-
ings due to reduced friction losses.   The water importation improvements
would result in reliability of supply and, thereby, avoidance of water
rationing, increased capacity, and improved productivity due to faster
loading and unloading, and berthing of transport vehicles. This would also
result in cost savings as a result of the reduced need to purchase water
(which has been of inferior quality due to heavy chlorides) from private
wellfields. The sewerage rehabilitation components would, inter alia, pro-
duce savings as a result of a reduced need to replace pumps and to under-
take costly repairs.   The project would also contribute  to a cleaner
environment.   The project's technical assistance and training component
would result in improved productivity, increased efficiency, and reduced
costs for WSC. The management audit and institutional improvement programs
would help streamline functions and procedures and would be effective in
identifying internal cost savings.   The unaccounted-for water reduction
program would help WSC in a very significant way: the average cost of pro-
duction (excluding labor and depreciation) of water is US$2.46 per 1,000
gallons; a reduction of 14 percentage points in unaccounted-for water is
estimated to result in direct cost savings of about US$0.8 million per
year.
2.27      Most of the New Providence population served by WSC would benefit
from the project. By 1994, additional resident population of about 51,000
would share the project's benefits--representing an increase in service
coverage through individual connections from the current 90% to 94% by
project completion as a result of the physical improvements and expansions
to be undertaken under the project. The proportion of the urban poor with
access to safe water through direct connection is expected to         increase
from 49% in 1986 to about 78% by project completion.   Affordability of
water supply services by the poor has been evaluated, assuming the January
1986 tariff under the current tariff structure.   The evaluation showed
that, based on a 'life-line" monthly consumption of 2,200 IG (or about ten
cubic meters), a poor family spends about US$14 for water, representing
about 2.5% of estimated family income.
2.28      The main project risk lies in the multiplicity of project activi-
ties, and in WSC's ability to absorb and implement in a timely manner the
results of the various technical assistance studies--particularly where
they concern timely follow up of unaccounted-for water reduction and
improved operation/maintenance programs. Without such a timely follow up,
the projected cost savings would not be fully realized. This risk should
not be overrated, however, considering the commitment shown by WSC's top
management to the project objectives. Project risks would also be reduced
by consultant assistance, training programs and annual review between WSC
and the Bank, as proposed under the project (para. 2.18).



-18-
III    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained:
(a)  that the Government contributions (US$ 11.0 million) would be
made available in a timely manner (para. 2.08);
(b)  that WSC would maintain at all times competent personnel on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, for the management and
implementation of the project (para. 2.11);
(c)  that WSC would (i) oorAplete technical assistance studies by the
agreed timeframe, and (ii) undertake to discuss with the Bank the
findings and recommendations of these studies and present an
action  plan  fcr  implementation  of  agreed  recommendations
(para. 2.13);
(d)  that WSC would take all actions necessary to maintain financial
self-sufficiency of its operations for meeting a working ratio
test and to seek Bank agreement before incurring any additional
debt (para. 2.16);
(e)  that WSC would reassess its financial and operational performance
annually, and in consultation with the Bank, propose specific
measures to meet financial covenants and performance targets
(para. 2.18);
(f)  that WSC would consult with the Bank regarding the terms and con-
diti-ons  of  any  change  in  its  service  responsibilities
(para. 2.19);
(g)  that WSC would  have  its accounts,  the  Special Account and
accounts related to disbursement under SOE procedures,  audited
annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank (para.
2.20); and
(h)  that WSC would submit to the Bank semi-e.'tzal reports pertaining
to project progress, institutional and financial and operational
performance (para. 2.24).
3.02      Completion of all steps required by the cofinanciers for the dis-
bursement of their respective loans will be a condition of effectiveness of
the Bank Loan (para. 2.10).
3.03       With the above assurances, agreements and conditions, the pro-
posed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$10.0 million rapay-
able in 15 years, including a grace period of three years, at the standard
variable interest rate.



- 19 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 7
THE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHA9ILITATION PROJECT
Existing Facilities
I. EXISTING WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
Introduction
1.          The existing public water supply system on the Island of New
Providence has been gradually developed since 1928 in response to growth in
demand created by an expanding resident population (estimated at 145,000 in
1984, with an annual growth rate of about 3.3% per year) and a fluctuating
visitor industry (with the total number of stopover visitors estimated at
759,000 in 1984).   Periodic additions to the system have been made in
accordance with an overall master plan.   However, the growth in water
demand in the late 70s and early 80s has tended to outpace expansion of
public water supply (including repeated attempts to produce desalinated
water by various means such as flash distillation and reverse osmosis)
resulting in chronic shortages, low pressures and intermittent servioe, as
well as an uncontrolled proliferation of private water sources. Attached
maps (IBRD No. 19733R and 19735) indicates the location of existing water
supply facilities.
Sources of Supply
2.          The accompanying table provides a summary of historical and
current sources of water supply. For reasons of poor maintenance, skilled
operational requirements and increasing costs, uon-traditional methods of
providing water supply by desalination (reverse-osmosis and flash
distillation)  have  been  discontinued.    Water  is  currently  supplied
exclusively from groundwater sources developed on New Providence and Andros
Islands.   These sources consist of the natural freshwater lenses (an
average depth of ten feet) that occur in the porous rocks of the islands
above the saltwater base. The balance between the fresh water lenses and
the underlying saltwater base is a fragile one and can be upset easily
through improper extraction methods resulting in rising salinity or even
complete inversion of the lenses in seawater. To prevent the intrusion of
seawater into the freshwater lenses, extraction must be at low rates from
shallow boreholes or trenches distributed over wellfields of large
acreage.   There are at present approximately 4,000 acres of wellfields
located in the western part of New Providence and 6,000 acres on Andros,
both owned and operated by the Water and Sewerage Corporation (WSC). The
Corporation also purchases water produced in some 2,900 acres of
privately-owned  wellfields  on  New  Providence.?!   Current  abstraction
methods for most wellfields are, however, unsatisfactory in terms
1/ The total wellfield area of 6,900 acres on New Providence represents
approximately 12% land on the Island.



- 20 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 7
Sources for New Providence Public Water Supply
x of
Average Yield, MIGD           Total
Sources                           1975        1980       1985 a/   Production
(1985)_
A. Corporation-Owned Facilities
(1)  New Providence
Wellfields Extraction               2.55       2.38        3.48        54
(ii) Windsor Field
Reverse Osmosis Plant b/            -          0.35         -           _
(ifi) Blue Hills Flash
Distillation Plant c/               1.22        -           -           -
(iv) Importation (shipping)
from wellfields on Andros
Island                              -          0.79 d/    1.38 e/      22
Subtotal           3.77       3.46        4.86        76
B. Privately Purchased Water
(M) New Providence Development
Corporation wellfields              1.28       1.30        1.57        24
(ii) Other private wellfields           0.21        0.21         -           -
Subtotal          1.49       1.51        1.57        24
TOTAL             5.26       4.97        6.43       100
a/  Average for the period Jan.-Sept. 1985.
b/  Design capacity - 0.5 MIGD surface water of high salinity (7,000-9,000 mg/1) and
variable suspended  solids  refining per  treatment  used  as  input  to  R/O    plant
operated during 1976-80 under contract with a firm; discontinued due to high
operational costs.
c/   Design capacity - 2 MIGD; operated during 1972-78;  discontinued due to frequent
shut-downs resulting from seawater (input) corrosion and other operational problems.
d/  Andros water importation scheme commencing in 1977 under the World Bank-financed water
supply project (Loan 1320-BM; 1976-82) and gradually expanding.
e/  A higher importation rate of 1.7 to 2.0 MIGD was attained in the last quarter of 1985
due to major improvements in vessels maintenance and shipping management.



- 21-                   ANNEXI
Page 3 of 7
of field layouts for water collection and pumSing arrangements, resulting
in an increasing salination of water produced.J/  Based on estimated "safe
yield" of 400 to 600 imperial gallons per acre per day, the safe long-term
daily extraction from the currently operating New Providence wellfields
would not exceed 4.0 MIGD.3/
3.         The 4ndros wellfield, with an area of 6,000 acres, consists of
12 setp of trenches, each arranged in a cruciform with a central pumping
station. The water is collected in two 3-MIG groundlevel reservoirs from
which it is pumped to Morgan's Bluff and loaded either into Corporation-
owned barges or a chartered tanker.  The travel distance between Morgan's
Bluff harbor and Arawak Cay terminal (on the New Providence side) is about
40 nautical miles.    The present installed capacity of the wellfield is
considered to be 3.0 MIGD (0.25 MIGD per cruciform) and the daily maximum
shipping capacity with one tug/barge combination and the chartered tanker
is about 2.0 MIGD, even though this has been achieved only most recently.
Allowances for bad weather and mechanical problems have totalled between
25% and 30%, so the annual average production for the most part of 1985 (as
of September 1985) was about 1.5 MIGD.  In recognition of the increasing
role of imported water for near-future system planning (Annex 2, Attachment
1), timely improvements in the operation and management of Andros shipping
-- including the initial expansion of Andros welifields -- (Annex 2,
Attachment 2), would be undertaken as part of the proposed project.
Water Quality
4.         During the period 1980-1985, the Corporation's water production
increased from about 5.0 MIGD to 6.4 MIGD. Much of this increase would,
however, be attributable to an overabstraction of wellfields on New
Providence.  The result has been an increased level of chlorides ranging
between 250 to 800 mg/l (weighted average) for the Corporation-owned
wellfields (except Andros water with an average 300 mg/l chloride level in
1985) and exceeding 800 mg/l for the private wellfields.4/   Since the
2/ This specifically refers to localized overpumping rather than an evenly
distributed abstraction of most wellfields--caused by several factors,
principally by the use of deep boreholes (as opposed to trenches, for
example) and inefficient ejector pumps in certain old wellfields.
Deficiencies in the layout of wellfields also include inadequate
stormwater drainage at the site and application of easy-to-operate
gravity collection systems.
3/ For short periods, particularly during the season of heavy precipita-
tion, production may safely exceed 500 imperial gallons per day per
acre, provided the normal lens depth has been maintained.
4/ The ongoing contract between WSC and the New Providence Development
Corporation (NPDC), the major private supplier, stipulates a maximum
chloride ceiling of 600 mg/l. However, because of the past emphasis in
meeting quantitative aspects of water demand, WSC has been somewhat
reluctant to take any punitive action against NPDC for providing high
chloride water. WSC is, however, currently seeking improvements on the
part of NPDC in better managing their wellfields and lowering chloride
levels in the water supplied.



- 22 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
chloride content of the blended water in most parts of the distribution
system has averaged between 500 to 700 mg/l, the quality of the delivered
water was poorer than the WHO's recommended limits.  The Corporation has
historically placed a major emphasis on meeting demands in order to improve
the perceived reliability of its service, but this has led to customers
either supplementing or substituting for the public supply as a result of
the poor water quality and shortages in supply.  In an effort to improve
quality, the Corporation is planning to undertake measures to improve
wellfield management (particularly with regard to lowering abstraction
rates and resting certain wellfields) and closely monitor the chloride
levels of the purchased water.   Assistance is also currently provided to
the Corporation by a U.N. specialist in determining needs for water
treatment in the areas of improved disinfection and pH stabilization (to
prevent scale formation).
The Transmission and Distribution System
5.  Water from the wellfields is pumped to the urban demand areas by a
northerly transmission main (20-inch diameter; 12 years old) from Windsor
pumping stations to the town and by a southerly main (16-inch diameter; 25
years old) to storage at Blue Hills.   The above two mains are intercon-
nected so that water can be passed from the wellfields in either
direction.   Numerous service connections are taken from the above pipes
which act as both transmission and distribution mains.   A 24-inch main
conveys water from Arawak Cay to the Blue Hill storage tanks.  The total
length of the transmission and distribution network on New Providence
amounts to about 311 miles of pipe ranging in diameter of up to 24 inches.
The majority of the mains are cast iron with some steel, asbestos cement,
polyvinyl chloride, and ductile iron. Most of the network is in the north-
eastern part of the island which includes the more densely developed Nassau
area.   The system has approximately 26,000 metered connections,5/ 250
metered standpipes in areas where houses are not connected, and several
hundred fire hydrants. Many old lines, some only two inches in diameter,
are still in service.  The general condition of the existing distribution
network (subject to corrosion) may be judged from the fact that during
1984, 46% of all of the water delivered to the network was unaccounted-for,
based on actual in and out meter readings.6/ This is attributed mainly to
leakage and malfunctioning meters.   WSC is currently intensifying its
efforts in locating leaks and under-registering meters (see unaccounted-for
water reduction program in Annex 3).
5/ Several of the service connections were, however, installed with only a
few inches of cover and need to be rebuilt.
6/ A 1985 leak-detection study (by the Philadelphia Suburban Water Com-
pany) identified areas in the system requiring repairs or replacement.



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 7
6.        The system has about 40 million imperial gallons of distrlbution
storage in above-ground steel and pre-stressed concrete reservoirs. Under
severe emergency curtailment, this could provide water for about ten days
provided the reservoirs were full at the start of the emergency. Most of
the storage is at the Blue Hllls, Windsor, and Arawak Cay sites with minor
service storage at seven other locations.
7.         The water has acceptable physical and chemical characteristics
(except for its high chloride content) and is chlorinated before delivery
to the distribution network.
Operation and Maintenance
8.       Working under the direction of the Senior Engineer for Operations
(also called the Director), the water distribution and production system on
New Providence is manned by a staff consisting of three engineers, four
superintendents, eight foremen and 100 artisans and laborers; 47 additional
staff members are employed on North Andros Island and 13 in the shipping
operation, (the latter reporting to the Marine Operations Coordinator.7/
Areas where training of personnel is sorely needed would include wellfield
management and maintenance of WSC-owned shipping vessels.
II. EXISTING SEWERAGE SYSTEM
Introduction
9.       There is no unified sanitary sewerage system on New Providence and
there are only about 3,000 connections to public sewers.   Independent
systems to service subdivisions are operated by the Water and Sewerage
Corporation. The .irst of these was built in 1928 to serve Old Nassau Town
north of Nassau Ridge. In 1943 and 1944 small systems were built at Oakes
Field and Windsor Field (Nassau International Airport) to serve housing for
RAP and American Air Force personnel. During the subsequent years sanitary
sewers were built to serve three Government housing estates at Yellow Elder
Gardens Phase I, Big Pond, and Yellow Elder Gardens Phase II. The more
recently built Pinewood Gardens and Elizabeth Estates also have self-
contained  sewerage systems.  Several privately operated sewerage systems
- particularly by the major resort hotels- also exist in the Island.
Attached map (IBRD No. 19734) indicates the location of existing sewerage
facilities.
Old Nassau System
10.       The main concentration point for this system (with about 2,000
connections, including hotels and commercial establishments), is at Malcolm
Park on the Nassau waterfront.   Trunk lines 21 inches to 12 inches in
diameter in Bay and Shirley Streets run east from Malcolm Park for a
distance of 1-1/2 miles to Montague Beach and west for 2 miles to Clifford
7/ As an ad hoc arrangement, the Andros wellfield management is currently
under the Director of Planning and Constructlon.



- 24 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 7
Park.   Streets flowing north from Nassau Ridge between Mackey and Nassau
Streets are mostly sewered and are intercepted by the main Bay and Shirley
Street lines.  Due to the flat grades and difficult wet excavation, five
pumping stations are used to lift and transport the sewage to Malcolm
Park.   After coarse screening, the raw sewage is disposed of through a
21-inch diameter injection well 640 feet deep at Malcolm Park.  This well
also receives septage hauled from the various areas of the town.  Recent
tests have, however, indicated that the well is blocked and the casing has
failed at relatively shallow depths.  There have also been indications of
sewage contamination in  the nearby  areas.    An improved pre-treatment
facility for the Bay system sewage and a new facility for the disposal of
solids (both sludge and septage) have been identified as essential elements
in minimizing any potential contamination of the harbor, and are hence
included in the proposed project.
11.       The previous World Bank project included the replacement of the
Bay Street sewers and pumping stations, so these are in good condition.
The new sewers were constructed using vitrified clay pipe, but except for a
few sections of cast iron, the remaining sewers are built of locally made
concrete pipe with cement joints.  Neither the joints nor the pipes are
able to exclude groundwater which exists above sewer grade for most of the
system.  By tzday's standards this construction would be considered of very
low quality. There is a real concern regarding the structural integrity of
the old sewers in this system.   A closed-circuit television survey is
proposed to permit a detailed evaluation of their condition and the
development of a prioritized replacement program.
Oakes Field Sewerage System
12.        This system serves only about a halt square mile area.   It
consists largely of an 8-inch diameter asbestos-cement pipe and two small
pumping stations.  Sewage is collected from the previous RAF housing area
and is disposed of through a disposal well. The entire system is under-
utilized, as only a few houses are connected.
Windsor Field System (International Airport)
13.      This is a small system built during World War II to serve as an
air force training base.  It now serves the Nassau International Airport
which is responsible for its operation.   It is a standard gravity system
with an Imhoff tank and a subsoil percolation field for final effluent
disposal.
Yellow Elder Gardens I and Big Pond Vacuum Sewerage System
14.      These two subdivisions comprise a total of about 600 family units
and four schools utilizing a non-conventional vacuum collection system
built in the 1960s. This system segregates the outflows from the residence
into 'grey water' and "black water".   The latter contains fecal matter
collected from the toilets.  A special toilet must be used to maintain a
vacuum in the 'black water". Maintenance problems with these systems have



ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 7
become very burdensome to the Corporation. The toilets are complex and the
local plumbers do not understand how to fix them, so the Corporation is
forced to provide the service. Clogged or leaking seals on the grey water
system often defeat the vacuum pumps' ability to maintain sufficient
vacuum, causing blockages and complaints. Since the toilets are inside the
houses, the Corporation has no direct access to them and cannot remedy
malfunctions quickly.  Finally, the collection station is complex and the
power costs of the vacuum pumps are high since they must function
continuously.   WSCs current proposal is to replace above system with an
easier-to-operate gravity sewage collection system which is considered to
be culturally more appropriate for use by the residents.
Yellow Elder Gardens 11
15.        This is a conventional gravity system with a package (extended
aeration) treatment plant (McNeil) and deep well injection disposal.  The
system is designed to serve approximately 450 houses.  With the proposed
conversion of the Yellow Elder and Big Pond systems, the flows to the plant
could increase to more than twice the design capacity. Construction of a
new treatment facility to serve these areas is proposed.
Operation and Maintenance
16.      The Senior Engineer for Operations has a staff of one technician-
engineer, one superintendent, three foremen, and 18 artisans and laborers
for the operation and maintenance of the sanitary sewerage systems.  Most
personnel, however, lack training in the areas of treatment plant
operations and maintenance--particularly of complex systems, such as the
vacuum sewerage, which require high technical skills.



- 26 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 9
THE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Description
Following is a brief description of the physical components
(Parts A through D) under the proposed project (for further project
details, see Reference B.1, Annex 13). Related information on water demand
projections and consumption is presented in Attachment  1.   A detailed
analysis of the shipping operation and its expanding role under the project
is given in Attachment 2.  The technical assistance component (Part E) is
fully described in the following annex.
PART A. WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION
A.I.  New Providence Wellfield Rehabilitation.  This component includes a
series of activities that will:
(i) increase the safe yield of the western wellfields by replacing
the existing abstraction facilities with improved trenches, add-
ing an additional abstraction area, and capturing significant
quantities of runoff with surface impoundments;
(ii) improve the quality of the produced water by permitting closer
control of the abstraction rates and construction of sediment
removal facilities; and
(iii) reduce operation and maintenance (O&M) costs by minimizing the
number of pump3 and pumping stations.
The overall master scheme involves the reconstruction of the
original 3,500 acres of the western wellfields (excluding Blue Hills, Per-
palls, and Prospect) and their expansion by about 1,900 acres. The portion
included  in  the  project  totals  about  3,400  acres,  consisting  of
approximately 2,300 acres of reconstruction and 1,100 acres of additional
wellfield.   The reconstruction effort would facilitate gravity collection
of ground water in long trenches (instead of the currently used borehole
pumping scheme), about 1,200 feet long and spaced at intervals of 800 feet,
which discharge into a central manhole equipped with submersible pumps.
The normal abstraction from the trenches is controlled by a valved
connection  into a manhole  on  the  collection pipeline.    Storm  inflow
accumulates in the trench until it overflows into a second connection pipe
at a higher elevation than the normal outflow to the collection pipeline.
This accumulation of additional water in the trenches also provides some
additional infiltration to the freshwater lens.



- 27 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 9
Specifically, this component includes the following elements:
Mi) reconstruct and expand the Windsor Wellfields
(ii) reconstruct and expand the Southwest 1 Wellfields; and
(iii) reconstruct and expand the Southwest 2 Wellfields
The present production from the western wellfields (those tribu-
tary to Windsor, Southwest 1 and 2, and Old Southwest Pumping Stations) is
about 3.10 MIGD.   This production rate is excessive as demonstrated by
recorded levels of 604 mg/l of chlorides (during the week ending June 12,
1985).  This can be compared to the 209 mg/l of chlorides of the Andros
wellfield supply for the same period and 910 mg/l chloride content of the
water purchased from the New Providence Development Company.   Clearly
excessive production has a detrimental and marked impact on water quality.
Through the abstraction of the groundwater in the trench collection system
proposed under the project, coupled with the associated direct run-off
collection, it is anticipated that future abstraction levels would be
maintained below 500 imperial gallons per acre per day from the viewpoint
of producing low salinity water.
A.2.  Replace and Reline Mains.   This subcomponent is aimed at reducing
water leaks in the overall system and improving distribution pressure. It
consists of the following elements:
(i) repair or replace a segment of Carmichael Road's 16-inch main and
clean/reline the remaining length (total length involved--about
50,000 feet);
(ii) repair or replace a segment of Robinson Road's 21-inch main and
clean/reline the remaining lengths with the diameter varying
between 18 inches and 12 inches (total length involved-about
30,400 feet); and
(iii) replace smaller distribution mains in the diameter range, two to
ten inches in the priority areas (total length included--56,000
feet).
The Corporation's leak tests indicate that significant external
corrosion has occurred along 13,000 feet of the Carmichael 16-inch main and
along 5,000 feet of the Robinson Road main. These segments either will be
replaced with corrosion-resistant material or they may be slip-lined to
restore good service. Cleaning and lining (or slip-lining) of the remain-
ing segments of these two mains should restore their carrying capacity.
The Corporation needs to increase the inventory of pipe a,d fit-
tings for larger sizes of pipe (a total of 24,000 feet of four-inch,
six-inch, eight-inch and ten-inch pipe valves and fittings) to sustain a
program of main replacement and repair. These pipes, together with smaller
pipes of two inches or less (about 32,000 feet), would be procured under
the project.



- 28 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 9
A.3.  New Mains Construction.   This component consists of the following
elements:
(i) perform a computer analysis of the transmission system;
(ii) construct Harrold Road main (20 inches dia; about 15,840 feet
long);
(iii) construct the Sandford Bay Street-Chippingham (12 inches dia;
about 20,200 feet long); and
(iv) construct the Paradise Island parallel main (12 inches dia; about
3,400 feet long).
The New Providence transmission/distribution system was analyzed
in 1978 by using a computer model (Reference B.4, Annex 13), but this has
not been updated to reflect changes in land use or sources of supply.  In
May 1985, an update (Reference B.6, Annex 13) of the above report confirmed
the need for the mains previously recommended and suggested that the
Windsor Pumping Station flows could bypass the Prospect Pumping Station and
be routed to the Blue Hills high-level tanks directly.   Also included in
this report was the recommendation of a second pipeline to Paradise Island
from the viewpoints of system capacity and reliability.   The existing
pipeline (12-inch subaqueous crossing), generated about 12% of total
revenues of the Corporation in 1985 and is th.i sole connection to the
Island from the system. The installation of a parallel line is included in
the proposed project.
PART B. WATER IMPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS
This part of the project is aimed at rehabilitating existing
onshore facilities with a view to improve the reliability of production and
importation of water from Andros Island to New Providence.   The actual
improvements in the direct shipping operation, to be achieved under the
project, are outlined in Attachment 2.
B.1. Rehabilitation of Morgan's Bluff Sea Wall. Since Morgan's Bluff Har-
bor is in an exposed location adjacent to deep water, the original plan
(1976) included adding protection to the then existing sea wall to protect
the dock and shoreside facilities from damage during storms. The proposed
armor-stone protection for the seawall was omitted from the construction
because of a lack of funds. Subsequently, storms have severely damaged the
seawall and have actually breached it for a distance of about 65 feet.
Because of this breach, there is a high possibility that the dock will be
cut during a major winter storm or hurricane. A 1985 design study recom-
mended the use of pre-cast concrete cubes or armor-stones for the recons-
truction of the wall (900 feet long).   Since the costs are very nearly
equal for the above two alternatives, both alternative designs will be
tendered under the proposed project to permit a final selection to be made.



- 29 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 9
B.2.   Rehabilitation and Expansion of Andros Island Wellfields.   Ground-
water on Andros Island is presently collected in 12 clusters of four
trenches.  Each cluster is arranged in a cruciform with a central pumping
station.   Rehabilitation measures are currently underway in Andros to
improve water piping and pumping arrangements.   The present production
capacity is 3 MIGD, and the two additional cruciforms proposed under the
project would provide a total production of 3.5 MIGD. Further expansion of
the wellfield will be periodically mndertaken by the Corporation to keep
pace with the gradually increasing shipping demands (estimated to be 4.0
MIGD by 1993).
B.3.   Dock Facilities Improvements.  This includes the following:
(i)  repairs to existing fendering at Morgan's Harbor terminal and
replacement of existing eight-inch loading/unloading hoses with
12-inch lines to increase the pumping rate; and
(ii)  installation of a new fendering to dock face at Arawak Cay and
replacement of existing eight-inch hoses with 12-inch to increase
the pumping rate.
B.4.   Arawak Cay Reservoir Storage.  This includes a three-*IG reservoir
at Arawak Cay that would provide the required additional storage in line
with the increased shipping needs of Andros water.
PART C. SEWERAGE REHABILITATION
C.1.    Downtown Sewer Replacement. This represents a gradual replacement
program for the aging sewers in the downtown Nassau area which were built
in 1928. The sewers are below groundwater level, and due to the deteriora-
tion of the joints and pipe, large quantities of highly saline groundwater
reach the sewers.  The construction of a trunk sever in Bay Street under
the earlier Bank-financed project has reduced the quantity of infiltration
previously experienced, but an inflow/infiltration study (Reference B.10,
Annex 13) conducted in March 1985 by the Corporation confirmed extremely
high infiltration rates in the Dowdes wall street drainage area (between
Rawson Square and Malcolm Park).  Since all of this flow must be pumped,
the power cost is signif4cant.   Considering the poor condition of the
sewers and their advanced age, this part of the sewer system should be
replaced.   The total length of pipe replacement-using vitrified clay
sewers--is estimated to be about 3,000 feet.
The construction of replacement sewers in the congested downtown
area, with the necessity of maintaining service during the construction
period will require careful planning, coordination, and timely execution if
major problems are to be avoided. The presence of high groundwater levels,
combined with soils with a high horizontal permeability, requires substan-
tial dewatering capacicy and judicious disposal of the abstracted water if



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 9
the program is to be completed successfully.   While groundwater is an
important consideration in all pipeline construction of New Providence
Island, the Bay Street area is particularly difficult and will warrant
special consideration.
C.2.    Vacuum Sewer Conversion.  As noted earlier (Annex 1), the chronic
operational and maintenance problems of the existing vacuum system in the
two subdivisions of Yellow Elder I (about 480 units) and Big Pond (about
120 units), coupled with the increasing customer complaints from these sub-
divisions, have r-essitated WSC to seek a simpler solution.   Among the
various alternat:. 4 lncluding bore hole sewers) that WSC explored, the
conventional gravity collection scheme was found to be a least-cost solu-
tion, particularly in view of its lower capital and power costs as well as
its adaptability to share the existing sewerage facilities (with minimal
modifications) serving adjacent areas (Yellow Elder II and Oakes Field, for
example). The elements to be included in the vacuum sewer conversion com-
ponent are as follows:
(i) replacement of existing vacuum sewer lines with larger diameter
(8-15 inches) gravity sewer lines (about 17,400 feet total);
(ii) modification to existing sewage collection piping and associated
pumping schemes; and
(iii) modification to existing (McNeil) treatment plant to accommodate
increased sewage flows (about 150,000 gal/day) as a result of
gravity collection and disposal of the primary sludge in a
separate plant (see details under C.3 and C.4).
It is to be noted that the above conversion scheme would also
necessitate the replacement of the in-house vacuum plumbing system of some
600 units to the conventional plumbing system. Since this must be done as
the new piping is being installed, it has been agreed that the Corporation
would have the work done by trained private contractors and pay for it, but
recover the cost (relating to onsite plumbing and gravity flow toilet
installation)  from the homeowner by surcharging the water bill.   The
related details of this arrangement are currently being worked out by WSC.
C.3.  Improvements to Malcolm Park Disposal Facilities.  Most of downtown
Nassau extending east to Montague Beach drains to the Malcolm Park facility
(Map 2). The sewage is coarse-screened then pumped down a 21-inch diameter
injection well cased to a depth of 450 feet and open hole from there to 640
feet.   Since 1978 there have been suspicions that the casing has failed
because evidence of sewage contamination has been reported in the nearby
IBM Building saltwater well which is only 95 feet deep (600 feet away from
the injection well.)   A 1983 inspection of the sewage injection well
revealed an extensive blockage progressing at 200 feet.  The casing has
failed and a replacement is urgently needed.  A preliminary design of the
replacement well was subsequently undertaken by WSC.



- 31 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 9
The proposed improvements to Malcolm Park sewerage facilities
include the following:
(i)  a  pre-treatment  scheme  involving  micro-screening,   primary
settling and skimming aimed to remove solids (particularly grit)
and grease prior *o discharge into the well;
(ii) construction of a new injection well at an adjacent site;
(iii) cleaning and rehabilitation of the existing injection well (which
will be used on a standby basis); and
(iv) discontinuation of septage disposal operations at the site (see
following paragraph for alternate septage disposal provisions
under the project).
A detailed study on the above provisions will be carried out as
part of the sewerage update study proposed under the project.
C.4.    Construction of Septage and Solids Disposal Facility.  This would
consist  of  an  anacrobic  lagoon  system  treating  sludge  from  the
Corporation-operated major treatment plants (the modified McNeil plant and
the proposed preliminary treatment plant at Malcolm Park) and septage. A
deep wel; for the disposal of the liquid separated from the solids will
complete the facility. As in the case of the Malcolm disposal facilities,
a detailed study on the construction of septage and solids disposal facili-
ties will be carried out, as part of the sewerage update study, during the
earlier phase of the project.
PART D. EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT
D.1.   Meters and Related Accessories for Service Connections.  This pro-
curement is an integral part of the Corporation's unaccounted-for water
reduction program under which faulty water meters and leaky customer ser-
vice connections will be entirely replaced areawide.
The Corporation has about 24,000 residential customer meters
installed, which are of sevural makes and types despite a considerable
effort by the Corporation to standardize. Some of these have provided very
poor service because of the physical and chemical characteristics of the
water.  The Corporation proposes to inteasify its program of installing new
meters, with meter setting yokes, adequate meter boxes, and, where the
existing customer service is too shallow or of inappropriate material,
installing a new service at adequate depth.   The materials for the first
six years of the program (16,000 units) are proposed to be acquired under
the project.
A program to detect leaks is being pursued by the Corporation
staff, part of which involves subdividing the distribution system into lso-
latable 'waste districts." There is a need for some 39 district meters in



- 32 -                  ANNEX 2
-Q77rof 9
Page 7o 
sizes from 3 inches to 12 inches and two recording units to be used in
tracking down specific leaks by step-testing.  The procurement of some or
all of the meters and installation accessories is included in the proposed
project.
D.2.   Construction and Maintenance Equipment.  The reconstruction of the
wellfields (Part A) will require the excavation of many miles of trenches,
clearing and grading of the trench areas and access roads, and hauling
material and excavated soil to different locations.  Wheel-type trenchers
have been successful in trenching up to six feet deep (in two passes) in
the limestone formations, but backhoe-type excavators are necessary for
trenches deeper than six feet.   Ladder trenchers will operate at greater
depths than the wheel-type units and will produce a material better suited
for backfill than the backhoes, but their suitability for working in New
Providence Island limestone has not been demonstrated. Front-end loaders
and brush clearance tractors complete the rolling equipment needed to
perform the reconstruction and, after construction is completed, to perform
the routine cleanup and maintenance necessary to maintain the yield of the
trench system.
Specifically, it is proposed to supplement the existing construc-
tion equipment as the Corporation (one trencher and two excavators) with
the following procurement under the project:
1 Ladder-type trencher
1 Front-end loader
2 Tractors w/brush cutters & harrows
5 Diesel-engine driven pumps
In addition to the equipment needed for the wellfields, mainte-
nance and light construction equipment is needed for replacing and cleaning
smaller mains, constructing water and sewer laterals, and cleaning sewer
mains. Since all pipeline construction on New Providence Island is within
the water table, large portable pumps are also required.
The equipment proposed to be procured under the project for serv-
ing above purposes include:
1 Wheel trencher
1 Tractor/backhoe
1 Small compactor
3 Diesel-engine driven pumps
- Miscellaneous equipment and tools
The equipment needed for sewer maintenance is:
1 Trailer-mounted power rodding machine
1 Truck-mounted high-pressure water jet
1 Vacuum truck, 1,000 gal.
1 "Mud-Hog" solids pump
1 Power bucket machine set



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
Page I of 9
D.3. Telemetry and Control System. The operation of the Corporation's ten
water pumping stations is accomplished by manually controlling the pumps.
To reduce manpower costs, the Corporation has stopped manning most of the
stations so there have been instances of water being wasted due to tank
overflows.  Since the Corporation's supply is only marginal, waste cannot
be tolerated; but neither can the high costs of full-time staffing of sta-
tions be considered.   Under these circumstances the installation of an
automatic control and telemetry system appears to be a reasonable solution.
A recent update (Annex 13, Reference B.6) of an earlier telemetry
study on the Corporation's needs has identified the stations which would
benefit from such a provision.  The system recommended is of the "super-
visory control" type in which emergency conditions are alerted to the cen-
tral control room. A mobile maintenance group is then sent to the location
to determine the cause of the alarm and to correct the condition.
The sewerage system shares many of the same characteristics with
regard to operations as the water system.   Since the incremental cost of
adding telemetry and controls for the sewerage system to the scheme is
small, it is included in the proposed project.  A preliminary estimate of
the telemetry controls has been made and this will be confirmed during
detailed design.
The Andros Island wellfield consists of 12 (soon to be 14) cruci-
form and isolated pumping stations.   These stations are remote from the
main collection reservoir and their malfunction can only be determined by
physical inspection. Operating staff could be reduced and production reli-
ability increased by the installation of automatic controls and telemetry
at each station. The addition of a remote control panel at Morgan's Bluff
to control the main pumping station from the dock would also reduce the
manpower required and improve shipping capacity by reducing waiting time
for the vessels.
Clearly the maintenance and repair of the local automatic con-
trols and the telemetry units is essential if the systems are to provide
the benefits anticipated. This will require the formation of an instrumen-
tation maintenance unit, staffed with well-trained people, and provided
with an adequate shop, instruments, spare parts, and a radio-equipped vehi-
cle.
In addition to the Corporation staff, who will be responsible for
routine maintenance, replacement change-d%ut of faulty units, and calibra-
tion of instruments, there should be a contractual arrangement with the
equipment supplier to provide periodic (for example, bimonthly) visits of
an instrumentation expert to perform major repairs and to provide continu-
ing training to the Corporation staff.
The installation of the equipment is to be accomplished by having
the instrumentation supplier provide factory training to at least two Cor-
poration employees for several months and then for the Corporation staff,



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
Pa-g-e 9 oft 9
under the direction of a technician from the supplier, to obtain additional
training by assisting with the installation of the equipment.   This will
further enhance the Corporation staff's familiarity with the equipment, its
installation and adjustment.  Since the installations, although numerous,
are relatively simple and the equipment is physically small, this should be
feasible.



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment I
Page 1 of 2
THE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Water Consumption and Production Estimates
1.          Accompanying table presents projected figures for the public
water consumption and production for the period 1986-1994, together with a
historical profile for 1980-1985 period.
2.        It is difficult to determine the true water demand placed on WSC
due to following factors:
(i)   the shortages of supply experienced during the 1970s and
into the 1980s;
(ii)  the very high figures related to the unaccounted-for water;
(iii)  the fairly large scale, but unquantified, use of private
water supply systems and lack of registration;
(iv)   the  nature  of  varying  growth  observed  in  the  tourist
industry;
(v)    the  unknown  effects  of  water  quality  on  the  water
consumption pattern of the island; and
(vi)   unquantified  effects of prevailing high tariff on water
consumption.
3.        The demand projections in the table are based on WSC's estimates
of increased consumption at an average rate of 4% per annum for most
categories.1!/2  Indicated water production figures are computed on the
basis of a conservative 14% reduction target for unaccouiited-for water,
considered attainable under the project.   The above reduction,  it is
further assumed, would result from a combired reduction in commercial
and physical losses for the overall system.
1/  Source: Water Demand Forecast for New Providence.   A Report Prepared
for the Water and Sewerage Corporation by the Ministry of Works and
Utilities (1984).
2 Related basic data are as follows: A residential population growth rate
of about 3.0% per annum into the 1990s for the Bahamas has been
projected by the Department of Statistics; a tourist arrival rate
increase of 3% per annum is being contemplated by the Ministry of
Tourism.   The 1985 indicative consumption figures (imperial gallons)
are: average residential demand = about 20 gped; average tariff demand
- about 30 gpod.



TM soon
Sw   163U mmA WE a.T As 52    L174716 05JW
Stu Iply  wb Omid t_ fte Om tPrwtlde. I  u
I"D        mul        ttz       1t36        Io        t5         t_           1A7 Me5l 1w5               t9SD       t99t      tWp      1W5       ur
---------- tlsteotc-............                                  ............ ---*f-----    r     * 6&s t*d---------------------
.................   "=wW"     AM-------------_-------------------------
b**duttat lad  lki          601.0      672.t       234.0A    76671      W7.2       676.0       6S7.JS     014.71     *     5.67  I,3tS  19,71.525   l      1, 1641t.0  1.2tt5.7  1.305.04
W*IW* o Oep.                13t S.56   tS.S        144.84    101.70     104.03      00.0       102.3      107.11     I114AD    11StlS    MM.46    12516 3     332    1 5.3    14.SS
0.wemt                       73AD       72.0 tl       .40    137.n      110.1i     1L6          3.70      139.0.6    144.81 tSSAS       15041 tlt627         16S.tt   17.0    0012.31
NIo_  IewtrstI Curp.         21A.       21A         2 24.0    23.        26.0        33S3       34.02      3512       37.77    3.3       40.5     .46         4t       45.06     47.7
Bulk cOatm  V.I.)           Ilt.44      121.4      ISt.16     173.2     m2m65      12.2        137.SI     143.12     1Lee4   ts140    "1D         t6 1.4     37.2    M6106lt   I.
Sttt,td C_Atto               1,027.D    1,01tAD 8   1,144AC    1,2.87   I,Z1.4    1,27.4"       1t222      1.,tt    t,4"  Ztt       7 t    ,.W   1,6M7.4    1,6.S 2  1,74.06  1,p961I.
IMmmt.-ftw       t2 I/        7SS.17    _61.79        10.o7   t          1 06 I 21.1   I 101.1             1,3. I     1,011t.71t   5.477   16.17   900.74      65.l0 6610          56.61
112.17    1,676.70    2,.17   2,2734   2,30.           2,37 2.3    2.80    2.31.41    2,05,06  2,406  2,56.    2,.86    2570.41  2,610.3  2,70.5
New Pruw . Ittffolds           00.54      74.11     1,56.61    ,2..    1t,25L3S    1.24.14    t,127.3    t,tS0.#1  1,218.0   1,071.16  1,160.16 1tti          1,31.011.   1,3.3i  1,22m
gb.   lstad                   207.#       3A.7        M2.2      437-S     466.        s6.0       60.0        012.3     012.3  1A..    IMLW.6     1,277.       t,s77.t3i  , t,410.0  1,
Puerad  6t. tIm
Pti*. ttt 1.t1d             670.67     6M7.M       625.34    561 7      521.35     S#tJS      S32.6      MSJO       DttO      30,00    3040    3040            40      100MA    tDO  MAOtO
7erM                   1,612l17    1,67.7t7    206.17   2,t5.5ss ,302.0    2,32.         2,SL        2.36.4    2..    2,46         M     S2,5   25.0    2,7.4    2,6       2,7
_bd amateI tt   (1              0.43        0.39      o0.S        0.46      0.4         0.6 o.431             0.4tD0    O05        0A.D     0,30    O0.3          t.0      0.1105    0.
tCwelat LomeM                                                                           O O1       0.05   S 0            0.30      0.M      0.0    0.0           0.00      0.00      0.010
Phyt,plM Lome (5)                                                                       0.354      0.2109      0.3110    034       0.313    0.300     0.310      0.30      0.27      0.05    ~p.~
U/ Taking Ito hc_mt  _md .ctlt  la   tblst ad pOysleul tlog   w   tladu * l. t         tlInl..                                                                                                  rt



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 4
THE BAHAMAS
IEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Andros Shipping Operations
Introduction
1.        Estimated supply of potable groundwater in New Providence will be
unlikely to exceed 3 to 4 MIGD from public and about 1 to 2 MIGD from
private sources in the forseeable future.  This leaves a rapidly widening
gap to be filled by water from alternate sources. Desalination and reverse
osmosis as the only volume producers, other than importation, have been
tried in the past and found unsatisfactory due to operational problems and
high maintenance costs.   Andros thus remains the only source of high
quality water at reasonable cost level to meet near-future term planning
needs.    Recent  studies  (Reference  B.3,  Annex  13),  prepared  in  this
connection, have recommended a 3 to 4 MIGD as a justifiable development
target, about twice the current importation level. Associated development
requirements would include a gradual expansion of the wellfields, pumping
and dock improvements at the Morgan's Bluff.
Shipping Performance and Key Issues to Date
2.        Shipping first commenced in November 1976, between Morgan's Bluff
terminal (Andros) and Arawak Cay terminal (New Providence), as a shallow
draft operation using two time-chartered tankers which could transport
about 150,000 gallons per trip.   More modern vessels were used in the
subsequent years with the goal of transporting 2 to 3 MIGD, even though
this target was never reached due to various operational problems.  The
current shipping set-up, commenced in 1982, consists of two barges (about
1.1 and 1.3 MIG capacity, respectively), with dedicated tugs which are
Corporation-owned and a chartered tanker (about 1 MIG capacity).  During
1984, the two barges delivered a combined volume of 0.52 MIGD, while the
private tanker delivered 0.92 MIGD.  Marked improvements in the shipping
volume were, however, evidenced during the later part of 1985, following
the recommendations of a shipping consultant and a marine engineer hired
under  UNDP  assistance.    Key  problems  resulting  in  an  overall  poor
performance of the shipping system stemmed from the following factors:
(a)    frequent mechanical failure of Corporation-owned vessels due to
lack of routine maintenance;
(b)    mechanical reliability problems of the chartered tanker and lack
of tighter charter provisions based on delivered volume; and
(c)    lack  of  adequate  monitoring  and  record-keeping  of  shipping
operations and lack of adequate performance of shipping
personnel.



- 38 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 4
The shipping consultant (Annex 13, Reference B.3), further identified that
one of the major contributions of high overall costs of water from Andros
was the relatively low level of throughput, and that existing fixed cost
elements of shipping-in terms of docks staffing and storage--could well
handle 2 to 3 times current throughputs without major new investments (see
attached table in unit costs of shipping for various thoroughput rates). A
medium-term target of 3 to 4 MIGD for water importation was recommended in
the above consultant's study.
Summary of Recommendations
3.        A summary of recommendations in the associated areas of shipping,
made by the consultant, is provided below:
(i)   Management:   (a) integrate Andros wellfield activities and the
dock operations under one manager in order to facilitate better
control of pumping and loading operations; (b) streamline the
responsibilities of the Marine Coordinator and Marine Supervisor,
to clearly delineate their respective roles of marine equipment
upkeep, and staffing and organization responsibility;
(ii)   Cost Analysis:  (a) establish appropriate cost centers for marine
operations that should fully separate chartered equipment and
WSC-owned equipment;
(iii)  Marine  Equipment  Maintenance:  l/  (a)  establish  a  routine
maintenance program for all WSC-owned equipment with assistance
from a marine engineer and machinery problems; (b) renew
routinely and down-time records of current levels with a view to
their possible replacement;
(iv)   Vessel Options and Acquisition:   (a) in light of the current
chartered tanker being too costly relative to available tonnage
in the market place, investigate alternative vessel sizes that
will increase throughput and reduce unit costs of transportation;
(b) investigate alternative charter arrangements (Bareboat
charter, time charter and contract of affreightment (COA) etc)
with improved protection clauses and productivity related
provisions that would best meet WSC's requirements; and (c)
evaluate costs for various alternatives involved in the above and
adopt an acquisition strategy designed to meet the importation
requirements in the most economical way.
1/  WSC received UNDP assistance in this regerd (during September-November
1985) to review vessel maintenance and repair practices and train
shipping personnel in preventive maintenance. A longer-term training
program similar to the above effort, would,   however be   -eeded to
improve the overall maintenance skills of the personnel.



- 39 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 4
(v)    Record Keeping and Monitoring:   (a) keep detailed recording of
all shipping-related data (operational and financial) and collate
them in the recommended formats suitable for routine analysis;
(b) monitor performance against standards (for chartered and
WSC-owned vessels) and take action, as necessary; and
(vi)  Training:  Take measures to train routinely shipping personnel in
the areas of marine equipment maintenance and dock facilities
upkeep.
Technical assistance would be provided under the project to assist WSC in
implementing above recommendations (Annex 3).



- 40 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment 2
Page 4 of 4
THE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Cost of Water Delivered to New Providence
Under Various Shipping Scenarios
Mean        Direct Shipping
Vessel                                         Combined           Cost a/
Scenario      Combination        Acquisition       Capacity   Throughput       Dec. 1985 Prices
(MIG)       (MIGD)         (US$/1000 gal)
Mastic Point   WSC-owned barge        1.1
I           Black Point         -do-               1.3         1.4 b/              5.09
Tanker       Currently chartered  1.1
Mastic Point   WSC-owned barge        1.1
2           Black Point          -do-              1.3         3.0 c/              4.27
Tanker       Currently Chartered  1.1
Mastic Point   WSC-owned barge        1.1
3           Black Point          -do-              1.3         4.1                 3.44
Tanker       To be chartered        1.8
a/  Excluding depreciation for owned equipment; charter rates are actual or quoted.
b/ At i985 performance level (average).
c/ Capacity of present fleet fully utilized (this is somew,.at hypothetical since
obstacles exist in regard to mechanical reliability of the charter vessel.   Maximum
importation levels of up to only 2.0 MIGD have been achieved to date.)



- 41 -                    ANNEX 3
Page I of 6
THE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training Program
A brief description of the background of the proposed technical
assistance program is provided below.   The suggested execution timeframe
and terms of reference for the various components are shown in the
attachments.
A. Institutional Rehabilitation
Management Audit and Institutional Improvement Program
The Corporation was organized in 1976 and since then has grown in
complexity and size  to the current level of 331 employees.   The
increase in number of customers has required a large increase in the
staff assigned to commercial and financial affairs, as well as
increased the data processing work load (the executive organization
management chart of the Corporation is shown in Annex 5). The struc-
ture of the Corporation's organization has been modified over the years
to meet new needs, such as the Andros shipping operations, and to suit
other purposes. These changes in organization, the operating policies
and methods used to perform the Corporation's basic functions, and the
effectiveness of the staff in performing its functions should be
reviewed objectively. A set of integrated operating policies, coupled
with a suitable organizational structure should be defined and imple-
mented. Training and development needs also should be identified and
implemented.
B. Operational Improvements
Commercial and Engineering Operations Improvement Program
(i)   In the Accounting,  Commercial,  and Operations & Maintenance
divisions  of  the  Corporation  there  are  opportunities  for
improving  operations  and  reducing  costs.    The  best  way  of
achieving these benefits is to retain an operating water and
sewerage utility (on a "twinning" arrangement) which can provide
several counterparts to selected Corporation staff members for
several years, and have the ability to conduct exchange pro-
grams.    This  will  permit  effective  assistance  and  training
to be accomplished at least cost, and will permit the Corporation
to continue with improved maintenance and training programs. The
Corporation  will  have  to  ensure  that  suitably  qualified
individuals are in place to receive the training.



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 6
(ii) Water and Sewerage Tariff Structure Study
The principal objective of this study is to identify a struc-
ture for the tariffs that are to be charged to the Corporation's
customers that will permit adjustments to be made easily as costs
rise and will ensure that water revenues and sewerage revenues are
each adequate to reflect the costs of providing such services.
The use of a microcomputer program for this will make it possible
to track costs on a freqtent basis and thus give early warning of
the need to adjust tariffs.  Also included in the scope of this
study is a review of other nossible charges which the Corporation
should consider, such as plan reviews, inspection, etc.
(iii) Unaccounted-For Water Program
The current level of production of unaccounted-for water (or
the difference between water production and billed water con&iump-
tion) is estimated to be 46% which is unacceptably high. This is
composed of several factors, potentially including:
(1) Overstatement of water production due to estimation of pro-
duction where meters are not installed or not functioning.
1/
(2) Understatement of water consumption due to under-registering,
broken or stopped customer meters.
(3) Improper meter reading, including non-reading of "lost"
meters and inability to find or obtain access to meters.
(4) Water leaks in the network.
(5) Billing procedures that permit bills or billings to be lost.
(6) Unmetered consumption such as fire fighting, hydrant and
mains flushing, public standpipes, and illegal connections.
The Corporation has been addressing many of these factors on
an "ad hoc" basis and an overall, coherent strategy is not in
place yet.
Leak detection is a complex matter requiring a syszematic,
continuing effort with adequate resources, good records and effec-
tive management. Much of the preliminary work is being initiated
by the Corporation, and has reached the point of identifying sub-
divisions of the distribution system that can be isolated into
waste districts. Valve testing and renewal is being pursued and
1/  Ongoing fiLld measurements of production indicate that the production
figures  might  have  been  considerably  overstated.    This  finding,
however, needs further quantification and substantiation.



- 43 -
ANNET 3
Page 3 of 6
locations and sizes for district meters have been identified.
Locations for the temporary installation of recording (waste)
meters and the type of meter to be used for this purpose also have
been determined. With careful monitoring, in conjunction with an
analysis of recorded consumptions within each district, it will be
possible to identify those districts with high unaccounted-for
water so that step-tests can be performed to localize the
cause(s), and corrective measures can be taken.
What is needed is a review of all the Corporation's activ-
ities that impinge on the unaccounted-for water situation, the
development of a coherent strategy for addressing the problem, and
specific  procedures  for pursuing  the strategy.   Training and
equipment needs would also be identified and implemented under
this program.
Reduction level of unaccounted-for water, to be achieved
under the project, has been conservatively set at 14%. It is thus
envisaged that with the proposed technical assistance and small
mains (Part A of the project) and water meter replacement (Part D
of the project) program, under the project, WSC should be able to
reduce the unaccounted-for water from the current 46% to about 32%
by 1993.
(iv) Shipping Performance Monitoring Program
As noted in Annex 2 (Attachment 2), all increases in demand
on New Providence must be met, for the near-to-medium-term at
least, by the importation of water from North Andros. This means
that shipping would assume an important role in the Corroration's
activities. In this connection, tentative targets for importation
needs have been established (Annex 2) during project appraisal.
There will be, however, a continuous need to review the above
targets,   monitor   actual   performance,   diagnose   problems
(particularly in the maintenance of Corporation-owned vessels,)
and to provide routine assistance to WSC in the technical and
leasing aspects of shipping.
C. Sector Studies
(i)  New Providence Water Supply Alternatives Study
The Corporation operates in a unique situation compared to
most water utilities in that it does not have at present a monop-
oly on water service to the public. The public has the right, at
least de facto, to construct private wells for water supply pur-
poses.   Since the Corporation historically has had difficulty in



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 6
meeting the water demands of its customers, the private wells act
as an additional source of water supply to complement the Corpora-
tion. There are also some private wastewater reclamation schemes
which provide irrigation water for golf courses, green areas and
toilet flushing. Major hotels have their own supply (desalinated
ground water) to cater to the needs of the tourist industry.
Since all forms of additional water supply to New Providence
Island are expensive (whether shipping of water from Andros or
desalination of brackish water,) a comprehensive review and
analysis of water supply alternatives to meet expected demands -
both with regard to quantity and quality aspects - up to the year
2000 is needed.   This study will consider the "elasticity" of
water tariffs and their impact on water demand, as well as the
economics of alternative sources of supply.
(ii) National Water Resources Management & Conservation Study
This study is directed at evaluating the situation regarding
water resources management and conservation on New Providence
Island specifically, as well as the other islands.   There is a
clear need to have a coherent national strategy regarding water
resources abstraction, pollution prevention and priorities for
water use. Since the economy of the country depends upon tourism,
It is clearly important that the water resources be well admin-
istered and protected.  This study should address any modifica-
tions needed to the existing water laws and acts. WSC will liaise
closely with their counterparts from the Ministry of Public Works
and Ministry of Health during the conduct of this study.
(Ili) New Providence Sewerage Systems Planning Study
The preparation of the most recent Master Plan for sewage
collection and disposal was completed in 1972 (Annex 13, Reference
12), and there has been no subsequent comprehensive review. There
have been several supplements addressing specific sub-areas or
aspects, but these have not always included a review of the
planning  assumptions  and  criteria.    Considerable  successful
experience has been accumulated by the Corporation on the use of
deep injection wells for sewage disposal, so it is reasonable to
consider this as a long-term solution provided that adequate
pre-treatment to prevent clogging of the underground formations
and the well casing is installed. Pre-treatment facilities will
generate solids which require stabilization prior to land
disposal. A single solids facility located so as to provide good
truck access, yet still be remote from dwellings and other
development is logical and desirable. Also needed is the planning
for regional treatment and disposal facilities to prevent the
proliferation of small, uneconomical facilities.



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 6
In summary, a new look at the sewage eollection and disposal
requirements for New Providence Island is needed to provide a
structured plan to guide the Corporation as well as developers
during the next ten to fifteen years.   The plan should pay
particular   attention   to   local   operation  and  maintenance
capabilities, the minimization of power consumption and the
difficulty (henoe, high cost) of constructing sewers below the
water table.  In light of the high cost and low availability of
water on the island, some consideration should be given to the use
of reclaimed water for irrigation and/or non-potable requirements.
The early phase of the study would focus on the definition of
pre-treatment requirements for the Malcolm Park injection well,
the definition of the desirable configuration for the Yellow Elder
Gardens and Big Pond systems, the expansion and modification of
the McNeil treatment plant, and the construction of a septage and
solids disposal facility, all of which are included in Part C of
the project. It is recommended that the study be in two volumes.
The first volume (The Engineering Report) should describe the
study approach, assumptions used, alternatives considered and
their evaluation, phases for implementation and estimates of both
capital and operation and maintenance costs.   The second volume
(The Plan Summary) should describe the plan and its key elenents,
including maps, standards and criteria for design of facilities
which will be of use for government agencies, developers and
others.
D. Training Program Implementation
2.   The major training needs of the Corporation can be classified
broadly as management, engineering, clerical and operative. The groups
of individuals who will be targets for training are professional, sub-
professional, technician, supervisor and operators. The training pro-
grams will be detailed and conducted as part of the technical assist-
ance described under Institutional Rehabilitation and Operational
Improvements noted above.  A notional amount to cover training costs
has been allocated in the project budget.
3.   It is anticipated that specific training programs would include:
(a) short courses in waterworks and sewerage operations designed for
technicians;
(b) short courses in water works operation and supervisory techniques
for supervisors;
(c) short courses in the form on-the-job-training and "twinning" for
specialized workers in their respective fields; and



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Page   of 6
(d) fellowships for suitable WSC staff in business administration and
engineering  at  properly  accredited  institutions  of  higher
learning, including the College of the Bahamas.
4.  The Corporation has already established a scholarship program for
engineers and the creation of similar programs are envisioned for other
areas where local resources are not readily available.   For in-house
training, the Corporation has prepared a Training Centre which will be
equipped with state-of-the-art training equipment and materials.   The
Corporation would also liaise with the National Industrial Training
Center (established under the Bank-financed Vocational and Technical
Education Project; Loan 1962-BM, 1981).
5.   The Corporation hopes  to establish working relationships with
water and sewerage utilities in the United States and United Kingdom in
order to effect some twinning arrangements.
6.  The Corporation is employing a full-time training officer who will
be trained on-the-job through counterparting with a trainiag specialist
and by using fellowships of permit study abroad principally with appro-
priate agencies in the United States and United Kingdom.



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
Attachment 1
THE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Execution Timeframe for Technical Assistance Component
Date of               Tentative Start of
Availability of Results      Implementation for
or Action Program         Agreed Results or
Component                Start       for Bank Review             Action Program
A.  Management Audit       Jan. 31, 1987     June 30, 1987            July 31, 1987
and Institutional
Imprvmt. Program
B.  Operational Improve-  July 31, 1987      Mar. 31, 1988            June 30, 1988
ments Program
- Commercial and
Engineering Oper.
- Water and Sewerage  Nov. 30, 1086      May 31, 1987             Jan. 31, 1988
Tariff Study
- Unaccounted-for     Sept. 30, 1986    Mar. 31, 1987             June 30, 1987
Water Program
- Shipping Perform-       Already        Oct. 31 of               To be agreed
ance Monitoring         started        each year                     later
Program
C.  Sector Studies         July 31, 1988     March 31, 1989           To be agreed
- Water Supply                                                         later
Alternative Study
- National Water      Jan. 31, 1989      Oct. 31, 1989            To be agreed
Resources Managmt.                                                   later
Study
-New Providence       Jan. 31, 1987      June 30, 1987            To be agreed
Sewerage Planning                                                     later
Study



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 13
THE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference
(i) MANAGEMENT AUDIT & INSTITUTIONAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN
SCOPE
The structure, staff and purpose of the Water and Sewerage Corpor-
ation.
OBJECTIVES
1. Review the objectives of the Corporation and relate these to the orga-
nizational structure.
2. Improve the efficiency of the Corporation in meeting its objectives.
3. Improve the manager's performance of their functions.
4. Prepare and conduct related training programs.
EXECUTION
The objectives of this program will be achieved in three phases: a
Diagnostic Phase, a Development Phase and an Implementation Phase.
Specific tasks to be completed by the Consultant include:
PHASE I, DIAGNOSTIC
1. In consultation with senior staff and the Board, review the objectives
of the Corporation so that these can be clearly understood by the
staff, Board and customers of the Corporation.
2. Perform a management audit of the Corporation, including an appraisal
of its managers and supervisors, internal communication, policies, pro-
cedures, records, controls, budgets, etc.   Consider carefully the
impacts of the Corporation's physically dispersed locations and means
of mitigating these.
3. Prepare an appraisal document relating the Corporation's performance,
and that of its managers to its objectives and organization. Identify
areas of strength as well as weakness and include recommendations for
pragmatic solutions to key pi olems.



-49-                      ANEX 3
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 13
PHASE II, DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT
1. In consultation with senior staff, define the responsibilities, author-
ity and reporting relationship of each key manager and supervisor In
accordance with the recommendations of the preceding item.
2.  Define the experience, education, technical and professional require-
ments for each managerial and supervisory position and identify, with
senior management, the individuals best suited for each position.
3.  Prepare an assessment for each key individual of additional ti?aiMng
and/or education required and a time schedule for obtaining such.
4. Based on the assessments of item (3) of Phase I, develop an Improved
Management In ormation System to be implemented in phases. This should
address basic data colleetion, storage and retrieval as well as report
formats, frequencies and recipients.
5. Prepare an overall implementation schedule for the recommended institu-
tional improvement program and review and comment on the Corporation's
"Personnel Policies" manual.
PHASE III, IMPLEMENTATION - The extent of this Phase will be determined by
the Corporation upon completion of Phase II.
Provide continuing assistance to the key managers and supervisors
during the implementation phase.
DUMATION
The first two phases of the program would be completed six montbh
after notice to proceed, and the implementation phase in an additional six
months. Training programs would be continued for a longer term as needed.
BUDGET
Dollar Budget: About 150,000 (Base Cost); about 10 man-months.
(foreign).
(ii) COMMERCIAL AND OPERATIONS IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
SCOPE
Commercial, accounting, engineering and operations functions of
the Water and Sewerage Corporation.



- 50-
ANNEX 3
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 13
KEY OBJECTIVES
1. Develop and/or document standards for the appropriate areas of the Cor-
poration's activities in the commercial, accounting, engineering and
Water and Sewerage O&M functions.
2. Develop and document standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the (a)
Commercial, (b) Operations and Maintenance, and (c) Engineering and
Construction activities.
3. Implement ijie SOPs, and preventive maintenance (PM) programs and pro-
vide on-the-job training for key supervisors and foremen to augment
their knowledge as needed.
EXECUTION
This program will overlap the implementation phase of the institu-
tional Organization and Management Program to ensure that the key units of
the Corporation are strengthened as quickly as possible.  Close coordina-
tion between the conduct of the two programs will be necessary for maximum
benefits.
The consultant should be receptive to the use of microcomputers,
partioularly where they can be used to either speed up the processing of
data, or the analysis of massive data sets.
A.  For the O&M function, the consultant will:
1.   Review and evaluate the operating and maintenance practices of the
Corporation to identify needed standards, SOPs and PM.
2.   Develop draft standards and review these with senior staff.
3.   Develop a preventive maintenance (PM) program for all components
of the water and sewerage systems and a centralized monitoring and
control system.
4.   Develop a set of SOPs to reflect the standards and PM program as
well as other requirements of the Corporation.
5.   Develop proper budgeting and reporting systems to permit the Cal-
culation of performance norms for repetitive activities, the cost
of providing customer service connections and sewer connections
and the like.
6.   Develop and outline a Training Program for ongoing training of
staff in the SOPs and PM program execution.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Attachment  z
Page 4 of 13
7.   Review the SOPs and Training Program with senior staff and develop
a phased implementation schedule, detailing the specific require-
ments of each step, including training objectives to be attained
before proceeding to the next step.
8.   Arrange for specialized training, either on New Providence Island
or elsewhere, for key managers and supervisors to prepare them to
act as trainers for other staff.
9.   Assist the Corporation in the implementation of the SOPs, Training
Program and Preventive Maintenance Program by providing day-to-day
assistance and periodic reviewz of progress.
10. Provide technical and management assistance to the senior staff as
requested.
B.  For the commercial and accounting functions, the Consultant will:
1.   Review and evaluate the commercial practices of the Corporation
and identify needed standards and SOPs for the business office.
2.   Develop draft standards and review these with senior staff.
3.   Review and revise, as needed, the identification of cost centers.
4.   Develop a uniform time and cost charging procedure.
5.  Review and revise, as needed, the purchasing and inventory proce-
dures.
6.   Develop specific management report formats for commercial, cost
accounting, purchasing and stores.
7.   Evaluate the possibility of using a microcomputer, or a minicom-
puter, for preparing customer bills and to provide on-line access
to customer accounts for customer relations purposes.
8.   Develop proper budgeting and reporting systems to permit the cal-
culation of performance norms for repetitive activities.
9.   Develop an outline Training Program for ongoing training of staff
in the SOPs.
10. Review the SOPa and Training Program with senior staff and develop
a phased implementation schedule, detailing the specific require-
ments of each step, including training objectives to be attained
before proceeding to the next step.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Attachment 2
Page 5 of l)
11. Arrange for specialized training, either on New Providence Island
or elsewhere, for key managers and supervisors to prepare them to
act as trainers for other staff.
12. Assist the Corporation in the implementation of the SOPs and
Training Program providing day-to-day assistance and periodic
reviews of progress.
13. Provide technical and management assistance to the senior staff as
requested.
C. For the engineering and construction functions, the Consultant will:
1.   Review and evaluate the practices of the Corporation to identify
needed standards, maps, filing systems and other SOPs.
2.   Develop draft standards and review these with senior staff.
3.   Develop a set of SOPs to reflect the standards, as well as other
requirements of the Corporation.
4.   Develop proper budgeting and reporting systems to reflect the
actual performance of the engineering and construction functions.
5.   Develop an outline Training Program for ongoing training of staff
in the SOPs.
6.   Review the SOPs and Training Program with senior staff and develop
a phased implementation schedule, detailing the specific require-
ments of each step, including training objectives to be attained
before proceeding to the next step.
7.   Arrange for specialized training, either on New Providence Island
or elsewhere, for key managers and supervisors to prepare them to
act as trainers for other staff.
8.   Assist the Corporation in the implementation of the SOPs and
Training Program by providing day-to-day assistance and periodic
reviews of progress.
9.   Provide technical and management assistance to the senior staff as
requested.
DURATION
This program would be completed 36 months after completion of the
Development Phase of the Institutional Organization and Management Training
Program.
BUDGET
Dollar Budget: About 450,000 (Base Cost); about 30 man-months.



- 53 -
ANlma 3
Attacbment 2
Page 6 of 13
(iii) WATER AID SEWERAGE TARIFF STRUCTURE STUDY
SCOPE
The water and sewerage tariffs, connection fees and other charges
for services of the Water and Sewerage Corporation.
KRY OBJECTIVES
1.  Review  existing  structure  for  calculating  appropriate  water  and
sewerage tariffs for the Corporation.
2. Identify charges that should be imposed for various identifiable ser-
vices provided by the Corporation.
EXECUTION
Specific tasks to be completed by the Consultant include:
i.  Review the Corporation's customer accounts and prepare a summary of
consumption patterns and characteristics and the impact of private
wells on these.
2. Assist the Corporation staff and identify the types of service that the
Corporation provides (or could provide) to customers, developers and
other agencies for which costs should be identified and charges estab-
lished. These should include service charges for past-due accounts as
well as traditional charges.
3. Review the Corporation's costs and distribute these to the appropriate
use categories.
4. Review the Corporation's act and policies, identify any constraints
these impose on a rational tariff structure, and suggest means of over-
coming them.
5. Develop alternative tariff structures that will recover all costs for
each category of service without internal cross-subsidy and billing
cycles and review these with senior staff.



- 54 -
ANNEX 7
Attachment 2
Page 7 of 13
6. With the selected tariff structure, consider local cultural and finan-
cial factors and develop a microcomputer program for analyzing costs
and establishing revised tariffs.
7. Prepare a report including the analyses performed and documenting the
microcomputer program.
DURATION
The study would be completed four months after authorization to proceed.
BUDGET
Dollar Budget: 50,000 (Base Cost); about 4 man-months.
(iv) UNACCOUNTED-FOR WATER IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
SCOPE
Policies   and  procedures   for  implementing   and   monitoring
unaccounted-for water control activities of the Water and Sewerage Corpora-
tion.
KEY OBJECTIVE
1. A coherent implementation program for the control of the Corporation's
unaccounted-for water.
2. Procedures to be followed in leak-detection activities.
3.  Monitoring reports to control implementation of the program.
4. Budgets and goals for discrete elements of the program.
EXECUTION
The Consultant will coordinate his activities as much as possible
with the Consultants for the commercial operations program and perform the
following tasks:
1. Review the Corporation's production metering, customer metering, meter
reading and leak-detection activities.
2. Review carefully the proposed waste metering districts, the manner of
coding these to customer accounts to permit data correlation and analy-
sis, and the procedures being used with the goal of accelerating the
progress of leak-detection. Also, review the monitoring of trantsmts-
sion main flows, reservoir inspections, etc.



- 55 -                  ANNX 3
Attachment 2
Page 8 of 13
3. Prepare a critique of the above activities, identifying areas for
improvement and recommendations for corrective action.
4. In consultation with senior staff, prepare a comprehensive unaccounted-
for water program, addressing all areas of concern, including clearly
defined responsibility for the program, monitoring reports, procedures,
etc., and emphasizing practical methodologies and approaches.
5. Identify equipment and training needs to augment and improve leak-
detection and other unaccounted-for functions of the Corporation.
6. Prepare a budget, in terms of manpower and equipment needs, and goals
for the Corporation's unaccounted-for water program.
7.  Provide 12 man mo4ths of ongoing training and consultation to the leak-
detection section of the Corporation following the adoption of the pro-
gram (item 4) and the budget (item 6).
DURATION
Items 1 through 6 would be completed four months after anthoriza-
tion to proceed. The ongoing training and consultation (item 7) would be
scheduled over an 18-month period following item 6.
BUDGET
Dollar budget: $250,000 (Base Cost); about 15 man-months (foreign).
(v) SHIPPING PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT & MONITORING PROGRAM
SCOPE
The shipping operations of the Water and Sewerage Corporation.
KRY OBJECTIVES
1. To improve the reliability of the Corporation's marine equipment.
2. To advise and assist the Corporation relative to the operation and
chartering of marine equipment for water importation.
EXECUTION
The service to be provided can be divided into two parts: those
relating to the first objective, which should be provided by a suitably
qualified marine engineer, and those relating to the second objective,
which should be provided by a qualified shipping consultant.



56 -                      ANNEX 3
Attachment 2
Page 9 of 13
A. The marine engineer will:
1.   Evaluate maintenance and operation practices within the Marine
Department for mechanical equipment.
2.   Provide advice and training to on-board and ashore marine engi-
neering staff on the proper maintenance of equipment on WSC tugs
and barges.
3.   Promote preventive maintenance practices and develop engineering
solutions to any operational problems.
4.   Assist Marine Coordinator in developing dry docking and repair
schedules for bidding as well as any survey or class work.
5. Provide quarterly report on personnel, practices and achievements,
and problems for the Ma,ine Coordinator and the General Manager of
wsc.
B. The shipping consultant will:
1.   Assist in establishment of a monitorirg system for shipping opera-
tions.
2.   Assist in establishment of a marine accounting system that fits
the needs of WSC and the marine operation.
3.   Assist in the drafting of marine contracts for the WSC and the
preparation of performance -pecifications for ships and tugs.
4.   Assist in the evaluation of offers for tank vessels and provide
advice in negotiations for rates and contracts.
5.   Provide independent quarterly reviews of operations and perform-
ance and flag problems that require management solution.
6.   Assist in ongoing evaluations of shipping systems to meet demand
scenarios.
DURATION
These services would extend over a period of four years beginning
in 1986, and would involve multiple short-term visits by the shipping and
marine consultant on needs basis.
BUDGET
Dollar budget: 00,000 (Base Cost); about 7 man-months (foreign).



- 57 -                   ANNEX 3
Attachment 2
Page 10 of 13
(vi) NEW PROVIDENCE WATER SUPPLY ALTERNATIVE STUDY
SCOPE
Public and private water supply on New Providence Island.
KEY OBJECTIVES
1. Review water demand projections to the year 2000 for riew Providence
Island, regardless of source.
2. Evaluate the water supply alternatives available, including individual
sources, and analyze the costs of each.
EXECUTION
Specific tasks to be completed by the Consultant include:
1. Review the historical water consumption iiformation for the Island.
2. Identify and quantify the sources of water supply that have been avail-
able and their historical costs.
3. Identify the factors and costs that affect a consumer's decision to
choose the Corporation as his water supply source rather than an indi-
vidual supply.
4. Evaluate the costs and benefits of developing alternative water sup-
plies such as reclaimed water, dual water systems for brackish toilet
flushing water and other uses.
5. Develop alternative strategies for water demand using various sources,
prices and other appropriate factors.
6.  Analyze the alternative strategies using cost/benefit or other suitable
approaches.
7.  After consultation with senior staff, refine the selected pricing and
operating strategy, project future water consumption and identify the
production requirements for the Corporation from each of its sources.
8. Prepare a written report including the analyses performed and a des-
cription of the alternatives considered, as well as the final recom-
mended oper¶tional and pricing strategy.
DURATION
The study should be completed six to nine months after authorization.



- 58-                      ANNEX 3
Attachment 2
Page 11 of 13
BUDGET
Dollar budget: 90,000 (Base Cost); about 6 man-months.
(vii) NATIONAL WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND CONSERVATION STUDY
SCOPE
Water Resources Management for The Bahamas with particular atten-
tion to New Providence Island.
KEY OBJECTIVES
1. Develop a management program to protect and exploit the water resources
of The Bahamas including any necessary legislation or regulatory
actions that are needed.
2. Prepare an action plan to implement the management program.
EXECUTION
This study will be affected by the results of the New Providence
Water Supply and Demand Alternatives Study for some input, so it will
necessarily have to await the completion of that study.
Specific tasks to be completed by the Consultant include:
1. Identify the various sources of water supply that are presently being,
or are able to be, exploited.
2. Identify the various sources of contamination of the supplies that are
occurring or that may reasonably be expected to occur in the near term.
3. Evaluate the present laws and acts that provide for the management and
protection of the water resources of The Bahamas.
4. Identify any key components of a water resources management program
that are missing in the present laws and acts.
5. Develop alternative management strategies for the proper protection and
management of the water resources of The Bahamas.
6. In consultation with senior staff of the Ministries of Public Health,
and Public Works and Utilities, as well as the Corporation, select the
most feasible management strategy for implementation.
7. Identify the costs, people and other resources required to implement
the selected strategy.



- 59-                        ANNEX 3
Attachment 2
Page 12 of 13
DURATION
This study would be completed four to six months after
authorization.
BUDGET
Dollar budget: 60,000 (Base Cost); about 4 man-months (foreign).
(viii) NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND SEWERAGE SYSTEMS PLANNING STUDY
SCOPE
The sewerage systems presently operated by, or soon to be operated
by, the Water and Sewerage Corporation.
KEY OBJECTIVES
1. To develop an action plan to guide sewerage system construction during
the next ten years.
2.  To establish treatment levels required for adequate sewage disposal and
criteria for treatment plants.
EXECUTION
Specific tasks to be completed by the Consultant include:
1.  Evaluate the trends in revised land use within presently sewered areas
and in those areas expected to be developed in the next ten years, spe-
cifically including the Cable Beach area.
2.  Develop projected sewage and infiltration flows to be expected from
those areas.
3.  Identify alternatives for sewage, septage and solids treatment and dis-
posal or re-use and prepare a preliminary, qualitative appraisal of the
pros and cons of each, considering the particular cultural and economic
aspects of The Bahamas.
4.  In consultation with senior staff, select two or three alternative
strategies for providing sewerage service to existing and proposed sew-
ered areas and evaluate these on a capital and operating and mainte-
nance cost basis.
5.  After final review with the senior staff, develop the selected strategy
into an action plan, identifying the facilities that require modifica-
tion, replacement, or expansion, as well as new facilities and their
preliminary location and costs.



- 60 -
AINABX3
Attachment 2
Page 13 of 13
6.  Prepare an Enginnering Report desoribing the analyses performed, basis
of seleotion, basis of Costs ani the appropriate technical details of
the selected plan.
7.  Prepare a Summary Report desoribing the seleoted plan, the criteria to
be used for new facilities, costs and other parameters.
DURATION
This study would be completed six months after authorization.
BUDGET;
Dollar budget: 100,000 (Base Co,st); about 6 man-months.



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
THE BAHAMAS
k EW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATRR SUPPLY AND
Detailed Prolect Cost
(US$'OOO or B$'-MO)
PERCENT
PERCENT    BASE
PART/COMPONENT              FOREIGN    LOCAL      TOTAL    FOREIGN    COST
A. WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION
A.t New Prov'ce Wellfield Rehab.           1,236    2,625       3,861     32         15
A.2 Replace and Reline Malts               1,953      434       2,387     82          9
A.3 New Mains Construction                 1,898    1,265       3,163     60         12
A.4 Engineering and Supervision              770       192        962     80          4
SUBTOTAL                                   5,857    4,516      iO,373     56         40
B. WATER IMPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS
B.1 Morgan's Bluff Seawall Constr.         2,268      567       2,835     80         11
B.2 Andros Wellfield Rehabilit.              138      321         459     30          2
B.3 Dock Facilities Improvements             269       67         336     80          1
B.4 Arawak Cay Reservoir                     195      362         557     35          2
B.5 Engineering and Supervision              368       66         434     85          2
SUBTOTAL                                   3,238    1,383       4,621     70         18
C. SEWERAGE REHABILITAT1ON
C.1 Downtown Sewer Replacement               618      308         926     67          4
C.2 Vacuum Sawer Conversion                1,246    2,045       3,291     38         13
C.3 Malcolm Park Disposal Factlities         785      387       1,172     67          4
C.4 Septage and Solids Disp.Facilities        85      182         267     32          1
C.5 Engineering and Supervision              605      151         756     80          3
SUBTOTAL                                   3,339    3,073       6,412     52         25
D. PROCUREMENT OF EQUIPMENT
D.1 Meters and Service Conn.                 854        10        864     90          3
D.2 Constr.and Maint.Equipment             1,278      150       1,428     90          5
D.3 Telemetry and Controls                   664      117         781     85          3
D.4 Engineering and Supervision              147       26         173     85          1
SUBTOTAL                                   2,943      303       3,246     96         t2
E. TECHNICAL ASSIST & TRAINING
E.1 Management Audit & Instit.Impvt.         120       30         150     80          1
E.2 Commercial & Operations Impvt.           360       90         450     80          2
E.3 Tariff Structura Study                    40        10         50     80          1
E.4 Unaccounted-for Water Impvt Pr.          200       50         250     80          1
E.5 Shipping Performance Monitoring           80       20         100     80          1
E.6 Water Supply Altern Study                 72       18          90     80          1
E.7 Nat'l Water Resource Mgmt Study           48       12          60     80          1
E.8 Sewerage Plarnning Study                  80       20         100     80          1
E.9 Training Program Implementation          160       40         200     80          1
SUBTOTAL                                   1,160      290       1,450     80          6
TOTAL BASE COST                           16,697    9,403      26,102     64        100
Physical Contingencies                     1,701      916       2,617     65         10
Price Contingencies                        3,083    1,735       4,818     64         19
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        21,481   12,056      33,537     64        128



- 62 -
ANNEX 5
Psg-e- of 2
THE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Detailed Financing Plan by Year and by Funding Source
Figures in (US$'000 or B$S000)
1986                 1987                  1988                  1989
W.B.  Govt.  CoF.   W.8.  Govt.  CoF.   W.B.  Govt.  CoF.   W.B.  Govt.  CoF.
A.  Wellfield Rehabilitation
A.1  New Provtdence Is.Rehab.           -     -       -     388   384      -      389    383    -       127    414    -
A.2  Replace and Reline Mains           -     -       -     135      8     -      135       8    -     350    151    -
A.3  New Mains Construction             -     -       -     300    16      -      961      51    -      390    211    -
A.4  Engineering and Supervision    122   31          _     184    46      -      192     48    -       153     39    -
Subtotal                     122   31       -    1007   454      -    107i7    40   --    102         85   --
B.  Water Importation Imprvmts.
B.1  Morgan's Bluff Seawal Constr.   -                             198      596    -      298   892      -     213   638
B.2  Andros Wellfield Rehabilit.        -     -       -      -      30      89    -        85   255      -      -      -
B.3  Dock Facilities Improvements    -        -       -      -      -       -      -      57   168      -       28    83
B.4  Arawak Cay Reservoir               -     -       -      -      39      117    -      101   300      -      -      -
3.5  Engineering & Supervision          -     6      102     -       2      46    -        11   193     -        4    70
Subtotal                      -     6      102     -    269       848    -      552  1808            245   76T
C.  Sewerage Rehabilitation
C.1  Downtown Sewer Replacement         -     -       -      -      -       -      -       22    43     -      112   230
C.2  Vacuum Sewer Conversion            -     -       -      -    236      422    -      401   717      -      213   381
C.3  Malcolm Park Disposal Facil.    -        -       -      -      -       -      -       54    98     -      181   323
C.4  Septage & Solids Disp.Facil.    -        -       -      -       9       17    -       20    36     -       67   118
C.5  Engineering & Supervision         _    40        73     _      40      73    -        57   102     _       57   101
Subtotal                      -    40       7325                   12    -      54     W60 13
0.  Procurement of Equipment
0.1  Meters & Service Conn.             -     -       -     140    -      15      248     -    28        -      -     -
D.2  Constr. & Maint. Xquipm.                                -      -     528      -      -    528              -    372
D.3  Telemetry & Controls                      -  -      -       -      -      -           20   1 5            1     4
0.4  Engineering & Supervision         _    _        _    _T- 12          31      148      32   312      -      25    62
Subtotal                                    -      140   12      57     2471                   -              7
E.  Technical Assist. & Training
E.i  Mngat. Audit & Instit.Imprvmt.  -        -       -     95      -     17      32      -      6      -       -     -
E.2  Comm. Operat. Imprvmt.             -     -       -     38      -      7      88      -    15      84       -    15
8.3  Tariff Structure Study             8     -       2     32      -      8       -      -      -      -       -     -
B.4  Unacc'td-for Water Imp.Pr.        10     -       2     75      -     13      72      -    13      42       -     8
E.5  Shipping Perf. Monit.              -     -       -     18      -      4      18      -      4      18      -     4
8.6  Water Supply Altern. Study         -     -       -      -      -      -      60      -    10       16            4
e.7  Nat'l. Water Resour.Mgmt.Study  -        -       -                    - -        -          -     51             9
E.8  Sewerage Planning Study           21     -       4     63      -     12       -      -      -      -       -     -
8.9  Trg. Program TImplementation       -     -       -     17      -      3      25             5    25         
Subtotal                      -     -       8     3       -    64      295    -        5    236       -    45
Total Base Cost                 161    77    183   1485  1020   1998    220    1628 3569   1256    1908 2866
Physical Contingencies           16      8     18    149   102    200    222        163  358    126       191  288
Price Contingencies               8      4      8    112    77    150    209        427  397    152       583  476
Total Base Cost + Conting.    185    89    209   1746  1199   2348   2651    2218 4324   1534    2682 3630
Annual Investment                 483                  5293                    9193                  7846



- 63 -
ANNEX 5
THE BAHAMAS                                         Page  2 of 2
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Detailed Financin Plan by Year and by Funding Source
Figures in (US$'000 or B$ 000)
1990                 1991                 1992                 1993
W.B.  Govt.  CoF.   W.B.  Govt.  CoF.   W.B.  Govt.  CoF.   W.B.  Govt.  CoF.
A.  Wellfield Rehabilitation
A.1  New Providence Is.Rehab.         125    416    -      125    416    -        -     424    -       -    270      -
A.2  Replace and Reline Mains         528    284    -      512    276    -        -      -                    -
A.3  New Maine Construction           802    433    -       -       -     -       -      -
A.4  Engineering and Supervision       76      20    -      41      10    -       -      -      -      -     -       -
Subtotal                   1531  1iT2    -        678    702    -          -  424              -  270
B.  Water Importation        ts.
B.1  Morgan's Bluff Seawal Constr.   -        -                 -      -      -          -      -         -      -
B.2  Andros Wellfield Rehabilit.       -       -     -      -       -     -       -      -      _      _     _       _
B.3  Dock Facilities Improvements    -        -             -      -       -      -         -      -      -      -
B.4  Arawak Cay Reservoir              -       -     -      -       -     -       -      -      -      -     -       -
B.5  Engineering & Supervision         -      -      -      -       -         -      -         -       -     -       _
Subtotal                     -     -          _       _      _      _      _      _      _      _      _
C.  Sewerage Rehabilitation
C.1  Downtown Sewer Replacement        -      84    175     -      85    175      -      -      -      -     -
C.2  Vacuum Sever Conversion           -    212    380      -    118    211       -      -      -      -     -       -
C.3  Malcolm Park Disposal Facil.    -    185    331        -       -     -       -      -      -      -     -       -
C.4  Septage & Solids Disp.Facii.    -         -     -      -       -     -       -      -      -      -     -       -
C.5  Engineering & Supervision         -      57    101     -      20     35      -      -      -      -     -       -
Subtotal                     -    538    98        -    223    W72      -
D.  Procurement of Equipment
D?.1  Meters & Service Conn. .        140    -       15    250    -       28      -      -      -      -      -      -
D.2  Constr. & Maint. Equipm.          -     -       -      -      -      -       -      -     -       -      -      -
D.3  Telemetry & Controls                         -     -       -      -      -          -      -      -         -
D.4  Engineering & Supervision         -     -       -      -      -      -       -      -     _          _
Subtotal                    140    -       15    250    -        28
E.  Technical Assist. & Training
E.1  Nngmt. Audit & Instit.Imprvmt.  -       -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -      -
1.2  Comm. Operat. Imprvmt.            88    -       15     85    -       is      -      -     -       -      -
1.3  Tariff Structure Study            -     -       -      -      -      -       -      -     - 
E.4  Unacc'td-for Water Imp.Pr.        12    -       3      -      -      -       -      -     -       -      -      -
E.5  Shipping Perf. Monit.             18    -       4      10    _       2       -      -     _       _      _      _
E.6  Water Supply Altern. Study        -     -       -      -      -      -       -      -     -       -      -
E.7  Nat'l. Water Resour.Mgmt.Study  -       -       -      -      -      -       -      -     -       -      -      -
E.8  Sewerage Planning Study           -     -       -          -     -       -      -      -          -      -
E.9  Trg. Program Implementat.         25    -       5      25    -       5       25     -     5       25     -      5
Subtotal                    143    ^       27    T20    -        22     25    --      5      _25     -     5
Total Base Cost                1814  1690   1029   1048   925    471        25    424   US       25    Z7U    a
Physical Contingencies          181   170    103    105    93        47      3      40    2        3     27    2
Price Contingencies              335   648    173    325   287    146        9    157    3        11    118    3
Total Base Cost + Conting.    2330  2508   1305   1478  1305    664         37    621   10        39    415   10
Annual Investment                 6143                 3447                    668                  464



- 64- -ANU6
Page 1 of 2
TUE BANANAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEUWKAGE REBABILITATION PROJECT
Institutional Overview of WSC
Areas                                Assessment                                     Action Propased
Overall Assessments
Young Institution           oung  institution  Organized  in              As a result of the Bank' a earlier
Young Institution                  1976;  operation' hampered  by  a               assistance  under  Loan  1320-311  and
difficult and particular physioal              under the leadership of the present
environment and lack of adequate               management,  SC has been implementing
local technicians and engineers.               in the last four years an admiDis-
This  led to unreliability of the              trative,  technical  and  financial
system  and deterioration of its               recovery program to improve the *ffi-
water    supply    and      evwerage           ciency  of  the  Institution.    This
facilities,  high  cost  of  the               effort would be expanded and Intensi-
services and loss of consumers'                fied  under  the  proposed  technical
confidence. VSC does not have the              assistance  (T.A.)  of  the  proposed
monopoly  of water and  sewerage               project.  The policy "aspcts of water
operations in the island due to                resources    mansgesnut-particularly
the   proliferation   of   several             with  regard  to  regulating  water
private  agencies  in  the  hotel              extraction and wastewater disposal-
industry--with their own water and             would also be strengthened under the
sewerage  facilities.    Lack  of              T.A. program.
regulation of groundwater estrao-
tion and disposal in the private
seotor.
Plan_nRn
Short and Medium Term              Short-term planning done through                The  management  audit  and  institu-
budgeting process.   Very limited              tional improvement program under the
long-term planning and forecast-               T.A. program would review all areas
ing.                                           of administration and would recommend
an action program for implementation
of improvements needed.   This would
also include an evaleation of the
planning process within an overall
review of the organizational struc-
ture.
Budgetary                          Yearly   budget   well   prepared.              The proposed institutional Improve-
Approved by WSC's Board of Direc-              ment   program   Includes   tecbnical
tors.  Weak monitoring and no var-             assistance  in  the  area  of  budget
iance analysis and follow up dur-              preparation and control.
ing the year. Budget and account-
ing poorly coordinated.
Operations
Operatios  and  Nainte-           Poor.      Very  little  training.              Special emphasis Is given in the T.A.
nance                            Short of equipment and physical                program   through   the   operations
facilities.    Written  procedures             improvement    program    and    the
almost non-existent.   No system-              unaccounted-for   water  improvement
atic preventive maintenance.  Righ             program to the operations and oain-
-'a.ccounted-for water.  This prob-            tenance  areas,  which  includes  the
le  is compounded by the old age              definition of O&M policies, norms and
of  plpes  and  high  salinity  of             procedures  and  the  reduction  In
water and difficult soil condi-                unaccounted-for water.
tions.
water Importation                  WSC lacks experience in the ship-               A  1985  shipping  performance  study
(Andros)                         ping operations.   Excessive per-              presented specific recommendatlons to
sonnel,  lack  of notiv^tion  and              Improve the efficiency of the opera-
poor maintenance of owned equip-               t.ons (Annex 2).  These recoamenda-
ment.   Inadequate charter provi-              Lions would be implemented with con-
sions for leased tanker in terms               sultant  assistance  under  the  T.A.
of mandatory delivery volume, lack             program.  Furthermore, shippilg tar-
of performance standards and mon-              gets  would  be  carefully monltored
ltoring.                                       under the project.



- 65-Al 6
Page 2 of 2
Commercial
Customer Pile                       Not updated stace 1976.  Unreli-
able.
Btilltng and Collection            Computerized  quarterly.   Monthly
reading   for   large   consumers.             As part of the overall operational
Inadequate  to  prepare  analytic              improvement program, the commercial
reports . Current accounts receiv-             operations of WSC would be carefully
able equivalent to 100 days.                   scrutinized and evaluated  for addi-
tional tiprovements in these areas.
Meterintg                           About 90$ of connect ions .  bef t-            Tratning would be provided to needed
ctent connection/reconnection pol-             staff in the above areas.
tcies.   Lack of maintenance and
calibration   of  master  meters.
Poor tndividual connecttons.
Meter Shop and Mainte-              befictent meter shop operatton and
nance                            testing facilities.
Tariffs
Tartff Structure                    Fixed charges based on meter diae-             Intermediate tariff increase for sew-
eter.     Excess  consumptton  in              erage would be sought during  1987.
blocks.  Sewerage charges are flat             Tartff structure and levels for WSC's
rates based on  fixtures and not               services would be studied in detail
re!. ed to water consumption.                  under the proposed tartff study.  An
improved tariff structure ti expected
to be tn place by 1988.
Accounttng and Financtal           Mostly manual.   Sattsfactory  in               The proposed managemtent audit would
Management                       certatn areas. Timely reports and               show  the  areas of accounttig  that
ftnancial statesents every month.              need improvement with spectal prlor-
Rellable  Information.    Weak  tn             ity  to  cost  accounting,  budgetary
cost accounting and    commercial              controls and recomended computerized
accounting.                                    systems   to   satisfy   management's
reportIng needs.
Administration
Pereonnel, liuran                  Current    staffitg       level--361            Sound personnel management procedures
Resources Development            employees.   low productivity  of               are currently being limplemented. The
and Tratinig                     personnet reflected  in the high                tnstttutional   toprovement   program
number of employees per 1000 con-              would complement the  actions  being
necttons,   currently   at   14.5.             taken and would detervmine the appro-
Labor untons are strong.  Neither              prtate level of staff needed for each
a systemattc training extsts nor a             task. The project would also seek to
training plan. Lacks instructions              make more effictent use of personnel
materials,    tools   and   other              (particlttarly  tn the shipping area)
resources.                                     and a gradual reductton in staff per
1000 connections as todieated in the
monttoring tndtcators.   Each compo-
nent of the proposed T.4. program
would define the respective detailed
training needs.  During the protect,
WSC would Implement agreed tratntig
programs.
Inventory                          Excess of inventory.   Inadequate               The tnstituttonal improvement program
warehouse and controls.                        would address thts issue.
Ftixed Assets Control              Limited.    assets  revalued  from              The tnstitutional improvement program
books.  Installation and equipmkent            would address this issue.
properly insured.
Autdtt                             External auditing performd every                Private external audttors would con-
year by tndependent CPAa.  Inter-              tinue to audit WSC accounts.
nal   auditing    needs   further
Improvements.



NE iANAMAS
W PPROVICE ISLAN) WATER SitRPLY AN  SEYENGE REhAB1LITATION PROJECT
Oreani zatlonal Chart
Minister
Warks A *Jtilties
Board ol Directors
General  atnager
MtarI no                Oerllon b                        Eng. & Construct.                      Acctg.                               n oinance  Personnel
i)eot.Mi Intenance ie   n o. Sndros i                                                          A     r
W  I               L-                        L                                    Ic1r
Marilne 9SD't   loatainsi   IasonI                    Cons.        Iwter                   | |DOrawing      Po- dsersonnel |                                 Traning
[  J~~~ndo [rutij  O~J                        ualIty      Enginearinq| |  tic           Oper.                         Otce       | lOtcr|
|Ralvenue ||Flnancial | iurchetsj    Credit &S upe91|rvisor|_ _
X,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t ce Acct. 1                                                                              Colc. tr



T.HE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAn) WATER SUtPPLY AND S               RWTMAAR..    ASILITA:rlm  PiO3iCr
Project  luimtatir Bar ChLrt
87 - - 86       -                                              89      -           909- 1
Jan Apr Jhil Oct Ja  Apr  Jull (t Jan Apr 3il Oct Jan  Apr jul oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr  ul Oct
1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9  10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  20  21  22  23  24  25  26  27  28  29  30  31  32
A. mulf SAUPl 3mu
1. Mm ftwdence Wellftelds
Thier (asterfals)
Proieent                                                   _...
Ocmtruction
Tener (awl nins)                                      .
Prooutammt (mmU ne)                                           _                                             --n-
(trnuti<lm (Soil nmim)                                       -                                         - -
knder (reli/replac)                                                           -        -
mxstnruac   (rilne/replace
3. N? Mkinoim tnrctton
~r                                                  -.
Omstnucti-c                                                          -         -
4. agh-erIM aid SWe-rv-s1c-      - -
B. am DOW Dlffimm
1. lxgan'a IBiff Semli Oh2st.
0~1g                           -,i.                                    
2. Andros *lfield bhab.a/
BIr (imt_ _a_s)         _          -X-                                                                          - 
tOictf---                                                                                                                                                                          q  i
1  Ibdc  -tes1
onstructi -,
k         ad m b          s 1                             .    .                              _                     .                                      . _  
Activities dhm  begd 1987 tepnt tomln wor for the wellfleldsl to be udrtd  by WBC outsde of the project.



THE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PRQTecT
Project ImplesItat1c Bar QCrt
-8 7            - 8--------90                                         -                          92                 93
JnApr Adl Oct Jan Apr iii (t  Jon Apr Jul Ot  Jan Apr JlI Oct Jan Apr JIl Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Ott Jun Apr JAl (&t
1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8   9  10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  2)  21  22  23  24  25  26  27  28  29  3D  31
4. AnE  Cay F erwoir
oastru±itan
S.  .gi.iur  and   _s1  8
- 9A
Iv hupectiam (mrv)-
T-der                                                                               -
2. Voantmu bp1aoaunt
Teiaeria  _. 
2ur -_- 
from                                          -                _            _ __
otrwtta                                              --
3. 1hCDIM Pak FaciUtlas
Taner
Thlr                                       .                   _
4.5 qwsSim        d      .   _________Aj                     - 
5. agbirj1 and Szpmvh1am
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   .1  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   t  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
s 6 a   I                                                                                                                              .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



THlE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE I-SLAND WATER SUPPLY AN SEWERAGE RERAILITATION PROJECT
Project bg4emettatlon Bar Chat
Ja Apr &hI O(t Jan Apr Jul. Oct Jan Apr J'1 Ott Jan Apr )., Oczt Jon Apr il Oct Jn Apr J%l Oct Jon A*: Jul Oct Jn Apr idl ot
1   2   3 4            6   7   8   9  10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19  M0  21  22  23  24  25  26  27  26  29  30  31  32
I. Iboand sarviom
Proaumntm
2. uinralm ad Mar Tqtp.
Prff  trctre                                    _         _ j           _    __                                                                                     _
3.  aeoe sr       er kpt.I                             __                  _ _         _        _ _           __s_
S edwpWBromn                                                             
4.t Rgipply m Alte   vis Iii
L    'lita       ANDu StAly)Mj
1A_                            _                                 f                                                            __                 _        _
On-VW Pld~ &P-y                                                      ___              ___                                   _
btwt.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



THE BAHAMAS
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT FOR NEW PROVIDENCE ISLADD
Projeot Implementation:  Percent  Cumulative Completion Schedule
Part                                             1986      1987     1988     1989      1990     1991     1992      1993
A. Water Supply Rehabilitation
A.1.  New Providence Wellfield Rehab.                        20       40       54        68       82       93       100
A.2.  Replace and Reline  Mains                               6       12       33         7      100
A.3. New Mains Construction                                  10       42       61
A.4.  Engineering and Supervisioo                  lS        40       65       85        95      100
B. Water Imaortation ImPrvmts.
B.1.  Norgan's Bluff Seawall Construction                    28       70       tOO
B.2.  Andros Wellfield Rehabilitation                        26      100
B.3.  Dock Facilities Improvements                                    67       100
B.4.  Arawak Cay Reservoir                                   28      100
B.5.  Engineering and Supervision                  25        36       83       100
C. Sewerage Rehabilitation
C.1.  Downtown Sever Replacement                                       7       44        72      100
C.2.  Vacuum Sewer Conversion                                20       54       72        90      100                                   °
C.3.  Malcolm Park Disposal Facilities                                13       56       100
C.4.  Septage and Solids Disposal Facilities                 10       31      100
C.5.  Engineering and Supervision                   15       30       51       72        93      100
D. Procurement of Equipment
D.1.  Meters and Service Connections                         18       50                 68      100
D.2.  Construction and Maintenance Equipment                 37       74      100
D.3.  Telemetry and Controls                                          20      100
D.4.  Engineering and Supervision                            25       50      100
E. Technical Assistance and Training
E.1.  Management Audit & Institutional Impv't                75      100
E.2.  Commercial & Operations Impv't                         10       32        55       78      100
3.3.  Tariff Structure Study                       20       100
E.4.  Unaccounted-for Water Impv't Program           5       40       74       94       100
E.5.  Shipping Performance Monitoring                        22       44       66        88      100
E.6.  Water Supply Alternative Study                                  79       '00
fE.7. National Water Resource Mgmt. Study                                      100
E.8.  Sewerage Planning Study                               100
E.9.  Training Program Implementation                        10       25       40        55       70       8'        100
II!



- 71 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
THE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Financial Performance
General
1.         Attachments 1 and 2 provide historical and projected financial
plan and performance data pertaining to WSC's operations.   Attachment 3
provides the current tariff structure for WSC's services.
Past and Present Financial Performance
2.           WSC undertook the implementation of the first Bank-financed
project  (Loan  1320-BN)  during  1976  through  1982.    WSC's  financial
performance during the period 1980 to mid-1982 was poor, primarily because
of inadequate water production, delays in the implementation of the project
and in the implementation of the required tariff increase and failure to
reduce unaccounted-for water.   Heavy debt service payments, particularly
for interest on commercial bank loans, also had an adverse effect on WSC's
financial condit-on.1/   Measures taken since 1983 as a follow up of the
TA program under Loan 1320-BM in the main problem areas have markedly
improved WSC's financial prospects.   These improvements have been the
result of improved management efficiency, increases in water tariffs, water
production and sales.
3.         The 1984 financial situation of WSC was satisfactory with a net
operational income of US$631 thousand.   This compares favorably with an
income of only US$40 thousand in 1983 and a loss of US$475 thousand in
1982. The improved finances have been accomplished by continuing increases
in water production and sales, improvements in financial control and better
personnel policies and procedures. The 1985 financial situation continues
to improve in spite of the fact that WSC was not very successful in
containing operational costs, particularly in the areas of personnel,
shipping and sewerage facilities. The operational income for the year 1985
was US$ 890,000 and WSC was able to meet its investment requirements for
this year. With cash in hand of about US$1.9 million at the end of 1985
and with little planned investments, WSC would be well-positioned to
undertake the proposed project in 1986.
1/ Further details are available in PCR of Loan 1320-BM dated June 14,
1983.



- 72 -
ANSrI  8
Page 2 of 3
4.          Notwithstanding the past improvements, the situation regarding
sewerage tariffs still remains an important issue.  The existing sewerage
tariffs and their structure are inadequate and the collected sewerage
revenues are estimated to cover only a portion of the operating and main-
tenance costs.   The tariff rates, which were last revised in 1982, are
based on a flat rate per fixture that bears no relation to the actual
scheme of water used and the cost of operations. This would be studied in
detail as part of the overall tariff study proposed under the project
(Annex 3) and the situation remedied through the formulation of an
appropriate tariff structure.
WSC's Financial Structure
5.          WSC's main revenues are income-derived from the provision of
water serviceF. and charges for new connections.   In 1984 and 1985 about
91% of total revenues came from water.   On the other hand, about 4% of
total income came from sewerage charges.   Non-operative income has been
significant due to increased payments from the Government for services
rendered by WSC in the repair and maintenance of the water-related services
in public buildings and publicly-owned  properties.    Government equity
contributions complement WSC's income as a source of funds.
6.         The complexity of operations of both water supply (particularly
the shipping area and sewerage systems, (particularly the vacuum system)
as well as low p iductivity of personnel is accountable for a high 40% of
total operationa  costs, which are allocated to personnel expenditures.
Furthermore, pr( -uction costs are marked by high power costs, shipping
expenses and pur hases of water from private wellfield owners. During 1984
and 1985 these e4pDnses accounted for about 43% of total operating costs.
7.         WSC has a large debt service burden.  Its debt/equity percentage
ratio and debt service ratio were in 1985 29.4% and 1.04%, respectively.
VSC's Overall Investment Program and Financing Plan
8.        USC's planned total investments for the project execution period
(1986-94) amounts to US$54.2 million, of which US$33.5 million, not includ-
ing capitalized interest would represent the proposed Bank project. Other
investments include: secondary networks for the water and sewerage systems
to keep up with population increase and demand from tourist-related
enterprises; minor replacements; and rehabilitation of the systems and
expansion of the wellfield in Andros to meet the projected medium-term
water demand.



- 73 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
9.         The Bank would provide financing in the amount of US$10 million
under the project.  Cofinancing sources (the Caribbean Development Bank,
the European Investment Bank and the National Insurance Board), provide
financing of US$12.5 million. The Government will provide funds for equity
participation in the amount of US$11 million. Developers will contribute
an amount of US$3.7 million. WSC is refinancing its short-term commercial
bank's financing through a long-term loan with the National Insurance Board
(NIB).   During the period NIB refinancing will provide funds of about
US$3.4 million.    The remaining US$15.0 million will oome from WSC's
.internal cash generation.   A detailed financing plan is presented in
Attachment 1.
Financial Projections
10.        In order that WSO would be able to generate internally required
cash contributions to finance investments as shown in the financial projec-
tions (Attachment 2), it would need to: reduce unaccounted-for water from
46% to 32% by 1994; increase sewerage tariffs in real terms by about 25% in
1986 and 20% in 1990 and about 6% every two years; control personnel and
shipping costs; increase shipping efficiency in order to reach importation
from Andros of not less than 2.5 NIGD, 3 MIGD, 3.5 M4IGD, and 4 MIGD in the
years 1987, 1989, 1991, and 1993, respectively; reduce the number of
staff/10O0 active water connection ratio from 14.7 in 1984 to 12.50 in
1994; and maintain an accounts receivable/average monthly sales ratio of
not more than three.  The achievement of these targets and implementation
of tariff actions would be closely monitored under project execution.
I1.       In line with the financial objectives of WSC under the project, a
working ratio covenant is proposed (para 2.16, text SAR).  The financial
projections presented in Attachment 2 translate into a rate of return of
about 2.4% by project completion, which is consistent with long-range
expansion requirements and debt service requirements of WSC.
12.         The projections also indicate that WSC would have an adequate
cash flow to cover debt services and other investments if the proposed
working ratio covenant is satisfactorily complied with. To complement the
working ratio covenant and in light of WSC's anticipated future needs for
larger investments (to secure a reliable source of water) and debt-service
needs, it is recommended that WSC maintain an acceptable debt-service
coverage ratio. This would also facilitate WSC's entry to the commercial
bond market, should it become necessary in the future.  To that effect, a
covenanted debt-service coverage ratio of 1.5 is proposed.



THE BAHAMS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REEHABILITATION PROJECT
Financing Plan
(Current US$ Thousands)
414                                                                  ACTUAL     -------     -…P--           -----      ROECTED … ----------    --- -              --
415                                               IUNITS                  1985    t19        1967      1988      198       1990      191       192       1993      194
416 
417
418                                     ........           .........            ... . . . ... . . . ..
41 FINACING PLAN                                X of           SUNS
420 ------------                                 lnvesteent
421                                                        =====- ==  ======   =::8=====:-e=e-=re=…er--r  re:e:r-e 
422 INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION                              52745.57   3109.63  3972.07   4259.19   4666.20   4946.3S  5866.62   5744.01   6150.65   6929.45   7202.39
423 NON-OPTIN  IKNCONE                                       5163.36    605.36   355.00    498.00    500.00    500.00    550.00    600.00    550.00    500.00    505.00
42                              4          -                                                                             __    ___i______
425 GROSS INTERNAL CASH GENERATION                  104.121 57998.93   3714.99  4327.07   4757.19   5166.20   5446.36   6416.62   6344.01   6700.65   7328-45   7707.3i
426
427 AMORTIZATION                                            22697.40   i178.00  1742.00   1768.00   1798.00   1882.00   2670.28   2711.20   2756.28   2802.28  2849.28
428 OMRATIONAL INTEREST                                     15049.44   1842.00  1748.00   1652.00   1559.00   1454.00   1353.00   1251.00   1 49.00   1042.00   2000.44
429-                                                                                              - --- ------------ - __ -- - ---
430 TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                               b7.87t 37746.84   3560.00  3490.00   3420.00   3357.00   3336.00   4023.28   3962.29   M4.29   3944.28   4849.72
431
432 ONRKIN6 CAPITAL NEEDS                             R.481  5269.81   -124.70   249.04   -2"9.02   -171.54    616.38   1210.97    733.33   1376.67   1174.49   504.19
433 OTHER ASSETS AND LIABILITIES                     0.14t  -9.81        2.170    0.20     -6.30     -9.99     -9.65     -9.14    -13.07    -10.15    -12.17    -12.23
434 =       -:-:=::r_=::                                                                          -…          …      … -       -… … … …--- -------------e-
435 NET INTERNAL CASH GENERATION                     26.321 14972.09    277.00   587.83   1642.52   I990.74   1503.63   1191.50   1661.47   1429.84   2321.85   235.71
436
437
438 I8DR PROJECT COSTS                                      33537.00      0.00  483.00   5293.00   9193.00   7846.00   6143.00   3447.0f    669.00    464.00       0.00
439 CAPITALIZED INTEREST                                     6401.44      0.00    84.41    199.00    504.94    862.73   : I.68   1236.A0   123.90   1162.88        0.00
440 OTHER INlESTIENT COSTS                                  15679.00   1429.00  1500.00   1650.00   1500.00   1100.00   1050.00   1150.00   1300.00   2000.00   3000.00
441 -     -----------                                       --        -----------------------------------------------------------
442 TOTAL INVESTHENT COSTS                          100.001 55617.44   1429.00  2067.41   7142.00  11197.94   9808.73   8304.68   5833.90   3206.90   3626.98   3000.00
443,
444 REQUIRED FINANCINB                                      49645.36   1152.00  1479.58   5499.48  9207.21   8305.11   7113.18   4172.43   1777.06   1S05.03    634.29
"5
446 DISBURSEMENTS, IBRD LOANS                                799.11       0.00   108.01   1219.62   2450.28   .437.77   198.54   1228.72    406.32    153.55      34.29
447 DISBURSENENTS, OTHER PROJECT LONS                       12539.25      0.00   180.58   1979.86   3436.92   2933.33   2296.64   1288.71    249.74    173.47      O.00
448 DISURSEMENTS, OTHER NO-PR0JEC7 LOANS                    3408.00    652.00   852.00    852.00    652.00      0.00       .00      0.00       .00      0.00      0.00
449 ---------.--------------------                          --------    -----    -----    -
450 TOTAL  MOR1ING                                          25945.36    852.00  1140.58   4050.48   6739.21   5i73.10   4255.19   2517.43    656.06    327.03     34.29
451
452 COWTRIUTIONS CUSTOMERS  D DEVELOPS                      14700.00    300.00   339.00   1449.00   2468.00   2932.00  295.00   t655.00   1121.00    978.00    600.00
453-                                                                                        - --    - _ - __----
454 TOTAL FINCING                                           40645.36   1152.00  1479.5S   5499.48   9207.21   8305.10   7113.19   4172.43   1777.06   1305.03    634.29



ANNEX 8
Attachment 2
Page 1 of a
THE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Notes to the Financial Statements
GENERAL
1.        WSC's financial statements for fiscal years (January to December)
1984 and 1985 are audited.   The fixed   assets and depreciation in the
audited  financial  statements  are  not  revalued;  however,  financial
projections (pages 6 through 8, this attachment) are based on revalued
fixed assets and depreciation. The financial statements of 1986 have been
projected on the basis of actual financial results for the first six
months.   In addition to the assumptions speeified for water demand and
production (Annex 2, Attachment 1), the projected financial statements of
1986-94 are based on assumptions summarized below (see page 5 this
attaohment for a tabular summary of all basic assumptions).
REVENUES
Water and Sewerage Revenues
2.      The average water and sewerage tariff for 1985 is based on the ac-
tual tariff charged (Attachment 3).    The financial projections show the
average increase of tariffs that would be required for WSC to satisfy the
financial covenant taking into account the following:  (a) no water tariff
increase would be implemented until the year 1988; and (b) sewerage tariffs
would fully recover all operating and maintenance costs and their
corresponding  capital  investment  costs by  the end of 1990.    Interim
sewerage tariff increases (25%) would take place while the water and
sewerage tariff study is carried out and its recommendations are imple-
mented (pars. 2.15, SAR-text).
Connections and Other Sewerage Charges
3.       Service fees are payable before a water connection and a sewerage
dischaige is made, projected in line with a number of new water and sewer-
age connections per year, assuming average charges remain constant in real
terms.
OPERATING COSTS
Personnel
4.      Projected costs to increase in line with water/sewerage connections
and adjusted for inflation plus a 2% annual increase in the real wage rate.



- 76 -
ANNE[ 8
ttac-bment 2
Page 2 of 8
This is in accordance with a labor union agreement regarding salary in-
creases, which are in line with WSC's average wage settlement over the past
four years and the projected reduction of staff per thousand water connec-
tions. These costs also include WSC's contribution to the employees' pen-
sion fund.
Chemicals
5.      Projected to increase in line with inflation and water produced.
Po*er
6.      The volume of electricity eonsumed is projected to increase in line
with the volume of water produced, taki;g into account savings that would
be derived from projected improvements as part of the rehabilitation compo-
nent under the project. Cost per kilowatt hour is projected according to
data provided by the Bahamas Electric Company.
Materials. Private Contractors and Administrative Costs
7.      Projected to increase in line with inflation and the growth in the
number of water and sewerage connections.
Losses on Receivables
8.       During 1984 these expenses were extraordinary and significant in
recognition of poor collection from long outstanding inactive accounts
dating back to 1976-80. In 1986 and thereafter, losses on receivables ,re
projected as 2% of total income based on historical data.
Shipping Expenses
9.      Costs for 1986 reflect WSC's recent success in improving shipping
efficiency.    Projections  are  based  on  cost  estimates  based  on  the
implementation of improvements recommended in the shipping study prepared
by consultants (Annex 2, Attachment 2).
Water Purchases
10.      Projected expenditures to change in line with projected volume of
water purchased required to meet demand. Projected cost per thousand IG.
based on conditions spelled out in the purchasing contract between WSC and
its private suppliers in New Providence.
Depreciation Expense (based on revalued fixed assets) and Related Accounts
11.     Projected annual charges based on 2.86% depreciation rate applied
to total fixed assets. Gross fixed assets and accumulated depreciation are
revalued in line with inflation.



- 77 -AO                        
ANNEX 8
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 8
Working Capital and Other Assets Needed
12.      Accounts receivable for service.  Projected to be equal to three
months' of billing beginning in 1986.
Inventory
13.      In 1985 inventories were in excess of the normal stock needed to
satisfy WSC's projected investments for the foreseeable future.   Total
inventory projections will show a decrease in stock as inventory would be
depleted to reach appropriate levels by 1989.  Thereafter inventory would
be equivalent to about four months of cost of chemicals, operation and
maintenance materials and a percentage of total investment costs.
Other Current Assets
14.     Mainly prepaid expenses and miscellaneous.  Projected to increase
iwith inflation.
Aocounts Payable
15.     Includes payments due to suppliers and contractor? projected to be
increased in line with inflation.
Other Current Liabilities
16.      Mainly customers' deposits.   Projected to increase in line with
inflation and increase of water and sewerage connections and inflation.
Other Assets
17.     This represents the amount of WSC's staff pension fundo.  Projected
in line with the corresponding costs to WSC as a percentage of total
salaries paid.
Other Liabilities
18.      This account represents the provision for pension fund benefits.
Projected to satisfy the legal obligations under the pension fund.
Long-Term Debt (Due After More Than One Year)
19.      Projected on the basis of WSC's existing and future debt service
requirements.
INVESTMENTS
Total Investments
20.          Includes  the  expenditures  under  the IBRD-financed  project



- 78 -
ANNEX 8
Attachment 2
Page 4 of 8
Investment - Andros Expansion
21.         Extraordinary expenditures required for the expansion of the
wellfields in Andros Island to ensure availability of water to allow for
importation of 3.5 and 4.0 igpd., respectively. These investments are con-
tingent on the economic and financial justification of water importation
vis-a-vis with other alternatives.
Other Works
22.     Projected in line with future expansion of the water and sewerage
system not contemplated in the scope of the project.
Debt Service
23.     Projected debt service requirements reflect interest and principal
payments on existing and future borrowing as presented in the financial
projections.   The projections include the refinancing of short-term loans
from commercial banks, provided to help close the financial gap during the
impl .mentation of Loan 1320-BM, through a long-term loan from the National
Insurance Board.
CONTRIBUTIONS
Government of The Bahamas
24.     The projections take into account the B$ 11 million to be provided
by the Government during the project implementation period toward IBRD
project financing. This will be confirmed during Loan negotiations.
Other Contributions
25.     In 1985 WSC received contributions to assist in defraying the cost
of capital projects from the Government and the private sector. Therefore,
it is assumed that future Government contributions during project execution
will be limited to the B$ 11 million already agreed upon. For the purpose
of the financial projections, only contributions from the private sector as
projected by WSC will be considered.



ANNEX 8
Attachment 2
Page 5 of 8
- 79 -
THE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WAER SUPPLY AND SEW &RAGE REHABILITATION  PROJECT
Basic Assumotions for Pitfncial Statements
2
3                                                               ACTUAL   < ----      ----    ---- -     ---- PROJECTED -----------------------------…----
4                                             UNITS        1984      1985    1986      1987     19        1989     1990      1991    1m2        193       194
6
7
9 IFLATION FACTOR, ANNUAL, LOCAL                          1.040    1.040    1.040    1.050    1.055    1.050    1.045       1.045    1.045     1.045     1.045
10 INFLATION FACTOR,AVERAGE,LOCAL            Constant       1.04    1.040   1.040      1.045    1.050    1.050     1.048     1.046    1.046    1.045    1.045
It PRICE DEFLATOR (1984 - BASEI              Constant       1.00    0.962   0.925    0.885      0.843    0.802    0.766    0.732    0.700    0.670    0.641
12 EXCHANGE RATE, YEARS EID                                  1.0      1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0
13 EICKANE RATE, AVERAGE                     BS              1.0      1.0      1.0       2.0      1.0       2.0      1.0       1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0
14
15 PEOPLE, AVERAGE, PER MATER CONN'                         5.40     5.40    5.40      5.35      5.35     5.30      5.30     5.30      5.25      5.25     5.25
16 PEOPLE, AVERAE, PER SEVERA6E CONNECTION                  5.40     5.40    5.40       5.35     5.35      5.30     5.30      5.25     5.25      5.25     5.25
17 POPULATION, TOTAL                         '0001        145.00   149.78   154.72   159.83   165.11   170.55   276.16   181.9    188.00   194.21   200.60
i8
19 CONNECTIONS, VATER, NEN                   (00(4          0.66     0.44    1.00       1.03     1.06      1.09     2.13      1.16     1.19      2.23     1.27
20 CONECTIONS. WATER, YEARS END               (0002        26.10    26.54   27.54    28 57    29.63    30.72    31.85    33.01    34.20         35.43    36.70
21 CONNECTIONS, WATER, AVERAGE                10001        25.00    26.32   27.04      28.06    29.10    30.18    31.29    32.43    33.61    34.82    36.07
22
23 CONECTIONS, SEWERAGE, EN                   (0001         0.00      ).50     0.5       .       0.50      0.10     0.10      0,10     0.10      0.10     0.10
24 CONECTIONS, SEWERAGE, YEARS END            2000)         3.00     3.50    4.00       4.50     5.00      5.10     5.20      5.30     5.40      5.50     5.60
25 CONECTIONS, SEWERAGE, WERAGE               ,000          3.00     3.25     3.75      4.25     4.75      5.05     5.15      5.25     5.35      5.45     5.55
26 VOLUIME OF WATER CONS', PER tONN', PER MIONTH  10001     4.03     3.85    3.95       3.98     4.03      4.09     4.14      4.16     4.17      4.19     4.19
27 VOLUIIE OF MATER BILLED, TOTAL YEAR        k000)1I    1251.04  1215.24  1282.38  1340.31  1408.25   1479.71   1554.99   1617.14   2681.82  1749.09   1815.06
28 UNIT OF SEWERAGE BILLED                    (0001        O2.00    78.00   90.00   102.00    114.00   121.20    123.60   126.00    128.40   130.80   133.20
29                                           Fixtures
30 UNCUNTED FOR WATER RATIO                  Constant      0.46      0.46    0.46      0.44      0.42     0.40      0.39     0.37      0.35     0.33      0.32
31 4OLUME OF MATER PRODUCED, NPWF. YEAR       (000i6S   1293.96   1034.63  1120.38   1180.92   1215.52  1071.18  2154.16  1089.39   1109.92   1050.58   1109.21
32 VOLUIE aF MATER PRODUCED, PURCHASES, YEAR   (000)16    521.31   502.61  502.61   300.00   300.00   300.00   300.00   200.00   200.00    100.00   100.00
33 VOLIRE OF WATER PRODUCED, ANDOROS, YEAR   (000116      486.69   730.00  730.00    912.50   912.50   1095.00  1095.00  1277.50  1277.50   1460.G6   1460.00
34 VOLUME OF MATER PRODUCED, TOTAL YEAR       (00016    2302.00  2267.24  2352.99   2393.41  2428.02   2466.18  2549.16   2566.89  2587.42   2610.58   2669.21
35
36 AV' TARIFF, RETAIL, PERCENT ANNUAL INCREASE  Constant              1.00    1.00      1.00     2.03      1.03     1.03      1.03     1.03      1.03     1.03
37
38 AVERAGE TARIFF, RETAIL WATER              8$/(000116   10.97    10.97   t0.97    10.97    11.30    11.64    11.99    12.35    12.72    13.10    13.49
39 AVERAGE TARIFF, SEWERAGE                 BSFiktdre    8.00       8.00    8.00    10.00    12.00    12.00    14.40    14.40    15.26    15.26    16.17
40
41 UNIT FEE PER NEW CONNECTION, AVERAGE      RS oool        0.45     0.45    0.45       0.51     0.51      0.51     0.67      0.68     0.68      1.02     1.04
4: RECNNECTION FEES/AVERAGE MATER CONNECTIONS  8t 2000)    0.015    0.025   0.015    0.017    0.017    0.017    0.022    0.022    0.022    0.0M          0.033
43 RECOINECTIONS                              (0001      7266.00  7483.98  7708.50   7939.75  8177.95  8423.29  8675.98   8936.26  9704.35  9480.48  9164.90
44 RENUES, TOTAL MATER SALES                 8S 1000!  13723.00  13331.18 14067.71  147C0.20  15911.96  17220.97  18640.00  19966.56 21388.10 22910.90  24488.27
45 REVEUES, SEWERAGE                         B9 (000)    576.00   624.00  720.00  1020.00  1368.00  1454.40   1779.84   1814.40   1959.38  1996.01   2153.84
46 REENES. CONNECTION FEES                   8$ (000)    423.00   450.00   450.00   523.88   541.06    557.29    749.26   788.31   811.96   1248.37   1317.44
47 REVENES, RECOINECTION FEES AND OTHER      Bs (0002     109.00   112.2t.  115.63   134.61    138.65   142.81    192.00   197.76   203.70   313.18    322.57
48 REVNUES, OTHER                            8$ (000)    164.00   162.00   165.00   165.00   170.00    170.00   180.00   190.00   195.00   200.00   200.00
49 REVENUES, CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS           S$ (Q000     337.97   300.00  250.00   250.00   250.00   250.00   350.(0   350.00   500.00   600.00   600.00
50
51 0VERIIENt CONTRIBUTION TO INVESTNIENTS     8$ 10001      0.00     0.00   89.00   1199.00  2218.00   2682.00  2508.00   1305.00   621.00    378.00      0.00
52
53 WS!E REAL GROWTH RATE                                    0.00     0.02    0.02      0.02      0.02     0.02      0.02      0.02     0.02      0.02     0.02
54 WAGE GROWTH RATE                          Conitant       0.00     1.08    1.06       1.07     1.07      1.07     1.07      1.07     1.07      1.07     1.07
55
56 EMPLOYEES, PER 1000 N. CONN.                            14.75    14.80    14.50    14.00    13.50    13.00    12.50    12.50    12.50        12.50    12.50
57 PERSONNEL COSTS                           B (0001    4141.00   4754.65 5072.84   5412.09  5792.20   6188.95  6586.08  7278.83  8037.94   8871.74  9788.59
58
59 COST OF CHEIICALS, TOTAL                  8t (0002      18.00    22.10    18.98    20.32    22.15    24.15    25.73    28.58    30.93    33.09    35.92
60
61 COST KILOWATT HOUR                         8$/kh.        0.19     0.19    0.17       0.19     0.20     0.21      0.22      0.24     0.24      0.24     0.2X
62 KILOWATT HOS (YEAR)                       Kwh 00)l  8779.00  8470.85 8615.66   8581.08   8536.68   8495.28   8605.55  84E9.81   8382.11   8281.59  8291.98
63 COST OF ELECTRICITY, TOTAL                St (000)   1668.00  1549.90  1464.66  1631.74   1707.34   1784.01   1893.22  2037.55  2011.71   1987.58   2072.9
64 COST WATER PURCHASED                      BS/(000)16    1.91      2.01    2.11      2.22      2.33     2.44      2.56     2.69      2.83     2.97      3.12
6 ...                         ...                                             ...... ..



THE EAhIAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEVERAGE REMABILITATON PROJEC
Incoan Statement
(Current US$ Thousaiads)
221 -
222                                                                ACTUAl    <--------- ------------------PROJECTED---------
223                                                           1984      1995    1996      1997      198      1989      1990      1991     1992      1993 
224
225
226 INCONE STATEMENT
227
.2B
229 WATER RENUES                                          13723.00  13331.1B 14067.71  14703.20  15911.96  t7220.97  18640.00  19966.56 21399.10  22910.90  2449.27
230 SEVERAGE REYEES                                         576.50   624.00  720.00   1020.00   1368.00   1454.40   1779.84   1814.40  1959.38  1996.01  2153.64
231 CONECTION FEES                                          423.00   450.00  450.00   523.88    541.06   557.29    749.26    788.31    811.96   1248.37   1317.4
232 RECONIECTION FEES AND OTHFR                             109.00    112.26   115.63    134.61    138.65    142.91    192.00    197.76   203.70    313.19   322.57
233 OTHER,SENERABE CHARGES                                  164.00   162.00   165.00    165.00    170.00    170.00    190.00    190.00    195.00    200.00   200.00
234                                                                                                 _- -       _ -      _  ___---_-_-----…------
235 OPERATING REEES                                       14995.50  14679.44 15518.34  16546.69  18129.67  19545.47  21541.11  22957.03 24558.14 26668.45 20482.13
236
237 PERSONNEL CSS                                          4141.00  4754.65  5072.84  5412.09  572.20  6188.95  658.0   7279.83  9037.94  8871.74  9789.59
238 CHEHICAL COSTS                                           18.00     22.10    18.98    20.32    22.15     24.15    25.73    28.58    30.93    33.09    35.92
239 POWER COSTS                                            1668.00   1549.90  1464.66   1631.74   1707.34   1794.01   1893.22  2037.55  2011.71   1987.59   2072.99
240 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE                               553.90   628.15   671.15   727.67    792.53   862.95   937.16   1016.31   1101.24   1192.65   1291.20
241 PRIVATE CONTRACTORS                                     233.90    277.40  296.39   321.35    349.99   381.09   413.86   448.92   486.32   526.69   570.21
242 LOSSES ON RECEIVABLES                                   920.00   293.59   310.37   330.93    362.59   390.91    430.92   459.14   491.16   533.37   569.64
243 SIPPIN6 EXFENSES                                      2541.20   2211.28  1963.00   2446.00   2955.00   3399.00  3729.00   4460.00  4679.00  5330.00  55".00
244 UATEP PURCHASES                                         976.90   1164.63  1060.43   664.60   697.83   732.73   769.36   539.55   565.49    296.89    311.72
245 OTHERS                                                  603.12   383.12   398.44   418.37   441.38    463.45   484.30   506.09   528.97   552.67   577.54
246 ADNINISTRATIVE COSTS                                    231.00   284.99  290.00    314.43   342.45   372.88    404.94   439.14   475.84    515.34   557.92
247 ----------… _                                             - __     - _                    - - _   - _     - _ 
249 TOTAL OPERATINS COST                                  11987.02  11569.81 11546.27  12287.50  13463.46  14599.11  15674.49  17213.02  18407.49  19840.01  21279.74
249
250 INCE BEFORE DEPRECIATION                               3108.48  3109.63  3972.07  4259.19  4666.20   4946.36  5966.62  5744.01   6150.65  6828.45  7202.39
251 DEPRECIATION                                           2477.00  2219.55 2326.91   2453.08  2771.21   3209.77  3594.58  3962.95  4337.80  4743.59  5095.28
252                     _------------------ ------
253 OPERATINS INCOIE                                        631.49   990.08  1645.16   1806.11   1894.99   1736.59  2272.04   1781.05  1812.84  2084.97   2107.11
254 INTEREST EIPENS                                        1213.00   1842.00  1748.00   1652.00   1559.00   1454.00   1353.00   1251.00   1148.00  1042.00  2000.44
255 INTEREST EAED ON IWESTMENTS                             122.00   145.69  210.00   350.00   350.00    350.00   400.00   450.00   400.00   350.00    350.00
256 OTHER NON OPERATING INCME                              1278.70   459.68   145.00   148.00    150.00   150.00   150.00   150.00   150.00    150.00   155.00
257
258                                                 ………--
259 NET INCOME                                              819.18  -346.56   252.16   652.11    835.99    702.59  1469.04  1130.05  1214.84  1542.97    611.67         ' 
260
261
262 IOIIltl RATIO                                            79.271   78.92t  74.401   74.261   74.Z6t   74.69%   72.m          74.992    74.952   74.402    74.712
263 OPERATIN RATIO                                           95.792   93.942  89.40l   89.089   89.55t   91.122   89.452   92.24l   92.622   92.189   92.602    °8
264 RATE OF RETURN                                            1.11    1.542   2.812    3.042    2.942       2.242    2.642    1.912    1.91t    1.94t    1.89 02
265
266"    **-*-* *~r^**~,,



Tre BEABAAS
N1W PIOVID CE  ISLAD  WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REIABILTATION  PROJECT
Cash plw Statandtt
(Cu.rrzent 3$ Tbousands)
300  fn2:s.nss:nn:n:s:nnts:3cfltC22::
S01                                                              AC L   <       --                              PROJECTED   -
!02                                             UNIITS       14       198      1916      1"?      1t1       tm       9t       l°t       t992      199      1M
393 t:nnnrsrnsc.,..             .mc,  ............ :.
306 CASH FLUN STATENT
307 ---------
30B
309 INChE EEFOE DEPRECIIATION                             3108.48  3109.  32.07   4259.19   466.20   4946.36  586.62   5744.01   6150.5   M828.45  7202.39
310 IlTEIEST ON III. AND OTER N1OPERATIN INCONE           1400.70   605.36  3M5.00   491.00   500.00   500.00   550.00   600.00   550.00   500.00   505.00
311              -------------- - - - - - - ---------    -----------
312 ITENl  CAl) IEIERNATI                                 4509.13  3714.99  4327.4J  475?.19  5166.20   W.t.36   6416.62  6344.01  6700.65  7328.45  707.39
313
314 MIRTZAtIIN                                            1551.00   M00  1742,00   1768.00  1798.00  1882.00   2670.28  2711.28  2756.28   2802.28  2s49.28
3tS INTEREST CEISE                                        1213.00   1842.00  1748.00  1652.00  1559.00  1454.00  1353.00  1251.00   1143.00  1042.00  200.44
316 ---- - ----- - ---------- - -                       -           …          ---
317 TOTAL  'T SERVICE                                     2764.0v  3560.00 3490.00  3420.00  3357.00  3336.00  4023.28   3962.28   904.28   3844.28   4809.72
318 Nt ilB  CAPITAL NEEDS                                  500.00  -414.34   91.72  -356.36   -72.66    12.43   575.84   143.24   385.20   252.20   315.17
319 OTER ASSETS MS LIAILITIES                                0.00     2.70    0.20    -6.30    -9.9        -9.65    -9.14   -13.07   -10.15   -12.17   -12.23
320 
321 CUNTRIBTION TO .ESTNENT                               1245.18 S6.64   745.15  1700.35   1891.85  2107.3   1826.64  2251.56  2421.32  3244.14  2554.73
322
323 INETNENT CST, IR  PRDECT                                 0.00     0.00  483.00  5293.00  9193.00  7846.00  6143.00   3447.00   668.00   464.00         0.00
324 IEMMN COST, ANROS EXP.                                   0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00   250.00   350.00   500.00  1000.00  1500.00                       c
325 OTHER                                                 1245.50  1429.00  1500.00   1650.00   150.00  1100.00   900.00   800.00    800.00 s   000.00  1500.00
326
327
328
329-  -                           -------                 - - -----               -                      _ - - 
330 INVESTENlTS SUBTOTAL                                  1245.50   1429.00  1983.00  6943.00  10693.00  8946.00  7193.00  4597.00  1968.00   2464.00  3000.00
331 CAPITALIZED IKTEREST                                     0.00     0.00   84.41   19.00   504.94   962.73   1111.68  1236.90  1238.90   1162.88        0.00
332
333 TOTAL INETNET CDSTS                                   1245.50   1429.00 2067.41  7142.00  11197.94  9808.73  8S04.66   533.90   3206.90   3626.68  3000.00
334
M35 R 1oul1e FIN"CtIN                                        0.32   862.36  1322.26   5441.65   9306.09  7701.16  6478.05  3582.34   785.58   382.74   445.27
336
337 DISURSNTS, ISR0 LOAN                                     0.00     0.00   10.01  1219.62  2450.29   2439.77   198.54  1220.72   406.32   153.55    34.29
M33 DIS sE      , CO-FICIER'S LOAS                           0.00     0.00   180.53  1978.86  3436.92  2933.33  2296.64  1288.71   249.74   173.47         0.00
339
340 DISSETS,(KATIOKA  INS. BOARD)                          852.00   852.00  852.00   852.00   852.00       0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
34t                                                          0.00     0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
342                      -- -- -------------_                                                     -  -_- -_               _    __               _      _
343 TOTAL LOWS                                             P 2.00   952.00  1140.50  4050.4   6739.21   S37.10  4255.18  2517.43   656.06   327.03    34.29
344 CONTRIBU1IOI                                           337.97   300.00  339.00  1449.00  2468.00  2932.00  2858.00  1655.00   1121.00   978.0    600.00
345   =     -su      aun..r.ze.cn.t=szs_
346 TOTAL FINACING                                        1199.97   1152.00  1479.5   5499.48  S207.21  S305.10  7113.18   4172.43   1777.06   1305.03   634.29.
347
348 C      to CaS                                         1189.65   289.64  157.33    57.84   -91.69    603.95   635.14   590.09   991.48    22.29    169.02
350 OUT SERVICE RATIO                                        1.63     1.04    1.24       1.39       14      1.63     1.59      3.60     1.72      1.91     1.59            II.
352
353
354     -          3           -_



THE BAHAMAS
NNW PROVIDENCE ISLAM WATER SUPPLY AD SEWERAG  REAIITATION PROJECT
Balance Sheet
(Current B$ Thousatds)
355                                                                 ACTUAL    (- ------ -PRoE                                   -
356                                               WITS         1904      1985    1986       1987      1988      Im        1990      1991      2m         m3      1994
358
359  ,44n._ .... *_......... *4.. 4*4444444           .444*          ..........,4..444.*4  4.44*.-.-_~*:_
361
3" BALASIIET
361-- -  ----
32
363
W
365 FIXED ASSETS                                           75916.00  79452.64 8S430.75  88285.13 10599.39 1184*.35 132636.11 144770.53 158975.69 173174.74 183494.6
3b  AWLATED DERECIATION                                    18431.00  21387.79 24570.21  28128.95  32306.61  37131.71  4240.04  48418.16  5495.04  62199.22  70103.18
38 NET FIXED ASSETS                                        57485.00  56064.85 58860.54 60156.18  733S2.70 81052.65  0146.07   6352.38 103910.65 110975.52 113391.48
369
370  OR  tN PROREES                                          680.00   1609.00  276.41   0918.41   7116.36   3925.09   9229.77   9063.67  4770.57   1297.44   1797.44
371
372 CASH                                                    1657.40   1947.04  2104.37   2162.20   2063.32   2661.26   3302.40  3W2.49   4883.97   506.25   5995.20
373 ACEOS RECEIVALE SERVICES                                4S7.00   4403.83  3879.58   4136.67   4532.42   4690.91   5305.28  573S.26   6139.53  6667.11   7120.53
374 INEORY                                                  1444.70   1300.00   875.00    750.00    634.36    5s9.03    560.13   485.60    406.38    445.93    447.16
375 TH   CNREM  T ASSETS                                      2s.5e     24.82    24.77     26.36     28.88     31.32     33.62     36.93     39.49    42.56     45.65
376
37n--7------------------------ -----                                                                     -------------------__   _--- -_
378 TOTAL CRRENT ASSETS                                     812'.60   7675.69  6883.72   7075.23   7258.97   7988.53     LU.44  1054.27  11469.37 £296.8  1$06.62
379 -----.---.-----…----------------------- ------------------- --------    - -
380 OtER ASSETS                                             1452.00   1413.25  1410.38   1500.92   1644.56   178M.28   1914.64   2102.57  224U.4U   2423.46   259.32
381 rt#u"... Z=    s=  DaADD tn.cn#.r
382 TOTAL ASETS                                            67741.60  68762.79 70031.04  77650.74  B9412.67 100549.55 110571.92 117672.89 12239.07 1276sB.29 131396.87
383
34 LOW TERN DBt, E6IU1N1  6ANCE                             19639.00  I8773.00 18171.58  20454.07 25395.27  28886.38  30471.20 3027-.43  28177.20  25701.95  22886.96
385 La"S TERM DEBT, INEITAL REVALUATION                       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      o.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
3B6 -- ---------------------------      ---------  ----------------------                    --- ------ -            --
307 LOW TE   DEBT, REALLD, E0INB BAC                       19639.00  1877.00 18171.58  20454.07 25395.27  28886.38  30471.20 37.43  28177.20  25701.95  22886.S6
A  LO  TERM DEBt, CURRET PORTION                          1551.00   1718.00  1742.00   1768.00   170.00   1882.00   2670.28   2711.28   2756.28  2802.2B   2819.28
390 L8 TER fTM    , LO1S6 TfR                              1808M.00  17055.00 16429.5  18686.07 239.27  27004.30 27801.00 27566.15  25420.92  22899.67 20o37.68
391 OTHER LD110 TERN LIABILi17ES                            1553.00   1511.56  1508.48   1605.32   1758.96   1907.33  2047.02   2248.82  2404.80   2592.03   2780.13
392 -----  - ----- --------------------            - ---      ----------------------  -             -------               -       -      -      -       __
393 TOTAL LONE TERN LIABILITIES                            15641.00  1066.56 17938.07  202.39  25356.23  28911.70  29048.82  29M14.97  27025.80 25491.70  22817.81
394
395 ATS PAYABLE                                             2936.90   27Bo.00  1740.34   2188.11   2475.53   2523.16   2543.04   2593.76   246.25   2698.5B   2750.06
396 LO    EM .T, CET POriO                                  1SSt.00   1718.00  1742.00   1768.00   1798.00   1982.00   2670.28   2711.28   2756.29   2802.28   2849.28
397 OTHER CUMENt LtABILITIES                                 686.00    U7.69   66.34    709.F1    776.90    842.51    904.57   993.36   1062.30   1144.97   t228.05
3  SNW  TERN LBA                                             149.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.0       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
400 TOTAL  UMRENt LIABILITIES                               5322.90   5165.69  410.60   4665.22   50.50   5247.68   6117.89  6298.40   6201.83   65.83   6835.40
401   in==D                           ... n.c=:a n===n.cz:sa__  a                                               D                                                                   i
402 TOTAL LIABILITIES                                      24963.90  23M2.25 2286.74  24956.61  3046.74  34159.38  3596.71  36113.37  34107.63  32137.53  29653.20               0,
403 ESITY                                                  4277.70  45030.54 47944.30  52694.13 5905.94  6M90.17  74605.2t 91559.52  8B291.4   9         .76 101743.67           0
404                                                        an=                                                                                                                   CD
405 tOTAL EUITY AN  LIABILITIES                            67741.60  68762.79 70031.04  77650.74  B9412.67 100549.55 110571.92 117672.8  122X99.07 127658.29 13136.87
406
407 REBT/IDEBT#EMUXTY) RAT10                                  31.46?    29.42?   27.48u    27.9      30.09    30.32      29.001    27.071   24.1SS    21.20?    IL.S61
406 CURRE  RATIO                                               1.53      1.49     1.66      1.52      1.44      1.52      1.52      1.61      3.83      1.95      1.99
409



- 83 -
ANNEX 8
Attachment 3
THE BAHAMAS
NEW T'ROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
A. Water Charges
I. Current water charges are based on the following quarterly rates:
(a) A minimum charge (ineluding the first 2,000 gallons or part thereof) per
meter per qu-rter in sccordanee with sehedule given below.
(b) For every 1,000 gallons or part thereof in excess of 2,000 gallons but not
exceeding 15,000 gallons per meter per quarter $6.80 per 1,000 gallons.
(c) For every 1,000 gallons or part thereof in excess of 15,000 gallons per meter
per quarter $12.40 per 1,000 gallons. And, in each case, a proportionate sum
for periods other than thirteen weeks.
Minimum Charge Schedule
Meter Size                               Meter Size
(in inehes)        Per Quarter           (in inehes)      Per Quarter
(a).1/2 in. 5/8 in    $21.00              (f) 2 i'.           $  126.00
(h) 3/4 in.           $31.20              (g) 3 in.           $  210.00
(c) i   in.           $48.00              (h) 4 in.           $  420.00
(d) 11/4 in.          $66.00              (i) 6 in.           $  735.00
(e) 11/2 in.          $84.00              (j) 8 in.           $1,050.00
II.  Supply of Water to Builders ......... $12.40 per 1000 gallons or
part thereof
1 = Special Reading                                            $ 5.00
2 = Connection/disconnection eharges at owner's request        $10.00
3 = Reconnection charge after disconnection or visit to
disconnect for non-payment of account                      $15.00
4 = Removing and replacing or testing at owner's request:
1/2", 3/4", 5/8"                                           $10.00
1' or greater                                              $25.00
B. Sewerage Charges
Fixed charge of $2.00 per quarter per fixture.



THE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY ND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Key Monitoring Indicators
WSC Piscal Years (Jan-Dec)
1986       1987       1988        1989       1990        1991       1992       1993        1994
OPERATIONS:
Water connections year end ('000)                     27.54      28.97       29.63      30.72      31.85       33.01      34.20       35.43      36.70
Sewerage connectijna year end ('000)                   4.00       4.50        5.00       5.10       5.20        5.30       5.40       5.50        5.60
Water purchased year end ('000 NG)                   502.60     300.00      300.00     300.00     300.00      200.00     200.00      100.00     100.00
Water shipped year end ('000 IG)                     730.00     912.50      912.50    1095.00    1095.00    1277.50    1277.50    1460.00    1460.00
Total water produced ('000 IG)                      2352.99    2393.41    2428.02    2466.18    2549.16    2566.89    2527.42    2610.58    2669.21
Water sold ('000 IG)                                1282.38    1340.31    1408.25    1479.71    1554.99    1617.14    1681.82    1749.09    1815.06
Unaccounted-for water (%)                             46.00      44.00       42.00      40.00      39.00       37.00      35.00      33.00       32.00
Employees/1000 water connections                      14.50      14.00       13.50      13.00      12.50       12.50      12.50       12.50      12.50
FINANCIAL:
Average tariff revenue/tOOO IG (current B$)           11.53      11.73       12.27      12.63       13.13      13.47      13.88       14.24      14.68
Average water tariff/1000 IG (current 3$)             10.97      10.97       11.30      11.64      11.99       12.35      12.72       13.10      13.49
Accounts Receivable/average monthly sales              3.60       3.00        3.00       3.00       3.00        3.00       3.00        3.00       3.00
Investments other than project (current BS'OOO)   1500.00    1650.00    1500.00    1100.00        800.00      800.00     800.00    1000.00    1500.00
IBRD PROJBCT:
Project Investment (USS'OOO equiv.)                  483.00    5293.00    9193.00    7846.00    6143.00    3447.00       668.00     464.00        -
Government equity participation (US$'000 equiv.)    89.00    1199.00    2218.00    2682.00    2508.00    1305.00         621.00      378.00       _



THB BAHAMAS
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT FOR NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAUD
Procurement Schedule for MaJor Contracts
Key Target Dates
Project Part                      Contract Value  Contract Package   Soutces of  Docunents Prequalifications   8ids/Proposals   Contracts
(US$ *OCO)     Type    Number  linancing         Ready         Invited            Invited        Signed
A. WATER SUPPLY RSEABILTTATION
Nev Providence Wellfield Rehab.
Procurement                            1,542        P         1-2    WB, GOVT.        2/87                             4/87            7/87
Construction                           3,273        F       multiple  GOVT.
Replace & Reline Pnins
Smali Pipe Procurement I                 195        P         1-2   WE, GOVT.         2/87                             4/87            7187
Small Pipe "roc4rement II                195        P         1-2       do            2/88                             4/88            7/88
Reline flaine                          1,810        C         1-2        do          10/88         12/89               3/89            7/89
Replace 11aans                         1,104        C         1          do          10/88         t2/89               3/89            7/89
New Mains Construction                     4,117        C          I         do           1/87          3/87               6/87           10/87
Bngineering & Supervision a/               1,272        S       multiple   do
B. WATER IMPORTATION IMPROVRMENTS
1torgean's Bluff Seawall Construction      3,624        C          i      CDB, GOVT.      7/86          9/86               1/87            5/87
Andros Wellfield Expansion
Procurement                              172        P         1                      10/86                            12/86            3/87
Construction                             401         P      multiple   do
Dock Pacilittes Improvements                 446        C         1          do           8/87                            10/87            1/88
Arawak Cay Reservoir                         711        C         I         do           2/87                              4/87            7/87
Engineering & Supervision  Ail                          S       multiple   do
C. SEWERAGE REKABILITATION
Downtown Sever Replacement                 1,273        C         t      SIB, GOVT.       1/a8                             3/89            7/89         t
Vacuum Sewer Conversion
Procurement                            1,376        P         I         do           8/86                             10/86            1/87
Construction                           3,009        F       multiple    do
laleolm Park Disposal Pacilities           1,526        C          1-2       do           2/8B                             4/88            7/88
Septage a Solids Disposal Facilities         325        C         1-2        do           5/87                             7/87           10/87
Engineering & Supervision a/                 970        S       multiple   do
D. PROCUREMT OF EQUIPMENT
Meters & Service Connection
Procurement I                            549        P         I      W., NIB         10/86                            12/86            4/87
Procurement II                           54q        P         I        do             7/89                             9/89            1/90
Construction & Maintenance Equipment       1,639        C         1-2    aIB, SIB         8/86                            10/86            1/87
Telemetry & Controls                         775        C          i     NIB, GOVT.       8/87                            10/87            I/88
Engineering & Supervison                     203        S         I        do            10/86                             1/87            4/87
S.  ECHINICAL ASISrTANCE & TRArNING
Management Audit & Institutional Impv't      172        S         1      WBE, IB          8/86                             9/86            1/87
Cosmercial A Operations Impv't               545        S         I        do            12/86                             3/87            7/87
Tariff Structure Study                        57        S         1        do             7/86                             8/86           11/86
Unaccounted-for Water Impv't Program         280        S         I         do            8/86                             9/86            2/87
Shipping Performance Monitoring              127         S        1        do             8/86                            10/86            1/87
Water Supply Alternative Study               101         S         1       do             2/88                             3/88            7/88
National Water Resource  ogmt. Study          69        S         1        do            8/88                              9/88            1/89
Sewerage Planning Study                      109        S         1         do           7/86                              8/86           12/86
Training Program Isrlementation              260        S       multiple  do
a/ Includes ongoing contraots previously sWeed to and new contracts to be agreet upon during implementation stage.
NOTE:  P - Procurement; C - Construction (also includes supply and installation    contracte);
F - Foree Account (includes hired labor and heavy plants, and materials); S - Consultants' Servicee



- 86 -
ANNEX 11
THE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPL; AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Bank Loan Disbursements
A. Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Bank                 Semester                          Cumulative          Cumulative
Fiscal Year             Ending        Disbursement      Disbursement       Disbursement
as % of total
1987         June 30, 1987              0.5             0.5                  5
1988         Dec. 31, 1987              0.6              1.1                11
June 30, 1988             0.9              2.0                20
1989         Dec. 31, 1988              1.0             3.0                 30
June 30, 1989             1.2             4.2                 42
1990         Dec. 31, 1989              1.0             5.2                 52
June 30, 1990             0.8              6.0                60
1991         Dec. 31, 1990              0.9             6.9                 69
June 30, 1991             0.9              7.8                78
1992         Dec. 31, 1991              0.5             8.3                83
Jun. 30, 1992             0.4             8.7                 87
1993         Dec. 31, 1992              0.4             9.1                 91
June 30, 1993             0.4             9.5                 95
1994         Dec. 31, 1993              0.2             9.7                 97
June 30, 1994             0.1             9.8                 98
1995         Dec. 31, 1994              0.2            10.0                100
Loan Closing Date:  June 30, 1995
B. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount of
Category              Loan Allocation                       X Expenditure
(US$ Equivalent                      To be Financed
(1)  Civil Works                 2.8                             65% of local
expenditures.
(2)  Materials and               3.3                             100% of foreign
Equipment                                                   expenditures (CIF)
and 65% of local
expenditures
(3)  Consultants                 2.2                             100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
expenditures
(4)  Unallocated                 1.7
Total                  10.0



- 87 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 5
THE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Benefits and Justification
1.       The proposed project focuses on the improving the quality of water
supplied to New Providence Island, restoring and expanding the capacity of
the transmission and distribution pipelines, reducing unaccounted-for
water, rebuilding and rehabilitating the sewerage collection and disposal
systems and improving WSC's ability to maintain and operate the various
systems. In addition, the project is designed to improve WSC's operational
capability through extensive technical assistance.   The nature of the
project is such that its likely substantial benefits cannot be estimated in
the traditional rate of return measure based on revenues expected to be
generated from incremental water sales.  A substantial proportion of the
project's benefits would be forthcoming through cost savings as well as
through improved productivity, reliability and public perception of a more
effi,ient operation. Some additional revenues would result from increased
sales of water as a result of the more efficiernt and effective use of the
existing  infrastructure.    Expected  benefits  from  each  of  the  five
components of the project are discussed in the following paragraphs.
Quantifiable benefits are shown in Attachment 1.  An indicative rate of
return (15%) for water supply, sewerage and equipment investments (95% of
total project costs) based on the expected cost savings and revenues
expected to be generated from additional water sales as a result of the
project is shown in Attachment 2.
A. WATER SUPPLY REHABILITATION
2.       New Providence Island Wellfield Rehabilitation.  Benefits for this
subcomponent are expected to be realized through cost savings.   These
include electrical power savings due to reduced pumping as the new scheme
is implemented and staffing reductions that can be realized as equipment
becomes available for mechanized brush clearing to replace manual
clearing.   At present there are a total of 223 horsepower of pumps and
compressors installed in the western wellfields.  Upon completion of the
project this will be reduced to 73 horsepower.   Using an average motor
efficiency of 90%, the power saved would cost $207,000 Der year at $0.19
per kilowatt-hour. There are 12 men assigned to the western V,c-llfields for
O&M purposes, and only 5 will be required in the future as a result of the
reduction in the number of pump installations and the avaiiabilitv of
mechanized  brush-clearing  equ'ipment.    The  seven  positi'ns&  will  be
eliminated as the new work is completed, reaching a savings of $19',000 per
year in 1993 and thereafter.



- 88 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 5
3.       Other cost savings can be attributed to the subcomponent since, if
production from the wellfields were held at a 500 gpd-per-acre rate,
additional water would have to be imported from Andros Island.   Since
Andros Island water costs about $3.14 per 1,000 gallons to ship (November
1985), excluding depreciation and production costs, the value of the "extra
water produced" by the rebuilt wellfields can be evaluated. New area Lo be
brought into production by 1992 totals 1,057 acres, with an annual pro-
duction of 193 million imperial gallons (MIG).   WSC, thus, will avoid
spending $600,000 per year (1985 prices) to transport water from Andros
Island because of the increased production as a result of the rehabili-
tation project.
4.          Replace and Reline Mains.   The relining and repair of the
Carmichael Road main will increase the C-factor from 90 to 140.  At a
constant produc:ion rate of 1.31 MIGD, the reduced friction loss will
represent (in 1985 prices) $18,000 per year.  As the lining ages, there
will be a decline in the C-value, and the savings, by about $500 per year.
The relining and repair of the Robinson Road main will permit this main to
transport 57% more water to the eastern portion of the system.  Assuming
increased sales of only 15% and a net margin of $1.00 per 1,000 gallons
sold produces additional net income of $106,000 per year.
5.          The direct cost savings of replacing the smaller mains is
difficult to quantify, but the principal benefit is higher system pressure
to the consumer, thus, at least potentially, greater revenues to WSC.
Sales along affected pipelines will increase in proportion to the square
root of system pressures before and after replacement since many users are
time-dependent rather than on a quantity basis. On the assumption that 3%
of the system will be replaced per year from 1989 on, sales should increase
about $50,000 per year for each year of the project, and net income should
increase by about $5,000 per year ($1 per 1,000 gallons).
6.       The benefit associated with the construction of the Harrold Road
and Sandford-Bay Street-Chippingham mains is that of improved service and
increased reliability.  Production from the western wellfields and Andros
Island importation system must be routed through the pipelines in order to
reach the customers. While no specific numbers have been calculated, WSCS
ability to meet future demands, and thus generate increased revenues,
depends upon having these lines in place.
7.        The new Paradise Island main will provide greater capacity and
flexibility, but the main benefit is ensuring no interruption of service to
Paradise Island, and thus, no reduction from the present annual revenue of
$1,400,000 per year.   Since the existing supply main is laid underwater,
any break may require a long time to find and make the necessary repairs.
At 10% interest, the cost of the parallel line is about $26,000 per year
over an expected life of 30 years.   This could be considered as an
insurance premium to assuire $1,400,000 per year of income.



- 89 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 5
B. WATER I1PORTATION IMPROVEMENTS
8.       The benefits of this component are the following:
(1)   Reliability.  Without the armoring of the seawall, a strong storm
could severely damage the Morgan's Bluff docks which would cause
the interruption of the Andros Island supply for many months.
Since New Providence Island depends upon this source, an
interruption of service would result in water rationing and
"lock-offs" (and thus reduced revenues).
(2)   Capacity. The Andros Island wellfield supply must be increased to
meet future water demands.
(3)   Productivity.   The docking arrangements should be expanded to
permit faster loading and unloading, and berthing of the vessels.
C.  SEWERAGE REHABJLITATION
9.        Downtown Sewer Replacement.  The sewers in the old part of Nassau
contribute as infiltration 35% of the flow at the Malcolm Park pumping
station. The annual power costs at this station are estimated to be $6,000
for infiltration.  If one third of the infiltration is eliminated by the
reconstruction of the downtown sewers, WSC will save about $2,000 per year.
The raw sewage pumps at Malcolm Park have been wearing out at an unpre-
cedented rate as a result of abrasion. The replacement of a portion of the
downtown sewers should reduce substantially the amount of abrasive material
reaching this station and thus extend the life of the pumps.   This wi-ll
represent an annual savings of about $8,000 in pump replacement and repair
costs.  Finally, there would be a real economic hardship imposed on some
businesses in this area if a portion of it had to be closed due to a
collapsed sewer.
10.        Vacuum Sewer Replacement.   The conversion of the Yellow Elder
Gardens and Big Pond systems to gravity flow systems will result in the
following benefits to WSC:
(1)   reduction of $20,000 per year in electricity costs;
(2)   savings of $153,000 per year in salaries (9 positions);
(3)   savings of $21,000 per year in vehicles (3 vehicles);
(4)   savings of $40,000 per year in pumps and spare parts and $10,000
per year for the Jet-Vac; and
(5)   elimination of 2,350 complaints (10 months - January to October
1985) received on the black water system only.



- 90 -
ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 5
11.       Malcolm Park Dieposal Facilities.  Although no cost savings are
expected to be realized, the benefits from this subcomponent are the
elimination of groundwater pollution and the avoidance of the potential
discharge of raw sewage and septage into the harbor (which would be highly
visible and have a detrimental effect on tourism).
12.      Septage and So'ids Disposal Facility.  The principal benefits from
this sub-component are the removal of the unsightly and odorous septic tank
pumpers from the tourist area (Malcolm Park), the proper disposal of sewage
solids, and the extended life of disposal wells that will result from the
separation of solids prior to discharge.
D. EQUIPMENT ACQUISITION
13.       Meters and Service Connections.  There are an estimated 16,000
customer services that are laid at shallow depths (on the order of 6
inches). WSC regairs an average of 300 leaks per month, 80% of which are
on these services.   Although the actual quantity of water lost may be
relatively small, the cost of WSC of carrying out repairs is not. The cost
savings to be realized are estimated at about $136,000 per year (8 men) and
$28,000 per year (4 vehicles), plus repair parts, and miscellaneous
material.
14.      Construction and Maintenance Equipment.  The main benefit of this
sub-component is the improvement of WSC's ability to construct, repair, and
recondition water and sewer lines.
15.        Telemetry and Controls.   The completion of the telemetry and
control system will permit reassignment of about 10 positions in the
Operation and Maintenance Department staff with an increase of two
additional positions for maintenance of the telemetry system.   The 8
positions represent a savings of about $136,000 per year.
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
16.        The component is expected to result in improved productivity,
increased efficiency, and reduced costs for WSC. The Management Audit and
Institutional Improvement subcomponent should be helpful in streamlining
functions and procedures and identifying  internal  cost  savings.   The
Commercial and Operations Improvement Program envisaged will help increase
efficiency and productivity in three key areas of WSC's functions.  The
Tariff Structure Study will identify revenue opportunities to be exploited
and ensure that water and sewerage tariffs are adequate to support their
respective costs.
17.      The Water Supply and Demand Alternatives Study will exmine various
alternatives for meeting demands up to the year 2000 and determine the most
economical  system  for meeting  these.    The  National  Water  Resources
Management Study will develop a national sitrategy for water resources
management to guide the Government, developers, customers, and WSC.  Some
additional revenues may come to WSC as a result of this work.   The
Unaccounted-for Water Improvement Program will direct the Corporation's
attempt to reduce the very large element of unaccounted-for water.



- 91 -
ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 5
18.           The  Shipping Performance Monitoring Program will  improve
reliability and reduce costs for this vital aspect of WSC's function.  The
Sewerage Planning Study will define cost-effective facilities for future
construction,  thus reducing  future  capital  and operating  costs.    The
planned training program will have the benefit of providing continuing
training to the employees which will improve efficiency and increase
morale, and thus possibly contribute to a reduction in costs.



TiE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAN) WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REtABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Cost Savings fram Selected Subcomponents/iturns
(US$000 in December 1985 prices)
Reline Large Mains                                                Vacuush Sewer Replacement
New Providence Weltfleld    C't4ichael Robinson       Replace I/       Cowntown Severs                                Eqpmt.     N Meters & Services   Telemetry
Power  Manpower  Shipping      Road     Road        Smaller Mains    Power Pop.Replcmt.   Power Mnpower Vehicles Pumps.    anpower Vehicles   & Control    Total
1986    0       0          0          0       (See         (See Attchat.      0       0              0      0         0        0          0          0          0           0
1987    0       0         0           0      Attchmt.       2   Para.5)       0       0              0      0        0         0          0          0          0           0
1988  35       32        100         18      2A                               0       0              0      0         0        0         34          7         68         294
1989   70      64       200          18      Para. 4)                         2       8             20    153        21       50         54          7         102        749
1990  t05      96       300          t7                                       2       8             20    155       21        50         68          14        136        990
1991  139     128       400          17                                       2       8             20    153        21       50         68          14         136     1,155
1992  173     161       500          16                                       2       8             20    153       21        50        104          21        136      1,5f5
1993  207     191       600          16                                       2       8             20    155       21        50         104         21         136     1,529
1994                                 15                                                                                                 138          28                 1,570
1995                                 15                                                                                                                                 1,570
1996                                 14                                                                                                                                 1.569
1997                                 14                                                                                                                                 1.568
1998                                 13                                                                                                                                 1.568
1999                                 13                                                                                                                                 1,567
2000                                 12                                                                                                                                 1,566
2001                                 12                                                                                                                                 1,1566
2002                                 11                                                                                                                                 1565
2003                                 11
2004                                 10                                                                                                                                 1,565
2005                                 10                                                                                                                                 1,564
2006                                  9                                                                                                                                 1,564
2007                                  91,3
2008                                  9                                                                                                                                 1,563
2009                                  8                                                                                                                                 1,562
2010                                  71.2
2011                                  71,6
2012                                  6                                                                                                                                 1,560
2015                                  6                                                                                                                                 1.560
2014                                  51,5
2015                                  51, 559                                                                                                                                       0 
t,-
3
1/  Shown as additional revenue rather than cost savings.



THE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAN) WATER SUPLY AtN  SEiUGE REWAILITATION PROJECT
Indicative Internal Rate of Return (IPRI (US31O3 In Oecember 1985 Prices)
(Water Supply, Seweraqe and Equipment Investents) -  Incremental values)
Water        Water                                                       (a+b)         B e a e f I t s
Pop.Served   Vol.0i1led  Connections              (tl                       Cb)         Total  Cost       Tariff   Mon-Tariff    Total
(000)       (103 IG)     (000)              investments                0L Costs      Costs   Savgs.  Revenues   Revenuesl/ Benefits  Net Btits
(c)       (d)        (e)        Cc+d+e)  tc+dt+)-(a+b)
1986                     0           0                     412                        0           412      0          0         0             0         -412
1987                   60.14        1.03                 4.512                      480         4.992      0       1,004      548         1,552      -5,440
1988                  130.45        2.09                 5,778                      535         6.313   294        1,841      566         2,701       -3,612
1989                  204.48        5.18                 6,326                      562         6,888    749       1.706      583         3.038       -5,850
1990                  282.43        4.31                 4,800                      566         5,366    990       2,108      784        3,882        -1,484
1991                  346.89        5.47                 2,533                      955         3,488  1,156       1,733      824        3,7!            225
1992                  413.92        6.66                   464                    1,003         1.467  1,365       1,987      849        4,201         2,734
1993                  483.64        7.89                   299                    1,098         1,397  1,570       2,024    1,305        4,899         5,502
1994                  556.14        9.16                    0                     1,204         1,204  1,570       2,315    1,378        5,260        4,056
1995                                                                                                   1,569                    0         3,882        2,678
199S)                                                                                                  1568                              3,881        2,677
1997                                                                                                   1,568                              3,881        2,677
1998                                                                                                   1,567                              3,880        2,676
1999                                                                                                   1,567                              3,880        2,676
2000                                                                                                   1,566                              3,879        2,675
2001                                                                                                   1,566                              3,879        2,675
2002                                                                                                   1,565                              3,878        2,674
2003                                                                                                   1,565                              3,878        2,674
2004                                                                                                   1,564                              3,876        2,673
2005                                                                                                   1,564                              3,876        2,675
2006                                                                                                   1,563                              3,875        2,672
2007                                                                                                   1,563                              3,875        2,672
2008                                                                                                   1,562                              3,874        2,671
2009                                                                                                   1,362                              3,874        2,671
2010                                                                                                   1,561                              3,873        2,670
2011                                                                                                   1.561                              3,873        2,670       >
2012                                                                                                   1,560                              3,872        2,669       rt |
2013                                                                                                   I,560                              3,872        2,669
2014                                                                                                   1,559                              3,871        2,668
2015                                                                                                   1.559                              3.871        2,668       0 t
NPV at 10%           5674.47                                                                  28,137.81                      4,242.85
IRR                                                                                                                                                    14.92%
1/ Revenues from connection fees only.



- 94 -
ANN   13
Page I of 2
THE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITAXION PROJECT
List of Selected Documents -n Project Files
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
Al.  New Providence - A review of Water Analysis and Implications for
Water Treatment, U.N.D.T.C.D., United Nations, New York, Maroh
1985.
A2. New Providence - Water Abstraction, Transportation and Supplies,
(Project BHA 150-2-001), U.N.D.T.C.D., United Nations, New York,
May 1985.
A3. The Bahamas - Water Supply and Sewerage Project for New Providence
Island, IBRD Loan 1320-BM, Staff Appraisal Report, July 14, 1976.
A4. Project Completion Report for Loan 1320-BM, Deoember 23, 1983.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
Bi. New Providence Island - Water and Sewerage Project:  Project Pro-
posal and Executive Summary, Camp Dresser and McKee, Inc., December
1985.
B2.  Protection of Morgan's Bluff Seawall, Halorow & Partners, Sir Wil-
liam, 1985.
B3. Report on Transportation of Fresh Water Between North Andros and
New Providence, Aores International, 1985.
B4. Distribution  Network Analysis and Storage Requirements for New
Providence Island, Ross, Saarinen, Bolton & Wilder, Camp, Dresser
and McKee, Inc., 1978.
B5. Preliminary Water Network Design Report for New Providenoe Island,
Ross, Saarinen, Bolton & Wilder, Camp. Dresser and McKee, Inc.,
1978.
B6. Engineering Feasibility Study for New Mains, Review of Prospect and
Fort Fincastle Pumping Stations and Review of Instrumentation, Camp
Dresser and McKee, Inc., 1985.



- 95 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2
B7.  Unaccounted-for Water Survey and Study for Upgrading Water Mains,
PSC Water Services, Inc., 1985.
B8.  New Providence Sewerage Study, Dobell Howard Humphreys Ltd/Howard
Humphreys & Sons, 1972.
B9.  Report on Sewerage Proposals for Yellow Elder Gardens, Big Pond and
Oakes Field, Howard Humphreys & Partners, 1985.
B1O.  Inflow and Infiltration Study for Dowdeswell Area, Water and Sewer-
age Corporation, 1985.
311.  Shirley Street and Dowdeswell Street Area Sewers, Howard Humphreys
& Partners, 1985.
B12. Report on Rehabilitation of Malcolm's Park Disposal Well Facility,
Howard Humphreys & Partners, 1985.
B1'. Instrumentation Design Report for New Providence Island, Ross,
Saarinen, Bolton & Wilder, 1980.
B14.  Updated Analysis and Recommendations for a Computerized Accounting
System, Parnell, Kerr and Forster, 1985.
315.  WSC's Audited Financial Statements for the Fiscal Years 1982
through 1985.
B16.  WSC's Annual Reports for the Years 1977 through 1982.
B17.  Recommendation on Revisions of Sewerage Tariff (In-house Report of
WSC), 1985.
C. Working Papers
Cl. Detailed Finan.ial Projections for WSC's Finances (1984-94) Using
LCPWS Model.



IBRD 19733
78             78°
BAHAMAS
'  N.E'/-fltI!'I'.e  ;'ALI                                                         NEW   PROVIDENCE  WATER  SUPPLY
ii  MOII;AN S RLUFF NEWV IVVHARF                                          AND
r(11   4N4 OR  vATI SHIPPIN GV WHARFSEWERAGE  REHABI LITATION  PROJECT
Water Importation  Improvements
EARLIER
4,                                                                                              P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROJECT
K                                             N          , ,~~~~~~~~NIERO~~NLL&  PROJECT  (LOAN 132o-RH-I EXISTING
~T                                                             35      CONTOUR LINES SHOWING THICKNESS OFF
4  UNDERGROUND FRESHWATER LENS
________          ~~PIPELINE
NAVIGATION CHANNEL
*              ~~~~STORAGE TANYK
*              ~~~~PUMPING STATION
~~    >KKA  ~~~~WELL FIELD
AREA EQUALS 78,*00 ACRES O FRESH WATEfR LENS,
30 FEET OR MORE DEEP
SEA WALL
240                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4
A fM
WrSOIFW                         .  - - .          -           \\\sE ..... -.  -    \                               . _      _        _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N. id- 
"NX
_40                                          AITI  I
IRe ReARed. Re4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-I I
GoownA PleUnRee ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~..T   C0A
',Re '.o4,AI.flA. .Re  .,Ž,->' ,,,N, .  .AHESIA" 7.5
___I .R. ..                                                                                                                \                                                   .. ' .. \' '  IAAMIA . IC  RONE7u[t . RULY C9P6



___ ____ __ ___ __ __ __ __          __  __   __  __  ___  __  __  __  _     BRD   1973
6  SCOC     A.ACO L                                                                                                                        BAHAMAS
-2C26             BAhAMAS                                                NEW PROVIDENCE WATER SUPPLY ER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sewer             Sewerage Improvements
SAN SACCACTA  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ POJCPROCECT    EXISTING
-246        j'llLa  . GI  ROECMAJOR SEWERAGE AREAS AND FACILITIES
IIIAT                                                                                      13~        ~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0  DISPOSAL FACILITY
CROCCC I                                                                                                              _        BAY STREET INTERCEPTOR (LOAN 1320-BlH)
-CCCITIAISELECTED ROADS
-27   ~  IC (}MACTSISCAN I                                                                                                                                      LAKES
-RAT I-AGU I
CCC  >   --ICSTSS-T-SS   - -I --O - - 
B,I 3AHAMAS
>nS  42  i                                                                  S4LA{ORAL ISLA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  LDlL~~~"MORAL ISLAhD
A2ANA    (NORtO CA /
RP0L ITT CAY,
ACTCAIC                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IONSGCAT
JSG A ¢  H^ TI    2,LLUTO  AS.'AWAK CAY IARAD MLES
ARAWAK rAN
{EE£E   X                                                                                         W                                                                                       4noX"o I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI1,IN
rnt E~~~U LR s alt ezc _f ~~~~~~ \ f F I E LL) t < / / | IN A S 5 sA U J \-  k.~                                                                                                            ILA14
I                                                                                                                                                           Y'LGM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-ETE RSI
f h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lE                                                                                                                                 2           3
-   - -                                                                                                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JUNE 19H



IBRD 19735
8P ' '5°    7'e                    740o -  
c ~      ~         EAAA -L^A   e^o .BAHAMA      
BAHAMASNEW PRVIDENC  WATER                                                 BAHAMA BAHAMAS
_V50                  BAHAMAS                                         NEW PROVIDENCE WATER SUPPLY AND s*Y AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
I .eu.R                                                                                Water Supply lmprJpplY Improvements
A-1101 I                                                                                           Water Sup   p12 r  EO~:   ARLIER PREC
AS 1                                                                                   PETI  EARNOR PRO3 T   MOAN 23200         O ISTIN
___°          ___ -^LV^DoR  PRoJEcT   zLa^N 1720    WATER MAINS
EAIIOG  LANAI                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PUMPING STATIONS
0           0R va  LO"G    ° 0          0       RESERVOIRS
CROOKED I    I                                                                     °                                   WELL FIELDS
^c.I"7                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LAKES
AAAAHINCASAI^7u^Na    -                                                                                        ---.~                    SHIPPING ROUTE
CS-AU                  .AT IN....  I
IS CB  -AHAMAS                                                   4,IIOBHOA
As./RSISL..  - InTrStlelORAL _SL SO
[   <\) RAHAA.AS                                   J;zz,,mow /t/.74 - _ _                               BALMORA       AL ISLASLND A
BEBABLIC  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OSGSCAY'
- -COIL VON CA _
-An. T^    I      --                                                                                                                                           ARAWAISLA 
^sPeSSL.UeeY               \                _            _                                                                                    [-LWUIA S S A U t         \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROIE SLN
LICSIIIJS              TBINISAA                                                                                                                                                                                                           -           A7NGI.ISeECT LANID
0 #55555@ ~           I _ -                                                                                  .                                                 .L.    LSTATBON
AlA B BBSO.OV SO 00~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SUT  ES 
O      1       2       3      4
KILOMETERSS
B     2           ~~~~~~~~3
MILES
JUNE 1980



