Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15822
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2756-BM)
JUNE 26, 1996
Environment and Urban Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
I Bahamian $= 1 US $
MEASURES
I Imperial Gallon (Ig) = 1 .20095mUS Gallons (USg)
I US Gallon= 3.785 Liters
Million Imperial Gallons/Year = MIGY
Million Imperial Gallons/Day = MIGY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBD          -      Caribbean Development Bank
EIB          -      European Investment Bank
EIRR         -      Economic Internal Rate of Return
MOPH         -      Ministry of Public Health
MOWU         -      Ministry of Works and Utilities
NIB          -      National Insurance Board
PCR          -      Project Completion Report
WSC          -      Water and Sewerage Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
REHABILITATION PROJECT (Loan 2756-BM)
Table of Contents
PREFACE                                                                  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                      ii
PART I   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                               1
1.    Background                                                         1
A.   Economic Setting                                             1
B.    The Sector                                                  1
C.  Bank Experience in the Sector.                                1
2.    The Project                                                       2
A.   Objectives/Description                                       2
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives                           3
C.    Project Sustainability                                      10
D.   Bank Performance                                             11
E.   Borrower Performance                                         11
F.    Assessment of Outcome                                       12
G.   Future Operations                                            12
H.   Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned                  13
PART II  STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1A    Schedule of Activity - Appraisal Estimate and Actual
Table 1B:   Key Physical Progress Data for Execution of Contracts
Table IC:   Key Progress Date of Execution of Consultant Services and Training
Table 2     Key Financial/Operational Performance Monitoring Indicators
Table 3A:   Comparison of Appraisal and Revised Project Costs
Table 3B:   Project Financing Plan
Table 4A:   Bank Loan Disbursements
Table 4B:   Caribbean Bank Loan Disbursements
Table 4C:   European Investment Bank Loan Disbursements
Table 5     Cost of Water Produced/Purchased for New Providence Operations
Table 6     WSC Water Rates
Table 7     Status of Legal Covenants.
Table 8A:   Economic Cost Savings
Table 8B:   Economic Re-evaluation
Table 9     Summary of Assessments
Table 10    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 11    Project Timetable
Table 12    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13    Bank Resources: Missions
This document has a restricted distribution mnd may be used by recipients only in the performancz of their
official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
REHABILITATION PROJECT (Loan 2756-BM)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report for the New Providence Islai-d
Water Supply and Sewerage Rehabilitation Project in the Bahamas, for which Loan 2756-
BM in the amount of US$10.0 Million equivalent was approved on October 14, 1986 and
made effective on July 9, 1987.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1995. Final disbursement took place on October
20, 1995, at which time a balance of US$ 50,000 was canceled. The loan was extended
once, from June 30, 1994 to June 30, 1995. Co-financing for the project was provided by
the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB), the European Investment Bank (EEB) and the
National Investment Bank (NIB) of the Bahamas.
The ICR was prepared by Elizabeth Rankin of the Infrastructure Division, and
Carlo Rietveld of the Environment and Urban Development Division, of the Latin America
and Caribbean Regional Office Country Department III, and reviewed by Mr. Eugene
McCarthy, Division Chief of the Environment and Urban Development Division and Mr.
Robert Crown, Project Advisor. The Borrower made inputs to Part I and the Statistical
Annexes and provided comments on the Bank's report. These comments have been
incorporated directly into the report. In addition, the co-financiers comments have been
requested but have not yet been received.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission, January
29 - February 3, 1996. It is based on the Staff Appraisal Report (Report No.6156b-BM,
dated September 22, 1986), the Loan Agreement, supervision reports, review of the files
of correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda and
discussions with both Bank staff involved in the supervision of the project and Borrower
staffinvolved in the project's implementation. No aide-memoire was prepared at the time
of the completion mission. However, the findings from the mission were incorporated into
this ICR as appropriate, with all data and information pertaining to that mission available
in the project files.






(ii)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
The objectives of the project were to improve the institutional performance of the
Water Supply Corporation (WSC) in key management and finance areas, and to promote
system reliability and performance through rehabilitation of water supply and sewerage
facilities and improvements in their operation and maintenance. Specific objectives
included:
(a)   strengthening the management structure and operations, particularly the financial,
commercial, and engineering/maintenance operations;
(b)   improvements to water quality and distribution through wellfield rehabilitation,
mains replacement and relining;
(c)   meeting of short to medium term demands through conservation programs
including the establishment of leak control and meter replacement as well as
shipping improvements, expansion programs and unloading terminals;
(d)   protection of the environment by rehabilitation of needed sewerage and solids
disposal systems; and
(e)   establishment of an adequate tariff structure for water and sewerage services;
introduction of policies and procedures for UFW; development of a suitable
resource management program; and identification of long-term water supply
alternatives.
Implementation Experience and Results
The main objectives of the project were generally met except for strengthening of
the financial and commercial management of WSC. Its design corresponded well to the
needs of the sector with a number of the key issues identified during implementation of the
Bank's previous project (Ln 1320), addressed. System reliability has been achieved and
there have been improvements in the operation and maintenance of the water supply and
sewerage facilities. Implementation of the physical components of the project has been
generally sound, and improvements in operations are evident, in particular in the increased
number of connections, water production and transport of water from Andros Island.
Organizational and technical skills have also been improved (mainly through training).
Progress in reducing the high level of Unaccounted for W ater (UFW) has been more
difficult, with only limited reductions realized to date. Between 1993 and 1995 the
average monthly UFW was in fact reduced from about 115,000 million gallons to about



(iii)
90,000 million gallons, but this was due in large part to a reduction in the volume of sales
resulting from the loss of some major hotel clients, who began to provide their own water
(from seawater).
Implementation of works was relatively slow, due in part to the multiplicity of
contracts awarded, resulting in some duplication of efforts and limitations in the ability to
control and direct activity in a focused manner. As a result, overall disbursements lagged
during the first three years, but after the opening of the Special Account (1989)
disbursements improved significantly. Procurement went smoothly with the exception of
meter procurement, which eventually required a change in approach to allow for the
purchase of meters specifically suitable to the island's conditions and compatible with
existing equipment.
Where the project has failed significantly to meet its objectives is in improvements
in the financial position of WSC. Substantial delays in government approval of tariff
increases has had deleterious effects on WSC's finances, and despite tariff increases in
1994 the weak financial condition of WSC continues. The result is that the financial
covenants of the loan have not been met (working ratio and debt service ratio have not
been achieved, while operating revenue has fallen). One of the main problems affecting
WSC's finances has been the consistently high level of UFW. A second critical problem
which has recently developed has been the loss of one of WSC's biggest commercial
clients to an alternative water supply source. This has further exacerbated WSC's financial
situation.
Bank performance, Borrower performance and the overall outcome of the project
have been rated satisfactory. The Bank's performance was generally good and consistent
throughout the project cycle (see para.2.30), as was that of the Borrower, except in the
area of financial improvements (see para.2.3 1). The execution of the project was
satisfactory, implementation of physical components was successful and all engineering
works and technical assistance was completed in a satisfactory manner. Although financial
improvements have been limited, the Bank's expectations in the sector are considered to
have been too high and unrealistic given the environment in which this public utility
operates. For this reason, and given the strong project performance in other key areas, the
project has been given an overall rating of satisfactory (see para.2.32, 2.33)
Future Operations, Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned
No future Bank operations in the Bahamas are planned due to its recent graduation
(1988) from Bank lending. WSC could still benefit from continued Bank advice,
particularly at this pivotal time in its institutional development when private sector options
need to be explored, but no further assistance is under consideration. However, the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) and the European Investment Bank (EIB) have both



(iv)
committed themselves to continuing their support of the water sector. While the scope of
their involvement is generally different from that of the Bank (less emphasis on
institutional improvements and more on the provision of social water and implementation
of physical works), they are nonetheless financing needed investments in both New
Providence and the Family Islands.
As noted above, except for improvements in the financial position of WSC and the
level of UFW, most of the other project objectives have been met. Improvements in
management and operations have been realized, there have been improvements in water
quality and reliability, a leak detection and control program is being systematically
installed with meter replacement underway, and improvements in the transport of water
have been successful. There has been needed rehabilitation of the sewerage and solids
disposal systems and the establishment of an adequate tariff policy for water, while
increases in sewerage tariffs, although introduced, were kept at a minimum.
Nonetheless there have been some important shortcomings in the project, which
are reflected in the following findings and lessons learned. Most of them focus on financial
issues facing WSC. One of the major findings concerns the recent technological
developments which have been achieved in producing potable water from seawater by
Reverse Osmosis (RO). Because of recent developments in this technology the cost of
water production by RO in the Bahamas has dropped to the point where it has now
become a cost effective alternative to traditional sources as supplied by WSC. Large water
users, such as major hotels, cruiseships and industrial operations will now be able to
provide cheaper and more reliable water for their own use than most public utilities.
Specific findings and lessons learned are as follows:
Major Customers - Loss of Clients: Many of the principal hotels, which are
large water consumers, have begun to explore alternative water supply sources to ensure
that their water supply needs are met at a reasonable cost. With the growing viability of
the reverse-osmosis (RO) alternative, independent water production has become
competitive with existing services. WSC's past inability to provide consistent, high quality
water at a reasonable price has resulted in a loss of clients. To avoid further erosion of the
hotel customer base, WSC service to the remaining hotels will need to match client
expectations in terms of cost and service reliability. More aggressive efforts to improve
operational efficiency by reducing continued high levels of UFW should, in turn, ensure a
more consistent, reliable and cost-effective supply of water. The issue, however, has
severe financial implications for WSC. The government will need to decide whether to
introduce strategic measures (such as stand-by fees or a social sur-tax) on those hotels
which have terminated their contracts with WSC, in order to ensure a minimum revenue
base for the Corporation, because once the hotel clients have withdrawn there will be little
incentive for them to return.



(v)
System Reliability and Performance - High UFW: Although system reliability
and performance has somewhat improved as a result of the project, the level of UFW
remains very high (at 48%). This issue has become a major one not only in the Bahamas
but in most of the Caribbean islands. Physical leakage, because of a deteriorating
distribution system, and administrative losses because of poorly working meters have
doubled the cost of water production and supply. However, reducing UFW has proven to
be very difficult. The project approach, which relied on the use of WSC resources, small
contracts and advocated a systematic but gradual treatment of the problem has proven to
be lengthy, costly and has resulted in only minor improvements. An alternative solution
would be to address the issue more aggressively by contracting the activity out in its
entirety, which would confront the issue directly, address the problems identified quickly
and provide for the introduction of a more viable and effective leak detection and control
program within a shorter timeframe (3-4 years instead of 13 years). The initial project cost
would be higher but the ultimate cost savings would be substantial.
Institutional and Financial Performance - Government Intervention: The
Government of the Bahamas has had a dominant influence on the operations and finances
of WSC, which is a fully owned public sector enterprise. Over the past ten years this
influence has severely limited improvements in operational and financial efficiency of the
institution. Needed institutional and managerial changes have been slow, and water tariff
increases have been sporadic. For the institution to develop into a commercially run utility
it is essential for it to be insulated from the political system of decision-making. The most
promising option, which is presently being explored by the government, would be the
introduction of private management in its operation.
Inadequate Attention to Sewerage Investment - Investment in wastewater
systems continues to be difficult. There is far more interest in developing water supply and
distribution systems and as a result sewerage coverage, although improved, is still far
short of the desired level. The tariff structure and overall levels remains inadequate, and
systematic planning for system wide development is poor. More attention needs to be
placed on the importance of developing a sound program, and investment in sewerage
encouraged if environmental concerns are not to become critical.
Procurement Lesson - The Bank's policy on meter procurement for small island
economies, which have a very limited supply base and material/equipment performance
testing facilities, needs to be reviewed. In the case of the Bahamas the purchase of meters
which would allow WSC to standardize became an issue during project implementation.
The use of ICB in this instance proved to be unwise. It set back standardization attempts
by WSC, required increased retraining and multiplied stocks. The problem was
subsequently solved but it did underline the fact that procurement procedures chosen for
Bank projects need to satisfy not only Bank requirements but also be tailored to client
needs.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE ISLAND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LN 2756-BM)
PART I PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
1.  BACKGROUND
A.    Economic Setting
1.1   The Commonwealth of the Bahamas is formed by an archipelago of about 700
islands and cays covering nearly 100,000 square miles of the Atlantic Ocean. At the time
of appraisal the population of New Providence, the most heavily populated island and the
focus of the project, was estimated to be 134,000. Today the population has risen to
approximately 175,000, which accounts for 64% of total population.' There is little
absolute poverty in the Bahamas, with per capita income now officially over
$1 1,000/annum, but a relative poverty of about US$560 per month (for an average
household of five), has been cited as a social and economic problem, with about 25% of
households in New Providence registering incomes below the relative poverty level.
B.    The Sector
1.2   At the time of appraisal water service coverage for New Providence was estimated
to be 90%, with total water production of about 6.5 million gallons per day (MIGD).
Only about 12% of the population of New Providence was connected to the sewer system.
Today, it is estimated that water supply coverage is 100%, with water production at 7.9
MIGD, and with about 20% of the population of New Providence connected to the sewer
system.
C.    Bank Experience in the Sector
1.3   Prior to Loan 2756, the Bank had made one other loan to the water supply and
sewerage sector, for US$10.OM (LnI320-BM). This loan was co-financed by the
Caribbean Development Bank (CBD) and was designed to alleviate the severe water
shortage of New Providence Island. The project was completed in 1982 (three years
behind schedule) and a Project Completion Report (PCR) was issued on June 15, 1983.
Although the project was successful in relieving the chronic water supply shortage, and
'The five largest islands, after New Providence, are the Grand Bahamas with a population of 25,860,
Eleuthera (9,470), Andros (8,845), Abaco (6,500) and Long Island (3,860).



-2-
also improved WSC's commercial accounting and adrninistrative systems, there remained
a number of key issues to resolve: (a) there were persistent operational problems in the
importation of water from Andros Island; (b) there was a continued lack of progress in
reducing UFW due to the absence of comprehensive leak testing, detection and timely
pipe replacement; (c) there were high levels of accounts receivable; and (d) there was a
lack of organizational and technical skills and training. In the formulation of the present
project under review these shortcomings were taken into consideration in its design.
1.4   Given the important role of water supply and sewerage treatment in the economic
development of the Bahamas, the Bank's involvement in the sector has been critical. A
well functioning system is particularly essential for the country's tourism industry, and
since this sector alone accounts for 50% of GDP and employs about 60% of the
workforce, the sector's significance cannot be overstated. However, since Board approval
of Ln2756 in October 1986, the Bahamas has graduated from the Bank (1988), and for
this reason there has been no follow-on project in the sector.
2.    THE PROJECT
A.    Objectives/Description
2.1   Objecives - The objectives of the project were to improve the institutional
performance of WSC in key management and finance areas, and to promote system
reliability and performance through rehabilitation of water supply and sewerage facilities
and improvements in their operation and maintenance. Specific objectives consisted of:
(a)   strengthening management structure and operations, particularly financial,
commercial, engineering/maintenance operations;
(b)   improvements to water quality and distribution through wellfield rehabilitation,
mains replacement and relining;
(c)   meeting of short to medium term demands through conservation programs
including the establishment of leak control and meter replacement as well as
shipping improvements, expansion programs and unloading terminals;
(d)   protection of the environment by rehabilitation of needed sewerage and solids
disposal systems; and
(e)   establishment of an adequate tariff structure for water and sewerage services;
introduction of policies and procedures for UFW; development of a suitable
resource management program; and identification of long-term water supply
alternatives.
2.2   Project Description - The project was divided into five major components as
follows: (a) water supply rehabilitation (US$10.4M - 40% of total base cost) which
consisted of rehabilitation of wellfields, relining or replacement of transmission and



-3-
distribution pipes, installation of new mains, and related engineering services; (b) water
importation improvements (US$4.6M - 18% of base cost) which consisted of seawall
reconstruction, rehabilitation and improved abstraction of water, repairs to Morgan's Bluff
loading basin, replacement of fendering system at Arwark Cay terminal and additional
storage, and related engineering services; (c) sewerage rehabilitation (US$6.4M - 24% of
base cost) which consisted of replacement of sewers, conversion of sewer system into a
more reliable one, improvements to pumping facilities, construction of a septage/solid
disposal facility, and related engineering services; (d) equipment purchase (US$ 3.2M -
12% of base cost) which consisted of acquisition of meters, procurement of construction
equipment, and installation of telemetry and controls at water and sewerage pumping
locations; and (e) technical assistance including training (US$1.5M - 6% of cost) which
consisted of institutional rehabilitation program, operational improvements, and sector
development studies. The design corresponded well to the needs of the water supply and
sewerage sector, and addressed the main issues identified in the PCR on the previous Bank
project (see para. 1.3).
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives
2.3   Physical Implementation - Implementation of the physical components of the
project was highly satisfactory. Procurement went smoothly with the exception of the
supply of domestic meters. A total of sixty-six (66) contracts (civil works and goods
purchase) were completed for the five sub-components except for: (a) the construction of
the septage and solids disposal facility (under the sewerage rehabilitation component)
which is still under progress and will be completed in 1996; and (b) the supply and
installation of instrumentation equipment (SCADA - under the procurement of equipment
component) which has been deferred for the time being. (See Table 1).
2.4   The one problem which did occur concerned the purchase of domestic meters.
Project design required International Competitive Bidding (ICB) - even though WSC had
already determined that standardization on a specific type of meter was appropriate for
their needs. The ICB process as designed proved ineffectual for this purpose, eventually
requiring a change in methodology to allow for the purchase of equipment specifically
suitable to the island's conditions (and allowed for WSC's continued effort at
standardization). Although resolved, this problem should have been identified during
appraisal.
2.5   Improvements in operations are evident and include an increase in the number of
connections, water production as well as water shipped. The number of water and
sewerage connections have surpassed appraisal estimates, as has the total amount of water
produced. Water shipped annually was slightly higher than appraisal estimates in 1994,
although it was below estimates during the previous project years (see Table 2).



-4-
2.6   The one area where there has been virtually no improvement is in the rate of
Unaccounted for Water (UFW). At the time of appraisal the rate was estimated at 46%,
and at the time of re-evaluation it is estimated at 48%. Improvements were registered in
1995, and based on WSC's present aggressive program to reduce UFW it is projecting
that improvements will now be steady, dropping to an estimated 37% by the year 2000.
This statistic, however does not reflect the true state of UFW because in terms of actual
water loss there has been a steady decrease since 1993. For example, in 1993 the average
annual loss was estimated at 111.5 million gallons; in 1994 it was 99.4 million gallons, and
in 1995 it dropped to 97.2 million gallons. This represents an annual decrease of 11%
from 1993 to 1994, and 2 % from 1994 to 1995. Although the Leakage and Control
Program which has been introduced under the Bank's project does deserve some credit, it
is also true that due to a cancellation of some important commercial accounts WSC is
selling less water (see para. 2.14).
2.7   Technical Assistance and Training - All engineering works and technical
assistance have been completed satisfactorily and on schedule. Twenty-two (22) out of a
total twenty-three (23) contracts have been completed. The outstanding contract concerns
the supervision of the above noted civil works (a) which is still on-going. (See Table 1).
2.8   Studies - Five studies were conducted under the project as follows: (a) Tariff
Structure Study; (b) Credit and Collection Procedures Study; (c) New Providence Island
Sewerage Systems Planning Study; (d) Unaccounted-for-Water Control Study; and (e)
Management Audit Study. All have been completed and the recommendations are under
implementation. One of the accomplishments under the project concerns the preparation
of a Water Corporation Act which is scheduled to be introduced by the end of 1996. The
other concerns the introduction by WSC of a systematic plan for Leakage Control and the
application of the BABE (Bursts and Background Estimates) Leakage Management
Models.
2.9   Project Costs - Appraisal estimates totaled about US$ 33.5M (including
contingencies and taxes at January 1986 prices) with foreign costs estimated at 21.3M or
64% of total project costs. Physical contingency escalation included 15% for physical
components while price contingencies were assumed at between 4% and 5.5% for local
costs. Actual project costs totaled US$35.6M of which US$21.4M consisted of foreign
costs. This corresponds to a cost increase of about 6% over appraisal estimates. In terms
of project components water supply rehabilitation, procurement of equipment and
technical assistance and training all experienced a decrease in costs totaling about 15% of
original estimates. The remaining components, Water Importation Improvements and
Sewerage Rehabilitation incurred substantial increases, basically doubling original
estimates. The reason for this increase is due to the higher than estimated cost of the
seawall and dock rehabilitation. See Table 3A for details.



-5-
2.10  Financing Plan - Project financing included a number of loans as follows: (a)
World Bank loan of US$10.OM (28% of cost) to finance water supply rehabilitation, parts
of the equipment component, as well as technical assistance and training, and 80% of total
foreign costs of these components; (b) US$ 4.5M from the Caribbean Development Bank
for the water importation improvements component; (c) US$ 7.OM from the European
Investment Bank for parts of the sewerage rehabilitation and equipment components; and
(d) US$ 1.2M from the National Insurance Board for part of the equipment component as
well as technical assistance and training. In essence the financing plan remained the same
except for the EIB portion. Because the EIB loan was denominated in EQs and the
exchange rate changed significantly in the favor of the dollar, the EIB loan increased from
the original estimate of US$7.OM to US$10.OM. This increased amount was the allocated
for sewerage rehabilitation. See Tables 3B and 4 for details.
2.11  Procurement - This was designed on a parallel-financing basis and followed the
applicable guidelines of the Bank, EIB and CBD. Contracts for civil works over
US$750,000 and materials and equipment purchases for US$100,000 were to be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB). Local manufacturers were accorded a
15% margin of preference. Certain components were executed by force account involving
in-house and hired labor. For contracts under US$50,000 Bank shopping procedures were
applied. The only significant problem which did occur concerned the purchase of meters.
Those procured under ICB were inappropriate, creating more problems than solutions. As
a result meters were sole-sourced to meet island conditions and to allow WSC to
standardize their equipment.
2.12 Disbursements - 100% of foreign expenditures under the Bank loan for civil
works, materials and equipment, consultant services and training was disbursed, and 65%
of local expenditures for civil works, materials and equipment, as well as 80% for
consultant services and training. Overall disbursements lagged during the first three years
of implementation. However, after a Special Account was opened in January of 1989
disbursement improved and by the end of the fourth year actually surpassed appraisal
estimates. Thereafter disbursements again lagged until final closing of the accounts. The
closing date was extended once, from June 30, 1994 to December 31, 1995.
Disbursements of the CBD and EIB loans followed a similar trend. See Table 4.
2.13 Financial Impact of Project - Despite tariff increases in 1994, the weak financial
position of WSC continues to be of concern. WSC's total operating revenues for the New
Providence Island operations 2 have shown a negative net income since 1994, and WSC
has indicated that this is expected to continue until at least 1998. This is in part due to the
2 WSC maintains separate accounts for the New Providence Island operations and the Family Island
operations although it remains responsible for provision of services under both. For purposes of this
analysis, since the project focused only on New Providence the financial discussion concentrates on this
operation.



-6-
fact that the project has been unable to improve WSC's level of UFW and thus introduce
significant cost reductions. The project did improve water availability and service quality
in general, but as noted success of the UFW component has been marginal.
2.14  The cost of water production in the Bahamas is actually quite low. A recently
completed cost analysis (December 31, 1996) indicates that the average cost per 1000
gallons of water produced, including both direct and indirect costs is $5.87, while the cost
of water importation (including transportation) is not much higher, estimated at $6.82 per
1000 gallons (See Table 5). The tariff (see Table 6), which averages $14.00 per 1000
gallons for domestic use and $15.00 for commercial use should be sufficient to cover
production, operations, maintenance as well as existing loan commitments, but it does not.
There are a couple of reasons. The first concerns the very high rate of UFW which in
1995 was 48% (See Table 2). This rate has remained relatively constant since project
implementation began, even though reduction of JUFW to an acceptable level of 37% by
1995, was one of the prime objectives of the project. The above noted study on cost of
water produced/purchased indicates that this UFW adds $5.78 to each 1000 gallons of
water produced (See Table 5), basically doubling the cost of water production. The other
main impact on WSC finances concerns the termination of services by some of the largest
hotel users on Paradise Island. This was unforeseen by either the Bank or WSC. Very
recent technological improvements which reduced the cost of Reverse Osmosis (RO) (a
method allowing for the production of water from seawater or sewerage effluent at about
$5.70/1000 gallons), coupled with inconsistent service provided by WSC, has encouraged
some of the hotels on Paradise Island to make alternate arrangements for their water
supply, leaving WSC with a 10 million gallon/month reduction in sales. This translates
roughly to a loss in sales of approximately $1.2M per year, or an eighty-seven percent
(87%) reduction for the nine month period ending September 30, 1995 alone.
2.15  The Government of the Bahamas has had a powerful influence on the operations
and finances of WSC as it is a fully owned public sector enterprise. In the past ten years
this influence has often crippled the institution. Institutional and managerial changes have
been difficult, and water tariff increases have been sporadic. There have been substantial
delays in Government approval of tariff increases with only three approvals in the last 18
years (1978, 1982 and 1993). But although increases in tariffs have been difficult to attain,
the last one being in October of 1993, the financial figures of WSC suggest that present
tariff rates should be able to adequately cover costs . The tariff is already one of the
highest in the Caribbean. There is a plan to increase tariffs in the Family Islands within
1996, and also a plan to change the manner in which increases are assessed and approved.
One of the successes of the project is the fact that WSC has been able to bring down its
cost of production to such a low level. Unfortunately these benefits have been lost as a
result of the high rate of UFW and withdrawal of hotel clients.



-7-
2.16 Compliance with key covenants, except for those dealing with financial issues has
been good (See Table 7). In this latter area compliance has not been attained. A working
ratio of 75% has not been achieved. It has been 1% or less since 1991, although until then
it had been in line or above appraisal projections. The debt service ratio has also not been
achieved. In addition, the total operating revenue has fallen short of estimates even though
water and sewerage connections have surpassed appraisal estimates 3. In a recent review
of the audit report which covered WSC's financial statements (dated December 31, 1995,
it was noted that "the Corporation appears to be in a very weak working capital position,
as its current liabilities far exceed its current assets, and its Bank overdrafts far exceed its
cash balances". This could raise questions concerning WSC's potential to repay some of
its loans or implement others under consideration4. On the positive side, however, the
average tariff revenue and the average water revenue have surpassed appraisal
expectations, as have reductions in total operating costs (excluding depreciation and
interest). In addition other two measures needed to improve WSC's operational efficiency
and financial status, outlined in the SAR, have been met. A sewerage tariff increase was
introduced (but only to a minimum level), the number of employees per '000
water/sewerage connections has been reduced from 14.5 to 9.5 (this includes inactive
connections - the appraisal estimated a reduction to 12.5), and billing/collection
performance was improved with the establishment of a Business Office which judiciously
followed up on unpaid bills.
2.17 Economic Re-evaluation - The appraisal report articulated a number of benefits,
direct and indirect, quantifiable and non-quantifiable. Some had an indicative estimate,
while others were analyzed more rigorously. Those quantified fell into two categories, (a)
cost savings due to the improvement of both the water supply and the sewerage systems;
and (b) revenue enhancement. For purposes of the re-evaluation, the benefits have been
grouped into 3 categories, with appraisal estimates and re-evaluated results presented as
follows:
3 Although the overall number of connections is above appraisal estimates, these numbers include both
active and inactive connections. In 1995, out of a total of about 38,500 almost 25% were categorized as
dormant accounts.
4 The review of WSC's Audit Report was prepared by LATPS and a memo sent to LA3EU on April 9,
1996.



-8-
Non-Ouantifiable Benefits
Appraisal     Re-eval.
Estimate      Estimate
* increased productivity                           high         marginal
* improved water quality                           high         high
* improved system reliability                      high         high
* on-the-job training for WSC staff                             accomplished
* reduced need to purchase water from private wellfields high   high
* management & institutional streamlining          high         marginal
* positive environmental impact                    high          high
* reduced need to replace sewerage pumps/costly repairs high     high
* retention of Paradise Island Hotel clients       high         failure
2.18  Most of the non-quantifiable benefits, as identified in the SAR have been realized
as noted above. The only failure concerns the ability of WSC to maintain the hotels on
Paradise Island as clients. A new Paradise Island main was to be installed to provide
greater capacity and flexibility to the system, and ensure no interruption to service. This
investment was outside the scope of the Bank project, and due to resource constraints was
postponed. In the meantime, as noted in para. 2.14, technological improvements in the
production of reverse osmosis (RO) has resulted in the termination of some of the
Paradise Islands hotels as clients.
Indicative Estimation
Appraisal    Re-eval.
Estimate     Estimate
* improved service coverage from 90% to              94%         100%
* increased direct water access for urban poor from 49% to 78%    yes
* increased revenue through higher consumption       15%          N/A
* increased water transport to eastern area          50%          yes
2.19  Except for improved coverage the percentage increases in the above benefits
specifically attributable to the project is unknown. However, as an estimate, except for
increased revenue through higher consumption, the forecast is generally accurate if
consideration is given to other government efforts introduced during the project
implementation period. This includes new housing developments for the poor as well as
other income groups where direct access water connections have been included as part of
the development plan.



-9-
Riiorously Analyzed
Appraisal   Re-eval.
Estimate    Estimate
* cost savings - electrical power                           25% of estimate
- staff & vehicle                              realized
- spares/replacement/repair                    realized
* savings in shipping costs                                  not applicable
* increase in sales due to improved flow and access          realized
* reduction in unaccounted-for-water by 14% from 48% to 37%  not achieved
Overall EMRR estimated at                       15%          6%
2.20  In terms of the quantified benefits presented above, the results are mixed. In terms
of cost savings these remain significant, except for savings in electric power. On the
otherhand, the savings in shipping costs were not realized because one of the main
objectives of the project was actually to increase the shipping of water from Andros island.
This was wholly successful but as a result expenditure in this area rose. Secondly,
reduction in UFW was not realized, and in fact the rate has remained steady during
project implementation. Only now is there some sign of improvement, with realization of
full benefits presently targeted for the year 2000. Finally, the increase in sales has occurred
but to a large extent it has been nullified due to continued high rates of UFW.
2.21   The resultant Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) has been re-calculated
taking into consideration the above noted findings, and is now estimated at 6% for the
project. However, this could potentially be even lower if the projected UFW savings are
not realized by the year 2000 as presently estimated. See Table 8 for details.
2.22  The main risk identified during appraisal of the project focused on WSC's ability to
absorb and implement in a timely manner the results of the various technical studies, in
particular reduction in UFW, as well as improvements in operation/maintenance
programs. It was determined however, that the commnitment shown by WSC's top
management to attain the project objectives was very high, and that timely consultant
assistance, training programs and annual reviews between the Bank and WSC would
mitigate the risks. As noted in other areas of this evaluation a number of aspects of the
project were implemented successfully. The one area where success has been very limited
has been in reduction of UFW, and although WSC has assured the Bank that UFW will be
reduced to 37% by the year 2000, given the present program which is underway, and the
Corporation's experience in the recent past concerning this issue, realizing a 14 percentage
point improvement in four years may be optimistic.



-10-
2.23 Environmental Impacts - Environmental issues addressed in the project included:
(a) improving the system's water quality (specifically salinity); and (b) increasing sewerage
coverage. In the broadest sense both of these objectives have been met. Salinity has
decreased from 738 to 635 PPM, and sewerage coverage increased by about 8%. Salinity
decreased due to the importation of higher quality water from Andros Island, which
partially replaced the low quality water from New Providence. Aside from the project,
however, a new environmental issue is emerging - and that concerns encroachment on
WSC property, specifically around wellfields, where in some areas settlers have moved in
and begun to farm the land. The result is costly re-location as WSC finds itself involved in
disputes over land tenure and land rights, and without the appropriate methodology or
framework to adequately deal with this issue.
C.    Project Sustainability
2.24  Before the project WSC was unable to pressurize certain lines. It is now being
done successfully and as a result both the eastern and southern areas have benefited
substantially. Basically the problem of water supply to these areas has been eliminated and
as a result of improvements there is a new system flexibility which allows for cross-
distribution and twenty-four hour service. In addition WSC is now able to ship increased
volumes of water on a systematic basis - which has ensured constant supply. Finally, the
leak detection and control program under the project, which although beginning slowly,
has basically set off a very serious and focused program for the Corporation. Putting the
analysis in place and setting up an appropriate system has taken the better part of the
project implementation period and for this reason results are not noticeable at this point.
However there are already signs that the program is working, with UFW volumes
registering a recognizable reduction in the past year. Given past performance in this area,
reduction of UFW to 37% by the year 2000 may be somewhat optimistic.
2.25  In terms of the computer systems which have been installed, these are working
relatively well although problems within the system have been identified. A recent
Computer Systems Analysis (1995) reviewed both the Financial Information System (FIS)
and the Customer Information System (CIS) and has identified some shortcomings which
need to be addressed. As a result changes are being introduced to rectify the situation,
including improvements in: management of the system; staffing and productivity; and
software as well as hardware. The project as designed by the Bank is therefore not only
considered to have been successful in technical terms, but also technically sustainable.
2.26  WSC has asked the Bank to consider additional assistance for follow-on work to
the Leak Detection and Control Program begun under the project, because in their
estimation additional assistance would greatly improve the results. However, irrespective
of Bank involvement, both the EIB and the IDB have stepped in to offer assistance to
WSC. The EIB has already committed about $14.OOM for a mains replacement program



-11-
on the island of New Providence, while the IDB is investigating the feasibility of financing
a project in the Family Islands (for which WSC is also responsible).
2.27  Although there has been some work in increasing sewerage services there has been
little follow-up. The operation of the newly constructed sewage treatment plant, with
injection of the effluent about 150-200 meters deep into the limestone underground5, has
been remarkably successful, even though some maintenance problems were experienced.
This experience could be very important for other islands with a limestone underground as
it represents a very safe way of disposing of sewage effluent. Under this category,
however, there is little discussion for follow-on work at present either through domestic
or external financing.
2.28   Sustainability of the project, in terms of adequate maintenance, could conceivably
have been hampered by WSC's financial problems resulting in maintenance cutbacks due
to a lack of resources. However, as privatization of WSC's management and operations is
being considered by the government, prompted by encouragement not only from the Bank
but also WSC's future financiers, the EIB and IDB, the issue of adequate maintenance will
remain a key priority. In terms of privatization, the government has been actively courting
investment from the private sector. It has divested itself of all but one hotel, sold off other
stakes including the Bank of the Bahamas, allowed competition in radio and television
broadcasting, as well as the domestic air service and the water industry itself This is
evident by the recent permission granted to a local company to provide water to the public
system from a new desalination plant, and its permission for some of the hotels on
Paradise Island to use private water suppliers.
D.    Bank Performance
2.29  Bank performance is considered to have been good and consistent throughout the
project cycle. It provided a high level of input particularly during the first years of project
implementation and continued at an acceptable level with a minimum of staff changes and
regular supervision missions which were appropriately staffed. The project was generally
well designed and supervision was appropriate. Although a problem concerning meter
procurement developed this was resolved. For this reason Bank performance is rated
satisfactory.
E.    Borrower Performance
2.30  During the first few years of project implementation, progress was slow but
continuous. It later picked up significantly with the government providing counterpart
funds in a more timely manner. Overall Borrower performance was good. WSC was
competent within its limits as a public entity. Staff have always had an excellent grasp of
' The disposal well at Malcolm Park is at a total depth of 230 meters, cased down to 140 meters.



-12-
the issues surrounding the project and have produced good data and information for Bank
staff to review and analyze. Except in the area of covenant compliance, specifically as
related to financial issues, the Borrower performance is considered to have been quite
satisfactory. Only in terms of financial performance is the rating considered to be
unsatisfactory, as noted in preceding sections. For this reason, and in order not to unduly
penalize the Borrower, the overall rating of the Borrower's performance is considered to
be satisfactory.
F.    Assessment of Outcome
2.31   Execution of the project was satisfactory. Implementation of the physical
components of the project were successful as were improvements in operation, which
resulted in an increase in the number of water connections, and in the amount of water
produced and shipped. All engineering works and technical assistance was completed in a
highly satisfactory manner and on schedule, and all five studies conducted under the
project have been completed and the recommendations are under implementation. On the
basis of this performance the project should be rated successful.
2.32  However, in terms of financial improvements the results have been less than
satisfactory. The Corporation is in a weak working capital position, with liabilities
exceeding assets and overdrafts exceeding cash balances. Compliance with key financial
covenants has not been attained, neither in terms of working ratio, debt service ratio or
operating revenue. It is arguable however, that Bank expectations in the sector, over the
past twenty years, have generally been too high and unrealistic given the environment in
which public utilities operate. That environment is traditionally government driven with a
focus on social issues where budgetary shortfalls are consistently subsidized and
inefficiencies tolerated. Expecting significant financial turnarounds under these conditions
is difficult. For this reason, and given the strong project performance in other key areas, it
is considered that the project under review should therefore receive an overall satisfactory
rating. See Table 9.
G.    Future Operations
2.33  No future Bank operations in the Bahamas are planned due to its recent graduation
(1988) from Bank lending. WSC could still benefit from continued Bank advice,
particularly at this pivotal time in its institutional development when private sector options
need to be explored, but no further assistance is under consideration. However, the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) and the European Investment Bank (EIB) have both
committed themselves to continuing their support of the water sector. While the scope of
their involvement is generally different from that of the Bank (less emphasis on
institutional improvements and more on the provision of social water and implementation



-13-
of physical works), they are nonetheless financing needed investments in both New
Providence and the Family Islands (refer to para.2.28).
H.   Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned
2.34  This is the second Bank financed project in the sector. The first (Ln 1320-BM)
was successful in relieving the chronic water supply shortage on New Providence Island
and successfully transformed WSC into a stable, well-managed autonomous organization
The weakest part of the project was the shipping component where the ships selected
were ill-equipped and unable to carry out the shipment of water in an efficient and timely
manner. WSC's financial performance during project implementation was poor due mainly
to inadequate production capacity, heavy debt service payments, particularly on
commercial Bank loans. The present project was a follow-on project. The rationale for
involvement was to allow the Bank to play a catalytic role in securing a broadened
exposure of WSC to external financial markets aimed to facilitate future borrowing needs,
including the EIB. The project was highly successful in securing financing from sources
other than the World Bank, including not only the EIB but also the IDB (see para.2. 10).
The fact that the Bahamian dollar has been pegged to the US$ has been a blessing for
WSC which is highly dependent on external equipment, chemicals, fuel, etc. to run its
operations.
2.35  Except for improvements in the financial position of WSC the project objectives
have for the most part been met. Improvements in management and operations have been
realized, there have been improvements in water quality and reliability, a leak detection
and control program is being systematically installed with meter replacement underway,
and improvements in the transport of water have been successful. There has been needed
rehabilitation of the sewerage and solids disposal systems and the establishment of an
adequate tariff policy for water ( although sewerage tariffs were increased only
marginally).
2.36  Nonetheless there have been some important shortcomings in the project, which
are reflected in the following findings and lessons learned. Most of them focus on financial
issues facing WSC. One of the major findings concerns the recent technological
developments which have been achieved in producing potable water from seawater by
Reverse Osmosis (RO). Because of the new technology the cost of water production by
RO in the Bahamas has dropped to the point where it has now become a cost effective
alternative to traditional sources as supplied by WSC. Large water users, such as major
hotels, cruiseships and industrial operations will now be able to provide cheaper and more
reliable water for their own use than most public utilities. The example of Nassau is most
striking because hotels on Paradise Island have stopped buying water from WSC, resulting
in a 10% reduction in overall revenue sales. As both hotels and cruiseships are charged
high water tariffs to subsidize social water as well as operating inefficiency, this



-14-
development will have major consequences on the cashflow of the public utility. The
following summary underlines the significance of the above, in addition to drawing
attention to other findings and lessons learned.
Major Customers - Loss of Clients: Many of the principal hotels, which are
large water consumers, have begun to explore alternative water supply sources to ensure
that their water supply needs are met at a reasonable cost. With the growing viability of
the reverse-osmosis (RO) alternative, independent water production has become
competitive with existing services. WSC's past inability to provide consistent, high quality
water at a reasonable price has resulted in a loss of clients. To avoid further erosion of the
hotel customer base, WSC service to the remaining hotels will need to match client
expectations in terms of cost and service reliability. More aggressive efforts to improve
operational efficiency by reducing continued high levels of UFW should, in turn, ensure a
more consistent, reliable and cost-effective supply of water. The issue, however, has
severe financial implications for WSC. The government will need to decide whether to
introduce strategic measures (such as stand-by fees or a social sur-tax) on those hotels
which have terminated their contracts with WSC, in order to ensure a minimum revenue
base for the Corporation, because once the hotel clients have withdrawn there will be little
incentive for them to return.
System Reliability and Performance - High UFW: Although system reliability
and performance has improved in some aspects as a result of the project, the level of UFW
remains very high (48%). This issue has become a major one not only in the Bahamas but
in most of the Caribbean islands. Physical leakage, because of a deteriorating distribution
system, and administrative losses because of poorly working meters have doubled the cost
of water production and supply. However, reducing UFW has proven to be very difficult.
A different approach is now needed. It is undeniable that a Leak Detection and Control
Program is an essential component of any WS&S project, but how this is designed and
how it is incorporated into the overall project design needs to be revisited. A
comprehensive program can be useful not only in identifying UFW but also in identifying
an appropriate investment program which would maximize results and benefits not only to
the public but also to the service entity. Systematic and universal metering has proven to
be essential, while zonal replacement and rehabilitation of mains is far superior to the
piece-meal approach previously used. The project approach, which relied on the use of
WSC resources, small contracts and advocated a systematic but gradual treatment of the
problem has proven to be lengthy, costly and has resulted in only minor improvements.
An alternative solution would be to address the issue more aggressively by contracting the
activity out in its entirety, which would confront the issue directly, address the problems
identified quickly and provide for the introduction of a more viable and effective leak
detection and control program within a shorter timeframe (3-4 years instead of 13 years).
The initial project cost would be higher but the ultimate cost savings would be substantial.



-15-
Institutional and Financial Performance - Government Intervention: The
Government of the Bahamas has had a dominant influence on the operations and finances
of WSC, which is a fully owned public sector enterprise. Over the past ten years this
influence has severely limited improvements in operational and financial efficiency of the
institution. Needed institutional and managerial changes have been slow, and water tariff
increases have been sporadic. For the institution to develop into a commercially run utility
it is essential for it to be insulated from the political system of decision-making.
Even where the political system was sensitive to institutional changes, the approval
process, which is time consuming and dependent on political commitment, took too long
and was often introduced too late, resulting in continuous inefficiencies and a financial
shortfall. The most promising option, which is presently being explored by the
government, would be the introduction of private management in its operation.
Inadequate Attention to Sewerage Investment - Investment in wastewater
systems continues to be difficult. There is far more interest in developing water supply and
distribution systems and as a result sewerage coverage, although improved, is still far
short of the desired level. The tariff structure and overall levels remains inadequate, and
systematic planning for system wide development is poor. More attention needs to be
placed on the importance of developing a sound program, and investment in sewerage
encouraged if environmental concerns are not to become critical.
Procurement Lesson - The Bank's policy on meter procurement for small island
economies, which have a very limited supply base and material/equipment performance
testing facilities, needs to be reviewed. In the case of the Bahamas the purchase of meters
which would allow WSC to standardize became an issue during project implementation
because standardization for a small company is essential for efficient operation and
maintenance. The use of ICB in this instance proved to be unwise. It set back
standardization attempts by WSC, required increased retraining and multiplied stocks. The
problem was subsequently solved but it did underline the fact that procurement procedures
chosen for Bank projects need to satisfy not only Bank requirements but also be tailored
to client needs.



- 16 -
PART II STATISTICAL ANNEXES



THlE BAHAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REHABILITATION PROJECT.
Table lA          Schedule  of  Activity                                                  APP. - Schiadula listedIn Sept. 19S6. Appraisal report.
ACT. - Actual or rovIsed schiedule.
AS OF OCTOBER 31, 1996.
PARTICOMPONENT                         1956   __       1987           1955     -     1959    -      1990   _       1991            1992          1993          -1994  -     -1999
APP   ACT-  APP-  ACT   APP   ACT   AKP.  -ACT   APP.  AT   APP -ACT.  APP - ACT.  -APP -A:Ct.  APP -ACT   APP 'ACT
A. WATER SUPPLY REHABI1LITATION
A. 1 New Providence Welileld Rehalideaiion                         20      NA    40       Nil    54      Nd    68       Ni    62       NIL    93       5     100     1 0            1 0             to
A.2 Replace and Relie Mains                                         6      Ni     1 2     Nil    33      Nol   67       1 5    100    95              100
A2a Procurementi of Pope Materias                                                                        50            100            100
A.3 New Mains ConstrucliOn                                          10     Ni    42       Ni    61       45     100    55              78             76             100
A.4 Engincerng an SupervisIo                        I S     Nil   40       6      65      36     85      60     95      75     100    95              95             95             100
S. WATER IMPORTATION IMAPROVEMENTS.
B. I MAorgans Blutt Seawail Construction                           28      Nd    10       38     100    100
B 2Andros WellieldRehabiidation (Civd)                             26      Ni    100    4 1             100       - ------- -----   NOT  PART   Of  PROJEI T               (----
B 2a Andros WeIlfield tFinal Sump)                                                        10             go            100
B 2b Andros Weillil Ceabitaion (Civi) Phase 11                                                           Ni       --------) NOT   PART   OF  PROJE4 T                      (----
B 3 Dock Facdiltes Improvemenls                                                   67      Nd    100      Nil            Nd            NIL             NIL           100
B 4 Arawak Cay Reservoir                                           28      Nil   100      Nil           25              95            100
0 5 Engineeting and Supervision                     25      12     36      72     83     40      100    40              70             75             75            100
C. SEWERAGE REHABILITATION. 
C. I Downtown Sower Replacemnent                                                   7      Ni    44       Nd    72      NIL   t00    NIL               80             es             100                          -r
C 2 Vacuum Sewer Construction                                      20      1 2    54     50      7 2     70     90      85     100    100            100
C 3 Malcoirm Park Disposal Facdilites                                             1 3     NA    56       Ni    100      1 0            50             90            100-
C 4 Septage and Solids Disposal Facilities                         1 0     NO    3 1      Ni    100      Ni            NIL             Nil            10            100                            20>
C. 5 Engineering and Supervision                    1 5     1 5    30      2 5    5 1     25     7 2     30     93      40     100    60              80             90             90             92
D. PROCUREMENT OF EQUIPMENT.
D I Meters and Service Cooneclionl                                 18      Ni    50       Nil            Ni    68      NIL   100       Nd             NIL           100
U 2 Construcamo atId Maklaiitaiiince Eq1uuipiiiuid          2      3 1     711    7 4     40     100    50             141             901            DO            100
D 3 Telemetry and Controls                                                        20      NO    100      Ni            NIL             No             NIL            NIL            NIL            NIL
4 EngineeringandSupeivisinn                                to     25      14     50     30      100    45              45             45             45             60             60             60
E. TECHNCAL ASSISTANCE & TRAINING.
E 1 Management Audi & Insti. Impel.                               75      75    100    80              90              90            100
E 2 Commercial & Operations Improvements                           10      Ni    32       NA    55       Ni    78      NIL   100       Nd             NIL            NIL            NIL            NIL
E.3 Tautl Structure Study                           20      Nd    100    80              100            100            100
E 4 Unnaccounied-For-Water Imnprovemntan Program     5      8      40      80     74     95      94     100    100    100
E S ShIpping Pedlormance Monitoring                                22     30      44     60      66     70      88     90      100    100
E 6 Water Supply Alternative Study                                                79      Nd    100      Nd             Ng             Nd            NIL            NIL            NIL            NIL
E 7 Nationa Waler Resource Managemnent Study                                              Nd    100    25              65             100
Es8 Sewerage Planning Study                                        100    40             so             100            100
E 9 Trainin Programn Implementationi                               10      Nd    25       Nd    40       Nd     55      Ni    70       10    115      10    100    100
S. OUTSTANDING AMENDED PROCUREMENTS.
SA 1 Financial Management Improvemnent               -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -                                                                        100
SB 2 Leak Detection & Conlirol Prograimme.                   -                                    -       -              -      -       -                     -       -      -              -     100
SC 3 Pirocurement of Pipes 6 Fillings                -              -                      -      -                                     -                                    -       -      -     100
SDA4 TraIning.                                       -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -.                    -                                            -     100
SE.5 Update Pumpkig Station Repord                                                                                                                                                                too:  1



Table 18
TIlE aAIAMAS                                                                      ROlE:   I mwwua am wIltS c.MESSI( .90 OU) kge each wt, Jeu.nc pwi as a eenCnbILelts "A1
2 ltn9iti jestsA  d-uotee (LgJ Wi/SC) as a Llly8II- giank.t C2 910,8140  s U.1 ..aid
NlEW PRtOViIs1HCE WAl[ER SUPPLY AliD Si/WERAGE hEliA0iLi1AliOt PROJECT.                                                     ctet4taMuito, gIg e4dcI
RET PhYSICAL. PROGRESS DAlA fOR LXECUIEMi Of COIIIRACIS . JCIVIC WORKSAlit)GOODS)                                                                                                                              lADlES N- IA
L EGEIID;. 1`e Act  fPeCCeAcctGt
pINCltUDE AiLL COIiRAC IS CIJIPL E1lII OHl 6U81G AND Pi ANNbED fORt li  t I OWiING FISCAL TEAR)                                       A-ll   tilie.  t.nnslt8
-.  -                                      P88~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ft OUALIPICATIOf STAlE  13191ING STAGE                        CON4TRACIPROCESSINlG                               C-O3TRACT EXECUTIONI
Piogac  'ainso      blIpeA        815     tiasna anti                (08~ iET  -                                  WEMS                                   OAItS  -        -       (ACILIALASTIO0ATED CUMLAtAIIVE PERCE3ifPROGRESSJ
PARI DOegp       co*A&W. se      Pi"nt ~       m ltWsl   Ea"      Sia       End       MIR41    081K   iSSUE        Bi            at p    a.   CwoEye)Ce"ad  Cteac -.                                           98                            REMARKS
BnelO1esc4an0    IC8/ laanC-egnhjlaPi      - flW    -A       8      Altha-et API' (,4  Oiddtivg  (ACC-il    OS  IOAs..  CaWtaic  E-nce.u   Si-a  C.ns44u8        189                 I _I1994829
LCD  .a'w' Ce Ouai P/s Ostal   Ou8)a/I    'aeuul lk-tc.aueg        act)  eased       u.n                               IIIRDO  III  112 lJi  ki.  IiI  112  IIII 212
Al  CWO U aGiawgl               ( 4C.NQ.  CII uV LgItth.-UN   I  Hd    A4Ata ...........1191  29I1191   4                      RUA      tA               2) 0682                                         /0  h/nt                      CQv.tIsi,1
tdt8)ig Wsi.eii    C. 11, Salugee
Ti-/IA C.
A2a  PGOOl  Suf%AyulPife.        Lii     Cwausau                 tiu    Ap488,iu   -I        O03039)   1003092  0104891  5   080089U U03028   120/t89 2J06teno  18)0eV             iuo                                                   cuntpein
FeIsnenEValwas            Epw eCwP
USA
p2A  PG QOS 5e%tof P4m.,.        IS    Aq..aSyIiunt      WUA      i/A      WiA                        050G406  25 050 AU5   21/O800              220800                                    IOU                                           Ctlg4tISd4,
fmluot.Avne                  USA
A2   CW/Cl ii.bengIi.e* Walg  ICC        Inwn           WA       ti/A      tI/A    2) 0 ! i086Sik   20 04 )83                                     08A       Uu/u)  21281                   20  liii  921  92  30                       C-ant1jea
82   POOh1 SeE/lA ol Pips.      is       Semite        I---      NW~   ApaClu ia)                     06 0200   1500U   4                 WNA             UL8070 LIO                                                                    Carro,lege                    
U.S A-
A3  CW/Cl Matl" A S.Wj          Ica  W.AeigiG ... )  250398  100489  100698   06088 4  31 0889  18 0988 04)1886   I   110189 2)10888  22028t9  16 02809  1212969  22  eS  IOU)                                                          C0I.$4.ISJ
20.000 a20 mi a           Jani Veggiug
i8- aimi MASAI.            (MI)  USA)
Al  CW 0U)L M IdES04%4          ICU   it.1lliw.n E,. &A                    WA        lEA              u01u30    140006W   7       t0'    0000u   200101i 22~ I  o    iind208                   2J  40  40  40  40  40   40   40   CeofkaciWeAS
12 iig.tgE0 gtig              USA                                                                                                                                                                                          OcLOlto I I i991
Cil U
el  Ct/Ilo ain Cwsbucbtaw   iCo    Valls (May   0)iul1030          1 08  /1c90/   130910/  iuo01  IU000, 26003,00   2   250468  IOL0001   U00180  030280d  Oiltb85  25  /U  IttCoiAut
82          uu&AndwMeiA Law ul        vv Pa & )/S..        -               Nld    Apecafle     -...  ......------                -----      --- - -       0i1038s9( 01)088eIt  20  80  95, 30                                          fl.tpasI ofpf*d
Act    Cnsiiti/ln.
82   PC6-1  SLWIyuIPVC Pqt.  IS   C-ttkatlnEp,ei   I             -          614   ApltitL4e           -                   It                       I A    20 10 8/  2519 1 00a IOU                                                     Nolftlpan  g.cIp
82   P6 02  Snw,g 'APVC fVe. is        f~ O.Ezeul    I          -          ggcg    Ap44saii-I                             2     li/A     WVA       ti/A    0101)9du  0119         106IiDUaslljege
& ftlAtgi                  C%"Ap.Ra/i                                                                                                                                                                                      t.A katuld Ly 181
82     8101 SLapgipniPyeau    OR    US Psi/tal    j         -      -        lIe    Apps:Ai4o -.-   .     I        is808s   I    tAiA     li/A     lt/A              1001809       8 I0pgep.1
jAs,1K*ni                  CagJn"Iue
82   Ct/Cls                     isaaainig     IS  lga.atenlsace    I -      tics... .....at....                                                           Itti en   nU.nd          IS1  tn                                               l)pa.1ug
tncustiA,ilS          S.naas
112  Cw O2  landClsemie        LCli      -W faIMIIi.Wl    I       IkA    Af4it*~A .........124298U 030288   2                                    2,0398U 240398dI  1129           100li4pntooa.c
82a  Ct/C) 5*h% Esbleuef        OR       Bul.oetas               ........    01    Ap,.g.e ......c....S...  ......l.........  ........                     241080 lou UV19         80   00 uua
W6"                  FwCuiptAse 



Table LIcontiniued
K/it OUALIIIICAIIOI4 StAIE                  1292121N1 SIAGI                        CulIitAI,~    tlItOCtSSIPI                         CONIIIIACI tXsCUlaOg
HoJ.'Acai -be      Ilypb of       191     taNa114                     (MI(DAS)                                   DAES                                    DAILS                   (AClUMik4ISAiLDCUMULAIIVE PEtICEtit PROGltSSI
Pojil (Jesgo     Cc*.aI;A  ai    I',-    11.1011019  .4  U.W      SL..       End1     IA4iK    hA       ISSUE   -LaD        9   lew144  at. mip V   CusI.eJ1 C191W11   CGoated                                                               IlEu.ARS
IleI Coign    2  MaiC-L*aAIMdl 0  Leo     c4       cl    Apjou..-  APO' 50lkd i.hnJj   WAEti  LAW. 91A.10  Ccea.n3 E.UC.AK.  SlaBS   -1aijttw 99                 912 9,292                         19%64 2995
_  Ct)                  AfPlJ   eoM li 3.Ck"    B.M.Adc              - Aktiie (,..101It lUC   -9091(1  A.tie                                    III11III  02  III IF12  III     Sit 1  112
tIle  P0-0   Sc.PpI01P.er4)      IS   Theuiw P.anp      (-         10    Ap~l -c --- ---e  ----- 2-                       2       -                        S 104   150/f           t IOU19                                               Ccwllow.
82o  P0-02  Sup"il ield          Is      Paaepc        4          110    Ag&44e- .   ..... .. ---                         2                               20 1199  12019 9             20                                               Csqlee
P.ie  G,eieulo             Eq.e4enen
A nda   qw.4.if            (U SA 4
02.  PG-03  S.W, .woa&tede       13   Cfl&2 -AQlE l  4              I   ApjSkeA4       ....  .. 2...2                                      -         -        2     Os911t        log                                                    Coablea
e.a Pips A fe0Qe           Co.pbatei
Iii S A)
flI.    111Mal SspY giyCQINt.c  ais      A~.Aek.                  tic.   AppbceM .   .-3.........         '        2      3a                              Jo It de U 040i99        to  199                                               Cw.141ez
EIecLd Eq.paeA               (US A)
52. P19 902 SupgAg 4P1'ee       DR1    US Pwaca        j                  - 6S     AA49.CO14V                      ---.--------- ---                                20 129         19IU                                                  Cwag0leIe 
Stoop.                    CwPoe.onW
1121..  ktilouaAaa(Lo  lotF.  vvwel Se so.                         ml Ap1*0)A1.3                                                                                                                                                         Coegie
Ac      C.&pw-o.                                                                                                                                                                                                                CO
1125         LeislO-aig         L CO    Baum/lac 4fK       --     10    Ap44MAeA    -                                     2       -                        5 01 42  30 01 99           IOU                                               Coegield
1125         Supfd 4 aPvC P1mb  IS      Bode Ecpo.A    4          tI    ApfllCAc.j   5 04 90 2 059 5U                                            i2 99 90                                   20  IOU                                      Cesepelei              (3i
bib1         SopptjotlMbJAdis   IS      S-vwhAlot      I          1101   A"ja4.CWA              - -I  004 0  201(it.    5                                                                        Ion                                     CwWswwle
1,3  LVV01  HIislnI. 0.*Pf-e eCU          JQ MitcI...e        0105192   2//S         (J UlI  2s5UUl1 004W UW92 2105          UU 19105  cci ova UteUUoo3 deU s UU  05UG03912                                           191  Ub   Vb                             CD
0 . 3 M U  Iemi           At9 V.4..
4AM1.k.J51 4114,
PIC
CI  Ces-G   CQosUceoWa         bcO    W-gWdanev                 110191  11 0591   2101111  31 0291 (JO9981,  2 09091   3   99 02 929901292  99 0392  19 0292  1902 93                                          Ib  /0  95  199          CafO6Iem
IM=    4te Sewe            losSi Voke.
Rejitaceeeo &              Iffoid- USA)
2   PG-el S.M9y Sewage    DII    11yligAP.o.W            M-iA                I   030291  01029/ 09029/ 05013971I   12 06/ -1                             112999/i  3099994       199                                                   Cotni1d
P.,peL&Ao..M              CaP USA
C2   PG-02  S%4IopflPVC P.pe   ICU    Ce.Iai T.eO      )..-.    t9A   ---          230U496  23 0410  110496  1205916   3   2119999        -              100598   310199         199                                                   Ceqiela
aa91Feeng                  CoaP USA
C2  CWI0 InsJaeoI.9LtS944  lCD  SiVl ALo.veI1aS  I -              14A         I    50109/l L0059/1 (19 1291? 10 0298   2   26 049   15109JU/ 13 109 SU100599o   0 04)di.          IOU                                                   CenyIowl
49099001 GP A                 USA
2  .GO  SUeMlch&..,O    (             W.Sot  Sue           -    tlA    941-0--41-Jo-4ut   I '.                                                           10019   019995   61)19                                                        Car.44".
a Lbeoo9o



'I'able Iii (continued)
PRE CO.O            STAT C   E4-UAli7 A9 SOATG [STAl CG OiTACI P0CS etG                                                              cOiHTiIACT EOCUTIPEU
I.c               , 0l T          1p.d 1C c4                         3P TA-4 a"                             U WJ  Wf 1) OAI6S      AGAE lS                                        A (ACIUA8IES    Aie JC40 ULA lVP  E ICiP(* i L 1 93s
."H  (           CE. du lwo      P.40   Nl"90I           "01,   SLd          bId       A7        MiK  ISSUE       421)    IF   _441 4.4p 441  C2i..!.Cl C2C.90!  C!aA                                                                       REMARK!S
thk900W1*"0    41244  U30lC41-k.04  VI-0           A.         4     A,4..-  AP.41  60W  41099.49  Oe16ll  Lk   i(A.1200  Eo0    S 010A.40C904    I96                        90        91       1       19 31994 1999
.  (44         9A..0*10 I~~~~~4! Qu~~ 4~I( Q,.g    410 f  00. 1051-0             k.4W.C.a             m                                Ili- -i   litf   III 1'1  all'i lm  112
C2      u32 bPVG  e       ps.. . S .....&  .....-.   t404   Ap.p..I-.L                                                                                                            1.0                                                   C. .   _  ..
C2  PG MO]3 S4441 PW I         I I  S  UI S Poa11u                    .A..      .    .. ......  ......1.. )                                                                       41
400,4.AOS                    USA
C2  PG M44 9S4y04 bt*          VA    NlP D...p    I .            IkA    Ap4Cu ..  .. . ........  ---                                               IvO                           C1q90d
2  t1G        v '~lIl d1 0 s44.1   I S     I                    110..... AW9CVlu..6.             ............ v3 Cv0                                                                                                                   10l1*al0
4104116li
C2   1 Mo9b S   ply'A Ik"A'    I 5                     3 - _      40    A         ... ....... . . ......           3                                                                   IU0                                               C"144.
2  k0-G  "  Ss4401 WEle.b4A   VA          I I         I  --     I +1.W   App4CW.gA                                                                                                    IO                                               caof94*6d
4w,01% "01   "U
c2  LW-U07 5S11f ty            0  II   0      E  C     I         It  d  AMtCV1u       . ......    . .... ....    ............    ...........   ....  ....... ...   ..... ... Cld _
C2  CW 02 C-nV40o1 1100v LC.    IV J C0606             3         kA (9    API..cIM.             3                                                                                                        090                           C.ahl0
C2  C1200.0  CooOna.. 04       LC0 I AS CoW61f9n   3.            1401   A4410c.  ..........                                                                                                                             19              1201.41.1
C3  CWOI Cobua maidoD-p ICb   WoV.O              a &G.o,                 00019   90299  90299   0019U  OO1        070392 01    2   OOv6W  9001*  14129t 300lo90  210191                               35  99 190                        CoWFil.M                  0
lk"poal %%At               ll 641V.04"4                                                                                                                                                                                     Ma*y9. too .
(UNA1I USA)
C4  Cw0i CoUoc I01             O0Cb  C.w pCw"I           .        .     12 0o 93  NIA         IVA    17 03 95 26 U4 9s   4        o       O      00 95 2a oa US  2ff 03 9g                                                          10   9 in Ip4a9@ss .
DI PGol S244i70101010  IS                                                  I .vA  A,44 4u1..
02  PGDiA  44Ai 225            AICb         4 o A.   Ihl    tA   tVA       tUA      S 06 96  050696  190ob   16oa96   I   1109 W6          ,        ,    J4096  12019 7 |9I 4100122S 
(C2AI2296o L.IPOOIOLIJ                                                                                                                                                                                                    I Cml 226 wa=aim
02  PCGOlb S544%4104C001001    16C  AC   U IES . A     NWA      WUA       W/A    0S 09661 o50686   0os9e  160            9   1109s 6           .  ea    3J0996  100381 e     00                                                        Podwss4
ui quj  o           Ca         USA C*.                                                                                                                                                                                              I 4 a lc
02  PG0l S.94AV0a"bL ICb   Afl096E4.44                WA       IVA       IVA     L421906 aa   90  4 o 5090 IVub 112     2 a  1119        . W aa0Wba  1402IS                  4KIv 90m1mse
f('p444A,1.C  I W                                                                                                                                                                                                          I JCO-14  a  .  B"=
Ul  PG062  Soply0o,. 01 C      4126kC    A4L101.61 34A  WIA     WA        WA      230206  "23629   090997  1U069    2   1169 0            .        .    21.1191  310300          19                                                    ..daU4
f4p441101a 9(1601240 C. I us9..
V2   P103  SEppfg4 oolOlI.  4Ica   V-.- 14S4            WA      WA        WA      23.0299 e   029(W  ...... I bi.129 BI            .... .    200296   490. 9do  l                 190                w                                 P. 9 9
EE                           .. I m .!    i.i0 00
U4.kk. .01po4                USA
02   PG-04  $,WV bf 4o1   wb49 C,0 5A 40Pop           J- -      Idl Aqp410l.U      ------ --- -                             i  40996      .              400796   141996   30 tog                                                      Po~.9006
E+4--mm             CN0P0.00                                                                                                                                                                                        I U9pr
3.4  0014.Q ~04~l)   (U SA) 



Iable lII (continue(l)
PRE-QUAI IFICATiON STATE                  a0DDING STAGE                        COiTlRACI PROCESSItrU                           CONIRACT EXECUITION_
hqact Wow          (pp.01      1ad      N.o mw                    (OA( DAES)                                DAnES                                 DATES                 IACIUAI/ESIIMAIEtOCUMLUiATIVE PEHCE111 PROGRESS
PARI DIsgi      CwiTmc wIj    Pn--  N44993 .d1         Ilkq    SW        Ed       (ANK   IUAN    ISSUE        UiO     2  DwA P 1- U.m* app C0ACI comwd  CuawCI                                                                    HEIUiARKS
8jWDOu  604a I   I(16 9MIWI Cu .01Uos 25  a (A ' 1d    AjMoouo  AlPI' 161l  UKdo   (U4 'EH               1S UIDA.A.. C.^I(ol E  .K0   SolIs   -,o q4..  ID6C9    I DW       1991      1 99i2   1991  1994 1995
.CD           .              .fp"    . O....1 P  (Ig.. D s   )oo,.on I..".o         11W'd ilarNd                   u                   III  !!i II  112  III !12 Ill 112 11  if-
02  fti MMSup  )4adCon. D       R So n C9no  IOK  t HC4 Ai .    . .-                     . I                                                       go .4   .  1 0 10  6 0 DI                                                 P0d s..1d
EWOM1pi                   C.l0-bmi                                                                                                                                                                               A Wg&. 1989
146waiscir pWIqS1          (U S A                                                                                                                                                                                2 uinI n 196t
2 wols 5l 1999
201o1wls) 1989
02  PG- 05 f        C.    b-C , IC8    Boa.lE.WSi             1--0H   Ap ch-if  -                  03 90  15 06 90  4                     2012 90 20 12 W  310191                       90 190                               Pwdhised
E= .              ~~~Co.o. *m0                                                                                                                                                                            2- Fo.J b.0,11o.s
(2 . sdj.) i*t) LS A)
1)2  pO r0  So     C-bWWc ICU Cli                                    Apt.40."3 E.ogsoA I  1  ... .   O. 1 u J       4                     lO uW   4  l zu l   wu112wJ 9 uUj             w 1w 0  IId-
Eq.ipul..d         EP.0..,,~a Lkj                                                                                                                                                                          I CAg g65 IoIw
aw--oos                                                                                                                                                                               7 160206.1.-
f  BOCIlladI Dm1 
02  PEi4Z75 S-*OCMUWi  ICD  1.6 ^PE41Pdz-0-1                  "N4   A..l.. A-          -            00  U lbi000192 6              0        0       1092   000293                 I       W I                                PlUS4wwUedTK 
02  Pa 0lb S.pWlC01 CoIk        9    BS. Eq;ool I             4      Ap t. ...... .  .        I       11 91  0)97  60910 92 9o                                  7 93                            IOU|                         PUd-99
EqWpoemw                 cOIpmawOI                                                                                                                                                                               I-SnC. ln'c
02  CWOI S.0 dTPEly a W *.L     ICU        .          .. .4   AppNdb A . . . .A               )   13 12    J 15 01 91  3                                                                                                     0 . -  .  4)01s0ud
Eq;paEd  (SCADA
E4  PE-OI Suppd7d t4      .  OR   W , A-9Uh            R      4401   Apl6uIia                                    -                                0804          07 069                                                       Comoided
Cae*r Eq"wp.i.             C('W0                                                                                                                                                                                                         CD
(U K)
E4  PG 02 Sogof  Ea*o Iap   11R  WalO 11I,                           Ap.AJ   t                   .HOI   A.. .... . Ut    04  06 oe u9 di                                  IUO C199Ied
Cu.901l E.p.gool"AC4
(U ,I~
I S          tF5t h6EIDe rD I' UREYEHE            U IoTUi   5 SIAH     lORD UHDtISrURSED FUHIDS.
SA-l CS-41 C"k               |    |  KPP  |P.ai            I        I             9|O 4                             2   99I0 94                                                                                         100 CW.VII.d
SA-2 PGUI   =  )     01 p.AuL.     |OI1ldSmIm-                                  9 |  I94                                                                                                                                 1900 CU,eeId
58- i PO-U2 SUia DI           I aw I  WacC9.       I        I        I           ou.94 |                                  074965                                                                                          to Iwd
s.-ih P0-Ui CeageCoI  CU DI)    AO I. 1aI              .              A440 C 1  --------I --.- ----.----- -9 ---- -- -.-.-  0000      .      OOOU9    S 00066s  308999                                                    199  CoMg4.l.4
Cau"AMMcY                Cwtsl&mId.y
58-lb POUi spg4i01Vio90scH IC              J T90oacal  (           ------}   |                                                                                00099s                                                      199  CUT     AI .41
Se ?  Pl301 SUof Most    I c e | Ps-..,  Cup                   N04   App-.9N 0|                                          07 115                     OU ww95  9 9o 95                                                      199  C-bpk.d
69-3  P041 dCO IA  diCEqP                               ----   140    App8c9a 7-------     -1 1294  2   040495                                       U903995 OW09f                                                        100 CIWIUWd
01qi.a                    Lo.L' 



TABLEI 1i1 (continued)
-- --                                         PRE QUALIFICATION Sit           -          IOIUGSTAGE                        COIIIRACI PROCESSI4tG                           CaNRACTEXECITION                    ___-
R*0 Wo 9 i        I ypId G     IIINJ    tw NW                   (0DA IES)                                DAIES                                DATE S                (ACIUAIJESTIMAILOCUML&A IIVE PERCEIII PROGRESS
I'ARI D0.41    CQ1l a          P-C   Nla0lIu g d      a 0l*    SlI    Eod    IIANK    hARK   ISSIIE       [D      A  Eati aj,o  alx* oqp Coo3ac  CoI.ald  Con9ad                                                           REMARKS
IhW O.~4*mi  K.IV M9iCoIulaas iD                of1   C 4    AIRo-od All' I.d IW 3d,hoj  O10VI d0 3IIi'.R IfU UIJA'o.iCu      .  S.lwis  :.uq1wo. w  1U 5 9 !  19o0    190         ?    2   93 1994 i995
I ACIJ                  Io'Mw  P    JU  Poe .0 4NbJIIIA,   )oeAe30.-  kK..,o..       Io~  11--       O..oil   1   to I                                2lt  I II 11124 too 1123
SC-I PGMI S.P iW P.IeINW IC    9  P.t'ola                   34A I    h. U4.1                                          0104 9                            00 ao95                         |                          300  CapI.el.d
FOM~S                    CwoiI.ot,o.
SC 2 Ptl U1 S41  r d   Pws D       Mwity Pmp Co I                  App.a s . ..... ..... .. ....9...... ---- --- -                  _ 09 95                                                                        100 Co-plcll4
SC-3 PO-MI SooIyofPpow"    DR         EwlsyMw Aippan (.           -            --4---- A p plicab.                      .. 1I079 100795      900995                                       |IOd  Com,,el d
SD I CS-Ml 111d0wc PWen*q   OR  C."p ae.sa4                  340I   AppbiA ---. .  .--                                          170495          00 00 95 W     o10 95                                               100 CW49.Wod8
CWW.*mmcy             &k(.. hiAi II-C
SE-I CS-MI  rl7kml9ITw"    DR  fwvullWal.u          4       I     ApicAl  ... .........  .... ...   . ......  -    I  07 04  9  07 04 95                OU 06 95                         |100  CoIW0,IoI
SC- I PG  d2 S.RtdSV eI       I CC B Simn.ol0wA    4         3      Aikapp I           . .              .  .. .........  ....  .    .0 W 95    W     Oa 95  0 0ous                                                   IOU Coologa4
StJ-I Pl-d42 &c41,o C.14      DR  1 41               4c . I. l l u  Ap.ab --        -                ............ ...                 .                 I O ou V5                                                                              00 'u5  |414d 5
SC2 P13 Ml S%dyo 1 p.,f   DNot    J.,k PIOk        tI co    AIW,u                   . ..          ...                          lUOl 95 l"00  0l 4u 095 90 00 05                                                     100 Coo14I.d                 -
A   P .iie  ..p
SC.2 P(-03 Sofff d P.ws    DR H   t l..d (W.". Htp---- N.......... . . ........... .. ..  0 w    00 95                                a          09 0 oo0095  000095                                                3oo Cw10,mm.)
P0p3 C.
C)



'rAble    IC
IIIE BAIIAMAS                                                                          IIOIE   I rrw 04 aoiluJoO.4    u   MA8(... Ms ro momal C8888ka.6
NEW PROVIDENCE WA 8lE t SUPPLY AhiO SEWERAGEO  EIIAu08Al(II0H PROJ)kC]
2 b5.Jci.p018.0  OAjc8d oqW888o  8,0d L N,88.844.
$IV ill(14ll OAlt of KItCUIIONr tOfLOOS  IAHIX sr"sf sl AHIU ^^RAMWC   GVKb,1sAHt A.0^   IACIr^1 ASvISlAHt Hk Ato I D                          LIIK,K,uII r;uID^b  ;eK4rAt    lklttCl
(118c888)88A8 C088808C800088818(0.08800884A888VA74883810   1880108(0088808808.08 LARI                                       ASSUt4k8  r;nMv^oaMoIl  80. U.S80o.
-4 33 M. on ks88
IAELE l - 2A
1NV1A8808 1088 PRtOPOSAL                     CONIdIACI PR)OCESSING
P(.d CQ09C          Type r4 NW" -d                          AD OSELtCI F 8 DATES                A      r           AIES I.iU   AAdd                     CO8II8ACIKXICUTIOi- PIENCENAICUMULAIVEVPROGRESS.                      RE 6KS
Pan  DeSk..      Co,*w aid8        148080.8,4 08   fftiA.-  BA148- hiqo.u  S0800)- BWo* App  Appgo-i3 Co,&Ocl - &.48    Co n1rcl  84.8  MM9
am _.i_  ____on    M_   Coi.Iim.  AgW.d App-o.4   FM8   C u.o8        Co.-A        0    S.g*-.   'A    C.,oA.80   MM. IA4.  1908           !      - 8988 - -   !8 !I!   9-        2              !99 _ ___
--    -          __         FQR      Li ~~~~~oposOf   !~ma  ;?(Iqonq  Co.*.c8              5i.n4c.                               181 2  !88  f~?  bit Il-  888  883                fD12   8
[iA
Al  CSOI. .sogn & EoW w.n..       C.onp(k*  -'1.9                  260208 118031bb    2b       29 04 8   01880 o 005 88   u3 080       .    1 4          10  98 1801                                                     COMrPEIEP
An.os0 V0e808s      J. McKee 8Inn 888
USA
A4  CS 01D RSIow84 8 reaLy    C6nPH 18.8             -    13 06 3088  140388 ISC488  20 04 88            14 05 88  14088    300489           47          25  9w  100                                                     COPtEIEU
S&.iy 09580 bonl, DEC  &88McKee8  Inc k
USA
A4   CS01 D0s.9n U inCoomn        Cw.pf5X.flw8   28 1086 288 108 8   0 10J0 10b6b  2b 80WK  100401  820581  2U048/ t         898)'.)   Sl          20  JUO  40 40 Cu   75  OW  IUU                                      Lt)U8P8IEIED
USA
A4   CS 02  AsRs (P8s s             d Wawrfieserc8O    24 12 8l  07 01 08b 06 0888  22 02 88  150 8     20 118 O  5 068 8   15 090      8                    25 65 65    9 IW                                            COUPtFIEO
oasgsl DI Mmn          Cw88s II8 88
A4  CS 02. Sq4.c.. oooioM-.       W'/. i.-8c8l0  (          t8VA        _      7        7                 o JJ  0709u0 0803U3    7  I8                                         Jo  8    b0   0   b  fib  90ot            CO8PI(It._ 
Pt0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 C)       I
E4   CS GI DCshgn0 S'.du A   S. 1%... IPa.AIo                      0b u2 80  .8 02 -b                            2 U035   0888161      -          80U                                                                    P- 80 198(80
08..8088d&.l8.      ,OJ PA(`0.8                                                                                                                                                                           CCJ88IPLE8
[UK I
88   CS402  PS Irnsucion,of    S. w80nl, I laC,u                   0805n7 030087          7    230807 220188b  I80888  8IJ8W0   20                10   30  l0  885  100                                                  COUPIFIEO
S..wd UiluOl8o         980) ea8.80
Rd1hambilon,             (UKI)
85   CS-43  Design endC son        G.oga V C.O                              20 It 89     7     30 18 89 14 05 90            14 00WU                                          1 5  20  25  30  32  70  85   95   95  COMPLETED
88gI88 C8    Dock    8 CoOwy i ID
Faceflailba*oapan      80388888cn
PTC
CS   CSOI Dein am Con I            O"or P r1rK. p          300685 020885 240905  300685                  0 12285 01 1285  010090   24             70   80  90  95  W   'JS   o  88  180                                  COUPIETCO
YE G S.w.aga        .84 paiko" IId
P88858I                  (UK)
CS   S 808 CoUaruon              rIAb,o  A,Aoy & 04 12 88           1 88 12 8  21 12 9G  -               o Ul3u8 01040U   01 8087                 I lUr                                                                  COtPLEIED
mal,er.4on              Als-ci.8o
CS   CS 02  D.Rr     Aro  S.o-s 0      I  Wd  00 00 90 00 00 go0 09080  la 07  90go 9009U  W 0909  02099309009             00 3                                               80 90 IU    3U  00U  80  OD  90D           COM8PE]EI8F
RA.w=8A8c                (UK)
CS   CS43  S%p.n8On 8       4N P  C4.Up K  ' _.o8       -                 -                      -....   A 3A.811-o80383  230092   238119Z                                              loo                               COt4PtEIEO
Deep (0.(08.888 wa   amdl.. 88WI 88)
CO   CS 03 F.1.    Dmon dol    b".8 .   A.o.c                       2b 1     0 blotd                    99 080Ub  U(988b      U0U0                                                 80lu   bU 890                          jOtelIC
S=_II __ F8.88         EngIn.onng                                                        _                                                                                                                     88_...  
780*8 788888sCidbs



I'able 1( (coIntiniued)
-NVITATION FOR PCOOPFRAC  PROCE SSING
Pn CawaK0            1yp. ld,vo  ,1d                          A1SEiECT$OIIOAIES                               iC AItIS                      01h9  Add          CONIE$AC1E71C   PtE CEtICUUUIRA9IVE$PROG$l.tSS                          REIAAR(S
Pan  L.oJI        C.ta               N.a-.o.myof    FINAl   [$ANK$  He*.i20    S4;NS-  8..kAAw Ap2$$0.,l$ Cw*41~   SOld    C.0991    Man  M.%1
2909,song    M4atC2w0,Li"Ih  Atpo..d  Ap$WIn6..J   1w            wrn     CullI        ol    Sja.lu       ot    $.rn44lh.  Ud.s UU.-  $980    $199          159 -I91 9IYl Ag9 -' 1993   1994 1999
1 01$    lisi   Puopo..i            sk bu1   C10$lJd             SO$OK*s                                 fit !     I!  ii ! il2 !h  I! !!12  !  III i2  Ill j12                      .    _
CS   CS 04  F2 -.              S.  S      S IoAlsI,                     W 00 W  O 90  W. 11033 W  7' 09ID2    .11h                                                                                        So0 IDO                  COIRE I ED
SCP     C S o S   Sk..d p g  E    oo                                 00                                    Oo5
FaP1Iy Phase I           lCaf.du
D3   .   90g Lb'4 spoWsi s     9a-nil  s w.                                                                                                                                             =.
CS   CS4l F1h;  SVeAU oISWp           19S88y& %            1           07 08095  08O  !        1        3       O098  005985128 ODS( goo                                           CC11PIEfl)  .. _
FacdIy Phase U            C..
T O
03   C        hIlg. 14 S9aifto      CV p01.s"                  l      1N1d4 1                0                                                                                                                                               A4 2CS 49C
TulemoriryA Co5.oI.   a1013.. 991 kw                                                                                                                                                                                  Cws"99
PT 
El   CSO4  Uuce d MarIfWaA.M&   PSCE.-u.8..                  29 12K  G  169 05 6 OS 02 86  31 039            29 09a7 040687  01211          04           40 9470 90E                                                               COUPLETEO
USA
E5  CS51a FamI pIlods               SC E.n.^4i                         1901 OaI 1 4 $4019          09 0909   a    210988  0110 98   31.12091   04    60 t                                                                          COUPLUIED
USA                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C
E9   CS-0l Wu$8, S.wage            CAlus O-                  0$ $099  IJII 1199      O 12 1290  0$ I091201O09O   2909&1$  020391   02 099  29           10   99  95 $UU                                                           COMPEIED                       _
Tom ElSkock   Sloy" A,   -. 0Ndi $,                                                                                                                              2
USA                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
94   CS-0i uns-0w..JlOmWM..   9$$.$WO$m                                $9 0999  20 0599  0$ 0996G            22 04 6   04 1190   0) I 1h                199   90  190                                                              COIAPtE1E0                    0
P10.99               698$$$0,$6, (U K $                                                                                                                                                                                                             i
Ee   CS01 S| R           Pe,"o -w.    A..$1 $.d r0$ 091?  $1 00 81  26 0 817  0$ 090?7  $3 11     2 09 1  14 018                 2 13 09$ I              40   D0  1          1 9    0                                              COMPLETED
ES  CSlot.Wt   "o SbV                 A9-11.01$                       $i$ IIL/  $0$$I$ofl 120$ 91            21$9 II .f13 $I I    $$096Il                40$  19$X                                                                  coUptEIED
lo Yom9 1962           $I 819. 0
14.5"0.40   80$
ES   CSO    $WP00a0$O$1  I         $oP.k2.a$ 1~8d$$k-pfA-y            010491  220581  9000991   U0089?  020998  2$10491   21 0398                                   2  go  too                                                      COL$PLEIED
S.osag. tlon S0109. and P9.b.1% I id
7
9



TIIE BAIIAMAS
NEW PROVIDENCE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE REtIAI3ILITATION PROJECT
TABLE 2:    KEY FINANCIALIOPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE MONITORING INDICATORS (APPRASIAL vs ACTUALS)
AS OF OCTOBER 31. 1995
NEW PROVIDENCE Only
WSC fiSCAL YEARS (JAN.  DEC j
1956     I     S        7            19       $          @SlS 1i9 1       19        2 l      Is                 19                                      94
- - -  . - . .A !!   As!:    A!!'       AC.    A!?:    AC!          A!!:      ACT      A!e       AC!      A!!T         1     APP.    ACT:    APP:    ACT:    APP:    ACT:.
W       ucaineos yaw es o ('00D).            21 54    2175    2891    27.80    29 63    27.96    3072    2794    3385    3567    33 03               3623    34.20    31.01    3543    3754    36.70    3182
Swuageao memons r  NW ' ooo)                  4 00     4 28     4 S0      4 67     5 00      4.82     5.10     503       5 20      5.15     5.30      6 34     6 40     564       560 s    S         5.60       6.7
Wa psdias  you  d (000 MG)                  502 60   512653   30000  6655.60   300 00   458.43   300.00   520 25   30 00   588.05   200 00   438 57   20000   494 46    100 00   447 43   10000   25866
Walm S JImp.d yearb('000 MG)                 3000   644 10   932 O   747 140   912.50   724.74  109500   82060  1095.00                  1221 50   944 3   1277.50   S75.71  146000  3209 24  146000  157943
ltlwmlafdaduead(OOONMG)                    2352 99  236560  2393.43  2371 s0  2428 02  2514 99  246618  2566 0   254936   2684 58  256 89  266907  2521.42  263770  2630 56   2655 45  2669 21  28174 74                  3
WiW   sd (W XMG)                           1282 38  1276 90  134031  1244 70  1408 25  1334 08  141911  135900   1554 99  129099  161114  1304.48  1683.62  12968    1749 09  1310.51  1835 06    1340.1                 g
3.hflcdd-bI wd d  S%).                       46 00    46 00    44 00    47 1o    47 00    47.75    40 00    41.00    39 00    5191    31.00    63 11    35 00    46.48           33 00    50 54    32 00    41 i s
E.nployes /I OOw corecdW's                   34 50    3351      1400     32 48     3 50    13 39    33.00    13 03      32 so 5   0 24     32.50     32 26    12 50     1001     12 60      940      2 50      9 47
EM"IACAL
A.weBgd iail lven  I 6 o  IG (Cwlol 1i)      13353    32 03     11 3    32 24    32 27    35 25    32 63    36 79    1333          2 29    13 47    12 34    33         32 02    34 24    32.38    34 68    16.46
Avcaga WaAlladi I   OIG06(c0m 33S31)         3091      3348    3097      30718     330      3430     1364      3565    1399       3340     32 35     343      3212      1101     33.30     1138    1349       3505
AMCSAIN aeiaf Ie avafl SgalWgy sak$           3a       4 12      300      4 27     300       5 19     300       6 45     30        926      300                300      835       300                300       66
blCesnlatIss  M vianI*c3 Icisi Dv          35) s0o0   34 163 32  365000  3502!5  35sou0  7906 20  3 300.00  1I%020 SO00 00  6433 SU   35000  6000   330000            516300  200000 330186S  30000  324862
TOW Opegalig Revuue  Wst & Sewerage    I35500 3550 00 16546 00 34992 00  3832900 35245 O0  1954500  16793 43 2354100  5866 00 2295100 3609300 2455800 3559300 26668.00 1623800 2802 00  22053.7
opm4dgww) of VW0
1" Opmab Cos3 Exchidi D0Fsdadon           33546.00 30367 10   2287 00 10848 00 33463 00 3 34 00 145S9 00 35438 63  15674 0U 1371 300 17213.00 14314 00 36407.00 316917 00 384000 38305.00 2327900  3S8  6
NW n asas $oV
Towdional S S wO0igO FOV                      000      000      000       000      000                000      U00       000      000       000      000       000      000       000      000       000      000
Ocia S ens asO0          .                 3490 00  359303  342000  4060 30  3351 00  3145 00  3336 00  3214 G0  4023 00  4336150  3U62  | 441100  394 00  669600  384 00  G27300  484900  840301
Ww6t9Ib3 46-                                 14 4U    GG S0    14 2U    12 40    14 2G    la UU    1.1633    U9 tK      111  3I05 w         4 UU      309     14 96     0 52   14 40                14 13     0 46
ObsarvrAcRawo                                 3 24     3 92      139      151      154       1 12     I63       1.23       15U    0.4U      I6       001      1372      0.40      301      0359               0 S  43
Pwjsd kl  SIvf     (USI WO aquw 3           45300   250 00  5293 00  2454 00  0393 00  39880  7848.00  6621 20  634300  2938 60  3441 00  5663300   680 U                       484 00
Gaaonvai esqu   patlcalo (USS VW,   3   8900          .       119900   500 00  221 00  220000  2682 00  200000  250800     00                                62100              378.00
*-  Sai1 m hi hParss Fa Cfl Boach S'es ae Faca.



NEW PROVOSiNCS4 WATER SUPPLY ANO SEVES.AGOE HI95ABILiTA TIONlPfOJECT.                                                *
rab I e  3A:  COMPAhIlSON OF APPRAStAL ANDM  IiEVSED PHOJECT COST. (US 5 -O0 OR 0$ 'a").
AS OF OCIOBER 3, 1SS.5
APPIlASIAL             COMMITIMENTS                 4E-COMTUMENTS               TOTAL  )OM Ti*Nl              .                                             .
PAIIT COMPONLNI                         PIROJEC I COST                    IOIAIE                        1DOMAIE                (iEVISy  &COS                      ARASONS FOR PROJECI COST
. . . ! Uee~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w                           tP  r [AL    I      .~.  u+l z A           1 o:,m uuuiW  iu  I9Q11  e u X      i i0+4   tOA                     o .gveWUu*ERIn JU!S
A. WA TER SUPPL  RESiAa"TA TroN.
A I Ht.  PsoskdcBW5 W kc5Rhdti5alon                 $51236   $2.625   S3.n561        $0     $271      $211        $0        So        So        S0     $271      S211 PobIpoL,wi huMi coiis56iMog ul Seawa   fRf 0. hi 195
A.2 Rficpwi*eidI.e swUMiis                          S1.953     U434    S2.3d7    $3.927     $992   S4.909         S0        $0        $0   $3,921      $902    $4.909
A. 2a P,ocus5t  d Pipes                                 $0       s0       $s       $284        50     $284        $0        $0        So      $284        $0     $284
A3Nht&   ai&Co8s11c"iOSl                            51.898    $1265    53163    51.990    s53 d2.843              $0        S0        $0    S1.990     $853   12.843 Cmuw wsus uso*lsa kosjobhis 1990.
A4 Eskw0 u9g mud Supcvisn                            $1770     S192      $962   $1.104      5599    51303         S$        $0        $0   $5104        1590   $1l303
SUR - TOTAL                                       $5.857   $4.518  $10.373    51.305   52.3a5    $9.010          $0       $0        $0    $1305   $2.305   19.610
0. WATER tUPORTATION IAPROVEMENTS.
I I1 Miu We Sean;J Consu uc1ia            S          2.2G8     1567   $2,835  I I.d2G       1.882 S3.10 7     0 n           50 1 U    So     1.82     S I,W12 S3.10H
02 h                                                            3os21 U.t  Rtl5   (F  SurlI)  1138  $32  $459  $200  $0 1  $505  S  $0  $0  $200     5301      $501
0 2d Au os Wei6eI  Rusa 0i    n (PSIasu )              $0        $0        $0     5200   S1.39z2    1.592         $8        $0        $0     5200   S1.392   $1.592 15O0  PART OF PROJECT. Needt4 lr wauw qua5y.
830 3    O faciii"slsppoweam"                        $269       567      $338     $355      $600      5955        S0        $0        So     $355      5600      5o5s
8.4AgawaCay RBsmv8k                                  $195      $362      $557      $214     1524      $173       S         $0        S0     S214      5524      5738
a5E.0w1eshbo SUs14upw1uou                            $366d      $8       $434      $2Gu     $117      $391        $o        s0        $0     $290      $117      $397
SUB. TOTAL                                        5..238    S5.383    54.G25    53.075    S4.80 la    7d.89I    $0        $0        $0    V2.815    p3.424    58.209d 
C. SEWtEIAGE SEIIA8SLIJASOU                                                   .                                                                                                                                                               I
C Ia    t &M5ikSo.&( RuIacvfl              l.4       $U5u       3        SZG $3. uu     1. U24   55.412           Su        SU        50    SJ.1 0       1 4u24    S5.412  I Bhsuy   ClDwe5pLuu42     4                              _     S.
C2V .d..wuaS4waeComsAKimi                          $1,24G   S2.045   S3.29D    12.100   55.150   S1.250           Su        so        $0   S2.504    $5,150   51.250  * lLdCQ Iu C6w4i                                              dl C.
C.3 &lcuM, Pa1  Disposal fJcBis                      S785    $381    S1172        5551     $200      $720      $210       S00     S300      5 721     $299    51.020 Tie 9095 pl. in4Ib ledu4 wil C. I &Wvov
CA* Se4 ao ad SoO4s Dsuosa f ciaes                   585      S182      S217    $300       $71U0    1.000        SU        50        S0     $300      $700   S .000 Wwp lb f95lwasa MAucII 98Cwmf56 Ceou1 i6naale
C.5 EAV.*. l 14id SllptrA14                          SGOS      S151      $150     s904      S2U0   S.l10u0        $0        50        $0     5900      $200    $15100
SUII - TOIAL                                      S3.339   S3.073    5G.412   $1.509    57.H03  S15.482       S210       S00      5300    57.809   S7.973  $55,182
PROCUREMENT OF EQUIFPmfNT.
02.5 AcScs See Sen-ice Calkwedeh s                   5854       $10    S584       S544         S0     $544        S0        $0        S0     S544         SU     5544
0.2C    enswu.c8on 4ud""eIlucm  Eqwuwe.uu           Sl.278     $150   S1.428   $1,9115      $350   S2.1G5         So        $0        $0   55.8l5      6350   52.I58
0 3 1*4seky ailW Ce4buls                             $684      $117      $185        S0        S        S         SU        $0        S0       $0        $0        S
0 4 E#4imm4vS imbd Stpwiv wA1                        S141       $28      1117       $23        JU      J2J        SU        S1        S0       523        $0       $23
SUB * TOIAL                                       $2,943     $343   53,246   S2.382        S3-0   S2.172         $U       SU        SU    4?.3b2      $35U    $2,132
e. ItCIIlCAL ASSISMANCE & 11IIAWNti.
E.1 M ileaJ9  hiAwdil 4 B&skkkaukauilmub awu5s.      $12U       $30      5          S5C S      12      SW         SU 5      $0        S        $58       $152      55l5
E 2 Cau.sukeMiJ & OpOla"M                            s3w iu595s  53b  590  $450      $0        $0       $0        S0       $S         $0        so        $0        S0
E 3 Teil SISucOe Slu4y                                54U       55a0      550       $40        $5      $45        So        50        SU       540        $5      S45
E.4 Uk4 c    eF-458  knpoyotiUo  PuoDgan             $210       550      5250     $253       520      5213        $0        $0        So     5253       520      5213   hilliikum. ExwMimili Fuwsnoc a Pus3iase 85
E PSe eig Pecamw     bmiamii                           580      525u    $100        SC0       520     S0         $0        s0        $0       $60      520        580   Equuu)u4j5a..5wJ ..
E.6 8W    S5.ujy AialNaivd Stuay                      512       $S8       590        Su        S0       $U        So        S0        58        $0 $4              O S
E 7 lal WAw0   R4, ,ce a4ageuSli St-Ay                $48       S12      SO         So       S0       S$         SU        $0        $0        $4        S0       $4
E.e Sm.tage Plasg  Slwy                              $80       520      $100     $105       525      $130       S         SO        Su     S105       525      S130  *kisi  mIW uExdaxcjefkue flols
E 90 Tsu.e9 Piouak kvip4.ta9*s45o                    S1I0       $40      S290      $35        S0       $35        $0        $0       S       $35         50      $35
SU0 - TOTAL                                       Sl.580     5290   51.450       $540       Su2     $031        $0        $0        $0      $540       582      $631
S. OUISTAN01NG AMENDED PROCUS4EMENIS.
5A I ful-cial Uagllmd 44W-mg.wc u                    .$584                                    S14     $IU0         0 S     S        $0      5584       514      $S19
SU 7i .1k Oa-Le4 sCc4*SA                                                          *Z"        $I5 u  .  .  5S    $255  $9    $9       $       5204       $55      $255
SC.3 PuocSee.,wol '. el5po 6 5u5ys                       *S F                     5500uu    W 9       SI           U        S        Su      55u0        SU    $S 8u4
SO 4 T1.*W7WT"inU                                    .         .        .                     so5 50   535        $0        $0       50       531       S        $31
S1: 5 Up4u P.u hly Sh2        R.Pwl pO41                       .        .          538        S0       530        SU        to        S0      $30        S       S30
SE 6 Co,iuw  I-x kg 6ueeuglo                         .         .        .                     S* s0     VS        So        SU       50        5          I        $3
SUN. IIA.L                                            S0        S        S0      !5552      525     $557        50        S0        So      $55I       528     $577
P0iSECi  ESIMAItOCoSS .A CI0o8A )I. 195             5.53C     59.S95S   526.502   512!4L2  j5544i!  59,8U2:4    52 u       ua       530K   J?1411   f!41golJ  $3.J52
P0isyweuu C 4w nr..s                              51.7051     $019    2.617
Ficsc Con.Ium                                     S3.083    5.:135   S4.855
TOIALPROJECTCOST                                    525325l I!_056  S_3537                                   .                         .       .    _         ..  A. 
55:, U1129'.._



- 27 -
Table 3B:   Financing Plan
Appraisal Estimate            Actual
Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total
----- US$M -----          ----- US$M -----
Government (equity)     10.9    0.1    11.0       10.86
IBRD                     -      10.0   10.0        -      9.95     9.95
Caribbean Dev't Bank     -      4.5      4.5       -      4.5      4.5
European Investment Bank  -      7.0     7.0        -     10.27    10.27
NationalInsuranceBoard   1.2     -       1.2       1.2      -       1.2
TOTAL                    12.1    21.4   33.5      12.06  24.72     36.78



- 28 -
TABLE 4A:
Bank Loan Disbursements as of OCTOBER 31, 1995
A. Estimated World Bank Loan Disbursement
Schedule (Appraisal vs Revised) in USS '000
Appraisal             Actual or Estimated
Bank     Semester _                                                     Remarks
Fiscal     Ending   Disbursmeni Cumulative   Disbursemen  Cumulative
Year                           Disbursment              Disbursement
1987       6/30/87     500         500           0            0
12/31/87    600         1,100         0            0
1988       6/30/88     900        2,000          0            0
31/12/88    1,000       3,000    i    83     1    83
1989       6/30/89  T  1,200      4,200         230          313     Opened Special Account:
12/31/89    1,000      5,200        1,718        2,031    in January 1989.
1990       6/30/90     800        6,000         317         2,348
12131/90    900        6,900        1,442        3,790
1991       6/30/91     900        7,800        3,252        7,042
12/31/91    500        8,300        1,309        8,351
1992       6/30/92     400   I   8,700           0          8,351
12/31/92    400        9,100         454         8,805
1993       6/30/93     400        9,500          0          8,805
12/31/93    100        9,800          0          8,805
1994      06/30/94     200        10,000        317         9,122
12/31/94                              0          9,122
1995      06/30/95                              134         9,256
12/31/95                             707         9,963
Amended Loan Closing Date: June 30th 1995.
B. Allocation of World Bank Loan Proceeds in USS '000
Loan Allocation Status
Loan     Revised _
Category    Allocation  Allocation i Disbursed    Loan reimb.  Firm     Yet to be
(Original) i (If any)   to date    Applications Committmentl committed
i             in process.
1. Civil Works.  2,800     7,056       7,056         0            0           0
2. Materials &    3,300     949         899          0            0          50
Equipment.. 
3. Consultant.   2,200     1,995       1,995         0            0           0
4. Unallocated.;  1,700      0           0           0            0           0
TOTAL         10,000   1 10,000      9,950         0            0           50
Note:   1. The difference between total disbursement amount may be some Central Bank exchange charges.



- 29 -
TABLE 4B:
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK LOAN DISPURSEMENT.
A. ESTIMATED LOAN DISBURSEMENTS SCHEDULE (in S '000)
FOR PERIOD ENDING OCTOBER 31,1995.
Apprasial Estimate         Actual or Estimated
Bank        Quarter                                                                     REMARKS
Year        Ending   Disbursements  Cumulative  Disbursements  Cumulative
Disbursements I            Disbursements
1986        31/12/86      211           211            0             0
1987        31/03/87     1.500         1,711         .0              0
30/06/87      572          2.283           0             0
30/09/87      572          2.855           0             0
31/12187      574          3,429          30            30       First contract awarded in May 1988.
1988        31/03/88      275          3,704           0            30
30/06/88      200          3,904           0            30
30/09/88      200          4,104         655            685
31/12/88      200          4,304          0            685
1989        31/03/89                   4,304         1,028         1,713
30/06/89                   4,304         1,280         2,993
30/09/89       40          4,344          243          3.236
31/12189      156          4,500           0           3.236
1990        31/03/90                   4,500          259          3.495
30/06/90                   4,500          68           3,563
30109/90                   4,500         528           4,091
31/12190                   4,500          0            4,091      Closing Date amended to 12/31/93.
1991        30/06/91                   4,500          0            4,091
31/12/91                   4,500          40           4,131
1992       30/06/92                    4,500          0            4,131
31/12192                   4,500           0           4,131
1993       30/06/93                    4,500          0            4,131      New Closing Date revised to 12/31/94
31/12/93                   4,500           0           4,131
1994        30/06/94                   4,500           0           4,131
31/12/94                   4,500          369          4,500
B. ALLOCATION OF CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK - LOAN PROCEEDS (US S'000)
Loan       Revised
Category      Allocat.    Allocation    Disbursed   Loan Reimb.       Firm     Yet To Be   Remarks
Original     (if any)     To Date    Appi. in Proc. Committment Committed:
1. Marine Works.  3,448   .   3,464        3,464           0             0           0      Completed.
2. Civil Works    521          739          739            0             0           0      Completed.
3. Management    531           297          297            0             0          .0    'Completed.
4. Total         4,500        4,500        4.500           0             0           0
CBS:01/29/96



- 30 -
TABLE 4C:
EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK LOAN DISBURSEMENT
A. ESTIMATED LOAN DISBURSEMENTS SCHEDULE (IN S '000)
FOR PERIOD ENDING OCTOBER 31,1995.
Bank          Quarter      Apprasial Estimate           Actual or Estimated
Year          Ending                   Cumulative                  Cumulative        Remarks
Disbursements Disbursements Disbursements Disbursements;
1987         30/06/87       58            58             0              0
31/12187      504           562             0             0
1988         30/06/88       505          1067           684           684
31/12188      746           1813          682           1366
1989         30/06/89       747          2560            0            1366
31/12189      746           3306          545           1911
1990         30/06/90       747          4053            0            1911
31/12190      478          4531           583           2494
1991         30106/91       479          5010           1459          3953
31/12J91      194          5204           648           4601
1992         30106/92                    5204           606           5207
31/12192      196          5400           1778          6985
1993         30/06/93                    5400          2500           9485
31/12/93                    5400          513           9998
1994          30/06/94                   5400            0            9998
31/12194                   5400            0            9998
1995          30/06/95                    5400          276           10274
31/12195                   5400                         10274
B. ALLOCATION OF EUROPEAN INVESTMENT BANK - LOAN PROCEEDS (US S '000)
LOAN ALLOCATION STATUS
Loan       Revised                                                                 Remarks
!    Category        Allocat.    Allocation    Disbursed    Loan Reimb.       Firm      Yet To Be
Original    (if any)      To Date    Appi. in Proc. Committments! Committed
1. Downtown Sewer   1,300        5,048         5,048            0             0           0
Replacement.
2. Vacuum Sewer      1,300        1,788         1,788          0              0       i    0
Replacement.
3. Malcolm Park      1,500        820           652            0              0           168
Disposal Facilty.
4. Septage & Solids    300         0             0              0             0            0      Works in progress &
Disposal Faility.                                                                              funded by Goverment.
5. Engineering and    1,000   .    733          733            0              0           0
Supervision.
6. Equipment.        1,600       2,054         2.054           0              0            0
Total          7,000       10,443        10,275          0              0          168
Figures estimated by W&SC using World Bank Staff Apprasial Report of September 22nd 1986 - Report No. 61 566-BM
Page 62, Annex-5 Detail Financial Plan by funding Source.



- 31 -
WATER AN]D SEWERAGE CORPORATION
,NEW PROVIDENCE OPERATIONS
TABLE S COST OF WATER PRODUCED/PURCHASED
FOR THE YEAR ENDING DECE MER EN,-DING 31st.. 1995
PROorJCTnOb      UlCHASI        WA T I R   I.M  ro R t AT IO N
to&
M4.l.C.                                                      '. __~                  im.   -,*
'YATER PRODUCED   . ......................                            . . . 
WYATER INTo SUPPLY                                               Z.427.2         s.9             :0.8            :.15.s      i.l5s.s      1.51.5i S   i5'    .
WVATER SOLD.                                                     1254.0          417.9            53.1            7878   7t                 ; 8 3.01   783.0
UNACCOUNTED iOR@                ...       .......                 1.173.'        391.0            .9.7        7    32.3        -s;51           Jj       r7
:REV MEIJ (REPORTED S0ooo
WkTER SALESMILN.CHARGES .t                                     1.949.764     36.31S.439       S802.540       St 1l31.78S   R1.33.5 51  S1.331.7W5 S1L.331.7U
OTMRm        IN    CLD. CO. COM&a.    EUZ O .                    i2.A1          =25J26               0           3;6989.S91 369.S9'                   30.31
TOTAL REVLNU  FROM SALS ................                     S19.5S2L 1l    56.537.965         SOJJ          $12201.r   S12201.67l  S11201.677! S12M2.67T
AVECRAG SrfLNG PRICE EP  10  GALS. SOLD ......            .       1Si.I1          15.04i          SO.65.          S9."         59.44,       59.4,       N.
.DIRECT 0ENESES:
JSTAEFlT4                                                      0.035.231       S652SZ                        S1.382.909     5671t48:    s392.i   S3mLfl
rclCAS                                                            29,SM91        17.3;111                          7149          959 I        93S;       6b
,ELICTRIUCTy                                                     954.X0         SS4.SS2                           99.648      99.6d8i           ol         o
IFEL. Ok OIL                                                      369 .65        10.437                          ug.329         7. 81        Isa:      V.6i
CUa LTER ;m 131315249                                                                0                         ;.;U0:9            03       51 002'  3 A 6447
OT .RS1UPYG                                                       98A40              0                           98.60           2413       4.0961     9.296
WATER PURC3ASES                                                  '17.9t1             0               I.911            0            0'          01          0
196:'58       196.25.                                            0 3.         0 !        0
EPRCZATION                                                 l458 959.440  !._0.01_                                      ______________________
TOTAL DlRECt EQZPSES                                         59.696.t4      12.'00.20        S2ll.911        $6.7'7 .3373   S1L5U42:    S4A.025' 34.,41.2
IRCT COST PER '000 GALS. PRODUCED ...........             5         3.903 53.26                   2.07            t54.36       51.00!       S0.}1. I    3.
IR1Cr COSr P1fR '000 GALS. SOLD ............................. .  ..... s7.nj
MiCT COST PER 000 GALS. UNACCT. FOR  ..5. s1._
OTEMR VwcqS7oS: 
TRAVEL                                                            S7.402         5i.336             so            S3.065      S5Z50          SS Is        s0
RE1I S & XAomA.NCE                                              1WA4.0M         98.185                            55.51-      3.346i      tI.Ai!          0
omFC  SzRVTCES                                                    13.696          3.646                           20.060       I0.0:        9.6941        69
Ot-S7DZ SERVICES                                                      0              0                                0            0           0:         0
DATA PIOCESCCG                                                    It.S37         14.583                             l5          t1S3           71          0
PULIC RELATIONS                                                    2.192             0                             '.79'           01       2.,92!         0
PROCURENT                                                         18.9U              0                            18.923      10.3iS         .90'       820
ARAGE                                                              A.000          1.D                              300         '.0.00       1.0=0i         0
T;WCG                                                              1.995          1.995                               0            0 '          0 '        0
DEPRECIATION                                                      17.900         15.700                            L:00        12001           01       1.000
1iNTREST                                                          1__0D          15_00                            ;                0t          o-       I=
TOTAL OTHER EXPE?SES:                                           S1S3.7M2       SIS444S              50          n10.307      560.7741     St7,013,    512JV
TOTAL EXPENSES BEFORE (IDRECTEXPNSES                           S1.96.66      52.355.065       SU1-.911        s6.5s7.ao0   11.620,I16i    sn3.o3g'  4-,783.725
INDRMECT CEiSES (INCLO. TRESTX                                  *.641.0&6      943.SCO               0         3.704.246     454.392:     .37ns    3.012911
MTAL YET    SES  FOR WATER PRODUCED .........5....          n84s.m0       53.798.US         S2t,.9Sl1     310 S9131     S5 J75.306 i    S7510.778' ST.7U6M
DIrEcr COSER P 'OM GALL PRODUCED ........................          S3.90          53.26           S:.07             4.36       SI.001       50.31;      33.05
01N11 COSrT PR '0 GALS. PRODUCED ......1.1. ...............        S      3.(1 0.19               0.00             0.07         0.04'        0o.m        0.01
WOIR.EcT CcosrT PER '0  GALS PRODUCCD ................           S       l.9      _ 1 14         100       '       .38        0.29i        0.Is        1.94
tMG. PRooucr. cosr WR 74jo ZA74 PitoofilcEo                     ,s5s7 54                        P.O7             56.82        S1.34!       s0.481     SS.00
VC. PRODUCTIOr cosr PER 000 GALso SOLD
;_,   s_&bt  )                                            -st 



- 32 -
TABLE 6 NEW WATER RATES
maw PROVIDENCE OPRATIONS                            COlWSbSUMER DESIT
A. RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES                   RATE    OWELLING HOUJsE OR APARTMENT
V'Wth one (13 aMxomn or one (1)
1. Minimum anm"ge per Cualer                           water COla or O tmea sacUies writh wtur  S 55.00
&   zng 3.000 g.o:nsI                     S30.00     Wt two M or r   ozUhroonmor waterc os4   St115.00
2 C  iwnouon  ChrI.* oer 1.000 gllons
(t,. neat 10.000 gntons por wuater)       510.60;  OTHER PROPERllES
3. Co .Wvnatu n CMrge Sor 1.000 gallons                AmTount equal to gaummatt quaneny btil
(in excess of 13.000 g_wons per quartr)   Si 7.60    suqb c: to mnumrm of                     S1t5.00
4. Consurmoion Mnarge :r 1 .000 gaions
)cl 100.000 gelons ;rater er cuaruIC      S14.25    GRAND BAHAMA OPEURTIONS WATER RATES
RtATE
S. NON RESIDENTIAL PROPERTIES               RATE       MINIMUM CHtARGES
(rnclusIng 2.000 gallons)               S1 S.00
1. Minurn crahge per quarier                           per 1.000 gallons
(In:iuoing 3.000 gaDons)                  S40.00     2001 . 13.000 impend galons               S 4.32
2 Consurnoptn chsrge per 1.000 gallons                 13.001 - 26.000 impert galtons            S 4.70
(tr next 10.000 gaeon per Quarter)        St 1.20    26.001                                    S 542
3. C surrcton chargt per t.000 gallons
(L -;t of 1300W ;:.jions oar cuaaer)      519520   NOTE. THE QUARTERLY  QILL OF THE AVERAGE
4. C-3surnplion CWur  ;4f i.000 gallons              CONSUMER WtLL BE APPROXIMATELY S2T.00.
fo notab in elainac c00.000 gallons w ocuater  S14.25
5. S nir ciiZens Who c_ f 1or Old Age Pension may    FAMILY ISLAND OPERATIONS WATER RATES
o: t m a 30 % tco.r on Water & Sewage Services                                                 RATE
up:ni ;resanm4tion 32 =propnawe dentificauon.        MINIMUM CMARGES
Onciueri 2.000 galons)                  215.00
NOTE= THE QUARTERLY BILL FOR THE AVERAGE RESt-         per 1,000 gaJlons
DENIIAL CUSTOMER WILL BE APPROXIMATELY S8o.00.         2001 - 13.000 incenal gdllons             5 2.30
13.000 - 25.000 impenl gallons           S 2.90
MINtI.:UM CHARGES for l/2 cr 5/8 meters for turger     265001 . imperia gallons                  5 4.00
rmet- sizes ar:
NOTE: THE QUARTERLY BILL FOR THE AVERAGE
RESIDENTIAL         NON-RESIOENTIAL          CUSTOMER WILL BE APPROXiMATELY 521.00.
CHARCr                   CHARGE
ai-       S 3S:2                    S  47.50       OTHER CHARGES
S 5.;                    S  73.00
I  -         aS 5.;                 S  99.50       CRAND BAHAMA 4 FAMILY tSLUNDS
t-        S IC_.::                  S 127.50                                               CHARGES
2-                                  S 191.00         Speel redng of rmetr                    S  5.00
31             N/A                  3 318.00         Roving. replacing or tesung mter at
4-             >:A                   5326.00         cuslitomer's request 1/2 inch. US iincn
A                  Si 1 2.50       or 3/4 incn meter                       S 10.00
8-             N/A                  S1590.00         1 inen meter or larger                  S 10.00
Disconnedng or reconnecting meter at
OT..:7R CHARGES                             RATE       customers request                       5 10.00
Diseonnactng meter for non paymnnt     5 10.00
SPECIAL READINCGP ME7E                   S 8.00      New connections-
R-.tOVING REPL,: 3 OR 7ESTING                           1J2 incat. s/ inch or 3/A incn suopty pipe   S 100.00
O. MREER AT C_S7::.ER'S RE3UEST                         1 inch supply poe                    S 310.00
1 2 inch. s/a inC cr  'non meter         S17.00         2 incn suppy pipe                    S 520.00
1 cn METER OR _-R                        S t2.00        3 incn or lager supply pipe          S 640.00
OliCONNECTING ZR RECONNECTING ME.ER                CONSUMER OEPOStTS
A7 CUSTOMERS RECUES7                      216.00
GOSCONNECTING M',;ER rOP                           DWELLtNG HOUSES
N 'N-PAYMENT                      S21.00 or 1 09(    With one battnoom or on. water closet or
ofne ourtstancing -olance or wnichvelr is greater    otherwis supplied with waler            S 20.00
WAlth two or orr batlhrooffe or water cloet   S 40.00
R-U9N CHEOUE CHARGE                      $15.00
MINIMUM CHARGES
Nr'./ CONNECTIOCS.                                                           METER SIZE CHARGES S
1/. 5S  3a jS*.  ,:Y D!PS               S262.50    RESIOENTALUNON-RESIOENTIAL        3/4     S 30.00
1 ;CH SUPPLY P;;:                       $375.00    RESIDENTAL/NON-RESIDENTIAL         1      5 50.00
2 :CH SUPPLY Oz - -7ER           ACTUALCOIST    RESIDENTALUNON-RESIOENTIAL   1 I4           5 70.00
RESIOENTALUNON.RESIOENTIAL   t1/T         $100.00
AC:ual coSa wil t. Ce.:r ~-d wnere In. distance frm Ilhe    RESIDENTAL'NON-RESIOENTLAL  3    S300.00
m .a to the bounndc. o. nt prcperry s more than So feel.  RESIOENTAL/NON-RESIOENTIAL  '      S672.00
RESIDENTAUNON-RESIDENTtAL          6    51.176.00
DIS7RIlBLTON AND . -_LFlELD CONSTRUCTION AND    RESIDENTALINON.RESIDENTIAL              a    S31.UO.00
SL': -L' CHAOL&(' 
CHARGE    NEtW PROVIDENCt OPESATioNs S&wERAa2 PRATES
1r2 INCHM 5/ INCH OR 3/4 SUPP'_Y PIPE    S 250.00                                              RATE
I 'CM 1 1/4 INCH OR 1 1/2 INCH                     1. DOWNTOWN (OUARTERLY)
SUPPLY PIPE                            S 500.00      RESIDENTIAL                              S 3.75
2 :CH SUPPLY PIPE                      $1 .500.00    NON.RESIDENrTAL                          S 4.80
3  CH SUPPLY P!Fr                      S2.500.00   2. ALL OTHER AREAS (OUARTERLY)
a .CH SUPPLYr P                        SS.000.00     RESIDENTIAL                              S 2.00
6 ..:CM SUPPLY P,S                ACTUAL COST        NON-RESIDENTIAL                          5 4.80
3. PUMPING STATIONS (MONTHLY)            11.680.00
4. DISPOSAL BY TANKERS (Pwr Lao            S211.25



Compliance witil
TABLE  7:  Status of Legal Covenanits                                                                    Implementation Progrmn
Page I of 1
IAIIAMAS
NEW l'ROVIOENCE ISIAND WATER SllPPLY ANI) SEWERACE
ItElIAUILI'I'AT'ION PRIOJECT
Losa 2756-UM
Couipliance wilh Key Coveuasauls
$*9'ft1iN*     DS4cgo4       Co nt D afi                Qrgisinal 7        4i            .                  'OOR   ;C             i                *.   . .  -.:              C I     isu-:
n1a           2/02(b)        I             C                                             Edsslis, Sjial A-cstM at Cetral Dnk or accplablde WouMiccial
3.02          S           C                                               l:stabIiJi Psojc"I Managun"cl niit.
1.03(aXi)    13           CP         3131/17                              Conhlet studies (or dUe following:                                Study catpleted; a special leakage team rAs benm
-sedudiou for unaccujunled*lor w.at (UFW).                       funiaed at WSC; succes, it sducinig leakage albeit
lnimiw. has ben irecesAly repouted; production
niaueerng is bseg inmwoved a amore sa laty             CD
estunate unw hcouated-for wcbar.
1.03 (&Xii)   2           C          5/31/7                               TariftstrucLe                                                     Study compekted. It Ienncd baisb (ru arc ud'c ing of    U/
_ _ _ _ _ _ _                                       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   tariff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~arff
3.03(bXi)                 C          613DIY7                              Coliplete studics for te following: -                             Organizational improvcnmn  were accomplished.
____________  __________                                     *instilutionual isoprovenmat  uid auuiazgemuid audit.                                                                     U)
3.03 (bXii)    S          NC         3131/S3             3/31/91          -OveaU ;USyrveai ewutC  aiecivaal aui CUeincesiaig  ass.          Dcelyed. WSCeequuestdthe delay fom                     o      W
anaeabilty viewpoint (WSC bas beea too busy            t
with dIe implementation ofphysical eonmls)             CD
comnauted piropoalas for related lwhuming pmgram      (JQ
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ii an opsuultu s ltuldihll are beig sougMh curraSly                     e
4.40          13          C                                               Maiutain adcupat1c uinussaic lswgrsals&
0
5.01 (a)      I           C                                               blanitaPal lojet AccounL.                                                                                                 CD
5.0 (b)      I           C          4/30/eada yea.                       Submit atnual audits to Ihuik, coveting: Finuacial Slatesnentas
Slwxial AhmsnVSOI. Accous.                                       __
5.01 (a)     2            NC                                              Maidtain a wwkiung salion of 75%                                  See cooneneceis kunde 5.02 (c).
5.02(b)       2           C                                               Isepare mui rcvinw frunuaial fmccast dfcusncait fiscal year mid die
._______  ._.____         ___________                          following fiscal year  _
5.02 (c)     2            Cel                                             Usedaltakc rcswbdial ,enasura to achieve cu"uiaice wid fuwscial    lse lhas been a bij delay Pi tde Govast
ovenasis                                                   .     aiproval oCa0t   reva    last S yea.
Tariffimaaea - *veming 30% for do New
Providene  ladm  Opetaion aN  500% for Fmily
Isla   Operatiaon  w vro ImplomwArAd oly In
OadKrl s1. l9 bin, h    ju o wi%gmth
GovauenAs         l sam ls Jdy; am baey med dhe
rindal aed. lis  anisfb aleady aiof lbs
hbiglo  (about US$14 per 1000 galla.) ha On
._______   _______   ______   ____   '_________  .________ ____________________________              Cai   L     W SC itsa y dtut as aa y   i dpondsL t



- 34 -
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
2
.       .1
.. ;ti6t    _  l
A X    , 31 4}X1
Wr Wm Ii
i X ao]
'I} _ _
:  :}  -s3   _  k~~~~



- 35 -
Table 8B: Economic Re-evaluation
_ _ _ _  _     I                   I         i__ _ _   1'                   I         I    _    i
Year      PROJECT COSTS  TOTAL  !                     PROJECT BEiNEFIT             TOTAL I NET
'nvestnent          PROJECT             Cost    IRevenue  UFW          'PROJECI BENEFIMT
:_ Costs     I 0&M    COSTS              Savings    Enhance. Benefit  I BENEFITS !
I         !                             i                               I !       
1986          583.31         01   583.31                   0!        0           '        01   -583.31
.1987          3000.01    480.0   3480.01                   01   1004.0                1004.01  -2476.0!
1988         4050.01    535.0'  4585.01                235.71   1841.0;              2076.71  -2508.31
1989         5300.01    562.01  5862.01          I    523.01    1706.0i              2229.01  -3633.01
1990         5850.01    666.01   6516.01          !   616.81   2108.0'               2724.81  -3791.31
1991         4950.01    955.01  5905.01           !   657.31   1733.0                2390.31  -3514.8;
.1992         3150.01   1003.0   4153.01                739.81   1987.0'              2726.81  -1426.31
1993         1350.01   1098.01  2448.01                778.31   1024.01              1802.3I   -645.81
1994          1000.01   1204.0-  2204.01          1   817.31    L313.0               2130.3i    -73.81
1995                1   1204.0   1204.01          1    817.31    1313.0          '  2130.31    926.3:
1996                    1204.0   1204.01          i    815.31   1313 0      548.01   2676.31   1472.3i
1997                    1204.0   1204.01         I    815.31   1313 0'    566.01   2694.3!   1490.3i
1998                1   1204.0'  1204.01               813.31   1313.0      583.01   2709.3!   1505.31
1999                !   1204.0:   1204.0;              813.31   1313.0      784.0i  2910.3!   1706.31
2000                i   1204.0'   1204.01         I   811.3    13130     824.01   2948.31   1744.3
2001                    1204.0   1204.0i               311.3;   1313i0      3490i  2973.31   1769.3i
2002                    1204.0'   1204.0'              809.31   1313.0    1505.0!   3627.31   2423.3i
2003                    1204.0   1204.01               809.31   1313.0    1578.0!   3700.31   2496.3
2004                i   1204.0'   1204.0i              807.3;   1313.0    1573.01   3698.31   2494.3i
2005                ;   1204.0   1204.0O         i    807.3!   1313.0    1578.01   3698.31  2494.3'
2006                    1204.0   1204.01               805.3    13 13.0    1578.0!   3696.31   2492.3.
2007                    1204.0   1204.01               805.3;   1313.0    1578.01   3696.3!   2492.3;
2008                . 12104.0   1204.01                803.3;   13 13 0    1578.0!   3694.3!   2490.3!
2009                    1204.0   1204.01               803.3!   1313.0    1573.01   3694.3;   2490.3'
2010                    1204.0   1204.01               801.31   13130    [573.01   3692.3!   2488.3:
2011                I   1204.0   1204.0;          1   801.31   1313 0    1578.01  3692.31   2488.3!
2012                1   1204.0   1204.01          !   799.3!   1313.0    1578.0!   3690.3i   2486.3;
2013                1   1204.01   1204.01         !   799.3i   1313.0    1578.01   3690.3!   2486.31
2014                    1204.0   1204.0!               797.3;   13130    1578.0!   3688.3!  24843!
2015                I   1204.0'   1204.Oi              797.31   1313.0    1578.01   3688.31  2484.3!
i____________________________________  ___! __ I   NPV      @   12%   -   (S6,364)i
i__________________________________ _   ! _ _   iIR   R         -      I    5.5% !



Year  Welifleki   .    . -  .                    1 Table HA: BEcAmaii  oS                 ___  vgeer& __ -.--   ___
year__       we         am1provcn tmd/a    Large Maiam/b      smiall     Sawer!%e            Vacuw..l Swer Itl~cilcenaieaikt  Sea-vices  T~eleanetry'I'M'IAl
______  ___ __  ______- ______-    __ ___  _____ Mains       In         taben sm . _ _ _  Staff    __  _  _ Staff      Control   IIENEFITS
____Power    Saff.        Ship og CM  RP  odower    Repair    Plower   & Vehicle  Eouip.   & Vehicle________
1986              0         0         0          0         0         00                   0          0         0          0         0        0.0         0 ___
1987              0         0         0          0         0                       __0               0         0          0         0        0.0         0  ___
1988           13.7      52.0         0       18.0       18.0      5.00         0         0 _        0         0          0      61.0       68.0     235.7 ___
1989           17.5      64.0         0       18.0       18.0      5.00       0.5        8.0       5.0     174.0       50.0      61.0      102.0   523.00 ___
1990           26.3 ___96.0        _0         17.0      17.0       5.00       0.5        8.0 ___5.0        174.0       50.0      82.0      136.0    616.75 ___
1991           34.8     128.0         0       17.0      17.0       5.(M       0 5        80        5.(    171.0(       50.0      82.0      136.0   657.25
1992           43.3     161.0         0       16.0      16.0       500O       0.5        8.0       5.0 _ 174.0         50.0     12 5.0     136.0   739.75____
1993      - 51.8        191.0 ___0            16.0      16.0       5.00       0.5        8.0       5.0     174.0       50.0     125.0      136.0   778.25 ___
1994           51.8     191.0         0       15 0      1 5.0      5.00       0.5        8.0       5.0     174.0       50.0     166.0      136.0    817.25 ___
1995           51.8     191.0         0       15.0      15.0       5.00       0.5        8.0       5.0     174.0       50.0     166.0      136.0    817.25
1996           51.8     191.0         0       14.0      14.01      5.00       0.5        8.0       5.0     174.0       50.0     166.0      136.0    815.25  ___
1997           51.8     191.0         0       14.0       14.0      5.00       0.5        8.0       5.0      174.0      50.0     166.0      136.0    815.25
1998           5 1.8    191.01        0       13.0       13.0      5.00       0.5        8.0       5.0      174.0      50.0     166.0      136.0    813.25
1999           5 1.8    191.01___  0          13.0       13.0      5.00       0.5        8.0       5.0      174.0      50.0     166.0      136.0    813.25 ____
2000           51.8      191.0         0      12.0       12.0      5.00       0.5        8.0        5.0     174.0      50.0      166.0     136.0    811.25 _____
2001           51.8      191.0 _ _  0 ___12.0            12.0      5.00       0.5        8.0       5.0      174.0      50.0      166.0     136.0    811.25  ___
2002  51.8  191.0  0 ____ 11.0  11.0  5.00  0.5 __   8.0  5.0  174.0       50.0      166.0     136.0    809.25                      00~~CD   O
2003           51.8      191.0        0       11.0       11.0      5.00       0.5        8.0       5.0      174.0      50.0      166.0     136.0   809.25                       00__
2004           51.8      191.0        0       10.0       10.0   _5.00         0.5 _      8.0       5.0      174.0      50.0      166.0     136.0   807.25  ___
2i005-         51i.8     191.0         0      10.0       10.0      5.00       0.5        8.0        5.0     174.0      50.0      166.0     136.01  807.25 ___
2006           51.8      191.0        0        9.0       9.0       5.00       0.5        8.0        5.0     174.0      50.0      166.0     136.01  805.25  ___
2007  51.8   191.0         0      ~~~~~9.0    90       50         0.         8.        5.       170        5.0        6.0       3.0     805.25  ___
2008           51.8      191.0         0       8.         9.0 ___5.00         0.5        8.0       5.0      174.0      50.0      166.0     136.0    832    ___
2009           51.8      191.01       0        8.0        8.0      5.00       0.5        8.0       5.0      174.0      50.0      166.0     136.01  803.25 ___
2010           51.8      191.0         0       7.0        7.0      5.00       0.5        8.0       5.0      174.0      50.0      166.0     136.0   803.25
2011           51.8      191.0 o_               7.0       7.0      5.00       0.5        8.0        5.0     174.0      50.0      166.0     136.0   801.25  ___
2012           51.8       9.0          0       6.0        6.0      5.00       0.5        8.0        5.0     174.0      50.0      166.0     136.0   799.25  ___
2013           51.8      191.0        0        6.0        6.0      5.00       0.5        8.0.      5.0      174.0      50.0      166.0     136.0   799.25
2014           51.8      191.0         0       5.   60  5.0   00              0.5        8.0        5.0     174.0      50.0      166.0     136.0   797.25  ___
2015           51.8       9.          0        5.0        5.0      5.00       0.5        8.01      5.0      174.0      50.0      166.0     136.0   797.25  ___
a/ power benefit ~ 25% of appraisal estimlate; manpower- benefit simiilair to appraisal estimate; shiipping benefit  0
hi similar to appraisal estimate   I                         I..___  1___......___.L.                .                       ___...____..-
c/ power benefit  25% of app[aisal estimrate, mlanpower, vehicles, and equip nent Simiilar to appraisal cstimate
_d/ similar to app aisal estimate J.A 



: -   -    -                         - ~~~~~~37 -
Table 9: Summary of Assessments
A. hAgvme    mt of obiac&Nt
Msac  po}cices                      OOO
Sector policies                     a                o                                 S
Fu ia abjectives                    a                o 
SdUtioEJ deVeloprt                 a                                      oa
Physical objectivas                                  5                   
Poverrf reduction                   5                5 
Geader Luas                         a 
Ocher social objectives             a                                 5 o
Enviro"nmeuu4 objectives555
Public sector   neet                                 a                                 5 o
Privae secwor development          3                o                                 O
Other (specify)                     5                5               5                 5
.   oiect mstaibilitvy                                      Unl_kaiv
C.   n                                                                                      Srnstistory-S   De t
r Idndficatioa                           5                                                  O
Preparaton assistance                                             
Appraisl                            5                                                  5
Supervision                         5                                                 a
D. Ioroer oerfon                    stisfactorv              SAtshov 
Preparsuon                          5                                                 
I           *lmplemmtatioc                          O                                                  5   
Coveat colspance                    5                        5
Opentdon (if appLicable)            5                        5                         5
2.  Assmameflt at outcome              (4mI Q      Satisfctory    ULnMa1fQctorv      UDUUctry
F.. &uwuzUASM&W=  (11                                         .  . V



- 38 -
Table 10: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title          Purpose             Year of xoproval             StatUs
Preceding operations
1. Water Supply & Sewerage    Upgrading WS&S               1976                 completed
2. Technical Training               Education              L981                 completed
3. Urban Development                Urban Development  1982                     completed
4. Water Supply & Sewerage   New Providence                1986                 completed
5. Education II                     Education              1988                 completed
Table 11: Project Timetable
Dace ac/Usll
Steps in project cycle                Date planned;          latest estima
Identification (Executive Project Summary)           9/84                     9/84
Prepartion                                    1 1984-1985               1984-1985
Appraisal                                                               09/22/86
Negotiadions                                  J                         07/28/86
Letter of development policy (if applicable)       _-
Board presentation                                                       10/14/86
Sign=g                                        1                          03/11/87
Effectiveness                                                            07/0987
First tranche release (if applicable)
Midterm review (if_applicable)
Secoad (and ctLird) tr2ache release (if applicable) ___________I
Project comolectioa                           |
Loan closing                                                             06/30/95



- 39 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs2
Pla=sed             |           Revised                        Actual
Stage of               Weeks             USS            Waeks    |         SS            e
project cycle            wesUSIS                                                            ek            S
Through appraisal                            _              I                |              |  130.3
Appraisal-Board                _                                                                22.8         _
Board-effectiveness                        1                L                               I     -_L            _     I
Supervision                 _                _              I                               |   7 7.. O
Completioai                 _              J _                                              |     8.9
TOT.AL                                                                                       171.0
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
F                        = e         =                                            Nformance-ine
Number                     SpeciaLized      lnpiemcn-       Develop-
SLage of         Month/        of        Days in        staff Skills      tauon           rnent        Types of
project ;ycle       year      persons        fiel        repreadmead         nuias        objectives    problems"
T%rough aopraisa1      1985          3          N/A           N/A          |          _           - _
Appnisal through       1986          3          N/A          LN/A          |                     -
3oard approval
Lbrough affectivenes3    1987        3     L   N/A        |   N/A            _              _
Supc viziorn           87-95         6     |   84  5   |      N/A            _ |                           _i
car-olcion             1996  .       2                         N/A                -
8.  Also inciudes Bank-tinanced and t:usc fund consultancs.
9.  K_y to status is shown in Supervision Fornm 590 (in revision).
10. K:v to specialized suff skills.
11. Kay to problems as shown in Supervision Form 590 (in revision).



- 40 -
APPENDIX 1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
No mission Aide Memoire was prepared
APPENDIX 2
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
No review was received from the Bahamian Water Supply Corporation (W.S.C).
Comments from W S.C. were included in the ICR






'-MAI INQ]
epC,rt No:        1582 '
Type: ICR



