Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
Rqnrt No. P-4126-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$100 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR AN
AGRICULTURE SECTOR PROGRAM
October 2, 1985
Ths doumut h. a res&Jui dubm md nay be and by redjieis ony in th pe _dome d
du   ofiddates lb   ats am   otherwibe disla_"d witbou World Bunk mduinm.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Sucre (SI.)
Calendar 1984                September 1985
Currency Unit      (average multiple rates)            (unified rate)
US$1                   =  SI. 79                      =  S/. 96.5
S/. 1                 = US$.0l                        =  US$.0l
SI. 1,000              =  US$12.66                    =  US$10.36
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BNF       -   Banco Nacional de Fomento
(National Development Bank)
ENAC      -   Empresa Nacional de Almacenamiento y CDmercializacion
(National Enterprise for Storage and Marketing)
ENPROVIT  -   Empresa Nacional de Productos Vitales
(National Enterprise for Essential Products)
FAD       -   Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations
IDB       -   Inter-American Development Bank
SOE       -   Statement of Expenditure
UNDP      -   United Nations Development Programme
USATID        United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURE SECTOR LOAN
Table of Contents
Page
LOAN AND PROJECT SUHOHARY ...............I........*******.****        i
I.  THE ECONOMY ..*......       .......................................   1
Background         ..................................................  I
The Impact of Petroleum ......................                        2
Recent Events ..................  ******.*** ******************       3
Outlook           ........ * .                                        4
II.  BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR ............................         5
III.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ....................................          8
General       8.....................................................  8
Importance and Potential of the Agricultural Sector .........         8
Performance of the Sector .................*......                    9
Agricultural Trade and Pricing Policies ......................        9
Public Enterprises in Agriculture ............................       11
Agricultural Credit..............o...................... oo  ......  12
Current and Planned Public Investments in Agriculture.........    13
Government Policy Objectives ...................... e0**SSU@...      13
Recent Actions Taken           ............    ............................  14
Constraints to Further Actions ...                   .... O......    14
IV.  PROPOSED AGRICULTURAL SECTQR LOAN             ........    15
Action Taken Prior to Board Presentation .....................       15
Proposed Conditions for Disbursement of Second Tranche ......    16
Policy Monitoring under the Sector Loan          .....................    17
Technical Assistance and Studies .......        .....................    18
Studies of Public Enterprises in Agriculture          ................    19
Procurement ..*.....**.........*   .......................... ..    20
Disbursenent .................................                      20
Benefits, Impact and Risks ........................*.........    21
V.  RECOMMENDATIONS .............................................    24
This report is based on the findings of a mission composed of Messrs.
0. Knudsen (Mission Leader), J. Fernandez (Agricultural Economist), and 0.
Ruiz (Consultant), which visited Ecuador from April 22 to May 10, 1985.
Messrs. M. Ahmad (DRDSU), A. Meeraus (DRDSU), and G. O'Mara (AGREP)
generously gave assistance in the computer modeling of the ugricultural
sector.
This document h2s a restricted distbution and may be used by _iPients on in the performat  of
tber offcal dute Its COntents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authonzation.



- ii -
Table of Contents (continued)                                         Page
ANNEXES
I.  Social and Economic Indicators ...... ge.... .**........e......  25
II. The Status of Bank Group Operations in Ecuador .............      31
III.  Supplementary Pzoject Data Sheet ...........................     33
IV.  Ecuador:  Agricultural Sector Policy        .......................  35
V.  Draft Development Policy Letter        ............................  37
VI.  Documents Available in Files  .e       ...... ................   40



ECUADOR
ACEIULTU   SKcIO  PRUAK
WhI AND PROIECr SUARY
BDrrower:             Republic of Ecuador
_mt:                  US$100.0 million equivalent.
Ter  :                Repayable over 17 years including 4 years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Pro ect Description: The proposed project would support the Government's
program to reform policies in the agricultural sector,
which emphasizes the liberalization of commodity
pricing and interest rates and the reduction of public
sector interventions. The specific additional steps
supported by the loan would be to improve terms of
trade of agriculture relative to other sectors of the
economy; remove remaining support prices and subsidies;
maintain positive interest rates; and unify lending
rates for the agricultural sector. Institutional
strengthening in the area of sectoral policy analysis
would also be supported. The proposed loan would
finance the general imports of agricultural inputs.
Risks:                As a policy adjustment effort, this project runs the
risk of political unsustainability of the proposed
reforms. To date, the Government has sustained
progress towards its policy objectives and would be
supported in this effort by policy analysis developed
by the Ministerial units receiving assistance under the
loan. Future trends in international prices and export
incentives are also sources of risk. Commodity price
projections for Ecuador's potential non-traditional
agricultural exports are favorable. The exchange rate
is being monitored via a Government-IMF dialogue.



- li -
(US$ Millions)
Loan Components:    Imports of Agricultural Inputs                97.5
Institutional Strengthening                    2.5
Total                                        100.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
1986       1987
USS millions by Bank Fiscal Year
Annual                                50.0        50.0
Cumulative                            50.0       100.0
Rate of Return:     u.a.
Staff Appraisal Report:  No Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared for
this project.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPNSNT
REPORr AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR FOR AN AICULTURE SECTOR PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Ecuador for the equivalent of US$100 million to help
finance an agriculture sector program. The loan would be repayable over 17
years including 4 years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report on Ecuador, Report No. 5094-EC
entitled 'Ecuador: An Agenda for Recovery and Sustained Grouth- was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on October 5, 1984. The subsequent para-
graphs reflect the findings of that report as well as those of a Bank mission
which visited Ecuador in November 1984 to analyze the public investment pro-
gram. Annex I provides the main social and economic indicators.
3.        Ecuador entered the 1970s as one of the least developed Latin
American countries. In 1967, petroleum was discovered in Ecuador's Anazon
region and in 1972 the country became a net oil exporter. In 1973 world oil
prices quadrupled and Ecuador's export earnings doubled. During the 1970s,
Ecuadorian income and output expanded rapidly, perhaps at a rate unprece-
dented in its history. At constant 1983 prices, per capita GNP increased
from US$1,190 in 1972 to US$1,430 in 1983, placing Ecuador firmly among the
Bank's middle-income borrowers.
4.        Between 1960 and 1980, much social progress was made.  Life expec-
tancy increased by ten years; death and infant mortality rates dropped by
more than 40 percent; and school enrollment expanded rapidly. By 1980
virtually all children were attending primary school, and a third of the
relevant cohort attended schools of higher education. Today's citizens are
better educated, in better health, and better fed than at any other time in
Ecuador's history. Nevertheless, owing to the low level from which Ecuador
started, Ecuador's social indicators lag behind those of other countries with
similar levels of per capita income. Moreover, the benefits of growth were
not evenly distributed. While a sizeable middle class emerged, about 40
percent of the urban and 65 percent of the rural population live in absolute
poverty.
5.        Highly concentrated ownership of productive resources and unequal
access to public services explain much of Ecuador's skewed income distribu-
tion. For example, 60 percent of the country's farmers derive their
livelihood from only 11 percent of the arable land. Their farms are
1/   Part I is substantially the same as Part I in Report No. P-4006-EC of
March 28, 1985.



small-less than 5 ha-and tend to be of the poorest quality. Low levels of
education, primitive cultivation techniques, scarce use of technical inputs,
and limited access to credit and to commercial marketing channels contribute
to low farm productivity and incomes. But uneven distribution of the oil
income also accounts for the disparities in social conditions. Thus, during
the 1970s only about a quarter of total public investment was channeled to
the rural areas, where 56 percent of the population and most of the poor
live.
6.        Like many other Latin American countries, Ecuador is now beginning
to emerge from a severe recession. In 1984, real GDP grew by about 3.4
percent. For the years 1982-83, however Ecuador not only suffered from
declining international oil prices and suspension of commercial bank lending,
but also from the ravages of the Nino current which, in 1983, practically
wiped out cocoa exports (a major source of foreign exchange), severely
damaged the countryside, and forced the country to import foodstuffs.
Normally domestic production meets the country's food needs. Per capita
income dropped in 1982; in 1983 it dropped again, this time by more than 5
percent. While statistics are scarce, it is clear that unemployment has
increased, some business have gone bankrupt, and Ecuador's financial and
industrial sectors have severe liquidity problems.
The Impact of Petroleum
7.        While the immediate causes for Ecuador's economic downturn may be
traced to falling oil prices and suspension of commercial bank lending, these
factors only exacerbated pending problems, as the country had embarked on an
unsustainable economic course. After the initial burst of oil exports in
1973, the country's volume of exports remained practically constant; export
earnings increased mainly because the international price of-oil went up, and
the country's income increased because the terms of trade turned sharply in
its favor. By 1980, the increased income made available since 1975 by rela-
tively higher export prices was adding 8 percent to Ecuador's yearly income.
The increased expenditures of the public sector-through which much of this
income passed-were partially responsible for the improvement in the nation's
living standards and physical infrastructure, as well as for accelerated
industrial production.
8.        Unfortunately, this income also had three adverse effects.  First,
it slackened efforts to collect taxes from the non-oil portion of the
economy. Thus, while petroleum revenues doubled relative to GDP between 1973
and 1983, non-oil taxes, including social security contributions, fell from
17 percent of GDP in 1973 to 10 percent in 1982, and total revenues, relative
to GDP, stagnated.
9.        Second, because oil taxes were painless for the Ecuadorian con-
sumer, there was an incentive to earmark them for various subsidies-imports,
housing, roads, and education-and to keep domestic petroleum product prices
frozen at the 1972 level. By 1980, the Ecuadorian consumer was paying only
US$0.10 for a gallon of gasoline. The subsidy implicit in the difference
between world prices and domestic prices was equivalent to about 8 percent of
1980 GDP.



-3 -
10.      Third, the abundance of revenues and their ease of collection dimin-
ished incentives to control the growth of public expenditures. Current
expenditures went up from 16 percent of GDP in 1973 to 24 percent in 1982.
Public sector savings decreased to such an extent that the public sector
surplus of 1973 (equivalent to 3 percent of GDP) became a deficit equivalent
to 8 percent of GDP by 1982. Because of its status as an oil exporter,
Ecuador was able to finance this deficit abroad with ease, but at a price.
The public external debt more than doubled between end-1979 and end-1983;
economic adjustment was deferred until Ecuador found its access to foreign
funds severely limited. The abundance of oil income also affected Ecuador's
exchange rate, allowing it to appreciate in real terms without causing
financial problems. This made imports cheaper for Ecuadorian industrialists
and consumers, but it also meant that non-oil exports suffered. With the
important exception of shrimp, non-oil exports grew slowly in volume after
1974. Like the public sector, the external sector would also have
encountered problems after 1980 had it not been for recourse to large
external borrowings.
11.      M4onetary policies complemented both exchange rate and fiscal poli-
cies. Negative real interest rates led to a decline of financial savings
relative to GDP. But Ecuador's financial system expanded credit rapidly in
nominal and real terms, despite poor domestic resource mobilization, because
foreign banks provided the Central Bank with increased resources.  The
external sector, with a fixed exchange rate, gave vent to what otherwise
would have been inflationary pressures by increasing the supply of goods to
the economy through imports. Copious external borrowing provided the needed
foreign exchange. Financial institutions, then, like the public and external
sectors, became dependent on petroleum (through the Central Bank) and
ultimately on external borrowing, through guarantees. They too encountered
severe problems when, in 1982, petroleum receipts stagnated and Ecuador's
access to external funds became severely limited.
Recent Events
12.       During 1981/82, the terms of trade turned against Ecuador as oil
prices declined. Export earnings fell by about 8 percent in 1982. Despite a
reduced volume of imports, the current account deficit of the balance of pay-
ments exceeded US$1 billion, about 9 percent of GDP. To finance it, the
authorities borrowed short-term and used up about US$460 million of the
country's international reserves, almosL depleting them in the process. When
the economic downturn worsened in 1983, Ecuador had to manage with severely
limited financial resources as foreign banks restricted their net, new
lending to US$430 million. To make matters worse, the Nino current's
climatic shifts, which had inflicted some damage in 1982, continued to ravage
the countryside with floods.
13.       The authorities' attempts to deal with the crisis have been, for
the most part, prompt and in the right direction. First, they dealt with the
exchange rate. In 1982, the sucre was devalued for the first time since 1971



- 4 -
and thereafter was adjusted frequently. It now stands at a rate which is as
attractive for exporters as it was in 1970, before the oil boom allowed it to
appreciate. Second, they dealt with the liquidity crisis by temporarily
prohibiting or limiting many imports and renegotiating principal on the
external private and public debt. Negotiations with the commercial banks for
a multi-year rescheduling covering maturities falling due in 1985-1989 were
concluded in the first quarter of 1985; a Paris Club agreement was reached in
April 1985 to reschedule official debt falling due between 1985-1987.
Temporary import restrictions were eliminated as the liquidity of the Central
Bank improved.
14.       A fiscal austerity program was put in place by 1983 in cooperation
with the IMF. The public sector deficit was reduced from about 8 percent of
GDP in 1982 to about 1.4 percent in 1983 and virtually eliminated in 1984.
Ecuador also complied with the rest of the IMF program. Partly as a result,
inflation was more than halved in 1984, to about 23 percent; the balance of
payments was practically brought into equilibrium, and growth resumed. An
IMF program-a one year SDR 105.5 million stand-by-for 1985/1986 is now
underway. Among other things, this program anticipates a public sector
surplus equivalent to 2.2 percent of GDP for 1985 to be achieved by raising
revenues and holding down expenditures. Another key feature is the
unification of the exchange rates of the official and intervention markets
(see para. 54). Additionally, the program addresses the need to reduce
inflation.
15.       Finally, decisions taken prior to the crisis began to bear fruit in
1983. For example, owing to positive results of exploration efforts under-
taken as far back as 1980, and the implementation of a secondary recovery
program, oil production and oil exports rose 11 percent and 39 percent,
respectively, in 1983.
Outlook
16.       The present Administration which took office in August 1984, is
the second one to be democratically elected after nearly a decade of
military rule. The Government's economic philosophy essentially supports
the market as an efficient resource allocation mechanism, with minimal
Government intervention in economic affairs. Since coming to office, the
Administration has taken a number of important and politically difficult
corrective measures: it again devalued the sucre and later unified the
multiple exchange rate markets; it raised domestic petroleum products prices;
it improved the interest rate structure; it successfully obtained a
multi-year rescheduling of its external debt; it liberalized trade; -.a it
moved to free prices in the agricultural sector. These are important
utilization of resources and stimulate exports, agricultural production and
17.       Owing to the devaluations of the sucre in the past two years,
which have raised the price of oil in sucre terms, oil exports now amount
to 18 percent of GDP. Virtually all of this income accrues to the public
sector. Present prospects indicate that in future years, the oil sector



- 5 -
will at least maintain its importance in the economy. Realization of the
country's growth potential requires extremely careful management of this
income. In particular, it will require continuation of frugal fiscal
policies and tight monetary policies, very much along the lines of the
1985-86 program agreed with the IMF. A public sector surplus channelled to
the private sector via the monetary system may be required to avoid
inflationary pressures and to maintain an adequate flow of resources to the
private sector, partially substituting for the foreign borrowings of previous
years. This delicate balance between public and private sector needs
underscores the importance of good public sector management.
18.       This balance is all the more important because Ecuador is likely to
continue facing a shortage of foreign exchange in the next few years, espe-
cially if oil prices continue to decline. In addition, Ecuador, like many
other developing countries, will face greater difficulty than in the past in
obtaining financing for its development effort from commercial sources. Yet,
the country has abundant resources. With a good public investment program,
continued improvement of sector policies, and tight monetary policies, the
exchange rate should remain attractive for exporters. Under these
conditions Ecuador could grow some 3-4 percent per year on average in
1985-1990 and attain equilibrium in both its overall fiscal and external
accounts, remaining, therefore, creditworthy for Bank lending. Both the Bank
and the Fund are supporting attainment of these objectives. Recent Bank
dialogue has focused on ensuring a sound public investment program; the Bank
lending program supports the improvement of sector policies and the ongoing
IMF agreement directs specific attention to the monitoring of fiscal policies
and exchange rate policies.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERhFI0NS IN ECUADOR
19.       Bank Group operations in Ecuador date back to 1954 when a loan was
sade for a first highway project. Altogether, the Bank and IDA have extended
31 loans and six credits to Ecuador totalling US$626.8 million net of can-
cellations. As of March 31, 1985, US$439 million of this amount had been
disbursed. The IFC has invested in five firms in Ecuador, including a large
textile company, a sugar mill, a cement company, a mining enterprise and a
development finance company. As of March 31, 1985, commitments for these
operations amounted to US$28 million, of which IFC held US$8 million. Annex
II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC operations
as of March 31, 1985.
20.       Execution of Bank Group financed projects has often been hampered
by weaknesses in Ecuador's implementation capacity, reflecting the insuffi-
ciency of the country's public sector managerial and technical resources-a
constraint that is still a serious obstacle to Ecuador's economic and social
development. In recent years, the Government and Bank staff have worked
together to step up disbursement of Bank loans. Among other initiatives, a



Special Action Program for the country provided for revolving funds in five
projects. As a result of these general efforts, disbursements rose from
US$26 million in FY83 to US$42 million in FY85. The country has recently set
up a monitoring committee for all externally financed projects which should
reinforce efforts to accelerate disbursements. The Bank plans annual port-
folio implementation reviews to detect and resolve specific obstacles to
execution of Bank-financed projects. Ecuador's average disbursement rate for
1981-1984 has been higher than the average for Latin American countries.
21.       Bank and IDA lending in Ecuador was originally concentrated in
transport and power, where there were substantial bottlenecks to be over-
come. To date, approximately 30 percent of Bank Group lending has been for
infrastructure. Seven of the nine loans and credits extended for transport
were to improve the country's road network and two were to help finance the
expansion of the port of Guayaquil. Three power operations aimed at
improving generation and distribution facilities in Quito. The first
livestock development loan, approved in FY67, marked the beginning of a
diversification in the Bank Group's lending program away from
infrastructure. Since then, the Bank Group has made nine other loans and
credits for agriculture and fisheries, seven loans to support industrial
development, and two for pre-investment studies. These productive sector
loans comprise 52 percent of total Bank lending to Ecuador. Bank Group
support for social sectors--education, water supply and urban
development--now accounts for about 18 percent of total Bank lending.
22.       Presently, there are three ongoing projects in agriculture:  Tungu-
rahua Rural Development (Ln. 1644-EC) for US$18 million; Puerto Ila-Chone
Rural Development (Ln. 1991-EC) for US$20 million; and Esmeraldas Rural
Development (Ln. 2044-EC) for US$17 million. An Agricultural Credit Project
was fully disbursed by September 1985, with a small balance cancelled. The
three rural development projects are progressing slowly due to complexity of
project design, inadequate institutional capacity and lack of counterpart
funding, with disbursements lagging behind appraisal estimates. To
accelerate project works, a restructuring of the Tungurahua Project became
effective in 1985. In addition, the Puerto Ila-Chone and Esmeraldas Projects
are being reprogrammed to expedite project implementation.
23.       The Bank has carried out extensive sector work id Ecuador.  On the
basis of the latest sector work, a Green Cover Report-Agriculture: An
Assessment and Direction for Development--was issued in August 1983. The
report has been reviewed by the Government's Economic Team and various key
public agencies, and the Government has endorsed the recommendations outlined
in the report, as stated in the letter of September 25, 1984, from
Mr. Marcel Laniado, Minister of Agriculture and Livestock, to the Bank (Annex
V). Other background papers prepared for the sector loan and recent
agriculture sector studies are included in the project file (see Annex V).



24.       Turning to the future, the Bank strategy is to support Government
initiatives in macroeconomic and sector reforms over the medium term. Bank
lending would build on a core program for industry, agriculture and infra-
structure to meet the following objectives: (a) completion of a physical and
social infrastructure base capable of fostering development; (b) expansion of
productive capacity in crucial sectors; and (c) strengthening of agencies to
implement projects effectively. Additional projects would support policy
improvements in energy, agriculture, industry and the general development
framework. In addition to the design and adoption of adequate sector poli-
cies, Bank lending will emphasize the generation of exports and employment.
Besides the Agriculture Sector Loan recommended in this report, the Bank is
preparing an industrial finance operation and an agricultural credit
operation. These operations, as well as a small scale enterprise project,
have been designed so as to support in a consistent and coordinated fashion
the financial and trade reforms sought by i.le Government to reduce subsidies
and protection and encourage investment in these productive sectors. These
operations would also increase incomes and improve employment prospects for
the population. In addition to Bank lending, the IFC is analyzing several
possible operations, principally in agribusiness and fisheries.
25.       Substantial development financing has also been provided to Ecuador
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the U.S. Agency for Interna-
tional Development (USAID) and, to a lesser extent, by other bilateral
sources. IDB has been the single largest lender to Ecuador. Loans outstand-
ing (including undisbursed) from IDB to the country as of December 31, 1984,
totalled about US$985 million equivalent. Past IDB lending has been
concentrated in the power, agriculture, industry and transport fields. Most
of IDB's loans to the country have come from the Fund for Special Operations
and normally carry concessional terms.  It is likely that IDB will remain
Ecuador's major development lender in the immediate future with power,
agriculture and socially-oriented projects continuing to account for a large
share of its lending program. By December 1984, USAID had about US$105
million in outstanding loans to Ecuador (including undisbursed). Its program
concentrates on urban development, agriculture, health and the private
sector. In addition to maintaining close contact with USAID, IDB and other
aid agencies to assure compatibility of programs, Bank staff have undertaken
a full public sector investment review which could serve as the basis for a
Consultative Group Meeting of Ecuador's creditors, possibly by mid-1986.
26.       As of December 31, 1984, the public and publicly-guaranteed medium-
and long-term external debt of Ecuador (including undisbursed) totaled about
US$8.1 billion, of which US$1.3 billion was undisbursed. Of the former sum,
the Bank group provided 5.5 percent; the IDB 12.2 percent and USAID 1.3
percent. Through 1988, the Bank's share of Ecuador's outstanding and
disbursed public foreign debt is expected to remain below 7 percent, and the
Bank's share of total public foreign debt service is projected to remain
between 3 percent and 4 percent.



- 8 -
PART III - TUE AGRICDLTJURAL SECTDR
General
27.       Before petroleum dominated the economy during the 1970s and 1980s,
agriculture was Ecuador's leading sector in growth and export earnings.
Although it still remains important to the economy, discriminatory and often
contradictory policies, combined with inefficiency in delivery of support
services, have prevented agriculture from achieving its potential in terms of
income growth, export earnings, and employment. As a consequence, it has not
become a major force in reducing poverty and inequality in Ecuador. However,
the new Government has proposed to reform agricultural policy through liber-
alizing prices and trade and return agriculture to being a leading sector in
economic growth and poverty alleviation. It has requested the Bank to assist
in supporting this policy reform and in easing the consequential sectoral
adjustment process.
baportance and Potential of the Agricultural Sector
28.       Despite a decade of policies favoring industry and discriminating
against agriculture, the agricultural sector remains important to Ecuador's
GDP and foreign exchange earnings, accounting for 14 percent of GDP and about
16 percent of export earnings. If the value added from agro-industry is
included, then its contribution to the economy increases to about 29 percent
of GDP and nearly 30 percent of export earnings. Agricultural products,
including forestry and fishery exports, constitute 98 percent of
non-petroleum export earnings.
29.       Because agricultural production is labor intensive, generally
requiring unskilled labor, agriculture's importance to employment, especially
for the poor, is even more substantial than its contribution to GDP. Despite
high rural-to-urban migration, the agricultural sector still employs about
half of Ecuador's economically active population. If agro-industry is
included, employment provided directly and indirectly by agriculture
increases to over 60 percent of the active work force. With rural incomes
substantially below urban levels and under-employment in rural areas by some
estimates 50 percent of the available labor, agricultural growth is essential
to increasing the employment and the incomes of Ecuador's poor.
30.       Despite its importance to the economy and rural welfare, agricul-
ture's potential has not been fully developed. Although Ecuador has a favor-
able climate for growing most crops, agricultural land remains under-
exploited: Ecuador is utilizing only about 44 percent of its land suitable
for cropping and about 62 percent of its pasture land for cattle. Except for
bananas and palm oil, average yields have not increased for major crops,
remaining at levels 30 to 75 percent below those obtained by advanced farmers
using improved technology and having access to extension and credit.



- 9 -
31.       Although agriculture is a major source of foreign exchange
earnings, the potential for increased exports of agricultural products has
not been exploited. While the comparative advantage of Ecuador's traditional
exports-coffee, cocoa, and bananas-remains strong, domestic resource cost
calculations indicate that Ecuador also has a comparative advantage in the
production of rice, hard corn, cotton and soybeans, products which are cur-
rently imported or only occasionally exported in years of surplus. An
attractive exchange rate and policies that encourage agriculture investment
could stimulate production and eventually lead to sustained exports of these
non-traditional export crops.
Performance of the Sector
32.       Except for livestock production, forestry, and the shrimp industry,
agriculture has grown slowly. The growth rate of real value added for the
major export crops-bananas, coffee, and cocoa-has been about 1.7 percent
p.a. from 1970 to the early 1980s. The other traditional crops which
constitute Ecuador's food production have grown at only 0.6 percent p.a.,
well below the rate of population growth of 2.5 percent. As a consequence,
food imports have been increasing rapidly, rising at an average annual rate
of 13 percent; food now constitutes 53 percent of total imports. Wheat is
the major food import, reaching about 330,000 tons in the 1983/84 crop year.
Wheat production remains stagnant at about 25,000 tons, despite high support
prices, while consumption continues increasing at over 5 percent per year.
Because of increasing food imports and lower export prices, the agricultural
trade surplus has declined, falling from a peak of US$547 million in 1979 to
US$231 million in 1982.
gZricultural Trade and Pricing Policies
33.       The poor performance of agriculture can be largely attributed to
past Governments' trade and pricing policies. Ecuador's foreign trade
policies have been characterized by high and highly variable protection of
its import substituting industry through tariffs and qulantitative restric-
tions, overvalued exchange rates, selected taxation of exports and
subsidization of imports. For instance, a 1983 Bank economic mission esti-
mated effective rates of protection of about 100 percent for some textile
products, 200 percent for some domestic electrical appliances, and 300
percent for other industrial products, while agricultural commodities had
generally low or negative effective rates of protection. Effective rates of
protection have also been calculated based upon actual tariff receipts and
thus represent lower limits (as quantitative restrictions would raise
protection). For industry, these rates are 26 percent (1975), 20 percent
(1980), and 61 percent (1983), while for agriculture they are -1.3 percent
(1975), -1.6 percent (1980) anid 4 percent (1983).
34.       During the 1970s and early 1980s, the overvaluation of the exchange
rate compounded the discriminatory effect on agriculture of trade and pricing
policies.  While industrial final products became practically non-exported
because of the high protection afforded them, the agricultural sector, pro-
ducing mostly tradeable commodities, became continually more discriminated



- 10 -
against as the official exchange rate remained fixed until 1982. During this
period, based upon an import-weighted and export-weighted basket of curren-
cies, the official exchange rate became overvalued by between 40 percent and
48 percent. This caused declines in the real competitive returns to banana
and coffee exporters, and would have similarly affected cocoa exporters, had
not two major competitors (Ghana and Nigeria) suffered worse appreciation of
their exchange rates.
35.       Until September 1985, when the rates were unified, multiple
exchange rates and controls were used to indirectly subsidize a few
agricultural products (wheat, flour, and milk) and agricultural inputs
(fertilizers and agro-chemicals) that could be imported at a low exchange
rate of 67 sucres/US$1. Other imports were, since September 1984, subject to
an official intervention exchange rate of 97 sucres/US$1 while a parallel
free market' rate of about 110-120 sucres/US$1 also existed for tourism and
capital movements.
36.       While exchange rate policy generally discriminated against agricul-
ture by permitting subsidized imports of commodities that competed with
domestic products, the Government further reduced incentives to the sector
through export taxes on coffee, cocoa, bananas, and additional financial
subsidies on imported wheat and milk powder. Although a high support price
for the small amount of domestically produced wheat, a minimum price on milk,
and the fertilizer subsidy tended to somewhat counterbalance the import
subsidies, the net negative effect remained as Ecuador continued to attempt
to provide low-cost food to urban consumers.
37.       This combination of policies penalized agriculture in several
ways. First, the high protection and, in many cases, import prohibitions
granted to the industrial sector in the past 10 years worsened the terms of
trade between agriculture and the rest of the economy, distorted the flow of
resources between the two sectors and induced an overgrowth of the urban
economy. Second, the past overvaluation of the exchange rate diminished the
incentives to develop exportable surpluses and further depressed producer
prices of exported crops. Third, the subsidization of the imports of certain
agricultural products such as wheat and milk powder through a preferential
exchange rate and at times direct subsidies by the Government discouraged
production of their consumption substitutes, such as rice and fresh milk.
38.       Agricultural production has further been hampered by the distortion
in relative prices brought about by the operations of public enterprises,
controls on wholesale and consumer prices, and trade restrictions. On the
input side, the subsidization granted through the preferential exchange rate
to imports of fertilizers, seeds, and pesticides has been vitiated by lack of
availability at critical times and inefficient use. This has been caused in
part by over-participation in the delivery of these inputs by overstaffed and
poorly managed publicly controlled enterprises and by licensing controls on
imports.
39.       On the output side, the attempt at providing piecemeal compensation
(through procurement and price controls) to individual crops, for the overall
policies of discrimination against agriculture has induced distortions of
relative prices. These compensations have been attempted through legally



- 11 -
mandated "minimum' wholesale prices and procurement by public enterprises and
processing facilities, and maximum retail prices. Although many of the price
controls and interventions have been ineffective or, at least, only arbitrar-
ily enforced, they have contributed to increased uncertainties about price
levels and, in some cases, produced relative price distortions as compared to
international price ratios. Despite the fact that agricultural inputs were
subsidized when multiple exchange rates existed, effective rates of
protection for most agricultural products remained negative.
Public Enterprises in Agriculture
40.       Public enterprises in the agricultural sector are either fully
Government-owned, or mixed enterprises in which private parties own stock,
most frequently on a minority basis. The two most important fully
Government-owned enterprises are: National Enterprise for Storage and
Marketing (ENAC), a state enterprise with the objective of stabilizing market
prices at the producer level, and National Enterprise for Essential Products
(ENPROVIT), a state enterprise with the objective of distributing food at
minimum prices to the poor. Together with trade controls, ENAC and ENPROVIT
were the major instruments in implementing domestic price policy.
41.       ENAC.  ENAC, controlling about 27 percent of the agricultural
storage capacity in Ecuador, is authorized to purchase locally or import,
store, and distribute basic items such as rice, sugar, corn, wheat, and
cotton. It also has exported surpluses according to local conditions of
supply and demand and supervised wholesale markets, commodity exchanges, and
market information systems. Through these controls and procurements, the
Government attempted to influence producer and wholesale prices. However,
limited storage and financial capacity restricted its influence on prices.
As a result, ENAC purchased mostly from large growers while smaller producers
had to sell in the open market at lower prices. Because of its price support
activities, ENAC accumulated deficits of about US$35 million. Recently, the
Government restricted ENAC to supporting 'incentive' prices only for hard
corn and rice.
42.       ENPROVIT. While ENAC addressed producer prices, ENPROVIT attempted
to control consumer prices at retail markets through about 300 outlets in
five regions of the country, 31 supermarkets in some major cities, and 13
warehouses. Retail sales averaged about US$50 million; about 30 percent of
its operating budget were co'rered by Government subsidies. Outstanding debt
is about US$12 million, and lines of credit to ENPROVIT were recently
suspended. The current Administration intends, in the short term, to limit
ENPROVIT's growth, and in the medium term, to explore alternatives to
improving the food intake of the poor.
43.       Other Public Enterprises.  Agro-industrial enterprises that are
partially Government-owned range from a fertilizer company and a seed company
to various food processing enterprises, including milk, tea, cattle
slaughtering, sugar, and citrus juice plants. Their financial position,



- 12 -
inventories, and other basic information are generally unknown by the Govern-
ment. The new Administration intends to divest some of these enterprises
but, without the most basic financial information, it is unable to make
realistic assessments of the consequences, or even the feasibility, of priva-
tization.
Agricultural Credit
44.       About 14 percent of the credit from the banking system in Ecuador
is extended to the agricultural sector. The National Development Bank (BNF)
is the main source of financing for the sector, providing 88 percent of all
formal sector credit. Although between 1978 and 1982 actual lending by BNF
declined by 11 percent in real terms, lending increased in 1983 and 1984 by
an annual average of 30 percent in real terms.
45.       BNF has been virtually the only formal source of credit for small
farmers; 60 percent of its loans are directed to this group. However, an
analysis of the volume of BNF lending in agriculture indicates a focus on
livestock, traditional export crops, and a few selected non-traditional
crops. Its interest rates have generally been negative in real terms, and
have varied depending on source of funds, and the crop intended to be
supported. Short-term credit, which averaged over 60 percent of the total
lending in the last five years, also favored a few commodities, mainly rice,
corn, and cotton.
46.       The lending by BNF to agriculture has been impaired by cumbersome
procedures for subloan appraisal and approval and by legal requirements. BNF
has taken steps to strengthen its operations and to improve its credit and
accounting procedures. In particular, under technical assistance from FAO,
BNF has reduced its operating costs and rescheduled a number of overdue
loans.
47.       Although still solvent, BNF has a weak financial position.  Its
margin between cost of funds and on-lending rates has not been adequate to
cover operating costs, bad debts, and equity loss caused by inflation. As a
result, it has been decapitalized at an average annual rate of more than 10
percent over this period.
48.       Interest rates on most deposits, and loans are regulated by the
Monetary Board. After nearly a decade of fixed interest rates, adjustments
were made in 1981, 1983, and 1984. Savings rates range from 18 percent to
21 percent and lending rates in agriculture, excluding fees and commissions,
ranged from 18 percent for small producers to 23 percent for medium and large
producers. In 1984, inflation was about 25 percent, making real savings, and
lending rates somewhat. negative. Inflation in 1985 is currently running
around 21 percent.
49.       While lending rates have been simplified, there has been no formal
mechanism for periodic adjustments of interest rates. In August, a new law
was approved which provides for adjustable interest rates on medium- and
long-term loans. Furthermore, in practice, loans in arrears are rescheduled
as new loans at current interest rates, and commercial banks have, for some
time, arranged even their longer term lending on a short-term basis so as to
enable an annual revision of interest rates.



- 13 -
Current and Planned Public Investments In Agriculture
50.       Public investment in agriculture has amounted to 10 percent  of
total public investment, or 0.7 percent of GDP. The current Administration
emphasizes further reducing inefficient public sector interventions in
agriculture and increasing the attractiveness of the sector for private
investment. About 80 percent of public agricultural investment has been
channelled to infrastructure-irrigation, roads, and water supply. Planned
investments follow the same pattern, with the bulk directed to irrigation -
works and, in particular, to two major irrigation projects: Daule-Peripa
and Tahuin. Investments associated with integrated rural development
emphasize roads, water supply and schools and amount to 16 percent of the
investment plan in agriculture. Only a small proportion (7 percent) is
allocated to research and extension services.
51.       The Daule-Peripa project, a large multi-component irrigation,
drainage, and hydroelectric power project, would absorb about 74 percent of
the total public investment in irrigation and 54 percent of total public
investment in agriculture and thus is the most important project in the
sector. The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), which has provided
financing for the project, conducted a detailed review of it in 1984. Based
upon the ongoing experience with the project, IDB estimated that the overall
project would have a rate of return of about 9 percent; if costs incurred
prior to 1985 are deducted from total investment costs, then the rate of
return increases to 12 percent.
52.       A recent updating of this cost-benefit analysis within the Bank
found that the rates of return calculated by 1DB are now most likely under-
stated because (a) sunk costs would have to include all of 1985 costs and
possibly more before work could be stopped; and (b) cancellation costs were
omitted from the -without project- case. A November 1984 Bank Public
Investment may be more costly to stop it than to complete the second phase
irrigation works where most of the potential benefits lie. Together with
this conclusion, the Public Investment Review Mission also recommended
continuing with all research, extension and forestry, and most rural
development and irrigation works currently underway or planned (96 percent of
proposed public investments in the sector).
Goveruzent Policy Objectives
53.       The Government elected last year has proposed policies for the
agricultural sector which are decidedly more market-oriented than past
administrations (see Development Policy Letter in Annex V on the intent of
Government policies). The objectives of the policies include:
(a)  improvement of the internal terms of trade of agriculture in
relation to other sectors of the economy;
(b)  liberalization of prices, including reduction of the number of
commodities covered by controlled producer and consumer prices;
(c)  reduction of tariffs and quantitative restrictions to trade;
(d)  divestment of selected enterprises owned fully or partially by the
Government;



- 14 -
(e) increased provision and improved efficiency in the distribution of
agricultural credit at non-subsidized rates of interest; and
(f) improved efficiency of the Ministry of Agriculture and ancillary
institutions.
Recent Actions Taken
54.       The Government has already begun to implement policies to support
these objectives (see the Policy Matrix in Annex IV for a summary of recent
actions taken and additional actions to be implemented). Foremost, the
Government has devalued the sucre substantially. In 1984, it began
transferring transactions from the official market (fixed at 66.5 sucres per
dollar) to the intervention exchange rate (96.5 sucres per dollar). By
September 1985, all trade was unified at the intervention rate (except for
some transitional measures for existing contracts, and limited tourist access
to a free market). The Government has eliminated most of the quantitative
restrictions put in place in 1982 and 1983, somewhat reducing the distortions
between agriculture and industry. Subsidies (via use of the preferential
official exchange rate) on the imports of wheat and milk powder have been
eliminated and procurement by ENAC has been reduced to two commodities, rice
and hard corn. Likewise, the number of commodities covered by maximum
official prices has been reduced to five, three of which are agricultural
(the remaining two are salt and banana packing boxes). A graduated scale of
export taxes based on international prices has been raised so that export
taxes effectively have been eliminated except for a nominal tax which is
earmarked for reinvestment in the export crop.
Constraints to Further Actions
55.       Despite these actions, the Government still faces severe political,
technical, and financial constraints to the further implementation of its
policies. In an economy accustomed to highly interventionist policies,
economic interest groups have formed and continue to resist liberalization.
Although competent professionals can be found within and outside the Ministry
of Agriculture, their numbers are few and salaries are insufficient to
attract more experienced and competent personnel to assist in policy anal-
ysis. Also, funds are limited for supporting monitoring of policy effects
and studies on policy reforms and public institutions and enterprises. On
the financial side, a policy of restricting imports through licensing and
delayed payment to suppliers remains as the Government attempts to ration
foreign exchange and generate increased surpluses on its current account. Ar
agricultural production depends on imported inputs, especially fertilizers
and pesticides, foreign exchange availability remains an important constraint
to agricultural growth.
56.       Therefore, despite the need to move even more decisively in liber-
alizing prices and trade as well as reorganizing and improving the efficiency
of the public sector and public investments, the Government is limited in the
actions it can realistically undertake without foreign exchange and technical
assistance. It is the objective of the proposed Agriculture Sector Loan to
assist in providing the resources necessary to support the Government in the
implementing of its policy intentions with respect to the sector.



- 15 -
PART IV - PROPOSED               sE(coR LOM
57.       Over two years, the proposed Agricultural Sector Loan would:
(a) assist in implementing a set of further policy reforms in the area
of agricultural pricing, trade and interest rates while ensuring
that the dismantling of industrial protection proceeds;
(b) provide foreign exchange for importing agricultural inputs (fertil-
izers, agro-chemical products, pesticides, seeds, agricultural
machinery, silos, processing equipment, large trucks) necessary for
supporting the expansion and diversification of agricultural pro-
duction;
(c) finance technical assistance for supporting the analysis of agri-
cultural policies and investment criteria through assisting in
strengthening a policy group responsible for monitoring the effects
of policy reforms and advising the Government on other policy
initiatives in the agricultural sector; and
(d) finance a set of studies of public enterprlses which could lead to
the divestiture of some enterprises, the improvement in efficiency
of others, and the building of a policy framework for implementing
policies with respect to public enterprises.
58.       The proposed loan of US$100 million would finance about a quarter
of Ecuador's projected 1986/87 imports of agricultural inputs, including
storage and transportation equipment. Disbursement of the Loan is proposed
to be in two tranches based upon the fulfillment of two sets of conditions
which are important for encouraging agricultural growth and efficiency and on
which the Government is prepared to take action. The first tranche of
US$50 million would be available for disbursement upon loan effectiveness.
The second tranche of US$50 million would be available for disbursement
following completion with the second set of policy actions defined in the
program. The first set of policy actions which took effect prior to Board
consideration of this program was primarily oriented to liberalizing internal
pricing and to achieving positive interest rates along with unifying most
rates unless differences were justified by transaction costs including
arrears. The second set continues price liberalization and progress on real
rates of interest while focusing on trade policy and on improvement of
inter-sectoral terms of trade. It also provides for policy reviews on export
incentives, inter-sectoral terms of trade, public investment in agriculture,
and for satisfactory progress on a set of studies financed under the loan.
Actions Taken Prior to Board Presentation
59.       Prior to Board Presentation, the following actions took place:
(a) Purchases by ENAC and other public enterprises in order to
support minimum prices of agricultural commodities were eliminated, except
for two products; during the up-coming winter harvest, ENAC will continue to
procure hard corn and rice. In order for the Government to maintain its
credibility with producers, limited purchases of rice and hard corn by EN&C
would continue until the second tranche since procurement prices have already
been announced for the winter crop (harvested in November and December in
normal years).



- 16 -
(b) Official "maximum" consumer prices on all agricultural
products except for wheat flour were eliminated and the sales of food at
ENPROVIT outlets at minimum prices in poor areas were restricted to no more
than three staple commodities (wheat flour, milk, and sugar). In order to
avoid excessive windfall gains by owners of stored imported wheat, the
Government needed to continue price controls on wheat flour at the consumer
level after the exchange rates had been unified until existing stocks have
been sold. However, the Government intends to adjust the maximum price level
upward during the transition period and then eliminate controls. The three
staple commodities would continue to be distributed at floor prices in poor
areas in order to partially protect the food security of the urban poor. The
loan would finance a study of ENPROVIT and of alternative schemes of ensuring
adequate food intake by the poor in order to determine a cost-effective means
of achieving this objective.
(c) Agricultural lending rates were unified except for differences
justified by transaction costs, at 21 percent for all agricultural loans with
maturities of 90 days or more. Industrial lending rates are currently
satisfactory at 26-27 percent effective nominal rates (for the purposes of
the Loan, positive rates are defined to be lending rates including
commissions and other related charges that are zbove a seasonally adjusted
index of the previous six months inflation or, alternatively, 85 percent of a
market-based certificate of deposit rate; currently, the inflation indicator
reflects a 21 percent annual rate.)
Proposed Conditions for Disbursement of Second Tranche
60.       The conditions for disbursement of the second tranche would be the
following:
(a) Elimination of quotas and other quantitative restrictions on the
imports of agricultural products and inputs and substitution by
generally uniform tariffs at levels to be agreed to by the Bank aad
to be determined from the internal terms of trade study
(para. 6 M) and international long-term price forecasts.
Although tariffs would be required to be generally uniform, some
variability in tariffs would be permitted to compensate for short-
term price deviations from long-term international prices. This
would be necessary for instance in the case of milk powder and
sugar where current prices are considerably below long-term
projected prices.
(b) Elimination of the maximum consumer price on wheat flour. By the
time of the second tranche, the need to maintain price controls on
wheat will have ended.
(c)  Elimination of purchases of hard corn and rice by ENAC or other
public enterprises to support minimum wholesale prices. This would
end Government procurement to support minimum prices of
agricultural products. The future role of ENAC would also be
studied under the program (para. 65).



- 17 -
(d)  Satisfactory progress on studies of public enterprises (para. 65)
and inter-sectoral terms of trade (para. 61). Satisfactory pro-
gress would be defined against a schedule of actions and targets
spelled out in the terms of reference. Ten specific public
enterprises-those most important in asset size--would be included
in the initial survey.
(e) Satisfactory progress in improving policies affecting inter-
sectoral terms of trade and export incentives as determined through
a joint review with the Government to take place no later than
September 30, 1986. Although the recent devaluations have eased
the bias against tradeables, the incentive to export agricultural
and industrial products is significantly reduced due to the high
protection offered to the industrial sector. Therefore, a policy
that encourages trade and price liberalization in agriculture needs
to be balanced by a gradual dismantling of protection for
industry. A significant reduction of the number of coinmmodities
covered by quantitative trade restrictions, and a lowering of the
level and dispersion of tariffs on industrial commodities would
thus be one condition required for achieving satisfactory
progress. The Ministry of Industry has proposed an acceptable
first step for tariff reform including almost total elimination of
prior authorization to import except for commodities requiring
restrictions due to health and sanitary reasons, a lowering of the
maximum tariff from 220 percent to 125 percent, and a reduction of
tariff dispersion such that 75 percent of commodities imported
would have tariffs of 70 percent or lower. The adequacy of export
incentives would be determined through net returns to crops
Cbananas, coffee, cocoa, rice, hard corn, soybeans, cotton) as
based upon an agreed-upon methodology for crop financial models.
At least four of the seven crops mentioned would have to have (or
continue to have) a positive net financial rate of return. The
review of export incentives and internal terms of trade would be
coordinated with the Bank's industrial lending operations and
continuing dialogue with the Governmeat on trade reform.
(f) Continued positive interest rates on lending, including
commissions, and other related charges for the agricultural and
industrial sectors as described in para. 59 (c).
(g) Satisfactory 1986 public investment program for agriculture deter-
mined through a joint review. As the current investment program is
largely satisfactory, this condition would serve to identify any
potentially poor new investments and to focus on the work of the
policy analysis group on investment criteria (para. 62).
Policy Monitoring under the Sector Loan
61.       With technical assistance and analysis provided under the loan, a
newly established Agricultural Policy Analysis Group reporting directly to
the Minister of Agriculture would be strengthened to monitor the reforms
under the loan. The following monitoring would be undertaken:
(a) Differential Protection. Differential protection between agricul-
ture and the rest of the economy would be monitored by estimating



- 18 -
nominal and effective rates of protection for commodities produced
in the two sectors. The Agricultural Policy Analysis Group, using
technical assistance financed under the project, would conduct farm
surveys on costs of production and make estimates of the effective
rates of protection for agriculture. Monitoring of effective rates
of protection for industry is currently being undertaken by the
Central Bank.
(b) Internal Terms of Trade. In conjunction with estimates of effec-
tive protection, domestic terms of trade between agriculture and
the other sectors of the economy would be periodically estimated
to ensure that the agricultural sector is not unduly penalized by
any of the multiple market intervention policies of the Government
in other sectors. These estimates are well within the capabilities
of the Ecuadorian Government, since its system of national accounts
includes a yearly updated input-output matrix. Since terms of
trade vary with the income and cost structure of the subsector
and/or the population groups concerned, they should also be esti-
mated for the main agro-economic regions of the country. The same
group currently estimating industrial effective protection in the
Central Bank would take responsibility for these estimates in con-
junction with the Agricultural Policy Analysis Group. Technical
assistance for the terms of trade studies would also be financed by
the proposed loan.
xc) Price Ratios. Exchange rate and trade policies and the dismantling
of control prices would be expected to gradually bring domestic
price ratios towards long-term expected international price
ratios. Systematic comparisons between domestic and international
price ratios taking into account transport and handling cost dif-
ferences for all crops could be developed by the Agricultural
Policy Group.
62.       General Policy Analysis.  In addition to the above specific anal-
ysis, the Agricultural Policy Analysis Group with technical assistance
financed by the proposed loan, would develop the capability to: (a) estimate
gains and losses of alternative policy courses and of different degrees of
departure from international price ratio parity; (b) monitor objectives and
instruments of agricultural policies; (c) estimate financial and economic
returns to various crops; and (d) establish investment criteria for public
investments in agriculture.
Technical Assistance and Studies
63.       Technical Assistance.  To support and implement the new policy
framework of the Government, about US$1,000,000 of the Sector Loan would be
allocated to the following technical assistance (draft terms of reference
were agreed during negotiations).
(a) Technical Assistance for the Policy Analysis Group within the
Ministry of Agriculture would consist of (i) two micro-economists
(for 18 man-months); (ii) one macro-economist (for five man-
months); and (iii) short-term consultants (for 12 man-months).



- 19 -
(b) Technical Assistance for policy analysis on terms of trade and
exchange rates within the Central Bank would consist of a series of
short-term consultants (for 4 man-months).
(c) A series of short-term consultants (for 4 man-months) to the
Ministry of Agriculture, for analysis of selected issues such as
marketing and storage.
64.       The Agricultural Policy Analysis Group as well as the Central Bank
Unit in charge of disbursing the loan would also require limited micro-
computers and software, included in the above total cost.
Studies of Public Enterprises in Agriculture
65.       In order to enhance the efficiency and improve the finances of the
public sector, the Government intends to divest itself of several public
enterprises, improve the efficiency of others, and change the principal
activities of still others. However, to classify enterprises according to
the suitability for action in these areas, the Government requires basic
information on the financial, managerial, and technical status of the
enterprises and estimates on the budgetary and economic implications of
divestiture. It also requires proposals on steps to Improve the efficiency
or to reform the functions of some public enterprises. To support the
Government in carrying out its intentions with respect to public enterprises,
the loan would finance three studies. (Draft terms of reference were agreed
during negotiations):
(a) The first, a broad-based study, would (i) identify and collect data
on inventories, financial records, asset values, and status of
plant and equipment of public enterprises; (ii) identify specific
problems impeding the performance of these public enterprises and
give an estimate of the impact that these enterprises have on the
Government budget, internal and external debt, and foreign exchange
earnings or payments; (iii) identify how Government policy, e.g.,
pricing, import quotas, etc., affect the performance of these
enterprises; and (iv) establish criteria and recommend enterprises
for possible divestiture and determine the policy framework that
would be needed once divestiture has taken place.
(b) The second set of studies would be an in-depth analysis of enter-
prises recommended for divestiture including necessary preparations
for their sale. For enterprises to be retained either fully or
partially by the Government, the study would recommend systems for
management and financial control and necessary upgrading of plant
and equipment.
(c) A third set of studies would proceed with respect to two enter-
prises which have been identified as requiring Immediate in-depth
attention. These studies would be on ENAC, to determine a future
role for the enterprise including possible divestiture, and
ENPROVIT to improve its delivery of food to the poor or determine
an alternative, more cost effective means to achieve the objective
of increased food intake of the poor.
The estimated financing of these studies under the loan is US$1,500,000.



- 20 -
Procurement
66.       Sector Imports.  Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of US$5 million or more would be awarded following
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Private sector imports under contracts below US$5 million would follow normal
commercial practices. Contracts of lesser value by the public sector would
be purchased following normal procurement procedures of the Government.
67.       Technical Assistance and Studies.  Locally and internationally
recruited consultants acceptable to the Bank would be selected following Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. To assure timely contracting of con-
sultants for projects, the Government has decided to contract with UNDP's
Office of Project Execution to recruit and administer contracts for indi-
vidual consultants and firms to carry out studies.
Disbursement
68.       The proposed loan would reimburse 100 percent of the foreign
exchange costs of eligible imports (para. 57(b) lists agricultural inputs to
be financed) and 100 percent of the costs of technical assistance and
studies. Disbursements would be made against the cost and freight of
eligible imports subject to documentary evidence that expenditures had been
incurred after the loan signing. They would be made against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) certified by the Central Bank and only for expenditures
made within 120 days of arrival of the goods within the country for the first
tranche and within 30 days for the second tranche.2/ Contracts of less than
US$50,000 would not be eligible for disbursement. The Central Bank would be
responsible for collecting relevant documents in support of eligible imports,
technical assistance and studies, and for preparing and forwarding withdrawal
applications to the Bank.  The supporting documentation of SOEs would be
identified and filed by the Central Bank and made available to Bank missions
for review. In order to facilitate disbursements, a Special Account with an
initial deposit of US$20 million equivalent will be established with the
Central Bank following standard Bank procedures. Both the SOEs and the
Special Account would be subject to audits carried out by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank.
2/ The reduction in the number of days for payments to suppliers is to avoid
delayed payments by the Central Bank, a practice conducted in the past to
assist in rationing of foreign exchange. With the loan and the use of
a Special Account, undue delay in payments would not be required.



- 21 -
Benefits, Tpact and Risks
69.       The policy reforms recently undertaken by the Government and the
additional actions proposed under the loan with respect to the agricultural
sector represent a fundamental change in the direction of policy from one of
price controls and import substitution to one of price liberalization and
export promotion. They represent a recognition that the agricultural sector
has the potential to return to being a leading sector in the long-term growth
of the economy and is fundamental to assuring improved living conditions for
the country's poor, the majority of which live and work in the rural areas.
70.       Benefits.  In order to determine the benefits of the policy reforms
of the loan, an agricultural sector model was constructed. The model divides
the agricultural land area into six zones, each consisting of small, medium,
and large farmers (one large public farm was also included). Farm models for
each zone and farm type are estimated based upon actual and potential crop
processes. Production possibilities are constrained by land, labor, and
fertilizer availability. Changes in farm incomes, employment, and production
are simulated for the removal of import constraints on fertilizer imports (a
proxy for removal of foreign exchange constraints on imports of agricultural
inputs) and the liberalization of agricultural commodities prices. The
effects of import tariffs on some agricultural commodities--wheat, rice,
cotton, and hard corn-are also estimated. Although the model is not explic-
itly able to estimate the time required for these effects to be manifested,
it is anticipated that these are medium-term adjustments, that is, within
five years. Longer-term effects (10 to 20 years), for example from new
plantings and rehabilitation of coffee and cocoa plantations, have not been
estimated. Table 1 summarizes the results of the simulations.
Table 1: Simulated Effect of Policy Reforms
Policy Outcomes
Policy Reforms              Farm Incomes         Agricultural   Gross Value of
Small  Medium  Large    Employment        Production
Percentage Change from 1984 Base Levels--
Removal of Fertilizer
Import Constraint          -4      7      45           31               38
Plus Liberalization
of Prices                26      26     58           28               48
Plus Import Tariff
of 10%                 48     43      70           27               59
of 25%                 74     75      91           15               71



- 22 -
71.       The removal of the constraint on fertilizer imports (constrained in
the model to 1984 levels) through provision of foreign exchange for imports
by the loan has a substantial effect on agricultural production and employ-
ment with production increasing by 38 percent and employment by 31 percent.
Without prices liberalized, the major benefactor would be large farms which
have the resources to purchase fertilizer and grow high valued, fertilizer-
intensive crops.  With agricultural product prices liberalized, the benefits
are spread more evenly because the higher prices permit more use of fertili-
zers by small- and medium-size farms. Employment declines slightly from the
without-price-liberalization scenario as production is diverted to less
labor-intensive crops on small- and medium-size farms but remains 28 percent
above the base case. Imposing an import tariff of 10 percent further
increases farm incomes while only marginally affecting employment. Increas-
ing the .mport tariff to 25 percent, although continuing to raise farm
incomes especially small- and mediumr-size farms, substantially reduces
employment from the level obtained under a 10 percent tariff. This occurs
because the crops (e.g. wheat, soybeans, and barley) that are protected by
the proposed tariff, and therefore, became more profitable, are less labor-
intensive. Therefore, the balancing of the internal terms of trade between
agriculture, and the rest of the economy through import tariffs on agricul-
tural commodities must be done with moderation in order to aroid reducing the
employment increases that are gained from removal of import and price
constraints.
72.       The effect of this increase in agricultural production on export
earnings and substitution for imported agricultural products depends on other
critical variables, such as the exchange rate and the growth of domestic
income (and hence demand), which are outside of the model. However, some
broad estimates are possible. If aggregate income growth in Ecuador is in
the range of 3-4 percent p.a., per capita income growth would be in the range
of 0.4 to 1.4 percent, implying an increase in food demand of 1-2 percent
p.a. According to the estimates from the model, agricultural production
would increase at a rate of nearly 8 percent p.a. under the reform program
and with continued availability of foreign exchange for imports of agricul-
tural inputs. Therefore, the reforms undertaken under the loan would gen-
erate substantial surpluses available for export, or in the case of imported
agricultural commodities, for import substitution.
73.       Impact on Urban Consumers.  A policy reform of this fundamental
nature is not without costs. Although there will be a substantial benefit of
the policy reforms to the rural poor, the removal of consciner price controls,
along with the unification of the exchange rate, will raise the price of food
to urban residents by 10-20 percent. Without compensating interventions,
this rise in food prices would initially result in a decline in food intake
of 2-4 percent for some of the urban poor. However, the maintenance of
ENPROVIT operations and the general economic growth induced in part by agri-
cultural growth (an increase in the income of the poor by 4-8 percent will
fully compensate for the price rise) will assist in buffering the impact of
these price increases on many of the urban poor. In addition, the loan would
focu.; the operation of ENPROVIT on three essential commodities and finance a
study to improve its delivery of food to the poor and to explore alternatives
of achieving increased food intake of the poor.



- 23 -
74.       Risks.  The major risks of the project depend on the political
sustainability of these reforms, the future trends in international prices
for agricultural commodities, and the maintenance of an attractive exchange
rate for export promotion. Although the policy reforms proposed under the
Sector Loan can be implemented without legislative action, the Government
will be under continuing pressure to modify or reverse its policy reform. So
far, the new Government has maintained its original policy objectives despite
resistance to liberalization.
75.       As the agricultural sector becomes more directly connected with
international markets, the price and international market prospects for
agricultural commodities become critical in determining to a large extent the
growth of the sector. According to a recent report on price prospects for
major primary commodities and the Bank's commodity price forecasts, export
volumes of commodities important to Ecuador's agricultural sector are pro-
jected to increase modestly for traditional exports and more vigorously for
non-traditional exports, while prices are anticipated to mostly decline or
rise modestly (except for rice).
Table 2:  Projected World Export Volumes and Price Changes, 1985-95
Real Value
Commodity        World Export Volumes       Price Change            Increase
(1983 Constant US$)   (- decrease)
(Percent Per Annum)
Coffee                     1.4                   -0.46                 0.94
Cocoa                      1.9                   -0.45                 1.45
Bananas                    1.7                   -3.08                -1.38
Corn                       3.4                   -0.92                 2.48
Rice                       3.3                    3.58                 6.88
Soybean Oil                4.8                   -1.16                 3.64
cotton                     1.1                    0.29                 1.39
76.       As shown in Tabte 2, although price prospects are less favorable
than the prospects for growth in world export volumes, these projections
indicate that if Ecuador achieves a growth in export volumes at least equal
to world export volumes, a growing trend in export earnings could be sus-
tained for non-traditional exports-rice, coarse grains, soybeans, and
cotton. Much less sustainable prospects are for the traditional exports
facing rather inelastic demand, such as coffee, cocoa, and especially
bananas. A diversification of agricultural exports and an expansion of
market shares are thus necessary for growth in agricultural export earnings
of 3-6 percent p.a.
77.       Critical to entering non-traditional export markets and expanding
traditional markets is avoiding an overvaluation of the sucre. Currently,
the parallel market rate is about 18 percent above the intervention exchange
rate, which has not been devalued since September 1984, despite an inflation



- 24 -
rate of 25-30 percent p.a. Although the sucre appears not to be currently
overvalued compared to 1970 levels, the rates of inflation indicate that the
effective exchange rate is deteriorating and that the sucre could become
overvalued in the near term. The IMF is monitoring this situation and the
Bank and Fund have coordinated their analyses of export incentives so that
positions of the two institutions are consistent. However, under the loan,
rates of return to agriculture would be monitored and required to maintain
satisfactory progress in improving export incentives, one of which is of
course the adequacy of the exchange rate. This issue will continue to
receive high priority.
PART V -  CONHENDATIONS
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
October 2, 1985
Washington, D. C.



- 25 -                                                  ANNEX I
ECUADOR - AGRICULTURE SECTOR LOAN                                                Page 1 of 6
SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC INDICATORS
sausol   - SoesAL 101 w     1 ? 3 2          b
uc <~~~aeu  ,                H       KDOKA
19601       10701b  U3 rA           LA?. MCh & CAR                Zu1309
10L *1                             283.6       263.6       263.6
47.         "A          63.3
,. 3  CI   (0                           ..          ..       1420.0             1873.6                    21*4.3
-   mmwu m coirn
cm co,I or 0oL sunVAu              131.0       223.0       571.0              993.6                   l119.$
POFULATION.ID-!U   CTUOSAM)    U422A0         3364.0      8216.0
324 PiU.A!S0N CZ ofAvo              34.4        39.3        44.4               67.7                      0*3s
POIULTUN nwNOIIEI
OULIU In    1 2W0 (KU.)                                   12.
T*Z3    oIULaTZoS CHILL)                            23.0
i0hU1*ZCU fONO=                                            1.9
IOIULATON 011011t
13 sq. U.                         13.6        20.7        29.0               46.0                     64.7
M  SQ. is. h-t, LAW               9.1        120.8       L22.3               91.1                     166.9
POFU=OI J   SA ICTUUZ CZS)
0-14 as                          44.4        43.3        43.8               36.3                      31.2
13-6  u3                           1.I        30.6        32.7               37.1                     61.3
63AM ADM5                          3.          3.6         3.4                4.2                      7.2
IOPULATIW 01093 34r5 CZS)
TOTAL                              2.9         2.          2.6                2.4                       1.6
URBN                               4.J         4.2         3.                 3.6                       3.7
CRUDD ZZ1121      CPU               46.6        43.2        37.0               30.9                      23.4
con UME RaTn CPU 2300611)           16.6        12J     0     .1                8.0                      6.9
C038  I0R0UCI   3M                   3.4         3.2         2.                 2.0                       1.3
ACCI08. ANUAL (C9110)              ..          9.0        32.3 /        
33Z CS 0             ufl           ..          ..         40.0               45.3
1M  OF NO PROD. M  CAPITA
(L91371-100)                       104.0       101.0        62.0              10.6                     109.1
MU CIPIT so111801
C4O3  CS CZ o8r )NIT)             76.0        89.0        97.0              113.2                     131.3
133O36 Ca lS "a   1)              48.0         2.0        30.0               69.4                      92.4
of 93C  AUfLAM  PUL S            23.0        27.0        26.0               34.2                      34.3
CILD CMS 1-I4) DgT  3               26.2        17.J         7.0                4.6           *.7
Lin   1cc. AT m      (13A3)         50.7        33.9        62.6               64.6                      67.2
i- anT 1mr. 3m  (5 90158)          140.0       107.3        76.0               59.7                      53.3
:ACS 7'0 $M  US    CMS)
TOTAL                             12.3 JfL    36.0        45.0 /a            65.3                      70.2
03JA1*                            32.J  Mif  76.0         82.0 7:            76.3                      89.4
NaSAL                              1.9 idj     7.0        16.07 -            4.2                       37.0
ACCESS TO    57AK 313P06A1
Cs of POULATIO)
TAL                                 ..        22.4        25.0               56.3                      59.6
RAXI                               ..          ..         39.0               73.4                      65.9
ul                                 ..          ..         14.07              23.3                      47.6
PU3ULATOIW  M P 1UZCXAN           2670.0      2320.0       760.0             1909.7                    1070.6
10. 152 3U 2 1233                 2340. if   L380.0        570.0              506.2                     746.5
Pto. MU IUTAL 32U
TOTAL                            530.0       620.0       500.0              362.0                     324-3
ORMAN                            300.0  f   300.0          ..               422.0                     201.9
322*1.                             ..       4440.0         ..              2716.7                   4319.7
AMaSSI     M3   STAL 3               ..         17.1         ..                27.3                      20.0
A133RA3 SIZZ OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.1 /f      3.2
-^l                                ..          ..          .                   ..
URL                                ..          ....
93310 NO. OF PU360S/300H
TOTAL                                          2.3 2.3
Dll                                2.1 /f      1.9         .                   ..
RURAL1.                            2.6Zi       2.6
VUCUITACS OF 13ULLINC  VUII 312Cr.
TOTAL                             32.3 /f      ..         43.0
tlJ                      7J-5 zE       *-7*-5*-
AAL                                8. 7         .           ....



-26-                                                    ANNEX I
ECUADOR - AGRICULTURE SECZOR LOAM                                                   ig  2of 6
SOCIAL AND ECOKIC INDICAMDRS
(Continued)
umamso-.or                   :in:caia      s  DATA m
'~~~6W                         MISE  IUUS             MSfLE lms
iwotk      197aLk uaumLb            La. AISICA G CAR
*DWS!3 U3DUJUT RAT106
WrNDuI:  TOTAL                    13.0        97.0       114.0              106.7                     101.9
NILE                   67.0        99.0       116.0              108.3                     104.2
TD161                  79.0        95.0       112.0              104.6                      91.5
0in3xI  10UL                      12.0        22.0        56.0               4.2                       57.5
NmLu                    13.0       21.0        56.0               42.7                      64.9
hNM3                    10.0       23.0        36.0               ".9                       50.0
VOCA?103L  ts or 360DM!)            29.0        11.1        11.3               13.3                      21.0
3S.0       36.0        M.0                29.9                      2S.1
11.0       14.0        15.0               16.7                      19.1
PiESmumtkuImo*I  P0M                 2.1         4.6        6I                 44.0                      34.2
mm30 UC3IVu3              la       2.         29.9        256.6              326.3                     170.7
tV      U       *                    0.5        25.6        G6.3              112.4                     149.3
1   26    1012II         US        51.1        423         71.4               61.1                      97.0
CUmW       L        DtCI              @          3.6 8                          2.4                       2.7
TOTiL 0    "10130   (l0)          1446.0      186.0       2661.0
room (UUclC                       16.3        19.1        22.0               23.6                      363
11__13   (       wII)             57.4        31.0        51.                31.                       404
IO6ISTCISEUT)                     19.4        22.2        17.1 te            24.3                      23.3
TOTAL                             33.7        3232        32.4               33.3                     43.1
KALE                               3.50      52.1        50.5               51.3                      55.1
366113                            10.6        12.3       14.1                15.9                     31.4
BCONOM DEXujm   DAM                  1.5         1.3         1.5                1.3                       0.9
cnr oir PWur eo
-t -
1  09 orE3!   ==
MES? 26 or Eo S                    ..          ..          ..                 ....
1.3 3509 UUUA_                     ..          ..          ..                 ..    -...
-- 40 or   _ f                     ..          ..          ..                 **
ZBDM ABLn PVU  W
Lem (Un a ca
..                                            ..        470.0 A            2U.3
,mLfL                                                   320.0 .t            165.3
UL (C    P# CI322*J
II33I3               *       -                 .         553.0 A            519.*
sumL..                                         .         426.0f             359.7
sDum  P0.  AmauaM
I03?  501 LIME  CZ)
34                                 .                      40.0 l              .e
sum                                                        5.0 ft
MI7 AVAZIALE
* .   APPLICAIL
NOTES
,Th. rou  -r     for each tuieator are poUloa-ualsbted artz_t1c nama. CDvarae of comatri
mg the IaScaors depsnd. on aewaablUty of dtu  and is not nifoza.
lb   Calma otharebaa ntead, Data for 193   raefa to any yar betyam 195 and 1961: 'Data for 1970" b
1969 en1971; nd dat lor Noat acant EatSata  I t             a  19U1 ad 1963.
ac  1976; Id 1977; le 19W0; /t 1962; LE parcente  enePutad on t:, beia  of total ambar of occupied
bounlg unite;  it 1976.
JUlKl. 1965



-27-                                             ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DUFNS OF SOCIL II4DICATOS
Nons Atogh ted  aredrw from sou        llyjudds mosgautMhtiadIvNsaid bsf ilas should aso mb noed th  ip my  not te Ibenalonally
c rUk bcmm ofthc tofuandwdd siidanconpu us wby difte cunincoluctIng the data. I.  ds ar. aoaeu, usefulo
dbrencode. of ngitude  dicda sends, and charauiaaln majo dlfrf m bt moud..
The *trin poup aSh) the -  countiry gop of he sbjet county and (2) a ctmy group with soewhat hig  averae km b c shm ihe cotry
gr  or p esubectcoumuy (camps ror"Hi IneomcOil Expaor p grpwhecre'Middi nom No  Afriaoad Middlt Eat ichomms cm  of trnenSr
*etcultursliamdt she In  reb eaece group daa ihe aveps ate popultion weighthe a.tlc means rfr tch indicator and shown only when mnajrily
ibn an gu  has data fior bhu indicawor. Sine ft coverge olfeautras among e IndIcators dupem on she avablablty daua and is not ussifonn.
musc nimtbi tmrsie in rulaing avema ofone Indiaortoanoteher. Tlbu traceansonly mful In cotuparag slhvalue rooe lndilsorat a dmenamong
dt county Nd r      ups.
AREA (thousad sq. km.)                                        Crde BtkRate (pr  easd)-Number of live birtibsin the year
Teral-Tolal surface area comprising land are and inbid wateF; per thousand of nid-year populationr 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                    Cud DeA Roe (per theuraud)-Number of deaths in the year
Agdeabual-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or  per thouspnd of mid-year populetion; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
pemnendy for crops, pastures, market and kitchen garden or to  Gr    J lepswio Rate-Avemg number ordaughters a wouman
lie fallow, 1960. 1970 and 1982 dats                         will bear in ber normal reproductive period if she experences
preuent agespecific fertility rates usually five-year averges ending
GNP PER CAPfIA (USS)-CGNP per capita esdmates at current     in 1960. 1970. nd 1983.
market prices calculated by -u  conversion method as World   fam    flanuiu---Accqt.r, Anaxl (uheuraudsJ-Annual num-
Bao* Ati   (198183 basis); 1983 data,                        herofacceptorsorbirth-controldevicesunderauspicesofnationaI
ENEGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                 family planing program.
consumption of commercial primary eney (coal and lignite. F, ul Pmiar-Osers (prcen ofnmaried usrm-The pemen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geothermal el-  tge of married women or child-bea ring age who are prcticing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita: 1960.1970, and  whose husbands are practicing any form orcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                   of child-bearing age are generally wmen aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATSTICS                               groups.
Teoo Pepuatr. Mid-Yer (shaur)-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.      FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 datL
Orbs Popaeiea (percent of tl)-Rareas  urban to toau              tof Fed Ahlc(kic    er   C*pt (1969-71-19- 0--Index orper
roeal)-Ratio of         ~capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different dinidons ofurban armayaffect compar-   excludes animal feed and seed for agricuture. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.  include primary commodities (e.g suprcane instead of sugar)
flplAwks P'jecur    -                                        which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. coffee and tea are
Popularion in yer 2000-The projection of population ror 2000.  excludedk they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Startng with information on  vegetabls, . fits, nuts. sugrcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates. and  Gvck products. Aggregate produciion of each country is based
international migation in the base year 1980. these pameters  on natidonal average producer prce weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data
umptions until the population bearne stationary.             Pr Capita SupplyfCales (permet ofreuenar-Comput-
S-miary populaian-Js one in whiCh age- and sex-specfic mor-  edSfrom calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-pcific  per capi:a per day. Available supplies comnprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement evel  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribuion. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  esimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estrnated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacenent level.                                   waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momenumn-ls the tendency for population growth to  Per Capita Supplv of Prtein (r    per defl-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertiity has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum alowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year e. given the assumption that fertility remaine at reple-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
nmet level from year r onward. 1985 data.                    75 grams of total protein and 23 grams or animal protein as an
Populaio Dn y                                                average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sqkm.-id-year popuWon per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply. 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tarem) of total ara; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              Pr Capt held. Supldy Fino  AaiamledaPul.e-Protein suppl)
Per sqkm. agrirulaual larI-Computed as above for agicultural ,    of food derived from animals and pulses in grams perday: 1961-65.
land only. 1960, 1970. and 1982 data.                        1970 and 1977 data.
Pepuloian Age Srre (percent)-Children (0- 14 years). work-   Ch7 (ages 1-4) Dath Rae (pe rhousaadj-N umber of deaths of
ing age (I5-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1933 data            group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
ihdaour CGwtk Rate (percenr)-remal-Annual growth rates of    from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.  HEALTH
Pop.laria Growth Rae (pemrxreI-,arwh-Annual growth rates     L(e Expetn   at Birth (yewrsj-Numnber of years a newhom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.  infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-  28 -                                               ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 6
at the timg of of its birth were to ury the same throughout Its life;    1Ppil-teack,r Ratio - primary. ad arcondry-Taotal students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                      rolled In pdmay and scondary level divided by numbers of
bdaim Menuluy Rtae (per th*usuud)-Number of Infants who die    teacers n the corresponding levels.
before reaching one ymr of ag per thouund live births in a given
year, 1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Av  to SW   Wate  (perent of pofdIn4.  uban, Id                 Asuerar Crts (per thou- platioi,j-Pauenger can com-
NW--Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars madag les than eight persons: excludes ambul-
access to  fe water supply (includes tated  urface water or    ances heare and militry vehicls
untrnated but uncontaminated water uh as that from proteted    Redo Recelmr (per tAouad papueuon.-All tp  of receivers
boreholes, sprinp and sanitary wels)  u perentae of their respc  for radio broadcasts to generl public.per thousand or populadon:
tive populationL In on urban am a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receives in countris and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered                           r                   t
as being within reasnable acoens of that house. In rua   e     notregsrt cofmradioe sne.mst was untreffct data ori rece int easa
reanable acces would Imply that the housewife or members of the  notrbe comprabince mot countries abolished liensing
housdbold do not have to spend a disproporonate part of the day  TVRleien 4thr_ pu-TV  receiven for broadcast
In fetching die family's water                                 to general public per thousand population; excludes unlcensed TV
Access to EJrent D   lpad (pot e of popaiselim)_  , L vr    ,  receivers In countries and in years when registration of TV st was
and rural-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by  in
excreta disposal as perentgs of their repective populations.   Newspypr Clreulatio  (per tshmesedpeprelbd)-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may indude the collection and disposal with or  ae crculation of "daily gmeral intest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of human exerets and waste-water by water-  peiodical publication devoted primarily to recording geeral news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar instalations.  It is considered to be daily" if it appear at kast four times a week.
Pplulo. per Physidmn--lpulation divided by number or prac- e    im    Amuani Attendanre per Capita per Yow-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level,  number of tickets sold during the year, including adnmissions to
Peplbuon per Nrsnig Peraem-Pbpulation divided by number of     drive-iw cinesrd and mobile units.
pacticing male and female graduate nurses assistant nurses.
practical nurses and nursing auxiLiaries.                      LABOR FORCE
lbpnipmo  per Hospital Bed-tfal, rhen, eNd rwa-Populaion       Totra Labor Foc (thousands)-Economically active persons, in-
(total, urban. and rural) divided by their respecive number of  duding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Defintions in
hospital beds available in public and private, gnr1 and specialized   counts  et covpra          1     9  an  13 data.
hospitals and rehabilitation centes Hospitals are establishments
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov.  Femak (percas)-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial cae are not included. RUral hospitals,  force.
however, include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agriltwe (perceut--Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assint, nurse. midwife, etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor forcw, 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                        JIdasy (percetJ-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Admissions per Hospital Bd-Total number of admissions to or    facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Paer*tiarim Rare (pent)-total, mal, andfeinL-Participation
HOUSING                                                        or activity raes are computed as total, male, and female labor force
Average Sie qr Hohld (persos per household)-oral, ub,          as percentages of total, male and female population of all ages
andrraw-Ahouseholdconsistsofagroupofindividualswhoshare        respecdvely; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
lving quarters and their main mals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates rdlecting age-sex structure ofthe population. and
may not be included in the hnusehold for statistical purposes,  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Number of Prsom  per Room-total, urba, ad rural-       Economic Dependency Raio-Ratio of populadon under IS. and
Avvcage number of persons per room in all urban, and  ural     65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBL1IOIN
Percentage of DweUings with Electricit-rotea.r wbea, and rural-  Percentage of Total Disposabl hIcme (botr in cash and kind)-
Convcntional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adjsted Enrolbuent Rat0is                                      The following estimates are very approximate mnasures of poverty
Prumay school - total, male and female&-Gross totaL male and  levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment ofall ages at the primary level as percentages of  EistmaedAhsolate Poberry foen  Leel (USSIper capita)-mair
respective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rwul-Absolute poverty income kvel is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Estimated Relative Poverty ncome Level (USS per copitae-rban
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total. mak and femal-Computed as above.    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Esimated Populton Below Absolute Poverty Ince  Level fper-
mary instruction; provides generaL vocational, or teacher training  cent)-urham and rural- Prcent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are "absolute poor."
ence courses are generally exduded.
Vocational Enrolbneni fpercent of secondary)-Vocational institu-         Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical. industrial, or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



- 29-                                                   I
IMAM  IMF=    RGWA2M                  FAI, 5d 6
home t        I-MP Am_i ai          )          f     tw fot CZ)
Indmso=    8.4                                    m 0 at1534. mL l0    k)  - 
OUmra  13 o       ori         w  wm
UKF          190o0 191        10         1970    1975      IM      151
GOMMm  mr   F"Mat l                        10,1670             5.8      9.1      0.9    100    1.0    10.0 ICO      00O
*trimalbm                                 1,373A             4.0      2.      -0.2     219      1.9    12.       13.
bamy & NU1                                4l.uB              7.3     U.2       4.3    19.7   V27A       3.       40.9
Umvkm                                     4.511.?            6.3      9.       0.1     5.3    53        M6       44.8
_ ,mptma                                    76M0.9             5.0      1.7      0.0    86.4    79.7    74.1    74.8
ams 1ummmt                                  1,997.1           18.7    11.0   -10.5         2     26.7    26.1    19.A
mpm o anm                                   2.3SIJ             2.7    12.2       3.7    16.9     2.0    21.        2.l
-    of OW                                  2s23.             109      10.9   -15        21.5    3.0    25.7  2L5
aums r1  '141w                             1,78.1             M.    13.7    n.m.        12.4    19.0    21.       17.A
0mumi3im of "KiIodii ae id CS)
(a a    twm)          bdtmu
1IM     1561    1SU       1       1534
)1         -                                                   113.0    1.0    1.0    130    113.0
-g 7                                                          =72.5    79.3    ULS      90.Z    79.9
ends                                                           8     61.3     3.3      69.5    66.2
-thm                                                        17.7    13.0      2.2      2.7     13J
:UEU3                                                         27.5     2.7    17.3       9a      20.1
^1u      _1m                                                 7.5      6.5      5.s      4.5     5.8
Fonmd cm                                                     7.1      4.0      2.4      L1      1.
Pub ad Fou                                                   2.9      2.1      5.7      L1      3.9
-                                                           10.0     3.1      3.6      3.1      4.3
-     N -                                                 100.0   11.0    M"L         Nu.    10.0
-.                                                             6.7      s.       5.5     L5       6.
amd                                                            89       9.      10.1    2L3      11.0
:_,y Jd Zai^                                                   3.11    38.5    3L5       MO9    A7.6
.-.;                                                          43       46.1    519      453      47.6
uM= AD - (F uM (975-100
15.L7    Z3.2    267.0   374.9    4A.6
:        Rte (m m .W dollr)                                   2.0    25.0    3L0        4.       62.S
---t   i. *                         k239                              259.45  26.    2.7    213J.
Yqiic* 1dm                                                   164.2    12.5    156.    1.        12.5
T    of Trm 1dm                                               1U.9   157.0    1.2    14.    135.5
An a Reof Or
195     l9D      1313
- t hA                                                                 25.2    27.7     263
0          1rut bdimub                                                 20.0    2L2      20.8
&mph= (+) or Fcdr (-)                                                  -3.4    -46      -14
qkal adilna                                                            5.5    10.1      6.9
Fcribummii                                                              1.4      5.      0
190-70  L97040  198041  13540
DOm
_P tu b 0m(                                                             5.8      9.1      0.9     25
Ur  Cu   acwth amb                                                      24       65     -L6       0.3
qm_  a ti,m th  M  (I 6b/                                               8.5    13.6     n..       n.S.
mm                                                                      0.7     3.0     1.0       6.0
0m3sial a1VIUI Nift                                                   -04        0.2    n..       0.2
lit Iii ticity                                                          1.9     03      n_.       0.3
3.M.- fi*ad not amiablda.
.1-    mpb  am   umad at fim   c  t amI do not &M up bwrm tiN  mwide imUzct tmo.
Fr -    m  me for 190-74 _d 197441.  rm: 1531 k1d lWq_c Bue.                                           6/21/35



-30 -
t~~~~~~~                                       1
pw 6 of B
(malum MS5 at arrat pdmmn)
faatuimte B.) (amid 5 uiflJin)
oW .w Cmpitat L351420L0 (133t
r41 l.s t 1^ t)~A~1 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2m                                          mo tim      w    WXO  tl
M1     195   lju       19m     im       135     ne3    191
obt 3,m of C ims 1& smem                     471.5 -1e    -125.   -12.0  -34.0           -30     .0   -M.
S:A of Cc.im  Einvm                       2.W5.  3.03.0 2.73.0  2.6.O  3.1.0  3~    3.3.   3.310 
tapintA of coode   .vhi                   3.67.4. 4,03.6  3.3L0  2U.   3j.O  3.31,_    3.3360  4.33.
hc   dm                                        LO    0.    3060    2U.0    2D3e    230        .2L      40e
OwiAc i.t  lac                               -4n.5 -135A -150   -100   -Z4.   -25.0   -21.LO   -0.
v1mm'   - mts,bm   t                           MD.  40.0   40.        50.     30.0   1MA    130.0    nu.
'**  .LWUtAi                                  30.2    23        0       0        0     0.0      00      0.0
11 im   0)                                    7M.   MU    362        26       I"n  ILO    2WA    4oL
e0fjdl                                      351J.3  4193  -12       M.       mt.   -10.0    US0    3A0
ftivmo                                      479.5    1.S  -1L0.0   277.      a.       1.0  .I    33
ftl. CAPItal                                  131  -35.1  957.3   -S3          am.    0LO   -0.         -
QW   in Efinl41 al lo , C-*ainnan)           -13.03   35.    460.0  -155.    4O0.0   13.0   -16.    -MA.
-M. ?,7 I_m  Mfi4al 3mm                     1 34.7 QL7   4359    31A    ]A              .4    M0.0A     MA
nfidel M        (7-ud)                         4.2    2.5    L4        3L5     22       L9      L7      25
am  ods of impmm)
160    195    135      13
-   m        o  of  r Ltm                     929 1=5  237.2   7Au9
.^_t"iod                                     X14.7  2L5    15.   3.6
utheti                                      3.7    35      W      1L9
IV                                         -   0.5 -   -
Oa_ NuItiImml                              1L0  23.5    13.7    317
_        1r- ~ L                            19S2 1.34.1  253-      MU.
h.ta  milte                               2e.    62.3   6S7    227.1
-                                          21.0   54.1   412    47.2
u ldtlmZma                                 46J3   47.    725    3L7
Dim                                       627.   656.0    MA    5
hibt OAtdm,ijg a  D   _ismad                3.3J. 4.2L5 3.919.0  6.,L7
Offidcl                                   1,3510 1,7392 1.l.9  If-W
MM                                        IN1    15.3  1736    2.0
1i                                         NJ.3   36.5   3S.2   31.
k)ur     r infiel                        S33 1.553-4 1,373.1  1.43.0
1.75 2       20-  11.   430
Inumbor_d va                                1.10.7  3790 1    1.LM31  11L3
vm1Debt hae   b                               MA.6   922.9 1.IOLA6   3736
7_mt                                        2n5    AU.2   51       35.3
Amti fm                                     301   431.7  39L5    53.3
lhbt _Ivim * ma  of aue                        137    30.3   403    m.
unowlu  DM                                     3t     D 3.6    4&      3.2
f   dieXmtute.V   dim            ea            3.5    3A    14.9       6.3
7no die   t    vim'I dit tonim                3.3    2.5    2.9       4.0
1 1/total  11 L.1    0.9    0.9                                        0.
ML dim /total a diazmag                       -    0.0  -    -
13 diet mmt _mluta de t                        0.2    0.1    0.1       0.1
ma.- ifb     -c  t.mida



-31 -                               ANNEX II
ECUADOR - AGRICULTURE SECTOR LOAN                 Page 1 of 2
TIME STAM  O? BI  GROUP OPSERTIONS IN ECIADO
As. STAUNT Or mmN LOANS AND Ins CEDm    (as of Nrch 31, 1985) 11
-US$ million-
Amount
Loan or                                                 (less cancellations)
Credit    Fiscal
Number     Year    Borrower    Purpose                 Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
19 loans and 6 credits fully disbursed                 231.9  37.6     -
1429      1977     Ecuador      Highways                17.5   -       5.5
1459      1977     Ecuador     Agriculture              15.5   -       4.2
S006      1978     Ecuador      Technical
Assistance             11.0   -       0.5
1644      1978     Ecuador      Rural Development       18.0   -      15.6
1776      1980     Ecuador     Guayaquil Urban
Development           31.0   -       25.7
1879      1980     Ecuador      Small: Scale Enter-
prise Credit          20.0   -        0.3
1882      1980     Ecuador      Highways                55.0   -      36.5
1991      1981     Ecuador     Rural Development        20.0   -      18.6
2044      1982     Ecuador      Rural Development       17.0   -      15.6
2096      1982     Ecuador      DFC                     60.0   -       4.5
2135      1982     Ecuador      Sousing                 35.7   -      33.7
2171      1982     Ecuador      Education               16.0   -      14.9
2221     .1983     Ecuador      Small Scale Enter-
prise Credit          40.6    -      12.2
Total                                     589.2  37.6
of which has been repaid                148.9   2.4
Total now outstanding                     440.3  35.2
Amount sold                     3.2
of which has been repaid      3.2         -     -
Total now held by Bank and IDA            440.3  35.2
Total undisbursed                                        187.8
l/ After this date, an US$8 million Public Sector Management loan was
approved by the Bank on April 16, 1985.



_ 32 _
Page 2 of 2
B. STATENENT OF IFC INVESIHE3SI (as of March 31, 1985)
Type of     (auount in US$ million)
Fiscal Year  -                            Business    Loan    Equity    Total
1966 & 1972   La Internacional, S.A.      Textiles      3.7      0.2      3.9
1969, 1973,   Coupania Financiera
1975 & 1977   Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo
1981, 1982     S.A. (COFIEC)              DFC          -         0.5      0.5
1976          Sociedad Agricola e Indus-
trial San Carlos, S.A.    Sugar Mill   5.0       -         5.0
1978, 1980,
1982, 1983,
1984          Cemento Nacional (CEM)      Cement       12.0      1.0     13.0
1980          Adamas Andina, S.A. 1/      Pulp and
Paper       3.3      1.0       4.3
1981          Compania Minera Toachi,
S.A.                      Mining        1.0      0.3       1.3
Total gross commitments                 25.0       3.0     28.0
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   18.3       1.7     20.0
Total commitments now held by IFC        6.7       1.3      8.0
Total undisbursed                        -          ...
I/ Cancelled by letter of April 26, 1982



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
AGRCULTORE SECR LOAM
SU1PPLEMNTAYPROJEC DATASE
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by Country to prepare project:  9 months
(b)  Project prepared by:  MAG with assistance from Bank staff
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:  September 1984
{d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  April 1985
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:       August 30, 1985
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:   December 15, 1985
Sectio  II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
Terms of reference for technical assistance components were drafted
with the help of Bank staff during project preparation.
Section III - Special    dtions
A.  Conditions for second tranche disbursement are (para. 60):
(i) Elimination of quotas, and other quantitative restrictions on the
imports of agricultural products, inputs, and substitution by
tariffs at levels to be agreed to by the Bank, and to be determined
from the internal terms of trade study, and international long-term
price forecasts.
(ii) Elimiaation of the maximum consumer price on wheat flour.
(iii) Elimination of purchase of hard corn and rice by ENAC, or other
public enterprises to support minimum wholesale prices.
(iv) Satisfactory progress on studies of public enterprises (para. 65),
and inter-sectoral terms of trade (para. 61).
(v) Satisfactory progress in improving policies affecting
inter-sectoral terms of trade, and export incentives.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(vi) Positive interest rates on lending, including commissions, and
other related charges for the agricultural, and industrial sectors.
(vii) Satisfactory 1986 public investment program for agriculture.
B.   Other Special Conditions:
(i) Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than US$5 million would
follow normal commercial or public sector procurement practices;
above that level, procurement would be through ICE (para. 66).
(ii) The Government would contract an agency satisfactory to the Bank,
to recruit, and retain consultants (para. 67).
(iii) The Central Bank would be responsible for preparing withdrawal
applications, and supporting documentation (para. 68).



.  _ J5 -                 ANN11A IV
j   II'  I                                      Page I of 2
1i
I   ~ ~    -I   
I~~~~~~~E



1CUADm: NAMU.MRL SR  OLICY
(Continue)
Proo    AIctions Befare
Polic Area               MBdiun'Trem Objectives                        Recet kAtios Takmn                               Mine of Sed  Tr
C. Export Inoentives         Ajustment of tdiazWe Rate    hidficatlon of echaTe rate.                                 Satisfactory pjreps Ot  aport
Policy Area              to mintain real rates ard                                                                Liostives to agricultural cmdtie&
ulification of eKdare
rates.
D.  Inter-6ectoral           Tnprove the tenm  of trade    Rewoval of iniy 1982/83 qusntitative restrictions          Reductiom  of the level, azd disperuion
Term  of Trade           of agriculture vis-a-vis       on 1nports of industrial products.                        of tariffs on lndustrial canmDdities.
the rest of the economy.                                                                 Rea7val of qutmitativw  restrictions on
most industrial products. lpositoan
of tariffs on izqorts of agricultural
c xdities.
E.  Public Enterprises       Dlvestitxre of designated                                                                Satisfactory prcgress of stadies of      La
public enterprises.                                                                      deslgmted public c      des, iiich are
candidates for divestiture.
F.  Interest Rates           Positive real interest         -  Increase (Jaruary 1985) of interest rates.             Ihintumnoe of positive rates of
rates ard variability of                                                                 lnterest thIugh a4Fmtmnt asof rinal
long term rates.  Uhiform      -  Uhilcation of qgricultural lendirg rates ercapt        rates as  Iecesary,
rates except as justified            justiEied by transactim  casts.
by transactlon costs.
- Maintenaroe of positive rates of interest thrugh
adjusbtnt of  imnal rates  seessary.
G. PRblic Investent          Efficiet allocation of         1985-08 Mblic  ves t Reviw.                               Satisfactory 1986 public iwest
publi  sector resoures.                                                                  yaogm  for agrieLbtu determined
thraui& a joint revie.
N



- 37 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 8
TRANSLATION OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY LETTER
Mr. A.W. Clausen
President
The World Bank
1818 H St., N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear President Clausen:
As you know, the Government of Ecuador is in the process of
reactivating of the country's agricultural and livestock sector.
Consequently, we would like to set forth for you the principal economic
problems and main constraints of the agriculture sector, the general
orientation of this Administration's policies for the sector, our specific
program and actions taken to date in support of that program, and those
actions we expect to take in the near future.
Economic Context
Until the exploitation of petroleum resources began, agriculture
was the fundamental sector which generated foreign currency, employment and
food. Petroleum then became the leading growth sector. Economic policy
during the past decade has, thus, favored industry and oil. Those biases,
together with difficulties in delivering the support services required by
farmers and ranchers, prevented agriculture from achieving its potential in
terms of income growth, export earnings, employment, and poverty reduction.
Although Ecuador has a favorable climate for growing many crops,
agricultural land remains underexploited, with only about 44 percent of its
land suitable for cropping and 62 percent of its pasture land being
utilized. Average yields have not increased for major crops, remaining at
levels 30 to 75 percent below those obtained by advanced farmers using
improved technology and having access to extension and credit. Growth
rates for major export crops averaged around 1.7 pe__ent p.a. between 1970
and the early 1980s; traditional food crops grew only around 0.6 percent
p.a. over the same period.
Agriculture by 1984 accounted for 14 percent of GDP and 16
percent of export earnings. Including the value added of agro-industry
raises those figures to about 29 percent of GDP and 30 percent of export
earnings. Virtually all of non-petroleum exports are agricultural in
origin. To the extent that the price of petroleum exports decline, these
agricultural exports-could be counted on to compensate for such a price
drop, thus helping to maintain adequate generation of foreign exchange, as
long as adequate incentives are in place. Calculations suggest that
Ecuador has a comparative advantage in the production of rice, hardcorn,
soybeans and cotton, as well as the traditional export crops of bananas,
coffee and cocoa, although the former group are only occasionally



- 38 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 8
exported. Finally, the sector still employs about half of the economically
active population, many of whom could be more productive than they are now,
with efficient services and policies.
Constraints
The failure of the agriculture sector to develop to its potential
over the past decade was in part the result of high protection offered to
other sectors, selective taxation of exports and subsidization of imports
that competed with domestic products. The terms of trade between
agriculture and the rest of the economy deteriorated, distorting the flow
of resources and worsening the flight of the population out of rural
areas. Furthermore, operations of public enterprises distorted relative
prices within the sector. These enterprises have also not always been able
to deliver inputs or procure outputs on a timely, efficient basis.
Additionally, adequate amounts of credit were not available to the private
sector, in part because the mobilization of domestic resources was not
successful in meeting demand, and in part because institutions involved
were not as efficient as needed. Finally, human and financial reso-arces
for monitoring policy impact and rationalizing public investment are
limited, as is foreign exchange for the expected increase in imports as
trade is liberalized and investment picks up.
Current Policy Orientations
The present Administration has taken a number of important
measures to improve economic conditions. These measures concern the
liberalization of trade and financial regimes to enable market forces to
guide distribution of resources. We are pursuing policies intended to
correct existing economic distortions, attract investment to agriculture
-ad create favorable conditions for broader private sector participation in
the sector in general. Our economic objectives are the increase of
agricultural production and expansion of exports.
Program for Structural Adjustment of the Agriculture Sector
This Administration has moved to implement policies which could
achieve the objectives mentioned above. We are taking actions in the
following fields:
(a) Improvement of the internal terms of trade between
agriculture and other sectors of the economy;
(b) Liberalization of prices, including the reduction of
commodities covered by controlled producer and consumer prices;
(c) Reduction of tariffs and quantitative restrictions to trade;
(d) Divestment of selected enterprises owned wholly or in part
by the public sector;



- 39 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 8
(e) Increased provision and improved efficiency of distribution
of agricultural credit;
(f) Improved efficlency of the Ministry of Agriculture and
ancillary institutions.
Actions taken to Date
Since coming to office on August 10, 1984, this Government has
taken the following actions:
(a) Implementation of an exchange rate much more attractive to
exporters, unifying the different rates at a level that should provide
adequate returns to commodities where Ecuador has a comparative advantage;
(b) Elimination of most of the quantitative restrictions put in
place in 1982 and 1983;
(c) Elimination of the subsidies on imports of milk powder and
wheat;
Cd) Elimination of the purchase by ENAC of all commodities
except rice and hard corn;
(e) Reduction to three the agricultural commodities covered by a
maximum official price;
(f) Elimination of export taxes except for a nominal tax which
is allocated to reinvestment in the export crop;
(g) Flexibilization of the interest rate regime to permit
positive real levels;
(h) Reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture to focus more
efficiently on policy setting and provision of essential services.
Planned Actions
It is our intention to continue to maintain incentives for
exporters, to further reduce the bias against agriculture in domestic terms
of trade, to completely eliminate state intervertion in the support of
miniumm prices for crops, to reduce the control of consumer prices, to
divest selected public enterprises, to improve resource allocation and
mobilization through interest rate policies and credit provision and to
rationalize the public investment program for agriculture so that the state
is involved only in those areas which the private sector cannot carry out
as efficiently (major drainage and irrigation works, research, extension,
education, land titling, and consolidation of ongoing public sector
projects inter alia).



- 40 -
ANNEX V
Page 4 of 8
We consider the support of the World Bank important in assisting
us to meet the costs of the structural adjustments to the agriculture
sector described above and discussed with. Bank missions on numerous
occasions. Within this context we will maintain a dialogue on the progress
toward meeting these objectives and on the possibilities for further Bank
support of specific projects in support of accelerated development of the
agriculture sector.
Sincerely,
Francisco X. Swett                                    Marcel J. Laniado
1linister of Finance                               Minister of Agr'culture
and Public Credit                                     and Livestock



-41-                               ANNEX V
Page 5 of 8
d    terio de e4cuktura , Danudaru
__ _                                   6/iciX;o   .  107.  M
a b  3 SET. 1985
Senior
A.W. Clausen
PRESIDENTE
BANCO MUNDIAL
1818 H. St. N.W.
WIashington, D.C. 20433
De mis consideraciones:
Como es de su conocimiento, el Gobierno del Ecuador se encuentra en
un proceso de reactivacion del sector agricola y pecuario del pals.
Consecuentemente, creemos conveniente explicarle a usted los princi-
pales problemas economicos y cuellos de botella del sector agropecua-
rio, la orientacion global y las politicas economicas de esta Adminis-
tracion para el sector, nuestro programa especdfico de ajuste estruc-
tural y acciones tomadas a la fecha en apoyo de ese programa, y las
acciones de polltica que esperamos implementar en el futuro cercano.
ANTECEDENTES ECONOMICOS
Hasta la fecha en que comenzo la explotacion de los recursos Detrole-
ros, el sector agropecuario era el sector fundamental en cuanto a ge-
neraci6n de divisas, empleo y alimentacion basica. El sector petrole-
ro lideraba en ese entonces el crecimiento econ6mico del pais. Sin em-
bargo, la politica economica de La uiltima decada favorecio al sector
industrial y petrolero. Esas politicas, conjuntamente con las dificul-
tades en la entrega de servicias de apoyo a los agricultores y ganade-
ros, no permitio que el sector agropecuario desarrollara su potencial
en terminos de generacion de ingresos, exportaciones, empleo y reduc-
cion en los Lndices de pobreza a nivel nacional.
A pesar de que el Ecuador tiene un clima favorable para la producci5n
de un gran numero de productos, la tierra apta para la agricultura se
mantiene subexplotada, con un uso de solaniente el 44% del total de la
tierra apta para cultivos y el 62% de la tierra apta para pastos. El
rendimiento promedio no se ha incrementado para la mayor parte de los
cultivos, manteniendose a niveles de 30-75% mas abajo de aquel obteni-
do por agricultores mas avanzados, que utilizan tecnologia mejorada y
que tienen acceso a servicios de extension y credito. Las tasas de
)^     crecimiento para los principales cultivos de exportacion fueron en
promedio el 1.7% anual entre 1970 y el comienzo de la decada del 80;
los cultivos tradicionales de alimentacion crecieron  solamerte a una
tasa del 0.6%, por afio, en el mismo periodo.



- 42                            ANNEX V 
w           - 42 -                          ~~~~~~~~~~Page 6 of 8
Pagina    2
Senior A.W. Clausen
En 1984, la participacion de la agricultura en el PIB fue del 14%, y
del 16% en el valor total de las exportaciones. Si se incluye el va-
lor agregado de la agroindustria, estas cifras se incrementan a cer-
ca del 29% del PIB y al 30% del total de divisas de exportaciones,
respectivamente. Casi todas las exportaciones no petroleras provie-
nen del sector agropecuario. Consecuentemente, en la medida en que
el precio internacional del petroleo tienda hacia la baja, las ex-
portaciones de productos agropecuarios podrian compensar la caida en
ese precio, asS ayudando a sostener un nivel adecuado de generacion
de divisas, siempre y cuandt los incentivos adecuados existan. En es-
te sentido, hay indicaciones que el Ecuador tiene una ventaja compa-
rativa en la produccion de arroz, malz duro, soya y algodon, tanto
como en la produccion de los cultivos tradicionales de exportaci6n co-
mo el banano, cafe y cacao, a pesar que aquellos productos del grupo
anterior son expor.:sIos 8010 de manera ocasional. Finalmente, el sec-
tor todavia emplea a cerca de la mitad de la poblacion economicamente
activa, la mayor parte de la cual podrha ser mras productivd si contara
con servicios de apoyo eficientes y politicas adecuadas.
PRINCIPALES PROBLEMAS DEL SECTOR
La falta de desarrollo del sector agropecuario hasta su potencial u,xi-
mo, en la decada pasada, fue en parte el resultado de la alta protec-
ci6n brindada a otros sectores de la economia, tributacion selecciona-
da a las exportaciones y subsidios a las importaciones que compet!an
con productos domesticos. Los terminos de intercambio entre el sector
agropecuario y el resto de la economila se deterioraron, distorsionando
asi el flujo de recursos y alentando la migracion de la poblacion ru-
ral hacia areas urbanas. Adicionalmente, las operac.'ones de Las empre-
sas del sector agropecuario distorsionaron los precios relativos den-
tro del sector. Estas empresas, en la mayor parte de los casos, no han
podido entregar insumos o suministrar sus productos a t.empo y de una
manera eficiente. Ademas, los niveles de credito para el sector privado
fueron insuficientes, en parte porque la movilizacion de recursos in-
ternos no tuvo exito en contrarrestar la demanda, y en parte porque
las instituciones involucradas no fueron tan eficientes como era nece-
sario. Finalmente, los recursos humanos y financieros para el monito-
reo del impacto de las politicas y la racionalizacion de la inversi6n
pGblica son limitados, como lo es el nivel de divisas que se necesita
p. ra incrementar las importaciones conforme se liberaliza el comercio
internacional y el nivel de inversiones en el pais aumenta.
ORIENTACIONES ACTUALES DE POLITICA ECON2MICA
?    La Administracion actual ha tomado un nu-mero importante de medidas pa-
ra mejorar la situaci6n economica. Estas medidas de politica se han re-
ferido  a la liberacion del comercio y del regimen financiero para per-



43- 43A-
Page 7 of 8
Pagina : 3
Senior A.W. Clausen
mitir que las fuerza4 del mercado gulen la distribucion de lo recur-
SOs. Estamos implementando polfticas disefiadas para corregir las dis-
torsiones econ6micas existentes, atraer la inversion hacia el sector
agropecuario y crear las condiciones favorables para una mayor parti-
cipacion del sector privado en el sector agropecuario, en general.
Nuestro objetivo econ6mico es incrementar la produccion agropecuaria
y lograr una expansi6n sostenida de las exportaciones.
PROGRAMA PARA EL AJUSTE ESTRUCTURAL DEL SECTOR AGROPECUARIO
Esta Administracion ha decidido iaplemnentar polSticas que podrdan lo-
grar los objetivos mencionados anteriormente. Estamos tomando accio-
nes en las siguientes areas:
(a) Iejoramiento de los terminos de intercambio internos entre el sec-
tor agropecuario y otros sectores de la economSa;
(b) liberacion de los precios, incluyendo la reduccion del n6ero de
productos sujetos a precios controlados a nivel de productor y con-
sumidor;
Cc) reduccion de tarifas y de restricciones cuantitativas al comercio
internacional;
(d) privatizaci6n de empresas seleccionadas, ya sean estas de econo-
mna mixta o totaluente del sector publico;
Ce) incrementar la oferta y mejorar la eficiencia en la distribucion
del credito agropecuario;
(f) mejorar la eficiencia del Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia
y de sus entidades adscritas.
MEDIDAS ECONOMTCAS DMPLEMENTADAS HASTA LA FECHA
Desde la inaguraci6n de este Gobierno, el 10 de Agosto de 1984, se han
tomado las siguientes medidas econ6micas:
(a) implementaciAn de un tipo de cambio realista, mucho an' atractivo
para los exportadores, unificando los diferentes tipos de cambio
a un nivel que provee utilidades a la produccion y exportacion de
los diferentes productos en los cuales el Ecuador tiene una ven-
taja comparativa;
(b) elimninacion de la mayor parte de las restricciones cuantitativas
legisladas en 1982 y 1983;
(c) eliminacion de los subsidios a la importaci6n de leche en polvo
y trigo;
(d) eliminaci6n de las compras por parte de ENAC, de todos los produc-
tos, con la excepcion de arroz y matz duro-
'?7   (e) reducci'o  a solamente tres el numero de productos agrtcolas toda-
f vla sujetos a precios oficiales maximos;
(f) eliminacion de un impuesto nominal que se reintegra para reinver-



- 44-                         ANNNEX V
Page 8 of 8
&&ekrio le dAlricAva y SaaerZ
Qmi. - &MI
Pagina : 4
Senior A.W. Clausen
sion  en la produccion del producto de exportacion;
(g) flexibilizacion del sistema de tasas de interes para poder lograr
niveles positivos;
(h) reorganizacion del Ministerio de Agricultura y Ganaderia para me-
jorar su eficiencia.
ACCIONES DE POLITICA PROGRAMADAS
Es nuestra intencion continuar manteniendo incentivos lara los exporta-
dores, reducir aun mas los sesgos existentes en contra del sector a-
gropecuario en los terminos de intercambio interno, eliminar completa-
mente la intervencion estatal en el mantenimiento de orecios m-n ios
para cultivos, reducir el control de precios al consumidor, privatizar
empresas publicas seleccionadas, mejorar la asignaci'n de recursos y
su movilizaci6n a traves de politicas de tasas de inter'es adecuadas,
lograr una mayor provision de credito al sector, racionalizar el pro-
grama de inversiones puiblicas para el sector agropecuario de tal mane-
ra que el Gobierno se involucre solo en esas areas en las cuales el sec-
tor privado no pueda actuar a niveles similares de eficiencia: obras de
drenaje e irrigacion de envergadura, investigacion, extension, educa-
cio6n, titulcion y consolidacion de los proyectos del sector pu^blico
actualmente en ejecucion.
Consideramos que el apoyo del Banco Mundial, en el financiamiento del
costo del ajuste estructural del sector agropecuario, es importante.
Dentro de este contexto, mantendremos un dialogo efectivo con ustedes
sobre 14 progreso de este ajuste y las posibilidades para asistencia
financiera adicional, por parte del Banco Mundial, en el caso de pro-
yectos espec-ficos orientados a lograr un desarrollo acelerado del sec-
tor agropecuario.
Atentamente,
DIOS, PATRIA Y LIBERTAD
Marcel J. Laniad                           Francisco X. Swett
MINISTRO DE AGRI    URA                    MINISTRO DE FINANZAS
Y GANADERIA                                Y CREDITO PUBLICO



- 45 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1
ECUADOR
AGRTCULTURE SECTOR LOAN
Documents Available in Files
Reports:
1.   Ecuador:  An Assessment and Direction for Development (Green Cover
Report, dated August 22, 1983).
2.   Ecuador:  Product and Factor Pricing in Agriculture.
3.   Ecuador:  Commercial Policies and Aggregate Price Distortions in
Ecuador; The Case of the Agricultural Sector.
4.   Ecuador:  Public Enterprises in the Agriculture Sector.
Other Documents:
5.   Terms of Reference for Studies.
6.   Implementation Schedule for Studies.
7.   Crop Models with Calculation of EPCs and DRCs for Sierra and Coast.
8.   Ecuador Agricultural Sector Model Written in General Algebraic Modeling
System. Computer Output.
October 1985






