Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9309
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
(LOAN 2626-EC)
JANUARY 23, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofticial duties. Its contents may n¡ot otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALEN.S
March 7, 1990
Currency Unit  =  Sucre ($)
Official Excliange Rate (Average) US$1       $698
Free Rate US$1  =  $718
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
. Hectare (ha) = 10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2) = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg) = 2.17 pounds
1 metric ton = 1,000 kg
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCE           Banco Central del Ecuador
(Central Bank of Ecuador)
BNF           Banco Nacional de Fomento
(National Dev.lopment Bank)
BTO           Back-to-Office Report
CFN           National Finance Corporation
(Corporación Financiera Nacional)
ENAC          Empresa Nacional de Almacenamiento
(National Enterprise for Storage and Marketing)
ENPROVIT      Empresa Nacional de Productos Vitales
(National Enterprise for Essential Products)
ENSEMILLAS   Empresa de Multiplicación de Semillas
(The Seed Company)
IDB           Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo
(Inter-American Development Bank)
I:4           Initiating Memorandum
IMF           Fondo de Desarrollo Internacional
(International Monetary Fund)
MAG           Minis,erio de Agricultura y Ganadería
(Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock)
PCR           Project Completion Report
PR            President's Report
QR            Quantitative Restrictions
SOE           Statement of Expenditures
USAID         US ,.gency for International Development
UAP           Policy Analysis Unit, Ministry of Agriculture



TO  OFCIAL USn OLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washingto. D C 20413
USA
OUmc, < Ou«IfC.W<i
January 23, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report -ECUADOR
Agricultural Sector Loan (Ln. 2626-EC)
Attached, tor information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Ecuador - Agricultural Sector Loan
(Loan 2626-EC)`, prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document hus a rsticted distibutaon and may be usd by rcipienu only in the Perfomimce
of their ofmcial duties. [u contenu may not otherwime be dicbsed without Wodid bank sutfttios.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPuETION REPORT
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
(LOAN 2626-EC)
TABLI OF CONTENTS
PaRe No.
PREFACE  .................    j
EVALUATION SUMMARY .................................................. il
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FRCM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I. BACGROUND.                                                         1
- The Economy Prior to 1986 .       ........      ............  1
- The Agricultural Sector.                                       2
- Bank Group Operations in Ecuador ................4........... 4
II.   IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL.                       4
- Origin and Preparation.                                        4
- Appraisal and Negotiations .6
- The Objectives and Conditions of the Loan.                     7
III. IMLEMENTATION.                                                     8
- Signing and Start up.                                          8
- Implementation Changes and Release of the Second Tranche  8
- Disbursements, Procurement and Audit .11
- Compliance with Loan Conditions and Covenants .12
IV. ECONOMIC IACT. .12
V. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE .13
- Technical Assistance .13
- The Bank's Performance .14
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNT    .              .14
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FRCM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                     17
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .................................. 27
ANNEX I:  Basic Data Sheet          ............................ 29
ANNEX II:  Evolution of Conditions for Agricultural Sector
Loan ..... .. 31
ANNEX III: Statistical Tables   ----......................  35
CEART 1:   Main Economic Indicators ....................... 44
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosed without Worid Bank authorization.



- i -
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN (LOAN 2626-EC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.       This Project Completion Repo:  (PCR) reviews the Ecuador
Agricultural Sector Loan for US$100 million. The loan was approved by the
Board of Directors on October 22, 1985. The orig<nal loan closing date of
June 30, 1988 was extended tu June 30, 1989. Final disbursement was made
on July 12, 1988. US$1.44 million was cancelled.
2.       Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Agricultural
Operations Division, Department IV of the Latín America and the Caribbean
Region. They are based on the President's Report, Loan Agreement,
Supervision Reports, Correspondence between the Bank and Borrower, internal
Bar.k memoranda and interviews. Parts I and III were sent to the Borrower
for comments. These comments form Part II of the PCR.



- iii -
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
(Ln. 2626-EC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.       The Agricultural Sector Loan aimed at supporting the Government in
realizing its sectoral policy intentions designed to: (a) promote
agricultural development; (b) correct distortions and reduce bias against
agriculture in the terms of trade; and (c) promote investment and greater
private sector participation in the sector. This support was to be given
mainly through a foreign exchange transfer (US$97.5 million) and to a
lesser extent through technical assistance and studies (US$2.5 milli.n)
aimed at monitoring and evaluation of policy change.
2.       The policy objectives were to be achieved in two stages.  A set of
conditions was to be realized before Board presentation. These were:
(a) elimination of purchases by thi~. National Enterprise for Storage and
Marketing (ENAC) and other public enterprises to support minimum prices of
agricultural products except for rice and hard corn during the following
season; (b) elimination of official maximum prices for all agricultural
products except for wheat flour and except at National Enterprise for
Essential Products (ENPROVIT) .nutlets in poor areas for at most three
commodities (wheat flour, milk and sugar); and (c) unification of
agricultural lending rates, except as justified by transaction costs, and
the maintenance of positive lending rates for all loans for the
agricultural and industrial sectors with maturities of 90 days or more.
3.       A second set of conditions was to be fulfilled before the release
of the Second Tranche. This required the Government to: (a) eliminate the
maximum consumer price on wheat flour; (b) eliminate quantitative
r-strictions on imports of agricultural products and inputs and replace
them with tariffs for such products at le 'els set by the Government and to
be agreed with the Pank; (c) eliminate -.e purchase of rice and hard corn
by public agencies to support their minimu.n wholesale prices; (d) make
satisfactory progress in improving policies affecting export incentives for
agricultural products; (e) make satisfactory progress in improving the
terms of trade between agriculture and other sectors; (f) adopt the 1986
public investment program for the agricultural sector agreed with the Bank;
(g) maintain positive real interest rates for agricultural and industrial
loans for maturities of 90 days and more; and (h) make satisfactory
progress in carrying out the technical assistance schedule. The latter
consisted of four surveys and reviews of the financial status of public
enterprises, with a view to privatize some and strengthen others; two
surveys of the relative effective rate of protection a-' the terms of trade
for agriculture and industry; measures to strengthen tALe .-inistry of



- iv -
Agriculture (MAG) and the Central Bank of Ecuador (BCE) analytical
capabilities and operations; and the provision of micro-corpuiter.  and their
software for MAG and BCE. The above-mentioned surveys on protection and
terms of trade, in addition to comparison of domestic and international
price ratios, would be used by the newly established Policy Analysis Unit
(UAP) and the BCE to monitor the reforms under the loan.
4.       The design of the loan generated debate in the Bank on the
feasibility of addressing term:- of trade issues, impoy: incentives and
resource mobilization through parallel conditionality with an industrial
sectok loan, but it was decided to proceed with the operation.
Implementation Experience
5.       The loan became effective fou- months after Board approval.  There
were no special conditions of effecti-eness. The first few supervision
missions reported that the pre-Board agreements were not translated into
executive actions, but the Bank had rlready disbLrsed US$39 million of the
loan amount and had no basis to suspend disbursements in the absence of
specific legal conditions.
6.       The Second Tranche release encountered significant difficulties.
The review mission of September 1986 was twice postponed by the Government
to December 1986. Only two of the eight conditions for the Second Tranche
were met which prevented the tranche release. As a result of considerable
negotiations in the Bank and in Ecuador, the conditions of the áecond
Tranche were modified and those pertaining to limiting the procurement of
agricultural products and to agricultural interest rates were shifted to an
Agricultural Credit Project which was then under negotiation. The
Government had difficulty in achieving the modified conditions due to
adverse political developments, to a fall in petroleum prices and later to
a severe earthquake which severed the nation's main oil pipeline.
7.       The second tranche was finally released in July 1987.  At that
time the Government: (a) no longer controlled the maximum price of wheat
even though the legal regulation had not been changed; (b) had removed most
of the impcrt prohibitions and quantitative restrictions (equal to 46Z of
the value of imports in 1986) and had provided a program to replace them
with tariffs in 30-90 days; (c) had signed covenants under the Agricultural
Credit Project restricting credit for the procurement activities of ENAC
and maintaining positive interest rates for foreign funded lines of credit;
and (d) had agreed not to proceed w_th an ill-advised public investment
project in the agricultural sector. Other conditions of the loan, that is
improving export incentives, terms of trade and undertaking studies, were
accepted as satisfactorily accomplished.
Results
8.       The loan did relieve a serious foreign exchange constraint as
intended, but it did not accomplish most of its policy conditions. Some
temporary improvements in the tcrms of trade and export incentives were
achieved through: (a) a reduction in quantitative restrictions and import
duties for industry; (b) a reduction in export taxes for agricultural
products; and (c) devaluation of the exchange rate. However, there was
little or no permanent change in agricultural policy.



SustainabilitY
9.       Most of the polícv condition of this loan, if ever achieved, had
not been sustained by December 1988. The Governnent had lost its political
support and the will to undertake reforms and was overwhelmed by the
external effects of decline in the petroleum price and the earthquake.
Whatever policy measures had been undertaken at the time of the Second
Tranche release (para. 35 and Annex 1, Page 2, Column 4) were reversed by
the end of December, 1988.
FindiiLRs
10.      This operation addressed policies regarding interest rates, terms
of trade, agricultural marketing, public sector investment and food
pricing. This was too much to aim for in a single operation, even though
there was a strong analytical link between the various components. Sector
policy loans should limit their objectives, especially in cases such as
this where sector reform infringes heavily on issues of fiscal, trade,
social and macro-economic policy. This loan foundered on an eventual lack
of policical will, but this might have been foreseen given the scope of the
changes sought and the fragility of the political consensus in Ecuador at
the time.
11.      Policy conditions in sector loans should be clear, measurable and
legally binding. A strong monitoring body is needed to evaluate
performance during implementation and the tranchiing mechanism is an
important means to accomplish legal adherence to the conditions. This loan
did not have a strong monitoring body and there was not a clear enough
legal basis for the release of the first tranche. At the second tranche,
attention was so heavily focused on the critical need for resource transfer
that inadequate attention was paid to the adjustment objectives enshrined
in the Loan Agreement.



ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
(LOAN 2626-EC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Background
The Economy Prior to 1986
1.       The discovery of oil in 1967 transformed Ecuador from a
predominantly agricultural into a petroleum oriented economy.  Increased
export earnings in the 1970's, fueled by petroleum, eased the low domestic
saving and import capacity constraints and allowed the Govern=ent to pursue
an inward-looking, import substitution industrialization strategy that
neglected agriculture. The economy grew rapidly at an average annual rate
of 9Z during 1971-80 compared to about 6Z a decade earlier. Price
stability was partly achieved through price controls and subsidies on food
imports and utilities.  Although public sector revenues from petroleum
soared during 1973-81, public expenditure grew faster, sharply increasing
the public sec ..,r's role. Non-petroleum revenues declined, by contrast,
leading to a fiscal deficit of about 6Z of GDP in 1981, which increased to
7.5Z of GDP in 1982. The continued and significant fiscal deficits--made
inflexible by earmarked revenues--which were mostly externally financed,
were one of the reasons for the balance of payments crisis of subsequent
years. They also made the economy more vulnerable to later reductions in
petroleum revenues and in external capital.
2.       The fixed nominal exchange rate policy of 1971-81 put additional
pressure on the balance of payments. The inflationary pressures due to
petroleum financed expenditures implied a 30Z appreciation of the real
exchange rate and, therefore, overvaluation of the Sucre. This made
imports cheaper for industrialists and consumers at the expense of non-oil
exporters mostly agricultural producers, shifting resources away from them.
Monetary policy, through negative interest rates, discouraged domestic
resource mobilization and accentuated the adverse effects of fiscal and
exchange rate policies.
3.       A combination of adverse macroeconomic policies, a decline in
petroleum prices and a slow-down in the world economy caused the current
account of the balance of payments to-deteriorate from a surplus of US$9
million in 1973 to a deficit of about US$1 billion in 1981, equivalent to
8Z of GDP. Petroleum and its perceived prospects had traditionally been
used to borrow funds to help finance the fiscal and current account
deficits. This strategy intensified dependence on petroleum income and
increased total external debt, mostly public, from US$350 million in 1973
to about US$6 billion in 1981. The 1982 fiscal deficit, however, could not
be financed externally as foreign commercial creditors became reluctant to
lend further. Ecuador had to use its reserves (about US$500 million),
resort to internal financing, and finally allow devaluation of the Sucre
(from 25 to 33 Sucres per US Dollar) to manage the deficit.



-2-
4.       The Government also began an adjustment Drogram in late 1982 in
response to the fiscal and balance of payments crisis. It cut public
expendi.ure; adjusted the exchange rate frequently according to a pre-
announced schedule; and reduced Ámports larguly by introducing import
controls. It also rescheduled its external debt, arreanged for US$431
million of new money for 1984, and obtained a or.e year IMF Standby for SDR
157.5 million for July 1983/84 in support of its progr m. The Standby
aimed at reducing the public sector deficit and reserve losses of the
Central Bank (BCE). Ic envisaged tight demand policies, accelerated
depreciation of the official exchange rate, elimination of external arrears
and import restrictions. The current account deficit was reduced from US$1
billion--mostl.y interest payments--in 1982 to US$114 million in 1983.
Output, however, declined in 1983 by 3Z :s a result of these contractionary
policies and the adverse effects of supply shocks due to flooding, while
inflation increased to 48Z because of the devaluation.
5.       In August 1984 a new Goverrnment took office and intensified the
above measures adopted by its predecessor. It cut back price controls;
reduced subsidies on public utilities; devalued the exchange rate;
eliminated export taxes; liberalized imports by lowering tariffs and
lifting the late 1982 import prohibitions; encouraged foreign investment;
slowed the growth of credit and made interest rates more flexible. The IMF
targets for 1983/84 were met. GDP grew by 4Z in 1984 as the agricultural
sector recovered from tbe effects of flooding in 1983 and petr,'>um
production grew by 9.7Z. The current account deficit, however,
deteriorated to about US$250 million in 1984 (mostly due to increased debt
service payments). This was reduced to US$126 million in 1985, as exports
went up and the Government succeeded in arranging multi-year rescheduling
with the Paris Club and the commercial banks, and obtained another one-year
IMF Standby for March 1985/86 for SDR 105.5 million. The Standby aimed at
consolidating the gains achieved in the 1983/84 program and to continue the
adjustment. Specifically, the program called for equilibrium in the
current account of the balance of payments in 1985 (after taking account of
debt relief operations) through a flexible and unified exchange rate; trade
liberalization; significant strengthening of public sector finances; and
prudent monetary policy. The Standby was fully disbursed as Ecuador
observed all the quantitative targets with sizeable margins.
The Agricultural Sector
6.       Agriculture was Ecuador's engine of export-led growth until the
early 1970's. Agriculture's importance has declined since then, but in
1986 the sector still accounted for about 15% of output, 52Z of the total
export value and 39% of the labor force.
7.       Government Policies.  Although the Goverrunent did not pursue any
specific agricultural strategy other than food price stability, the sector
was critically affected by public policy both directly and indirectly
during the 1970's and early 1980's. The direct policy affecting
agriculture was throv 'i public sector expenditure and pricing and trade
policy, as follows: (., annual public investment in agriculture of (only)
0.7Z of GDP during 1975-83, of which 80% was on irrigation, roads and water
supply; (b) extensive annual subsidies to wheat and milk imports (0.8Z of
GDP), fuel (4Z of GDP), credit (0.6% of GDP), and electricity (0.3Z of GDP)



-3-
that added up to more than SZ of GDP a year during 1972-82; (c) selected
export taxes on cocoa and coffee; (d) trade restrictions on imported inputs
and on industrial products; and (e) producer price support and consumer
price controls. The indirect impacts via macroeconomic policies created
inflationary pressures leading to an increase in the prices of non-
tradables relative to tradables and to an ov-:valued exchange rate. The
subsidy effect of cheaper imports resulting trom the latter was on average
equal to 3.8% of GDP a year during 1974-82.  Although some of these
policies benefitted the sector, they also distorted relative prices,
impaired incentives and misallocated resources.
8.       Sector Performance.  Overa'.l, agriculture suffered from the
combined effects of these policies and its growth slowed. The average
annual growth rate of agriculture was 3Z during 1970-821 (only 0.5Z per
capita) and was mostly due to high growth of fishing and hunting (11.9),
forestry (9.6Z) and livestock production (4.4Z). Export crops (banana,
cocoa and coffee) and other crops grew little, that is, by 1.42 and 0.4Z
respectively. This slow growth also reflects the adverse effect of the
drought in early 1982. Th.e subsequent flooding of 1982-83 severc!1y damaged
crops and the marketing infrastructure in the coastal areas and fursher
reduced output in 1983. Total agricultural production in that year
declined by 13.5%, export crops by 30%, other crops by 25%, forestry by
12%, and fishing by 3.5Z. Only livestock production grew by 2.7Z. The
country thus became çurther dependent on food imports, which had been
growing at a real annual average rate of 13Z from 1970 to the early 1980's
due to the decline in food production and an increase in consumer demand
spurred by the oil boom and the urbanization of the population.
9.       Agricultural land remained under-exploited in Ecuador.  The
country was utilizing only 44Z of its land area suitable for cropping and
about 62% of its pasture land for cattle production. The total area under
cultivation remained almost unchanged during 1970-81 at around 1.3-1.5
million ha. for 20 major products comprising 95Z of the total production.
There was, however, a shift from food to high value crops. Production
increases were mostly due to area expansion rather than to gains in
productivity which remained low.
10.      Pu' ic Enterprises in Agriculture.  Domestic price policies
involving price and import controls were mainly pursued through two public
enterprises, that is, the National Enterprise for Storage and Marketing
(ENAC) and the National Enterprise for Essential Products (ENPROVIT). ENAC
was authorized to purchase, import, export, store, and distribute basic
agricultural products, mostly rice, cora, soya and cotton, to support
prices at producer level. It purchased mostly from large farmers and later
through the commodity exchange, but operated at a loss due to the
inefficiency of its trading and storage operations.2   ENPROVIT controlled
retail prices for basic food items through its 258 outlets mostly located
in poor areas. Like ENAC, its operations incurred losses (Sucres 2.1
billion from 1984 to July 1988). Public enterprises also operated for
fertilizer, seed, forestry, and food processing such as milk, tea, sugar,
1/ 2.1Z during 1973-80 compared to 3.9% during 1965-73.
2/  For instance, ENAC incurred a debt of US$35 million with the Government
from 1974 onwards, which was cancelled in December 1985.



-4-
citrus juices and cattle slaughtering. Up to the mid-1980's little was
known to the Government concering the financial position of these
enterprises.
11.      Agricultural credit is mostly --88Z in i985-- channelled through
the Banco Nacional de Fomento (BNF), and is chiefly allocated to livestock,
export crops, and a few other crops such as rice. Real interest ratcj have
generally been neg3tive, which has de-capitalized BNF over the years.
Interest rates for BNF and other financial institutions are set by the
Monetary Board, and were adjusted in the early 1980's after being fixed for
nearty a decade. No formal mechanism for periodic adjustments of interest
rates existed, however.
Bank Group Operations in Ecuador
12.      As of December 31, 1988, The Bank and IDA lending to Ecuador
totalled US$1.2 billion, net of cancellations, consisting of 43 operations,
of which 17 were still disbursing. IFC gross commitments, as of September
30, 1988, were USS45.6 million, of which IFC held US$17.9 million and of
which US$17.5 million was undisbursed. These loans were mostly for
textiles, sugar, food processing, mining, cement, and financial servicei.
13.      The Bank and IDA loans have mostly been for productive sectors
(43Z); sectoral adjustment loans in the agriculture, industry and financial
sectors (22Z); with the balance going to the social sectors. The
agriculture portfolio, apart from the loan under review, include three
rural development projects approved between 1979-82, that is, Tungurahua
(Ln. 1644-EC) for US$18 million, Puerto Ila-Chone tLn. 1991-EC) for US$20
million, Esmeraldas (2044-EC) for US$17 million; and an Agricultural Credit
Loan (Ln. 2752-EC) for US$48 million.
II. IDENZ FICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Origin and Preparation
14.      Identification.  Following the 1982 balance of payments crisis and
the scarcity of foreign credit, the Government undertook reforms via
macroeconomic and trade policies to improve the performance of the economy,
subsequently inte. ified by the new administration in August 1984 (paras. 4
and 5). Because of the uncertainties surrounding petroleum prices and
production costs, and the Government's own scarcity of funds, there was a
need to develop an alternative source of income, export and foreign
exchange. Agriculture offered one such potential. Although the Government
had intended to streamline its agricultural pricing policies, allow market
forces to influence the allocation of resources and reorganize the Ministry
of Agriculture (MAG), these measures needed to be intensified to encourage
private sector participation. The Government of Ecuador formally requested
the Bank for a sector loan during the Bank/Fund annual meeting of September
1984 to carry out this task.
15.      The proposed loan was well within the Bank's lending strategy for
agriculture which emphasized improving the policy environment to resume
growth. The strategy suggested: (a) improving the domestic terms of trade



- 5 -
and removing distortions to allow allocation of resources according to the
sector's comparative advantage; (b) improving institutional capabilities to
monitor programs and introduce new technology; (c) influencing the level
and the allocation of public investment in the direction of research and
extension, infrastructure, rural development and the recurrent cost of
these; and (d) allowing a timely resource transfer.3
The Bank had also prepared an agricultural sector report for Ecuador,
"Agriculture: An Assessment and Direction for Development"4 and had
discussed it with the Governnent during an identification/preparation
mission in mid-September 1984.
16.      Preparatíon.  The Loan was prepared by Bank staff and discussed
with the Government.  The proposed sector loan would assist the Government
in financing the implementation of its new agricultural policy. The
Initiating Memorandum (IM), which was finalized on March 29, 1985, stated
the policy objectives of the loan as to: (a) improve incentives to invest
and produce in the sector by improving its terms of trade; (b) liberalize
agricultural trade and prices to link domestic and international prices and
preserve incentives for goods with comparative advantage; (c) maintain
interest rates at levels which would not induce over-capitalization and
would allow continued viability of the lending institutions. A pre-
condition of the loan would be the elimination of the dual exchange rate
which was included within the IMF 1985 Standby arrangement (para. 5). The
IM proposed a loan of US$100 million, in two equal tranches, to finance
imported agricultural inputs (US$96 million) and technical assistance,
including studies on public enterprises and improving MAG and Central Ba,.k
capabilities (US$4 million). The IM also allowed for part of the local
currency equivalent to be used for revitalizing and privatizing public
enterprises (US$20 million), and public expenditure on research and
extension and policy analysis groups (US$10 million) by the MAG. The
conditions for effectiveness and disbursement of the First Tranche,
envisaged in earlier preparations, became the conditions of Board
Presentation. A summarl of the recommended conditions appears in Annex 1,
page 1.
17.      Caution was expressed within the Bank on a number of issues, in
particular: (a) the doubtful fEasibility andlor efficiency of addressing
such macro-economic issues as terms of trade, export incentives and
resource mobilization by using parallel conditions in agricultural and
industrial sector loans. A different approach, such as financial sector or
trade sector loans, or a SAL type operation was suggested as more
appropriate; (b) the political viability of the loan, in view of its
implications in terms of substantial price increases for basic food, had to
be assessed early in the project cycle; and (c) the loan amount far
exceeded the incremental imports of agricultural inputs, based on analysis
of past trends, and neeehd to be justified.
Appraisal and Negotiations
18.      The appraisal mission (April 22-May 15, 1985) drew attention to
the two major issues of interest rates and parallel conditionality. On the
31 "LAC Regional Agricultural Strategy Paper", Report No. 5280-EC,
September 28, 1984, especially page 35.
4/ Report No. 4522-EC, August 22, 1983.



- a -
interest rate issue, it recommended flexibility in measuring the "positive"
interest rate. On parallel conditionality, the appraisal mission believed
that some reduction in industrial protection was necessary to encourage
resource flows to agriculture.  The mission, therefore, recormnended that
the sector loan include a reduction in the level and dispersion of
industrial tariffs and other trade restrictions satisfactory to the Bank.
19.      On other less important issues, the mission proposed: (a) not to
earmark part of the loan's local currency proceeds to finance privatization
of the public enterprises, as had previously been proposed (para. 16),
since the criteria for the use of such funds could not be determined
without prejudging the results of the studies on the public enterprises to
be financed by the loan. Moreover, divestiture might not be possible
within the loan's disbursement period; (b) not to assign the US$10 million
local currency equivalent to MAG expenditure on research and extension and
the policy analysis groups. IDB proposed to finance the fcrmer and the
USAID the latter; (c) not to include the studies in the tranche conditions,
because such conditions had in practice been waived in the past for other
Bank loans; and (d) not to change the loan amount, which had been
established through policy dialogue to induce policy changes and to
compensate for subsequent adjustment costs. The loan amount also
represented 50Z of the actual (25Z of the broadly defined) imports of
agricultural inputs per year and would exceed the incremental value of the
imports of agricultural inputs by US$60 million (US$20 million broadly
defined).
20.      The appraisal mission's recommendations were mostly accepted as a
basis for negotiation and the Bank decided that: (a) positive interest rate
attainment and maintenance would be a condition of both tranches, to be
measured in terms of an effective lending rate, including commissions and
financial spreads that exceeded inflation --as measured by six-monthly
changes in the consumer price index; (b) some conditionality on trade
issues (e.g., reduction of industrial protection) was needed; and (c) the
loan amount was appropriate. However, satisfactory progress in
implementation of the studies was to be included in the Second Tranche
conditions. A decision was also made to pursue agricultural and trade
policy issues through parallel sectoral loans, based on the view that a SAL
operation was not appropriate for Ecuador on account of Government
inability (due to legal and political constraints) to rationalize energy
prices which would be necessary for such an operation.
21.      Negotiations did not produce any major changes to the draft Loan
Agreement. The Ecuadorian delegation (composed of advisors to the
President and Minister of Agriculture, and the Subsecretary of Public
Credit) proposed, and it was agreed, that the positive interest rates be
measured by applying either the last six months' inflation,5 annualized
5/ Inflation was defined in the side letter to the Loan Agreement (para.
24) as equivalent to two percentage points below the arithmetic moving
average of the latest 6-month percentage change in the urban consumer
price index.



(Bank's proposal) or the current Certificate of Deposit (CD) rate --a rate
influenced by the market but higher than the average deposit rate--
whichever was the lower.
The Obiectives and Conditions of the Loan
22.      The finally agreed package aimed at assisting the Government in
implementing its agricultural sector policy intentions designed to: (a)
promote agricultural development; (b) correct distortions and reduce bias
against agriculture in the terms of trade; and (c) foster investment and
greateor private sector participation in the sector. The Loan of US$100
million was to finance imports of agricultural inputs (US$97.5 million) and
technical assistance (US$2.5 million). It was to be disbursed in two equal
tranches of USS30 million each, that is, at effectiveness and after meeting
the second tranche conditions. There were also three pre-Board conditions.
23.      The conditions for Board Presentation consisted of:  (a)
elimination of the purchases of ENAC and other public enterprises to
support minimum prices of agricultural products except for rice and hard
corn during the following season (April-June 1986); (b) elimination of the
official maximum prices for all agricultural products except for wheat
flour and except at ENPROVIT outlets in poor areas for at most three
commodities (wheat flour, milk and sugar); and (c) unification of
agricultural lending rates except as justified by transaction costs and the
maintenance of positive lending rates for all loans for the agricultural
and industrial sectors with maturities of 90 days or more.
24.      The conditions of the Second Tranche were to:  (a) eliminate the
maximum consumer price on wheat flour; (b) eliminate quantitative
restrictions on imports of agricultural products and inputs and replace
them with tariffs for such products at levels set by the Governrment and to
be agreed with the Bank; (c) eliminate the purchase of rice and hard corn
by public agencies to support their minimum wholesale prices; (d) make
satisfactory progress in improving policies affecting export incentives for
agricultural products; (e) make satisfactory progress in improving terms of
trade between agriculture and other sectors; (f) adopt the 1986 public
investment program for the agricultural sector agreed with the Bank;
(g) maintain positive real interest rates for agricultural and industrial
loans for maturities of 90 days and more; (h) make satisfactory progress in
carrying out the technical assistance schedule. The latter consisted of
four surveys and reviews on the financial status of public enterprises.
with a view to privatize some and strengthen others; two surveys on the
relative effective rate of protection and the terms of trade for
agriculture and industry; measures to strengthen MAG and BCE analytical
capabilities and operations; and the provision of micro-computers and their
software for MAG and BCE. The above-mentioned surveys on protection and
terms of trade, in addition to comparison of domestic and international
price ratios, would be used by the newly established Policy Analysis Unit
(UAP) and the Central Bank to monitor the reforms under the loan. Side
letters were signed clarifying the methodology used in measuring the items
in (d), (e) and (g), and the names of the public enterprises included in



the surveys. The loan also contained covenants on exchanging views between
the Bank and the Government, audit, disbursement, procurement, and progress
and project completion reports.
25.      The President's Report (PR) also discussed the benefit of the loan
via the use of a model.6 The PR also mentioned that the major risks related
to the loan were political sustainability of the reforrns; future price
trends of the main agricultural products; and the maintenance of an
attractive exchange rate.
26.  -   Board Presentation.  The loan documents were circulated to the
Board upon the receipt of a OLetter of Development Policy" (September 13,
1985) stating that the first two requirements had been met (para. 23
conditions (a) and (b)), and a telex stating that interest rates on loans
granted by BNF for agriculture had been unified at 20Z by the Monetary
Board. The loan was approved on October 22, 1985.
III. Implementation
SigninR and Start Up
27.      The Loan was signed on January 15, 1986. It became effective on
February 18, 1986, when the legal opinion was obtained and the special
account, which was included to facilitate disbursements, was duly opened.
Implementation ChanRes and Release of the Second Tranche
28.      Shortly after effectiveness, several Bank missions visited Ecuador
to monitor the status of the loan's execution and found that the pre-Board
agreements on policies had not been sustained. In fact, later supervision
missions confirmed that the pre-Board agreements had not been translated to
executive actions. (Supervision Report, December 24, 1986). There were:
(a) several interest rates in effect, some of which were highly negative in
real terms (Annex II, Table 9); (b) maximum consumer prices for rice, sugar
and milk; and (c) a lack of support for restricting ENAC activities among
Government officials. The missions also found that the Policy Analysis
Unit was partially staffed and received technical and financial support
from USAID which was undertaking to implement a major part of the technical
assistance under the loan. Bank management was informed about the
backsliding in the policy measures,7 but the Bank had already disbursed
US$39 million and had no basis to suspend disbursements on the First
Tranche in the absence of specific conditions.
6/ A linear programming model was used to simulate the benefits of the
Loan. Among its findings were that the Loan would increase
agricultural production by 38Z and employment by 31Z, as a result of
the removal of the fertilizer (proxy for the foreign exchange)
constraints.
7/ Prior authorization on 260 industrial articles were also reimposed.
This was contrary to agreements under both the Agricultural and
Industrial Sector Loans.



- 9 -
29.      The Bank proposed to send a mission in September 1986 to review
progress in meeting the Second Tranche conditions and to follow up on the
previous missions' findings. The request for the mission's departure
coincided with the beginning of impeachment proceedings against the
Ministers of Finance and Agriculture and the mission was twice postponed,
at the request of the Government, to December, 1986.
30.      The Supervision Mission did not find sufficient progress on
meeting the conditions to recommend the release of the Second Tranche (See
Annex;I, p. 2, column 2), as only two of the eight conditions had been
satisfied. Good progress had been made in improving export incentives for
agricultural products and the terms of trade between agriculture and the
other sectors. The former was due to a 25Z devaluation of the Sucre within
a year; and the latter to a reduction of quantitative restrictions and
import duties for industry and reduction of export taxes for agricultural
products.
31.      Very little progress had been achieved on the other conditions.
Political and external factors were partly responsible. Petroleum prices
had fallen by half from US$25.8 per barrel in 1985 to US$12.8 in 1986. The
Government had introduced sweeping measures on August 11, 1986 to make up
for the fall in petroleum prices. It involved fiscal adjustment by
increasing taxes and the prices charged by public enterprises; floating the
exchange rate (in additíon to its earlier devaluation from 97 to 109 Sucres
per Dollar); and freeing interest rates on private loans and deposits,
although BCE lines remained controlled. It also obtained a one-year IMF
Standby for SDR 75.4 million in support of its adjustnent program.8 The
Governnment lost the mid-year elections and the Finance Minister was
impeached for introducing "unconstitutional" measures on interest and
exchange rates. It was alleged that these measures benefitted only the
rich 9 and worsened the social situation by increasing the cost of
production and food. A high-level meeting with Government officials in
Washington during January 1987 produced little progress, despite a
significant compromise on the Bank's part (See, Annex I, p. 2, column 3).
Bank management confirmed the Supervision Mission's findings in not
releasing the Second Tranche.
32.      The Bank came under increaajng pressure in February 1987 to
release the Second Tranche as the Government encountered difficulties in
reaching agreement with the private banks; the BCE experienced short-term
cashflow problems (see also Chart 1), and the Fund informed the Bank that
it would not present its 1987 Standby (SDR 75.4 million)1O in support of
the Government 1987 budget to its Board without t-  release of the Second
8/ Ecuador only utilized SDR 15.1 million of the Standby and it was
eventually cancelled on June 10, 1987, due to insufficient progress and
to the aftermath of the earthquake (see para. 33).
9/ Major exports such as banana, coffee, cocoa and shrimp benefitted a few
private companies in Guayaquil.
10/ Disbursements on the 1986 Standby were suspended in late 1986 due to
the Government's failure to attain its targets, and discussion had
begun on a new Standby.



- 10 -
Tranche. The Bank continued negotiations with the Government according to
its proposals at the end of January, 1987 (annex I, p. 2, column 3). The
outcome was to recommend the tranche release if the Government presented
proposals that showed satisfactory progress in: (a) reducing QR's for
imports of agricultural products; (b) setting positive interest rates for
foreign funded agricultural loans --instead of all agricultural and
industrial loans; (c) limiting purchases by ENAC; and (d) signing
amendments with respect to (b) and (c) to the Loan Agreement of the
Agricultural Credit Loan (Ln. 2752-EC). The Bank missions worked with the
Government to develop a suitable list of QR's to be eliminated.
33.      On March 5-6, 1987, an earthquake occurred in Ecuador that caused
enormous human and financial costs. The oil pipelines were largely
destroyed which later led to the loss of petroleum exports for five months.
The Ecuadorian obligations were met by oil swaps, m stly from Venezuela,
and the Bank helped in reconstructing the pipelines. Further discussions
on the Sector Loan took place while negotiating the Reconstruction Loan.
34.      The Governnent sent a letter with its proposals on April 1, 1987,
pointing out its economic problems related to the earthquake. It explained
that interest rates on foreign lines of credit (through the BCE) could not
be adjusted upwards as they had to be legally below the maximum rates
established by the Monetary Board, but they would reduce the number of
lines of credit. They would also gradually reduce ENAC participation,
while allowing it to purchase coffee in the earthquake zones,11 and would
replace the QR's on imports of agricultural inputs and goods with
appropriate tariffs "according to circumstances". The Bank, however, did
not find these proposals acceptable and pressed for more negotiations on
interest rates and QR's.
35.      By June 1987, the focus of discussion had been narrowed to the
following: (a) that May data on Certificates of Deposit show positive
interest rates; (b) that QR's should be reduced to cover no more than SOZ
of imports overall and should be eliminated for wheat; (c) that there
should be an "acceptable" program of reduction of remaining QR's; (d) that
there should be "acceptable" proposals for replacing QR's with tariffs; and
(e) that covenants should be included in the Agricultural Credit Project
ensuring positive real interest rates and reducing ENAC and ENPROVIT
purchases. These conditions were met with the important exception that the
QR on wheat was not removed for political reasons (Annex 1, page 2, column
4), and the Second Tranche was released on July 17, 1987. Subsequently,
however, none of the key policy aspects of the loan (interest rates, QR
removal and their replacement with tariffs or commodity purchases) were
maintained (Annex 1, page 2, column 5). Further developments in loan
implementation after the release of the Second Tranche concerned the
technical assistance category and are discussed in paras. 48-50 below.
Disbursements, Procurement and Audit
36.      Disbursements.  The BCE was responsible for the necessary
documentation, preparation and submission of the withdrawal applications --
Statement of Expenditures (SOE's)-- and the maintenance of the necessary
11, This involved Sucres 300 million in addition to the 1986 credit to ENAC
of Sucres 1,700 million.



- 12. -
accounts of the loan. At appraisal, instructions were given to BCE on
preparation of the necessary documents. A supervision mission noted (BTOR,
Sept. 5, 1985) that: (a) the information on payments for imports coincided
with those of withdrawal applications, except that the dates differed by
one week, but the mission was not given access to copies of the payment
checks; (b) no separate proof from customs on the entry of the goods was
available; and (c) the import files recorded the dates of approval rather
than the actual payments. A telex was sent in which the Borrower was asked
to include in the import records the date of the actual payments; to
include in the SOE's the proof of entry of the goods to the country; and to
allow.the missions to examine the information.  A later mission reviewed
the documents supporting the SOE's and found them to be satisfactory. (Dec.
24, 1986).
37.      In June 1986, the Government requested that all contracts for
agricultural imports rather than only those greater than US$50,000 (as
stipulated in the Loan Agreement) be eligible for reimbursement, as this
proved to be too high a limit. However, the Bank for ease of preparation,
processing, and supervision of the disbursement requests agreed to reduce
the lower limit to US$5,000. The Loan Agreement was thus amended on July
11, 1986.
38.      The Region was informed on March 16, 1987 that the First Tranche
of the Loan had been over-disbursed by US$16.9 million, because the Bank
had not begun recovering the US$20 million in the special account after the
first US$30 million of the First Tranche had been disbursed. The Borrower
was asked on March 19, 1987, to refund the sum according to Paragraph 6(a)
of Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement. The Loan Department undertook to
revise its computing operations to provide early warnings in the case of
future multi-tranche loans. The matter was also raised with the Minister
of Agriculture (March 18, 1987) who understood the request for
reimbursement, but hoped that because of the impending release of the
Second Tranche the actual transfer would not be necessary. Another follow-
up telex was sent on May 6, 1987, with apparently no response.
39.      In April 1989, it became evident that funds had been disbursed
under the project for expenditures which did not correspond to the positií' 
list of eligible agricultural inputs in the Loan Agreement. A supervision
mission in August 1989 assisted BCE in preparation of revised documentation
to cover eligible expenditures. This issue was satisfactorily resolved
through submission of a revised set of SOE's, acccompanied by a clear
opinion from the independent auditor, which was accepted by the Bank in
January, 1990. The remaining balance of US$1.4 million was cancelled and
the loan account was closed effective June 30, 1989.
40.      Procurement.  Procurement of goods was against imports of
agricultural inputs. All reimbursements were made in relatively small
amounts, which did not require the use of the International Competitive
Bidding. The procurement of consultants is discussed in Chapter V.
41.      Audit.  No annual audit reports were received for FY86, FY87 or
FY88. However, a global report for the period January 15, 1986 to June 30,
1989 was received by the Bank on December 6, 1989. This report found all
SOE's to heve been eligible in conformity with the Loan Agreement.



- 12 -
42.      Project Completion Report (PCR).  The Government's obligatien to
prepare a PCR was reiterated during a supervision mission in December 1988.
The Governnent agreed in the aide memoire to send a draft PCR to the Bank
by the end of March 1989. This did not occur. Instead, brief general
reviews of the project by the Ministry of Finance and Central Bank of
Ecuador were sent to the Bank irn July, 1990 (see PCR, Part II).
Compliance With Loan Conditions and Covenants
43.      Compliance with the conditions of Board presentation and the Loan
Agreement was generally inadequate and could have led to the cancellation
of the Loan. The pre-Board conditions were not sustained (para. 28 and
Table 9) and only limited compliance with the modified conditions of the
Second Tranche was achieved (Annex I, page 2, column 5).
IV. Economic Impact
44.      The Agricultural Sector Loan provided a timely foreign exchange
transfer to Ecuador (see Chart 1) dt a time when the Government suffered
grave political and external reversals. The policy package accompanying
the loan was inadequately complied with or sustained; its benefit is,
therefore, uncertair.. Some indicators on the performance of the economy
before and during the loan are provided in Annex II. They show that
agriculture had one of the highest sectoral growth rates during 1986-87,
following only behind utilities (Annex II, Table 1), that is, about lOZ in
1986, and 7Z in 1987. This growth was uneven, however, and was mostly
concentrated in the fishing and forestry sub-sectors, while crops and
livestock grew relatively slowly and even declined (Table 2). The value of
some agricultural exports such as coffee, banana and shrimps went up during
1986, and the latter two in 1987 as well (Table 3).12   Export growth was
also due to the increase in prices and was not matched by equal increases
in the volume of exports (Annex II, Table 4).
45.      The terms of trade between agriculture and manufacturing
essentially stayed unchanged (Annex II, Table 5), while the nominal
protection for agricultural products such as rice, hard corn and soybeans
declined (Annex II, Table 6). The maximum tariff rate including the
surcharge on manufacturing imports was 300Z at the end of the project13 as
opposed to 220Z at the time of the Loan Agreement and 10OZ as the target
proposed under the loan. No data on dispersion is available, however.
46.      ENAC participation in the purchase of rice and corn decreased
according to official statistics (Annex II, Table 7), but the procurement
prices for these crops rose (Annex II, Table 8), contrary to what was
agreed at the release of the Second Tranche. Agricultural interest rates
have been adjusted upwards, but they wtre still not unified by the end of
the project period and lagged behind the inflation rate (Annex II, Table
12/ No data are available on the imports of inputs for these products out
of the total imports to attribute part of their growth to the foreign
exchange constraint relaxation.
13/ CEM; August, 1988, p. 52.



- 13 -
9). Recently, a new agreement has been reached in the context of the
Financial Sector Loan, under which agricultural and other rates on Central
Bank funded lines will move towards market determined levels within three
years. The exchange rate was adjusted frequently (Annex II, Table 10) and
was one of the most important factors contributing to the growth of
exports.
47.      Overall, it is difficult to attribute the growth in agricultural
production and exports to the Sector Loan, given that most of the policy
conditions were not maintained. The agricultural growth during 1985-87 was
aboutCone-half of the 38Z growth (over a five-year period) which was
estimated by the modell4 used in estimating the benefits of the loan. More
time is needed before the full effect on production can be evaluated.
V. Institutional Performance
Technical Assistance
48.      Under the Loan Agreement, US$2.5 million was allocated to
Technical Assistance. The policy studies under this category --effective
protection and terms of trade -- in addition to comparing relative domestic
and international prices (para. 24 above) were to be used for monitoring
the progress of the reforms supported by the Loan. The Government, shortly
after the release of the Second Tranche, requested the Bank (on August 4,
1987) to transfer the Technical Assistance funds to the import category.
The Bank agreed (August 27, 1987) only to transfer the remaining funds for
the studies and the strengthening of the UAP and BCE (US$1 million less
US$61.000 on 10 computers for BCE) to the import category and suggested
cancelling the US$1.5 million originally allocated to the public enterprise
studies if the Governnent did not wish to undertake them.
49.      In March 1988, the Government, contrary to its previous
inclination, expressed interest in undertaking studies on rural credit,
non-traditional exports, and transferring the Bank model used in the
evaluation of the loan to Ecuador, and sent a delegation to Washington to
seek the Bank's su ort. Based on the discussions and the examination of
the draft studies,.v the Bank agreed to extend the closing date of the
Technical Assistance category only16 for a year to allow the time necessary
to develop and implement the technical assistance studies including the
necessary terms of references and the short-list of consultant to undertake
them. During the months ahead, several consultants' contracts were
examined by the Bank, but were not accepted as they did not meet the
requirements of the Bank's Guidelines on the Use of Consultants.
14/ A linear programming model in which relaxation of the level of
fertilizer imports was used as proxy for the improvements in foreign
exchange constraints to simulate the benefits of the Loan.
15/ A letter was sent to the Minister of Agriculture on March 28, 1988,
summarizing the agreed studies.
16/ There was US$6 million left in the import category which could be
disbursed before the loan closing date for that category of June 30,
1988.



- 14 -
50.      A new Government was elected in August 1988, and a letter (August
17, 1988) was sent to the new Minister of Agriculture explaining the status
of the studies agreed with his predecessor. The following missions in
October and in December found that the studies on the rates of protection
for some agricultural products, terms of trade and those agreed with the
previous Government, had mostly been undertaken, or were in the process of
being carried out, by consultants under USAID financing (Supervision and
Back-to-Office Report, January 4, 1989). Some studi.ps on individual public
enterprises were carried out by BNF, CFN, USAID and the enterprises
themselves. The mission recommended that the Govern=ent review those
studies and submit them to the Bank in fulfillment of the Loan Agreement if
they were found to be satisfactory. It was also agreed to consider further
studies on ENAC and EMSEMILLAS (The seed company). By loan closing date
(June 30, 1989) no study had been financed by the loan's funds.
The Bank's Performance
51.      The loan was designed to help the Government carry out its
adjustment policies, and to provide a resource transfer to relieve the
foreign exchange constraints associated with the balance of payments
disequilibrium. The loan was mostly prepared by Bank staff in consultation
with the Government. Its aims were well within the Bank's strategy of the
time and agreed with the diagnostics of the Bank's earlier sector study.
The size of the loan, though related to imports of agricultural sector
inputs, was largely determined on macroeconomic grounds.
52.      The conditions of the loan were over-ambitious and over-estimated
the Borrower's implementation capacity, especially given the two-year
proposed span of the loan and the fragile political majority of the
Government in the Congress which was also noted in the PR. The Bank was
impressed by the enthusiasm that had been shown by the newly elected, pro-
market Government and attempted to achieve too many medium-term objectives
in too short a time.
53.      The Bank was flexible in responding to the Borrower's political
and economic difficulties related to adverse export price movements for
petroleum and the earthquake, given the positive policy measures regarding
the exchange rate. During the period December 1986 to June 1987, frequent
and intensive supervision was undertaken in an attempt to achieve some
minimum compliance with second tranche conditions. However, by February
1987, the Government had lost its commitment to undertake the reforms under
the loan and attempted merely to keep its fragile political support while
obtaining the tranche release. In agreeing to release the tranche under
such circumstances the Bank achieved a short-term objective of transferring
resources in a crisis situation. However, it essentially signalled the end
of serious structural reform in the agricultural sector at least during the
lifetime of the then current administration.
VI. Conclusions and Lessons Learnt
54.     Athough this project helped in relieving the Government's foreign
exchange constraint, it did not achieve most of its policy objectives.
Though agricultural policy is constantly evolving, the bulk of the



- 15 -
conditions originally agreed for both first and second tranche release have
not been met.
55.     Referring to the conditions (para. 23) established in the PR for
Board presentation, the record is as follows:
(a)  purchases by ENAC of commodities other than rice and hard corn
have not been eliminated;
(b)  official maximum prices remain in effect for a wide range of
_   agricultural commodities; and
(c) agricultural interest rate policy has not evolved as envisaged at
Board presentation. Recent agreements between GOE and the Bank,
however, are aimed at achieving free market rates for all official
credit phased over three years from November 1989.
56.     Referring to the original conditions established in the Loan
Agreement for second tranche release (para. 24), Annex I, page 2, Column 5
provides a summary of compliance as of December 1988. In sumnmary, the
status is as follows:
(a) maximum consumer prices for wheat are still in effect;
(b) QR's on imports of agricultural commodities and inputs have not
been replaced with tariffs;
(c) ENAC still purchases rice and hard corn;
(d) and (e) export incentives and terms of trade for agriculture were
satisfactorily improved at the time of second tranche release
(para. 30);
(f) public sector investment in agriculture does not conform to the
program agreed with the Bank in 1987;
(g) the interest rate covenant was not met but is now subject to a new
agreement referred to above in para 55(c).
(h) the studies under the technical assistance component were partly
carried out under USAID financing. No studies were financed under
the Bank loan, however.
57.     This operation was risky and failed.  The reasons for its failure
were partly circu=stantial and partly rooted in its design. The project
addressed interest rate policy, terms of trade (involving exchange rate and
trade policy), agricultural marketing policy, public sector investment
policy, and social policies (food pricing) affecting the poor. This was too
much to aim for in a single sectoral operation. At the time of appraisal,
the feasibility of addressing terms of trade issues, export incentives and
resource mobilization through parallel conditionality with an industrial
sector loan was debated, but it was decided to proceed with the operation.



- 16 -
58.     The proposal (in the !M) to allocate US$10 million of local
currency counterpart funds for use in strengthening agricultural services
(research, extension) was not supported at appraisal. Earmarking
counterpart resources in adjustment lending was in any case not acceptable
to the Bank as a general rule. The original proposal may have had some
merit as a means of providing an incentive to the implementing ministry (as
was its intention).
59.     In hindsight, it was a místake to base the first tranche release
excltusively on assurances expressed by the Goverranent in a "Letter of
Development Policy". These conditions (on ENAC purchases and maximum
prices) had not been sustained by the time the loan became effective.
However, since they were not specified in the Loan Agreement (as were the
second tranche conditions) there was no formal process of verification or
monitoring prior to effectiveness. The first monitoring of policy
conditions by the Bank was during the first supervision mission, by which
time the first tranche had been partly disbursed.
60.      The monitoring of the policy reforms was to be performed through
three studies, that is, effectíve rate of protection, terms of trade, and
relative prices. The project design did not clarify the mode and the
extent of cooperation and the channel of communications between the BCE and
the UAP. The weakness of the technical assistance as a tranche condition,
though acknowledged at the project preparation stage, was ignored later in
the project cycle. Not only were the studies not carried out, but there
was little framework for disseminating the recommendations of such studies
to the benefit of the Government in the event that they had been carried
otit.
61.     To surmarize the main lessons learnt from this operation:
(a) Sector policy loans should limit their objectives. If the policy
conditions impinge too heavily on macro, fiscal or trade issues,
the objectives would perhaps best be met through other adjustment
operations.
(b) All policy conditions should be clear, measurable and legally
binding. Only the second tranche conditions in this operation
were in the Loan Agreement. The tranching mechanism is important
in ensuring compliance with loan conditions, and by releasing the
first tranche as a condition for effectiveness the Bank would have
had greater control over compliance.
(c) In any adjustment operation, there is a need for a strong
monitoring body, which in this case did not exist. Detailed and
effective monitoring and evaluation not only facilitates loan
supervision but also allow more involvement of the Borrower and
easier evaluation of the project at the PCR stage.
.,.



- 17 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE



- 18 -
June 26, 1990
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Office of the Under Secretary
of Public Credit
No. SCP-90-2184         Quito, May 25, 1990
Mr. John Joyce
Division Chief, Country Department IV
Latin America & The Caribbean Regional Office
World Bank, Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Joyce:
1 refer to your letter of May 2, 1990 regarding preparation of the
final project report on IBRD Loan 2626-EC for the Agriculture Sector.
The implementing agencies, the Central Bank of Ecuador and this
Ministry have now dravín up the report in question, Part II of which is
attached. This is the part to be prepared by the borrower, whosç conmnents can
then be included in the final project completion report.
Sincerely,
/s/ Edison Ortiz Duran
Under Secretary of Public Credit
Encl.: as stated



- 19 -
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
On January 15, 1986  Ecuador  and  the World Bank signed Agreement
2626-EC concerning a loan of US$100 million for the Agriculture Sector,
US$97.5 million of which was intended to finance imports for the sector in
support of a program adopted by the Governnent of Ecuador for the purpose
while,US$2.5 million was for consultant services and procurement of goods for
the Ministry of Agriculture and Stockraising and the Central Bank of Ecuador.
ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
The  Governxnent   of   Ecuador   is   currently  reactivating  the
agriculture and stockraising sector, since the petroleum sector has ceased to
be the motive force for the country's economic growth. In the quest for a
sustained economic equilibrium it proved essential to take decisions that
would channel the effects of the economic recovery policies in a structural
manner through implementation of various internal measures and stimulation of
balanced economic growth, with the support of significant external assistance,
chiefly in the form of resource transfers and technical assistance.
Without  downplaying  the  importance  of  -e  petroleum  sector,
agriculture constitutes a key sector that contribute-s sor,e 12Z of Ecuador's
GNP, accounts for 35Z of the value of the country s exports and provides
employment for about 50t of the economically active popu-.t;.on. The loan under
reference accordingly played a  substantial  role in promct.4.ng the development
of said sector through  the  prepar¿Ltion  of sector diagn. es, policy analyses
and the setting up of investment prog'rams.
lt should also be noted  tilat  as the loan disbu-sements proceeded
and international oil prices continued to fall, exports -,f nontraditional
agricultural products resulting from the reactivation of t!,q sector served to
partially offset the lower oil revenues and helped to mai-.tain an adequate
level of foreign exchange earnings.
ECONOMIC POLICY ORIENTATION
This  loan  contracted  in   1986  was  intended  specifically  to
alleviate the country's balance of payments problems and ease the pressure on
the public finances. It was divided into t%qo tranches of US$50 n&illion each.
Successive governments  have  instituted  a  significant number of
measures designed to improve the country's economic situation: these have
included the liberalization of trade and of the financial system, thereby
allowing market forces to determine resource distribution.
. Policies have also been implemented to correct existing economic
distortions, attract inve-tment to the agriculture sector, create favorable
conditions for greater participation by private enterprise in agricultttre, and



- 20 -
maintain positive interest rates in the sector in general, the object being to
increase agrolivestock production and bring about a sustained expansion of
exports, which was in fact achieved.
It should be noted that for the first tranche of US$50 million it
was decided to implement structural policies to obtain perceptible changes in
the following areas:
-     improvement in the domestic terms of trade between the agriculture
sector and other sectors of the economy by unifying the exchange rate so
as to remove disparities between production for the domestic and export
markets;
-     price  liberalization,  including  reduction   of  the  number  of
products subject to control at producer and consumer level, with the
exception of three agricultural staples that feature prominently in the
national diet and for which official controlled prices are being
maintained;
-     rreduction of tariffs  on  international  trade  and stimulation of
investment in nontraditional agricultural products;
-     inc.eased  supply  of  agricultural   credit  and  more  efficient
distribution of same; and
-     greater efficiency on the part  of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Stockraising and its subordinate agencies, for which purpose the
ministry  was   reorganized   and   its   operating  and  administrative
capabilities enhanced.
The second tranche of the loan was contracted in July 1987. Its
disbursements were impacted by the negative interest rates on the subloans, so
in order to obtain the funds the Government took steps to make the rates
positive. Even so, as a result of the high rate of inflation prevailing at the
time,  the  amount  of  subsidized   credit  channeled  through  the  National
Development Bank was reduced and the credit provided to the state enterprises
ENAC and ENPROVIT had to be cut back, thus restricting their activities.
In March 1988 the World Bank approved a one-year extension of the
closing date for the loan, and by June 30, 1969 98.6Z of the total loan amount
had been disbursed.
In conclusion, it can be stated that notwithstanding the setbacks
that occurred, such as the drop in oil prices, the March 1987 earthquake and
the deterioration in terms of trade, the Agriculture Sector Program financed
with the proceeds of the loan under reference proved highly positive for the
national interests, while special mention must be made of the World Bank's
readiness to assist in working toward accomplishment of the goals pursued.



- 21 -
Finally, the information contained in Parts 1 and III prepared by
IBRD 1s considered important, in that it provided a most helpful contribution
for analysis purposes while the experience gained by the administrative units
of the various projects wss of great value.
A copy of the Central Bank of Ecuador's comments, as set forth in
letter No. 3858 of February 21, 1989 is attached, together with the annexes
relating to its sphere of competence.



- 22 -
June 29, 1990
Office of the General Manager
Central Bank of Ecuador
Quito, Ecuador
February 21, 1989
Ref. No. 3858
Mr. Jorge Gallardo Z.
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
Quito
Sir:
1 am writing with reference to your letter (Oficio No. SCP-88-
2275 of December 20, 1988, in which you asked that a report be prepared in
conjunction with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance and
Public Credit on the implementation of the Agricultural Sector Program
financed out of the proceeds of Loan No. 2626-EC granted to the Republic of
Ecuador by the World Bank on February 15, 1986.
For your information and appronriate use, please find enclosed a
photocopy of Memorandum No. 89-021-SBP of yesterday's date. This document
examines the Central Bank of Ecuador's areas of responsibility based on the
information available within the institution.
As will be seen from this memorandum, the investigations relating
to the Central Bank have been completed. However, in order to comply with the
general guidelines for the preparation of project completion reports
recommended by the World Bank and in view of the strict requirements
applicable to such reports, it would be appropriate for the Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit and the Ministry of Agriculture to prepare their own
individual reports on the basis of data available to them with respect to
actual project implementation and the measures adopted to meet the
stipulations of the loan agreement. These reports, together with the report
prepared by the Central Bank, would thus constitute the above-mentioned
project implementation review required by the World Bank.
Very truly yours,
/s/ José Morillo Batlle
General Manager
Enclosure



- 23 -
Banco Central del Ecuador
Ecuador
M E M O R A N D U M
89-021-SBP
To:         General Manager, Central Bank of Ecuador
From::.     Office of the Manager for Exchang- Studies -- Assistant Manager
for Balance of Payments and Exchange Policy
Subject:    Financial monitoring of Loan No. 2626-EC granted to the Republic
of Ecuador by the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) to finance the Agricultural Sector Program
Date:       February 20, 1989
1.    In Oficio No. SCP-2275 dated December 20, 1988 the Minister of Finance
asked the General Manager of the Central Bank to prepare a report, in
conjunction with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of
Agriculture, on the implementation of the Agricultural Sector Program
funded by the World Bank. In this connection we submit for your
consideration the findings of our review of the performance of said Loan
Agreement No. 2626-EC, known as the Agricultural Sector Loan, in the
amount of US$100 million, signed by the Republic of Ecuador and the IBRD
on February 15, 1986, with respect to those areas for which the Central
Bank was responsible.
2.    The Agricultural Sector Loan was used to finance imports of agricultural
inputs, machinery and equipment and consultants' services. The loan
agreement stipulated that USS97.5 million of the total proceeds of the
loan was to be used for so-called Category 1 items comprising imports of
agricultural inputs, machinery and equipment. and US$2.5 million
consultants' services under Category 2.
3.    Information obtained by the Office of the Assistant Manager for Foreign
Credit of the Central Bank of Ecuador shows that, as at December 31,
1988, after the loan had been effective for almost three years, there
was an unused balance of US$1,438,199.49, equivalent to 1.4Z of the
total loan amount, to be disbursed by the closing date, viz. June 30,
1989. According to the information enclosed as an Annex, IBRD has
disbursed US$98,499,875.51 for Category 1 items and US$61,925.00 for
Category 2 items. The unused balance will therefore by channeled to
Category 2, since there was an overrun in the portion of the loan
allocated to Category 1 compared to the amount originally scheduled in
the Loan Agreement.
4.    The following is a summary of the financial status of the loan as at
December 31, 1988:



- 24 -
LOAN NO. 2626-EC
as at December 31, 1988
in U.S. dollars
CateRory    Disbursements       Interest and       Net Proceeds
Commitment fee
a                  b            c = a - b
1986                     60,294,622.00       3,238,705.00       57,055,917.00
1987            1        24,433,690.00
1987            2             61,925.00
TOTAL 1987               24,495,615.00       3,107,227.00       21,388,388.00
1988            1        13,771,563.51       8,718,887.00        5,052,676.51
GRAND TOTAL               98,561,800.51    15,064,819.00        83,496,981.51
5.    The above table shows that, three years after the effective date, 98.5Z
of the total amount of the loan has been disbursed. The net proceeds
during this period amounted to US$83,496,981.51, after deducting
interest and commitment fee payments in 1986-88.
6.    It must be kept in mind that Schedule 4 of the loan, a copy of which is
enclosed, stipulates several policy measures (relating to agriculture in
particular), adoption of which by Ecuador was a prerequisite of loan
effectiveness. In summary the World Bank required that the Borrower, on
the one hand, eliminate:
-     maximum consumer prices on wheat flour;
-     quantitative restrictions on imports of agricultural products;
-     wholesale price support;
and, on the other hand, provide incentives for:
-     exports of agricultural products;
-     improving domestic terms of trade between the agricultural sector
and other sectors of the Borrower's economy.
7.    With respect to areas in which the Central Bank has direct
responsibility, paragraph l(b) of Schedule 4 states that the Borrower
shall have eliminated quantitative restrictions on imports of
agricultural products and inputs and replaced them with import tariffs



- 25 -
for such products at levels mutually agreed upon by the Borrower and the
Bank.
In order to comply with the requirements mutually agreed upon by the
World Bank and Ecuador, during the period 1986-87 the Monetary Board
issued regulations No. 324 dated March 4, 1986, No. 369 dated August 11,
1986, No. 404 dated February 5, 1987 and No. 428 dated June 11, 1987,
eliminating cumbersome prior authorization requirements for products
imported by the agricultural sector.
8.   :Compliance with the other loan covenants is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit and the Ministry of Agriculture,
which will have to carry out the necessary evaluations. Furthermore,
the Central Bank of Ecuador is not in a position to prepare a report in
accordance with the General Guidelines for Preparing Project Completion
Reports in accordance with the methodology required by the World Bank,
since it does not have the relevant information.
9.    Finally, as far as the financial management of the program is concerned,
for which the Central Bank is responsible, it can be stated herewith that this
was satisfactory, since there was full compliance with the stipulations of the
loan agreement concerning the financing of the Agricultural Sector Program.
Very truly yours,
/sl  JORGE MOLINA                                  /s/ MARCELA P. DE CARTAGENA
p.p. Assistant Manager for Balance                Manager of Exchange Studies
of Payments and Exchange Policy
Isl Franklin Proafto P.
Manager, Technical Division



- 26 -
BANCO CENTRAL DE ECUADOR
A N N E X
LENDING AGENCY:                 The International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD)
BORROWER:                       Ecuadoran Govern=ent
PURPOSE:                        To finance the program known as the
"Agricultural Sector Program0
AMOUNT:                         US$100 million
INTEREST:                      Variable rate plus 0.5% per annum
TERM:                           17 years
AMORTIZATION:                   In 26 semiannual and consecutive installments,
the first due on July 1, 1990
DISBURSEMENT PERIOD:            Until June 30, 1989
COMMITMENT FEE:                 3/4 of 1Z on the undisbursed balances of the
loan
LOCAL CONTRIBUTION:             Not considered
TOTAL PROJECT COST:            Not determined
INVESTMENT CATEGORIES
(in U.S. dollars)
ForeiRn ExchanRe
Category 1                                               97,500,000.00
(Agricultural inputs, machinery
and equipment)
Category 2                                               2,500,000.00
(Consultants' services)
TOTAL                                                    100,000,000.00
SOURCE:     Report No. 85-049-SMEC, Central Bank
Loan Agreement No. 2626-EC



- 27 -
PART III: STATtSTICAL INFORMATION



- 28 -                                           ANNEX 1
Pago 1 of 2
ECUADOR
ACRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN (LOAN 2626-EC)
BASIC DATA SHEET
(USe)
As of December 31a 1989
Original         Disbursed         Cancelled        Rep*ir        Outatanding
Loan: 2826-EC            USS100m          USS98.8M            USS1,4m             -           USS986em
Original Loan Dates                Revised
Inititating Memorandum                    November 16, 1984                   March 29. 1985
Letter of Development Policles            Septemb-r 26. 1984                  September 13. 1985
Negotiations                              AuGuSt 28-30, 1986
Board Approval                            October 22. 1986
Loan Agreement                            January 16. 1986
Effectivenesa                             Februa-y 18, 1986
Loan Closing                              Juno 30, 1988                       Juno 30. 1989 1/
Actual Completion
CWMU ULATIVE LOAN DISBUSEUENT
FY80      FY87       FY88
(i)  Planned                                 60.0       100.0        -
(ii)  Actual                                  39.1        66.8      98.6
(iii) Cii) as % of (i)                         78.2       68.8         -
MISSION DATA
No.of      No.of      Staff
Month, Year         W..ks     Persons    Weeks P            Da'  of R-port
Identification/Preparation       September, 1984        2          4          8         Oct. 5 snd Nov. 16. 1984
Preparation                      January, 1985          8          6         18         February 11. 1984
Oporation Miasion                Merch. 1986            2          1          2         March 29. 1986
Appraisal                        April, 1986            a          4         12         May 17. 1986
Supervision I                    April, 1986            0.8        1          0.8       May 20. 1986 3/
Supervision II                   may, 1986              2          2          8         Juno 24. 1986
Supervision III                  Juno-  1988 4/         1          2          2         July 17. end Sept. 6  198
Supervision IV                   December, 1986         2          6         11         December 24. 1986
Operationa/Superviaion V         January. 1987          1          3          8         February 9, 1987
Oporationa/Supervision VI        February. 1987         0.8        3          2.4       February 19, 1987
Operations/Supervision VII       May, 1987              0.8        2          1.6       Juno 2. 1987
Supervision/Completion VIII    December. 1988           2          2          8         January 4. 1989
Supervision IX                   August. 1989           2          8          4         September 11, 1989



- 29 -                              ANNEX S
Pago 2 of 2
STAFF INPUTS
Stag. of Prolect                      FYSS          FY86         FY87          FY88         FY89          FY90
To Appraiaal                          3386
Appraisal                             24.6           a.0
Nogotistíons                                         1.8
Suporvision and Administration                      18.7         24.6           4.0         19.1           6.5
Total                                 68.1          18.6         24.5           4.0         19.1           6.6
Total Staffwesks FYSS - FY90: 130.7
FOLLOW-ON ADJUSTMENT OPERATIONS
Ecuador Financial Sector Loan: Loan 2897-EC
1/ For t-chnical essistance cat.gory, only.
2/ Estimates.
3/ Draft.
4/ Tormo of Referonce Data.



ANNEX II
- 30 -                  Page 1 of 4
ECUADOR
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN (Ln. 2626-EC)
Evolution of Conditions
Initiating Memorandum March 29, 1985 (IM)
1.      The First Tranche, which also required an exchange rate
unification/adjustment agreement with the IMF, was to be released at the
Board approval and involved briefly:
(a)   elimination of the agricultural support purchases of the ENAC
except for hard corn and rice;
(b)   elimination of consumer "maximuni" prices of all products except
wheat flour and except in ENPROVIT outlets for wheat flour, milk
and sugar;
(c)   unification of the agricultural lending rate at positive rates.
2.      The conditions for disbursement of the Second Tranche were:
(a) elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports of
agricultural products and inputs and their replacements by uniform
tariffs based on a terms of trade study;
(b) elimination of the maximum consumer prices on wheat flour;
(c) elimination of ENAC purchases to support minimum producer prices;
(d) maintenance of uniform and "approximately" positive agricultural
lending rate;
(e) review attractiveness of the export incentives with the Bank.
3.      Prior to proceeding with the Second Tranche, a significant
reduction in the number of the industrial goods subject to quantitative
restrictions, and the level and dispersion of tariffs on the industrial
goods as agreed with the Bank was required. The Government also needed to
avoid over-valuation of the exchange rate in order to maintain export
incentives.
4.      In addition, effective rate of protection, terms of trade, and the
relative prices of the agriculture versus the rest of the economy were to
be monitored by the Central Bank, Ministry of Agriculture or outside
entities to follow and control the performance of the instruments under the
conditionalities.



EWOR
,VDLUTICN OF TIf SeCOé  TR~   CITIKOIALITY
C TIE Pi?iT  SIl1&TIWN
Conditiona for S.eond Tr*ncha                      Caven t .tiona as of                            No~iMfid  ant Position                        Conditioní st Tranch. Re.ta.                              Co_al; ne
°s.l.    In th. Iion Aare*_nt.                          i         24  X98t;                           o    n air  30J  187                                 kJ.xZJ 17   1                             A.. of ia cee- 19U
1.  Th. Sarro.,r .hall les..
(a) sbrogstad o.¡sa u on u_r ptri              Nabthing.                                       N.A.                                            Ca-rn-nl *ctud Lo  entrol bh.  1I1               Vrac.s  oia. in  ffect.
om ihíat flur.                                                                                                                             raulation. cc  chana.º
(h)  ti.i¡ated a   aintil.¡  re.triction       Na.inp.                                         Prior lo *wond trnacha ratea.                   Moat iaort proh.hit.ioa r--ai q pt    A* of July 19i. 104  gri;cltral
i;°  mo  th. ¡.port. of                                                                    (i)  ... l of  1  i  ort prohibition.          for iajar.. prodacto; thb  raas  to bh           prr t4 *-r-   b          to t.  aoííati.a
gric.l*-r:l prodacta bnj inupat                                                           (<ac.pt ior *inor t~.ha.chl *.c.píi on           ru-w-J  i h;n 60 day..                          r.strietion   (33.8t of ;.Ort.
*nd ra«lac d  h-- *i¡ h iport                                                              *g  for *anitary riaS on; (i*) r*í*             r*ttCtionl  on rodacst  co~pri.ing 46!    *gritultaríl product ).  Th.  al., of
t..iffs for  -hc prodet. t                                                                i11 fr- prod.cta *h;eh  ccoantd for at    of th. val.. of ¡aporta of controll.d                  agr;cultaral i-Port   ub;act lo
1...l  ULh.   f-o-  ._. lo t.*ti~.                                                       1aat 5f of tLb. .aía  of   port. of             prodactl  ¡- 1986 r-ad  --d--- r9la .d          pr        ..~oaa au.oriti¡an ounl.d lo
.lhlí ha.. bh.n infor.d by th.                                                             co.Lralt.d Prodect  in 1986; *ad (i,i)          by t.riff.  Oo-ra.a,e  providad pro9 ras    US279I l    illir n  io 1987 ini 81.3
Ebrro., tlo t.. Bank sd *gr-.d                                                             ~b.iL a progra.  ini tin     tbd   fo  t.       tlo ra*  th. r.t .hifn 6-90 dja                  -Il.o  in 1988.  Agriílloral ¡na.l. 
apon bf Lb.  att.,;                                                                        r-aiain;.  prod.ta  ti.falory  lo ¡ha           .sc-pt fo, ih.*t (~oa-third of vl.- of    ar jsortid fr.- of d.ty.
8.b.                                            ProdacWt  coaar.di rp 01) 
(c)  lisinaad Uh* practica of                 Nathino. (le fact. 1986 p-rchas ..e*             K.p farogat- pric-  t 1986  o.¡a..              Far, prica- hi.p  Lo 19i85 1...1 in 1987        Pric. ate highb*  ;n 1987  nd 19t8 tb n
perchasino bird corn ind ric. by          %t racord   ll  cani-tiag of 42.500              l*..l  but cal fanda for parchís*  to          in  vond s.  of t.. p.rchasí hild t. 100i    thos  of 1985 for rica, har  Coro
public .apriías  lo  ~pport, h.           tna of hard cora ind 80.000 t~.. of             80Y   of nosinal 1966 la-al   Noraovar           of 1986 1.val1  hich iípliad iscliní ina   n d s r.  Oflicial Cita a . lo.-
i.i~.  *holesal. prica  m  uch            rica.)                                         bhfo,  sacod trancha ralaa                        rat vila.s   infl-tion          hng.C batía..   -aat of parchas, in 1987 bat
agricaltural codiis;                                                                      incorporatl  h.s.  andartahinga  .tao tha    2t-30?i.  Th     arraengantu »r                     indicationa aro for higler
1.8.1 docaoanta of  h.  r-catty aignad          jacladad in ths  .adante lo tha  o              iLt~r.ations
Agri.altarsí C,*dil Proj.ct (2752-C).           2752-EC.
This raqairad  on             o,nín  or . Illy
bindiag *id. lattír.
J,



Condition  for Second Tr,nrha                     Canemnnto  Ce       *- of                    ~if.*d tnl Potitian                         Conitiont  a T.trnh  CRaiact
G.ltsa  In                                            0- 9oa  Ao2C nt  ih  * .   .Ufl             on Jnear  30  1087                                éwi. 17 lL.  Ai  ot %CrI I29t
~de at'.i.f#cbory progre** lo                Sattafactory compli-nco t~ouh                 i;.A                                         NiA.                                           Voli  of *apo.t of total
laprowala  policías affac.tlaa           co08..iía - Chane  . ra. policy.                                                                                                         aegi.ltrtlproot i  ato   t
*ao,l incanilve  fo, a@.lcul toral    -eorta a.,  a'  ao ord latala.                                                                                                                ¡* 1087 Cabotí '.513  aillloa   ta la
pto ect-;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~¡ all7 (Altb U~to i 1m les to
tus.8. *At'b.~      rote ¡a 10  t8   o
US175  titlo..  Prodioctio. vot.aa of
s oapttolta p,oacta fWll it 1*07
afta, tai high levelo of 1i85  a_        .
<a) ati  ttLi.ftcty progreto  it             Stiafactory cooalianc  ltbroh n       ced    N.A.                                           S.A.                                          i.A
tie,oiog oeatic ter~ of trada           dtac,itinttion  l tradt   pol ci lheueh
betat.*e the tgricaltarat otcto,         rduction o*f Me ¡o idaet,y. decreatea
aní otto trectora of th.                 lo iwott 4oty ani otHI, t a
Borrosera eco~;                          *O.nration  lo indati Y. r    i raedaca
l o~t ta,iffs. Agric.ltortt prodct.ion
reapondd ainificattly.
(f) foaitíy tdoptad a p.bl¡c                 Tha 15 PIP aa attilfaectory.                  Saca-.. of dalty in rtaa. of trtach.    A. Jbnntry 30. 1087                                 Aa .t tt. '      ho  raltaseo.
ina.atfit progra. (PIP) for  ht.                                                       lb. 1988 Pip  aa no tong-  r.lenant.
tricnltortl sector for tah  year                                                      The *987 progra- -a- -ccp't.ble tac*pt
086 aore,d upon ht' _ th                                                              for ono tajo, hit-. elaphant project
Biorro...,   eh teS .n.k; nd                                                           (Santa Elana).  This ot  nom* I-
fundad lo 1087 anon thoeh Ino
fitnc¡ino ata aroaad in tih tndet 
(o)    naind po.-i ti... j  it  r*1    I o Anoat 1986. intrt  rtas ohar                    (iU  Prior to -ond t,ancha reane.            Ay Jann.rp 30, 198? bti th. ehaception        Tha intarant .'  ota it toe ¡g   loa
i.ra tht ra'.a  of intra.t              than for Cont,al brok c,aiit lin.a .ra    brine for.ion-fooid Contal ibni                    o  it- Ci)  a e       d tOd ¡tLt (ii)        aG- neatid. tod  oa, 00t of  h.
tpplicbile lo loanf  in  it.             dtcostrolla.. Thua  ju*t o~, SOli of          c-dit Iin. i     inot   o  c     Cot, fo,    al lota a            eat  inC,tant to efund    Co,tificata of   ~,i- rL ta.
icalturtí an  i.ndn.trial                ,etdit car,iad Poaitiva. tnrat'-              a an,ial P,ograa of credit to  oor            *-tereney procuone, nt of coffse frao
tecto,r  ;t h oturitise of 90 dar*    detarainad raeta.  ie0t«r  Cantral               f,r-rr no'.t a.edino 51 of iN                 e *arthq.k. zona.  it       ar,ottta
om eo.                                   iani  i.a. r.ein  ainly a' 181 tnd 211    annual landino  in  gricoltra.  (ii)              tar  incorporatai la Aeticultrara
dapeodin  on u&t.  Cotlionca tld              hold voluta of ne- Contal itob lnino          Cradit Loan  Aanatot.
aqaa tita' tti h    t b. abon'. 231.  Thl1   in total. tnd fo;                 tlo at--
ta a         cigifican   ec.ption *inca ab'.    notinal 1aa1  as in 1086. aní (iii)
MOI  f etricaltrat cred'i. at  fundad          rio,  o *  coní treanche1e
by the- Cntral Batí lina.                     ine-por'.a  tIhn .ndrtainga ¡ato  b*.
I-eat docaanlt of thí Agricultural
C,Odí' Project.
sE
1   r



Cood*tioon ftor Secud Tranch.                        Co%v.á t .ctaio. *a of                         Modif¡i.  bl P*altion                         f4.loo. *  T.an.       - R.l.."                           Co_lLmns
A... Toa Ie. t..n  Aor..t.                              D c-ber 24  1904                              on Jbn&ro 30t  1987                                  ,..17. 19S9 A9  of D cc.b-r  "O
2.  Th. flel. .h.ll ha,* 1..n .stisfi.d        Aft.r a de.Iy.d .atrt o,  ... *  oc.            AC.ept Co..rn.t po.itio  Lo c0W0 .14             hAs.... doe.,eo  -t..d  poo..-  *--             So_ *1;*  .r ocd                  n    1y A10
siLb Lb. poc..  io c.,ry¡om  Ae            "d.,sy on (i) *04 (ii) .ith USAI.D              Lb. on0oin9  orls .lly to .erngbh  n              .0 5n ..tif.cto,y.                              od U.. Ptolic .t.rpri-.   Th.
Lt. tciicbl .S.l_tm^c.                    f.ad. ¡not..d of  h. Io n*  Tb. sn                h. Pe olicy AoAly.i. Uni,  in MAC .*4 th                                                        Q..litp .0   I*. rso.-oc. of th..
*ctiIitl.* r.f.rr.4  to la. schedule    .hortfll ... thL .     of t%k.  toi..              pohiO? -atii .0.41.. iy   5,b at  ;                                                                                            r c
t of L. Loba  Agr..eot.  ThI..            of P.blie  ~ot.rpe¡*.  had nocA b.d                                                                                                               ot vi LtU. Lo.i fueds.
co..Iet &*l¡l  of (1) .t4di.a of           4e..
pollsy 4.4elona, (;t)
.trm.o intg of U. Mio.istry of
Agrticlt.r. *nd th* C.Otr.l iabn;
sod (iII) .1dl4. of 10  "tlic
.ntoeiprl.. asi¡   t. di¡evt.io
no_ of  he.. and r.nd.rios thI
re~nninoe *.»abre eftceint.
/  Po.i.ti   *a definad ¡o ehe Lon  Aroer.t _.,  a  et. <1>) hitoh.r than  5 851 of th. daily p.bliho.d r.t. o# a 90-day Poliza d. Acl.cio   (d 4p                    .     t .).  or (ii) hi"h.,
thIn    a. *.ally  .jJa.ed rata of infiation. .hdch.yar t  lo<,r.
1l.
e~



WYa.L1lfi   s8TOR LoA  <U4.2C:?-EOII
D    T  A4D DRTlA N RATiS (.)
P.rc.ntag. End of '.riod
SAS!C RiSTII                                                   Doc. 1983            D.c. 14              Dc. 1985              D.c. S               Dec. 1987            Sept..1908
Reg. 125-83          R*e  214-"           Rtg.214-84           R*.367-8C            R*g.367-86            R.C7-86 (6)
1. Legal l¡mt. ra Ralo                                        19                   23                   23                   23                   23                    23
11. it..iu. Con~wmat11ca  Inat*r.st Raet                       19                   23                   23                   23                   28 16) 2)
11. Ibnco C.ntr.I of  cubmor Oprationa
a) Public Sector *ad Fll          E9                                           II                   al                   al                   la                   11
1) Pa fernotial Diacauntina
Op.rationa and Advance, to 8R  (2)                    12                   l1                    13                   13                   la                   18                               1
c> Specific Diacountina Op.rations (3)                    16                   18                   18                   18                   18                   18
d) Ordinary Dlacountins Oparationa                        16                   18                   18                   21                   21                   21
c) Adyanco. Lo ibnkine Systae                        16- 18                    23                   23               21- 25               21- 25               21- 25
f) Advances can Eport4                                   1o                              18                    18        la                   18a
o) Stabílization Credit.                                 12                    13                   13                   18                   18                   23
F) Poreign Fundad O9e1ItiofsI
- Ordinary Operationa                                 18                   18                   la                    18                   23                   27
- liDANI IFC                                           -                    - 
IY. PrivaiL  Ban i   Op*rtllon
) Activo Opr.tiona
1.  E.port Promotlon Fund
2.  Pr.feranLial Operationa (2)                       16                    18                  18                    U                   23                    23
3.  Sp*c¡fic Operation. (4)                           19                   23                   23                   23                   23                    23
4.  St.biliation Credit                               16                    18                   18                   23                  23                    28                              U
5.  Ordinary Forain Funded Oparationa                19                   23                   23                   23                   28                    32                                    Z
E.  Ordinary Oper*Licns                                                                                                                                                                            -e z
- Subect Lo        Rediacunta                     19                                        23                   23                                        28 6
- Otbir Operation.                               19                   23                   23               free (5)             Free (5)              Free (S)                               1'



*.  FlacaS Inaresí
- D.a.lo-e.t SOond                                   5                     18                    *8                    18                    23                    23
- OUho.  Oper*ilona                                 19                    23                     23                    23                    23                    23
2   Fr   Interes  Ratm
S saving                                        lS- 19                    20                     20                Fra. (5)              Free (<)              Fra* (5)
- Long Tera                                     li- 19                    22                21- 22                 Free (5)              Free (5)              Free (5)
- 90-Dey Cartlficate of Depohií                 16- 19                Free (<5              Free (5)               Free (5)              Free (5)              Fra*  (5)
F Fineoceil Crtifkcatl                          18- 19                Fra* (5)              Free (5)              Free (5)              Fr,, (<)               Free (5)
.  LeI. a...                                                                            4                     4                     4                      4                     4
Vi. Jaflellon PeLe
a)  Annel Aer»ee                                    48.4                  31.2                   28.0                  23.0                  29.5 S0.0 (7)
h)  Deceeber                                        52.5                   25.1                  24.4                  27.i                  ;2.5
(e) As of Jaeuary 9. 19856  hb. Cenirel Bank  mnd  h.. relt of finemciDl lncitution. con use adjueieh1. Inter.et r*eí.  la oparetion  of 720 day. or moro.
<    nc Ilcdlu     ENAC. Ef VlT »D  KV lEv
> Th. praferentlel lines have charead overtil. 
(3) loclude poeular houelng.  orige.  *ianece  of CFR.  onkilng iraft. credit of EN. caorcaell.ation of  egricultural producit  and financing of coof¡reed credit..
(4> ko.tly ho.sing credij. hondo of nortal gueranren.  m*d fro  19187 inIude credis- of 1* a*nd co*erciali¡ation of maricultural produc".
(<) Free Marest: froe Deceaber 11, 1984. Certificate of Deposlt  mnd Financiel Ceriific.iet  (re.ulatil   214-84); *nd fros Auguet 11. 1908 ai  pamea. cerationm  -- *vino. longier
Certifi¡ce, of OCposlí mmi Fineacial Cortifícatel  -- (regwlation 357-86.
<5> RAeulmlione eolfi¡d bad eapllfigd tUroueb rule.  D   419. 434, 442  4*63. SS. 531 *nd 548.
(7) juarp-Nowaer 1988
SII!FI:  Centrel Ban: of Ecuedor. Honhly Statisticel ltforation No. 1617. November 15. 1988.
O e i
W *II



ANNEX IIr
Tabla 2
-36 -
ECUADOR
-cR.cuLn*AL seCTU LON-<LN 26264Co
PCJCT C£nL5   UIPUT
E~T3 OF 0OCS, Po
Com_osition
Della, Clillion)               (p.u.o.ne)         fAtpx ot 8r,veh
1984     198     19586    1987    1989     1987    1984  1985    198S    1987
T-otal              2620.3   2904.7  2186.7 2121.2  10O.9  ldO.O  11.7   19.9   -24.8    -7.5
Primary Producta    2276.5   2586.1  1877.8  1729.9   76.2    s5.8    5.9   12.7   -26.8    -7.9
Crudo 01           1678.3   1824.6  912.4  739.4   50.1   36.6    2.4    S.7   -56.O  -19.0
Coffes               174.7    190.8  2t9.9  192.3        5.3     9.5   17.5    9.2    58.7  -3a.7
Shrimp               159.8    15.5  287.t  383.1        2.3    19.0  -8.6   -2.1    83.9   33.1
Banano               135.1    219.9   263.4   266.9      9.6    13.2  -11.1  612.1   19.S       1.3
Cocoa                 96.9    138.4    71.1   82.7       1.2     4.1 1150.8   44.8   -48.o    16.3
Cth.ra                32.7      80.9    44.2   es.5    .1.?      3.2   24.P    9.8    23.1    48.2
Wanufactured Coode   843.8    338.6  887.9  291.?    23.s    14.4   72.9   -1.5    -9.1    -C.4
Petrolaus Producr.    15.5    101.9    70.1   78.7      6.8     3.9  6O.9  -34.9  -31.2    11.6
Proces.ad F;sh        03.9      97.1    72.5  £U.S       3.6     2.9  128.6   52.0   -25.3   -19.3
Proe«saed Cacto       60.3      78.7    77.2    87.1     7.3     2.S   42.3  So.5    -1.9   -26.0
Oth- *                73.1    6".9    S.l   97.5         6.1     4.8   45.1  -16.7    44.7   1J.7
Source:  Central Bank of Ecuodor



- 37 -                                          ANNEX 1IS
Table 3
ECUADOR
A*TCULTURAL ECTOR LOAM tLOA 2S2S-EC>
PE"CT tOWLETT»I RWPRT
vaL~  OF EoT3 OF PRZNC2PAL PRODUCTS
Tonn (aillion)               Rat eof Crowh (Percant.-at)
1984    1985    1996    198?   1984   198S         1991   1917
Petrot*un            61.3       78.8    71.4    45.4    3.4  15.2          1.1   -30.4
Coftfe               72.0       78.3   182.7    97.6   -4.0   8.7    31.2    -5.O
Banana               924.0   1278.2  1399.8  1481.5    1.5 E 8.3           9.5     8.1
Cocos                46.9       70.4    al.3    44.9  681.8   CO.1   -45.6    17.2
Shrimp               21.3       2J.0    31.1    48.6   -1.4  -C..    5C.5    S0.3
Proceesed Cocos      28.4       84.1    85.4    24.3    5.2  20.1          8.8   -31.4
Potroleus Dorivotiv** 6.2        4.9      0.7      5.7   51.2 -21.0    36.7   -14.9
Procesmed Finh        130.2    2U4.0   199.0   184.7  227.1  118.1   -29.9   -47.4
Souroe:  Central Bank of Ecuador



ANNEY III
Table 4
_ 38 -
EC!ADOR
A(RICULTMRAL SECTOR LOAN (LOAN 2626-EC)
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
mNS OF ?ADE OF AGICULTmrE UTZ    TO IW?ACTOhG
Implicit Deflators          Teros of Trade 1/
Year                  1975 - 100
Agriculture        Mainufacturíng
1980          167.8               193.2             86.9
1981          183.9               205.6,            89.4
1982          218.0               249.7             87.3
1983          367.0               355.1            103.4
1984          499.0               586.6             85.1
1985          615.4               738.8             83.3
1986          793.2               962.2             82.4
1987 21      1017.9              1194.7             85.1
1988 31      1590.9              1898.2             83.8
1/   Agricultural deflatora divided by manufacturing deflators times 100.
21   Prelimin.ary.
31   Estimated.
Source:  'Ecuador, Country -Economic  emorandu=m, Report No. 7321-EC, August
25. 1988;  and the Cantral Bank.



ANNEX III
-9 -Table 5
ECUADOR
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN (LOAN 2626-EC)
PROJEC$ COMPLETION REPORT
NOmINAL PROT!CTION COEP?ICm<T 1f FOR RICE, RARD CORN AND SOYBZZNS
Year                   Rice         Hard Corn       Soybeans
1984                     62            36
1985                    102            35              41
1986                     59            54              61
1987                     22            39              50
Feb. 1988                    -37            34             -11
11 Nominal protection coefficients (NPCs) are calculated by substracting
the CIF price from the producer price, dividing the result by the.CIF
price and multiplying by 100.
Source:  "Ecuador, Country Economic Memorandu=, Report No. 7321-EC, August
25, 1988 p. 143.



ANNEX II
Table 6
_ 40 -
ECYADOR
AGURCULT~RAL SECTOR LOAR <LOAN 2626-EC)
PROJECS COHPLETION REPOR?
PBTCZPAON  OF Pe  IR PURCEASE OF AMICULT~   PROu.
Rice                 Eard Cor=              Soybeans
Year            Amount 11  S 2/          Amount 1/  Z 2/       Amou=t 1/  z 2/
1980               758       23            473      14            --       --
1981               514       14           1114      28            --       --
1982               542       16            406       9            _-       --
1983                --       --              2      --            --       --
1984                 1       --            356       8           262       26
1985               356       10           1626      32           112        9
1986             1869        38            912      17            --       --
1987             1004       15              25      --           315       --
1988               171        5             --      --            _-        -
11 In 1000 sacs of 45.36 Kgs.
2!  Percent of the total amount traded.
Source:  ERAC, Ministry of Agriculture.



ANNEX rrr
-41-                                                Tabla 7
«TzM PSCE 1/
algo          Hard Cc_  e.    5ybesa      * e u
1U  Match           241        53
JUR O
1:X1 J.nuaer                                           441
March                                 331
June
Augusn         815         3                                                          2078
1932 August
138N January84
March                                                                      972       2883
Hay            4U         931
Haeber
ies AprV                                5
hay            74        1421
Oct.b.r                                          188
JD*ceebe
19" may
196t Febrnary
DeUber        1U29                               2332
1988 Aprl 1        283                                             238
J@"                                 2                                               21U9
a      peUy            TK
j/  Sucres pee suC *f 45.  K"e.



ANNEX I11
-42-                                              Table 8
ECUADOR
At!UlntAL SEtC  LJI M.22,60EC
PJCt CO^LTSIO l!FRT
waf  EXCOM         EFTZ
Nominal E chafig Rete                    Real £ff.ctiv.
Arn,ual                  (S4MC-S pr doilar)                   E£change late lndea
snd Quarly
Averuge           Official   Xnttrv.ntion    Free
Market       Market       Marhqt           Exp*r"        Importe
1976-1979              2t                            -           118.7         116.8
1986                 26          27          '28               lM.8          18.e
1981                 26          28            al               93.2          96.4
1982                ae           34           u                 97.7         92.8
1983                44           83           84                97.4          96.8
1984                63           93           96               132.3         128.7
18es                71           97          1le               127.2        116.8
1986S               96          123          151               129.8        129.4
1987                96          171          219               143.2        149.8
198S
1                 67          97          122                138.7        122.2
IT                 67          97          11S                129.5        115.5
U!S    -.           67          17          le9                123.w        112.6
SV                U*           97          124                128.7        113.8
1988       
3           :     9#         16           141               122.6         119.1
II                 ff         138          144                118.9        118.2
¡UI                 96         181          15                 135.?        137.2
S-l               #e          147          148                141.1        143.2
1987
1                 16         147          149               13.9          la8.3
jI                 96         155          178                ¡33.8        139.3
III                 16         173          299                143.4        148.0
iV                 es         209          249                162.2        173.6
Source: *Ecenmie Study of Latin Amrice sed CerlbTan:  teundor - 1997, United Natiene.



CHART 1
*                              - ~~~~~~~~~43 -
ECUADOR: NlN ECONOMIC INDICATORS
PETROLEUM FRODUCTION                       FOOO PROOUCT1ON
-siig# --              fid ta   N
°|1 glllM31 llll - ' Me +"~~~~~~~~~~~1 
118  1ftU  tut¿  les nne  116E7 1188    1181 58u  18  1184 218  nn6 1187
PRICES ANO EXCHANGE RATE                CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE
eee 2 13 i24 nos leas   a7 I                 leal 0113       i  leas 157 ¡
tStU 2183  ISA  1185S 2186 S87  588     u$ StU 1182 1183 1184S 115  18 



