Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4276-TH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 10, 1983
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
$1.00       = Baht (B) 23.00
B 1.00      = $0.04
B 1 million = $43,478
GOVERNMENT OF THAILAND
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 to September 30
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
ha = hectare (2.47 acres)
m  = meter (3.28 feet)
km = kilometer (0.62 miles)
kg = kilogram (2.2 pounds)
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ALRO    -  Agricultural Land Reform Office
BAAC    -  Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
BOT     -  Bank of Thailand
CB      -  Commercial Bank
DAE     -  Department of Agricultural Extension
DOA     -  Department of Agriculture
IFAD    -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
MOAC    -  Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  BACKGROUND . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
A.  Project Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
B.  Agriculture and the Rural Economy  . . . . . . . . . .    2
C.  Government Agricultural Policy . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
D.  Bank Lending Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
E.  Performance under the First Agricultural Credit
Project   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  5
2.  RURAL FINANCE. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
A. The Rural Economy and the Government's Rural Credit
Policies   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  6
B.  Emerging Issues in the Rural Economy . . . . . . . . .    9
C.  Toward Self-Sustaining Development Finance in Rural
Thailand   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  11
3.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
A.  Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
B.  Brief Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
C.  Detailed Features   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
D.  Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
E.  Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
F.  Procurement   .......  ..  ...  ..  ..  ..  ..                   .   21
G.  Disbursements   ......  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                .   22
4.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................. .   24
A.  Organization and Management   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   24
B.  Lending Policies and Procedures   . . . . . . . . . . .   24
C.  Accounts and Audits  .......  ..  ..  ..  ..  .                  .   27
D.  Monitoring and Reporting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Thailand in February 1982, comprising Ms. M. Varkie, Messrs. M. McGarry,
and H. Kim (Bank), Messrs. P. Judd and G. Graesel (consultants).
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
5.  MARKETING, MARKETS AND PRICES . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
A. Marketing and Markets .28
B. Prices .28
6. BENEFITS AND RISKS    ..29
A.  Benefits and Beneficiaries  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    29
B.  Rates of Return . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    30
C.   Risks    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  30
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . . . . . . . . . .    31
TABLES IN TEXT
3.1  Project Cost Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
3.2  Project Financing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       22
3.3  Disbursement Schedule. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
5.1  Financial Prices of Selected Outputs . . . . . . . . .    29
6.1  Rates of Return. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       30
ANNEXES
1.  The Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives. .         33
2.  Illustrative Farm Models. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        55
3.  Pilot Schemes in North and Northeast. . . . . . . . . . . .        62
4.  Project Cost  and Prices. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        64
5. Related Documents and Data Available in the Project
File.     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  66
TABLES IN ANNEXES
Annex 1.  The Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives    33
Table 1: BAAC - Terms and Conditions of Ongoing
Lending Program  . . . . . . . . . . . .    42
Table 2:  BAAC - Loans Disbursed by Maturity/Type . .       43
Table 3: BAAC - Loan Disbursements to Individual
Farmers, Classified by Type and
Region - 1980/81 . . . . . . . . . . . .       44
Table 4: BAAC - Comparative Balance Sheet, 1977/78 -
1981/82  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  45



- iii -
Table  5:  BAAC: Comparative Income Statements,
1976/77 to 1981/82  . . . . . . . . .    46
Table  6:  BAAC's Income and Expenses as a Percent
of Average Total Assets, 1977/78 -
1981/82 . . . . . .                        47
Table  7:  BAAC: Repayment Performance (Principal)           48
Table  8:  Aging of Arrears of Individual Loans as
of March 31, 1982 . . . . . . . . . .    49
Table  9:  BAAC: Projected Sources and Uses of
Funds, 1982/83 to 1985/86 . . . . . .      50
Table 10:  Financial Indicators of BAAC and Three
Selected Commercial Banks . . . . . .      51
Table 11:  Average Financial Situation of BAAC
Client Farmers, Classified by Region.      52
Table 12:  Rural Deposits at Financial Institutions,
1972/78   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  53
Table 13:  Credit of Financial Institutions in Rural
Areas, 1972/78  . . . . . . . . . . .      54
Annex 2. Illustrative Farm Models .55
Table  1:  Summary of Rates of Return and Sensitivity
Analysis .55
Table  2:  Financial and Economic Prices of Selected
Project Outputs  . . . . . . . . . . . .      56
Table  3:  Cash Flow and Financing - Draft Animal
(Buffalo & Cow) Model  . . . . . . . . .      57
Table  4:  Pig Breeding Operation Model (10 Sow Unit).       58
Table  5:  Pig Fattening Operation Model (100 Pigs
Fattened/Year) .   . . . . . .   . . . .      59
Table  6:  Duck Egg Production Model (200-layer unit).       60
Table  7:  Hen Egg Production Model
(1,000-layer unit) . . . . . . . . . . .    61
Annex 4.  Project Cost and Prices  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       64
Table  1:  Total Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . .       64
Table  2:  Costs of Technical Assistance and Training
for  BAAC   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  65
CHARTS
WB-23893 - Organizational - Functional Chart of BAAC Headquarters.       68
WB-23894 - Organization Chart of BAAC Branch  . . . . . . . . .  .    69
MAP
IBRD 14506 Ri - BAAC's Branch Offices






1. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      The Royal Thai Government has requested a Bank and International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) loan to support the growth of the
Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives' (BAAC) lending
activities over the next two years. The loans would finance BAAC-s
projected resource gap over this two-year period. The type of agricultural
activities eligible for financing would be as broadly based as possible and
would include agricultural term lending countrywide, and short-term subloans
under a pilot scheme in support of smaller farmers in the North and
Northeast regions.
1.02      The Government and the Bank are working closely together to elabo-
rate a strategy which will improve the functioning of rural financial mar-
kets and the performance of institutions in these markets. Such a strategy
would take account of the role of the important financial institutions
operating in the rural areas, including the commercial banks. Adequate
incentives need to be created to encourage financial intermediaries,
including the BAAC and commercial banks, to actively participate in
mobilizing financial savings and in lending in rural areas, including for
nonagricultural activities, which significantly contribute to rural incomes
and employment. Extensive discussions have already taken place between the
Government and the Bank on rural financial policy issues affecting both
public and private financial institutions. The proposed project was
originally intended to involve a broad range of financial intermediaries and
lending for both agricultural and nonagricultural activities. However,
since this was a new approach to rural lending in Thailand, and, as such,
would take time to be accepted, the Government indicated that, at the
present time, it did not wish to use the commercial banks as financial
intermediaries in a Bank-supported rural credit project, but instead wished
the proposed project to be restricted to BAAC, and, as a consequence,
agricultural lending only. The proposed project is, therefore, limited to
the BAAC; but the Bank views it as an interim step toward a broader approach
in subsequent projects, which would include the commercial banks and lending
for rural nonagricultural as well as agricultural activities. The proposed
project is a first step toward improving the functioning of rural financial
markets by raising the level of BAAC lending rates relative to those
prevailing elsewhere in the market, and by improving BAACGs overall recovery
rates. The proposed project would also increase the availability of
medium- and long-term loanable funds to the BAAC, because the financial system
generally has problems in adequately meeting the demand for term financing.
The relative increase in BAAC's lending rates would firstly, partially
correct the distortions existing in rural financial and real sector markets
as a consequence of subsidized BAAC lending; secondly, increase the
incentives to BAAC to mobilize rural financial savings; and thirdly,
strengthen BAAC financially and thus lessen its dependence on subsidies.



- 2
1.03      Moreover, the proposed project seeks to encourage lending to small
farmers, particularly in the North and Northeast, which are the poorest
regions of Thailand. The Irternational Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) has been strongly supportive of these project components. In addition
to financing medium- and long-term subloans to poorer farmers in the North
and Northeast, IFAD would also provide financing for short-term loans in
support of a pilot scheme in these areas, with the objective of improving
coordination between the agencies involved with credit, extension services
and research.
1.04      The proposed project was prepared by Bank and IFAD preparation
missions, in conjunction with Government authorities. There has been an
in-depth exchange of views between IFAD and the Bank on the project
formulation, particularly on how poorer farmers could be helped directly by
institutional credit.
B. Agriculture and the Rural Economy
1.05      Out of Thailand's population of about 47 million, about 40 million
live in rural areas, where there are about 5 million farm households and
1.8 million nonfarm households. The rural sector of Thailand is in many
ways exceptional:  (a) it is a major net exporter of food grains; (b) it has
grown and diversified rapidly over a long and sustained period; (c) Thai
farmers have been found to respond vigorously to relative price incentives;
(d) ownership and usufruct of cultivated land are widely and fairly evenly
distributed; and (e) labor mobility within rural areas and between rural and
urban areas is very high in both directions.
1.06      The performance. and growth of the agricultural sector in Thailand
has been the determining factor in the dynamism of the rural economy.
Agricultural production (GDP in constant terms) grew at an annual rate of
about 5% during 1960-80. And, because of significant improvements in its
terms of trade relative to nonagriculture, the real value of agricultural
production increased even faster at 5.8% p.a. during the same period. In
1980, agriculture contributed about 26% of GDP and 58% of exports, and
provided full- or part-time employment for more than 70% of the country's
labor force. Furthermore, with real agricultural GDP per capita growing at
2.8% p.a. in the past two decades and the relatively even distribution of
farm holdings, the strong agricultural performance has contributed to a
substantial reduction in rural poverty.
1.07      The process at work in Thai agriculture over the past quarter
century has been the commercialization and diversification of the rural
sector, predominantly in response to opportunities in world trade. The key
factors in this development have been efficiency of private markets, the
extension of the road system, reduction in forested land, the rapid expan-
sion of the cultivated area, the expansion of irrigation, the introduction
of new crops in response to market opportunities, and explosive mechanization.
The expansion of the cultivated area by 4.0% p.a. has been central to the
development of Thai agriculture over the past two decades, and has accounted
for most of the 5% p.a. growth in output, while yield increases played an
important but relatively minor role.



- 3 -
1.08      In recent years, however, growth of agricultural production has
been gradually falling off. Agricultural GDP in constant prices, which had
grown at about 5.5% p.a. in the 1960s, slowed to 5.1% p.a. in 1970-75 and
3.5% p.a. in 1975-80. The slowdown in the 1970s is even more pronounced for
the crop subsector, which experienced a growth rate of 5.2% p.a. in 1970-75,
but only 3.3% p.a. in 1975-80. This is of major significance, since crop
production contributes 73% of agricultural GDP. The deterioration occurred
primarily because earlier growth had been achieved through expansion of the
cultivated area, but, more recently, poorer marginal lands increasingly came
under cultivation and average yields, already low relative to other developing
countries, decreased further.
1.09      While real agricultural growth was falling off in the late 1970s,
one of the fundamental trends in those years has been the relatively rapid
increase in the income of rural farm households from nonfarm sources./l Farm
family income from sources other than home consumption and sale of farm
products by their producers grew at roughly 12% p.a. over the six-year period
1972 to 1978, substantially faster than agricultural income. In 1978/79, it
is estimated that about 48% of average farm household net income originated
from sales of farm products, 6% from hiring out factors of agricultural
production to other farmers, 13% from home consumption, and 33% from other
activities such as sales of nonagricultural products, hiring out labor for
nonagricultural use, remittances, etc. Recent data suggest that, within
regions, with the declining quality and size of farm endowments, proportion-
ately greater efforts are generally invested in nonfarm activities. Available
statistics also show that nonfarm employment tends to smooth income over time
and to be of higher productivity; within regions, nonfarm income thus tends to
offset farm income inequalities. It is estimated that about 12% of the income
of nonfarm households is derived from the sale of agricultural products.
C. Government Agricultural Policy
Objectives
1.10      The main objectives of the Government's agricultural policy are:
(a) to increase agricultural production; (b) to alleviate rural poverty and
reduce inter-regional income disparities; (c) to expand agricultural exports
rapidly to help the balance of payments; and (d) to better utilize the
available land suitable for agriculture, protect against deforestation and
conserve natural resources.
Strategies
1.11      The Government's efforts to pursue the above objectives involve the
following major strategies: the creation of an environment in which the
private sector will have the needed incentives and confidence to boost pro-
duction, marketing and exports; the generation of appropriate technical
/1 Nonfarm income is defined as income from nonagricultural activities on
one s own farm plus nonagricultural and agricultural activities off one-s
own farm.



- 4 -
packages to aid intensification; the demarcation of poverty areas in which
line agencies are to focus their programs, particularly for agriculture, rural
infrastructure (physical and social) and community development; and the
establishment of a land use policy for better utilization of land suitable for
agriculture, including the required legal and regulatory framework to give
individual farmers title to their land and a clear demarcation of zones
reserved for forestry and conservation.
D. Bank Lending Strategy
1.12      The primary objective of the Bank's lending operations in rural
Thailand is poverty alleviation. The broad strategy being followed to achieve
this objective is to boost the level of economic activity in rural areas, thus
creating employment opportunities directly and through resulting spinoff
activities. Preference is given to developments closest to poverty areas in
the expectation that more of the benefits would accrue to the poverty group.
With the potential for area expansion diminishing in Thailand, future growth
in the agricultural sector must increasingly come from intensification.   A
substantial portion of rural income is now generated from activities other
than sale or home consumption of farm products. Social services are provided
at a low level in many rural areas, particularly in poverty districts. In
response to the above, the Bank plans to develop seven lines of lending
namely: (a) irrigation, (b) tree crops, (c) rural credit; (d) supporting
services of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC); (e) agricul-
tural land reform and titling; (f) rural development; and (g) forestry.
1.13      To date, the main activities supported by the Bank in agriculture
have been:
(a) Irrigation. Since 1950, Bank assistance to Thailand's water
resource development has included financing for five multi-
purpose dams and twelve irrigation projects for a total of
$683 million. Of the irrigation projects, six were in the
central Chao Phya Basin, two in the Northeast, one in the South,
and two in the Mae Klong Basin.
(b) Tree Crops. The replanting and new planting of tree crops (rubber
and oil palm) have been supported by two Bank loans totalling
$192 million. This is improving agricultural production and
export earnings, as well as raising farmers' incomes.
(c) Agricultural Credit. Credit arrangements are being improved by
strengthening the BAAC through the First Agricultural Credit
Project with a loan of $19 million. More funds are being made
available for medium- and long-term lending, and credit
arrangements are being integrated with other support services.
The proposed project is the second phase of a long-term program to
improve the functioning of rural financial markets.



(d) Supporting Services of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Cooperatives (MOAC)
(i) Research. Research programs are being supported through one
Bank loan of $30 million (also cofinanced with IFAD) which
emphasize: the production of high-yielding and pest- and
disease-resistant varieties of the main crops, adaptive
research aimed at improving rainfed rice and other rainfed
crop yields; and research into alternative farming systems,
including crop diversification, intercropping and rotational
cropping, which should also benefit rainfed rice farmers;
(ii) Extension. As the training and visit system of extension,
supported by two Bank loans totalling $68 million, achieves
national coverage, every effort is being made to ensure that
it reaches poor rural communities and that the service is
supported by the wider availability of agricultural inputs;
(iii) Shifting to Stable Agricultural Development. Current
activities, supported by one Bank loan of $25 million, are
focused on the conversion of shifting cultivation areas to a
condition of stable agriculture and introduction of appro-
priate soil and water conservation works and practices; and
(iv) Livestock. Livestock development, supported by one
Bank loan of $5.0 million, is being improved mainly in
the Northeast Region and aims at: improving meat
production and quality for local consumption and
export; controlling animal disease; and strengthening
the capacity of the Department of Livestock within MOAC.
(e)  Agricultural Land Reform.  Support is provided to the Agricul-
tural Land Reform Office (ALRO) to help it develop a model for
equitable distribution and improvement of suitable agricultural
areas in encroached public lands, and to help strengthen its
capability to manage and implement the agricultural land reform
program nationwide.
In addition to the above activities, the Structural Adjustment Loan has sup-
ported the Government's land reclassification program, aimed at improving
security of tenure to farmers in the forest areas.
E. Performance Under the First Agricultural Credit Project
1.14      The Bank's first Agricultural Credit Project in Thailand aims to
improve BAAC-s term lending capability to finance new credit programs and
strengthen appreciably the weak cooperative system to serve small farmers more
effectively. The Bank loan (Ln. 1816-TH, signed April 1980) of $19 million
mainly finances: (a) BAAC's medium- and long-term lending for onr-farm
development (mostly irrigation), oil palm, shrimp culture and nonspecified
activities in the North and Northeast; and (b) a technical assistance program
primarily to strengthen the cooperative system. Overall Bank disbursements
for the project are ahead of schedule and disbursements for the BAAC component
are completed. The other components of the project are scheduled to be
completed by December 1984.



-6-
1.15      Under the BAAC component, disbursements for the specified lending
components only reached 20% of the target set at appraisal due to numerous
problems that were beyond BAAC's control. Implementation for on-farm
development was slow because of the difficulties in obtaining full consensus
from participating farmers before proceeding with the land consolidation
works. The infrastructure works for the shrimp farming were not constructed
in one of the settlement schemes because the area was occupied by squatters.
Lending for oil palm development in three settlement schemes was delayed till
the feasibility study for the replanning of these schemes was completed. The
bulk of the loan has been used for BAAC's ongoing term lending in the North
and Northeast. About 60% of the recipients of these subloans have been
small farmers./I The financial problems of BAAC were not directly
addressed by the project, but during the course of supervision missions, the
issue of raising BAAC's low on-lending rates was discussed. The training
activities to improve the cooperative system are progressing satisfactorily.
2. RURAL FINANCE
A. The Rural Economy and the Government's Rural Credit Policies
2.01      After the financial liberalization of the late 1950s, commercial
banks expanded their rural branch network quickly and began to integrate the
rural areas into the rapidly growing national financial system. By the late
1960s studies showed the rural credit system to be rather efficient; average
interest rates were found to be between 24% and 35% per year, and 85% of
debts were repaid in cash, not crops pledged previously. On balance, the
rapid growth and diversification of Thai agriculture after the late 1950s
may be seen as an a priori indication that the cost and availability of
credit and financial services were not serious constraints on overall
agricultural development during the 1960s and early 1970s.
2.02      Despite the excellent performance of the agriculture sector since
the late 1950s and into the mid-1970s, both in terms of growth (5% p.a.) and
in reducing rural poverty (from 61% of the rural population in 1962/63 to 35%
in 1975/76), public intervention in the allocation of credit and the
regulation of interest rates has been more extensive in agriculture than in
any other sector, and this intervention has been increasing since 1975. The
Government intended firstly, to increase the flow of institutional credit to
agriculture so as to increase resources available to the rural areas.
Secondly, it sought to provide credit to agriculture at below market
interest rates to compensate for high levels of taxation, and to direct this
credit to poor farmers. In pursuit of these objectives interest rates on
commercial bank credit to agriculture have been controlled at levels
/1  A "Small Farmer," as defined in the Loan Agreement of Ln. 1816-TH, means
a subborrower who is a new settler selected as such by the Borrower's
agency responsible for settlement or any other farmer primarily engaged
in farming activities who farms a holding smaller than the average
holding in the particular province.



equivalent to the market rates for urban borrowers, and far below informal
market rates in rural areas; commercial bank loanable funds have been subject
to mandatory allocations to agriculture; BAAC has for years channelled large
volumes of heavily subsidized credit to small, medium and large farmers, but
not the truly needy who often do not produce a surplus and, therefore, are
hardly creditworthy; and the Bank of Thailand (BOT) in addition has operated
four rediscount facilities directed toward agriculture as discussed below.
2.03       Special BOT Rediscount Facilities.  Since 1967, the BOT has been
authorized to rediscount promissory notes arising out of agricultural transac-
tions. Four different kinds of short-term notes can be discounted covering
production, marketing, livestock, and inputs. The commercial banks may have
90% of their loans discounted, at a rate of 5% p.a. The maximum rate the
commercial bank may charge the subborrowers is 10% p.a. for production loans
and 7% p.a. for all others. By the end of 1977, only about B 184 million of
commercial bank notes were being rediscounted through the BOT. The commercial
banks offer two explanations for the limited use of the rediscounting faci-
lity. First, they argue that the narrow spread between the interest rate
charged by BOT and the rate for subborrowers is not an inducement to use the
window. Second, the rediscounted loans cannot be counted against the
mandatory credit requirements (para. 2.04). In 1978 and 1979 the amount
rediscounted by commercial banks was about B 100 million each year. In the
meantime, BAAC has ceased using this rediscount window, because it needed
and obtained even better terms from the BOT.
2.04       Mandatory Allocations.  Prior to 1975, five of the 16 Thai
commercial banks were involved in lending to farmers. Since response to the
rediscounting mechanism was so modest, the BOT in 1975 adopted a system of
mandatory allocations to agriculture. BOT required that by the end of 1975
the amount of loans outstanding to agriculture should total at least 5% of a
bank's total outstanding deposits at the end of 1974. This quota could be met
by direct lending, through deposit with BAAC, or by purchases of government
securities. These options could augment financial resources available to the
rural areas, though at different terms, and very likely with different
economic effects. To ensure the maximum flow to the farmers, loans to
agribusiness, warehouses, and for import of fertilizer and machinery were
excluded. Subsequently, the quota has been adjusted. The 1976 quota was 7%
of end 1975 deposits. In 1977, it increased to 9% of total deposits at the
end of the previous year; in 1978 it was raised to 11%, but 2% could be
absorbed by agribusiness loans. The quota is now 13% of total deposits at the
end of the previous year, and 2% may be used for agribusiness loans.
Moreover, all new rural and provincial branches are required within two years
of opening to lend 60% of their local deposits in the area served by the
branch, of which one third must be to farmers. There was a surge of new
branch openings after the late 1950s, but the rate has slowed as banks find
increasing difficulties in meeting the mandatory allocations.
2.05       Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC).  In
1966 the Government established a specialized institution, BAAC, as part of
its strategy to boost lending to agriculture. It took over the assets and



- 8 -
liabilities of the stagnant and poorly managed Bank for Cooperatives, which in
turn had been created by the Government in 1947.  BAAC is a government-owned
bank with a mandate to supply credit for the development of the agricultural
sector. BAAC-s activities are legally limited to lending to individual
farmers, agricultural cooperatives and farmers' associations for agricultural
purposes, excluding agribusiness. Today, BAAC is the most important single
institutional source of credit to farmers. In FY81, its loan disbursements
totalled about B 10.7 billion. One of the most striking features of BAAC-s
credit operations is its remarkably wide coverage. With 62 branches and
514 field units all over the country, BAAC has been able to reach about 2 mil-
lion farm families (about 1 million directly, and another 1 million through
cooperatives and farmers' association) through its credit operations. This
represents about 40% of the approximately 5 million farm families in Thailand.
By comparison, commercial banks, with about 1,017 rural branches, reached
about 200,000 families directly. The BAAC staff of about 4,800 are suitably
qualified, of good caliber and receive adequate training. Overall, BAAC is
well administered, with an organizational structure, staffing and internal
management systems appropriate for its functions (Annex 1).
2.06       Noninstitutional sources, commercial banks, and the BAAC now account
for about 50%, 40%, and 8%, respectively, of rural credit. The remaining 2%
is accounted for by the finance companies and the Industrial Finance Corporar
tion of Thailand. In the agricultural sector, noninstitutional sources again
supply about 50%, with the commercial banks and the BAAC each supplying about
25%.  Commercial banks mobilize about 80% of rural savings, and the BAAC only
about 3%. Over the five years 1976-81, BAAC-s credit operations have grown at
an annual rate of about 20%, with loans disbursed increasing from about
B 4.3 billion in 1976 to B 10.7 billion in FY81. In FY81, disbursements to
individual farmers were 75% of total loans disbursed, to cooperatives 24%,
and to farmers' associations about 1% of the total. In FY81, about 65% of
BAAC's total loan disbursements were for short-term loans.
2.07       While BAAC is a well managed institution within the Government
rules and interest rate regulations, this operational framework is such that
BAAC cannot be an independent, financially self-sustaining institution. As
discussed later on (paras. 2.16-2.26), while the financial viability of
BAAC, per se, has not been the Government-s concern, the policy objective of
promoting rural development through directed credit arrangements has been
undermined to the extent that these arrangements have not functioned as
intended. Besides, some of these arrangements have been very costly. For
example, the annual combined subsidies to BAAC from all sources have
recently been on the order of B 700 million. BAAC relies heavily on notes
payable, which are notes rediscounted with the BOT at subsidized rates of 1%
to 3.5% p.a., in order to remain in business. Like its predecessor, the
BAAC found it extremely difficult to attract funds from the private sector,
and has relied mainly on direct support from the Government, the BOT, and
since 1976, on compulsory deposits from commercial banks. The Ministry of
Finance presently owns about 99% of the BAAC's shares; the remaining shares



- 9 -
belong to agricultural cooperatives, and individuals. Currently, about 42% of
the BAAC's sources of funds comes from commercial banks under the mandatory
credit allocation scheme.  Other sources are capital and reserves (12%),
deposits (16%), external borrowings (12%), and loans from the BOT at highly
subsidized interest rates (18%). The bulk of the increase in BAAC assets
since 1975 has been funded by compulsory deposits from commercial banks and
subsidized loans from the BOT with negative consequences for new deposit
mobilization, and efficiency of overall financial intermediation, monetary
control, and the burden on scarce public resources. Captive sources of
funding as a percent of loans outstanding have risen from negligible levels in
the early 1970s to about 90% by 1980. Since 1978, net new funding from
captive sources and the BOT have exceeded net increases in BAAC loans
outstanding, the balance being held by BAAC in the form of recycled deposits
and Government securities.
2.08      Since 1977, BAAC-s total assets have grown at an annual rate of
about 20% and amounted to B 20.2 billion in March 1982. Its debt/equity ratio
is now 7.7:1. BAAC is nominally a profitable institution. Its net earnings
amounted to B 132 million for the year ending March 31, 1982; the return on
year-end equity amounted to about 6% and on total assets to about 0.7%. It
receives subsidies on the order of B 700 million p.a., it assumes the exchange
risk on its foreign borrowings (potential loss as of March 1982 estimated at
B 140 million), and it has high arrears necessitating higher provisions than
actually made. If it were not for the subsidies, BAAC would have faced an
effective operating loss in FY81 amounting to about one fourth of equity.
2.09      BAAC's loan collection performance is fairly good for individual
farmers, but poor for cooperatives and farmers associations. In FY81, there
was a 73% recovery rate for individual farmer loans, which are generally made
on a group guarantee basis. Most of these loans remain performing loans even
when overdue, and more than 98% are paid within three years. The amounts of
write-offs after ten years appear to be negligible. Reasons for the failure
to repay on schedule are difficult to establish apart from the obvious
incentive given borrowers to repay BAAC last since its interest rates are the
lowest. The repayment of loans by cooperatives and farmers associations is
at adverse levels: cooperatives  repayments were about 42% and farmers
associations about 49% in FY81.
2.10      The existing incentive system offers the BAAC little motivation to
mobilize rural savings, because the rate on time deposits is 13-14% p.a.,
while the BAAC lending rate to individual farmers is 14% and to cooperatives
only 11% p.a. This system, and its dependence on subsidies to BAAC, is
sometimes justified as a means of helping poor farmers, and compensating
somewhat for the taxes imposed on the agricultural sector. These issues will
be further discussed below.
B. Emerging Issues in the Rural Economy
2.11      The major issues in rural development during the 1980s stem firstly,
from the fact that slightly less than 50% of rural income is now generated
in nonfarm activities (about 33% for the 5 million farm households and



- 10 -
88% for the 1.8 million other rural households); secondly, from the need to
generate future agricultural growth more from intensification rather than area
expansion as in the past; and thirdly, from the possibility that more and more
farm households will get caught in a subsistence trap due to a poor agricul-
tural resource base with little hope of increases in income except from
nonagricultural pursuits. These issues have implications both for financial
sector policy and for the restructuring of rural development incentives.
2.12      For rural development in the 1980s, the implications of the
gradual closing of the land frontier are important. In future, poverty
alleviation through opening up new areas and thereby creating jobs will
become less and less feasible because such opportunities are disappearing as
the forest area shrinks. If much of the increment to the labor force cannot
migrate out of agriculture, then the duality within the agricultural sector
will increase as one group cannot get beyond subsistence while the other
becomes more and more commercial. Since the subsistence trap is mainly a
result of location and a poor natural resource base, the long-term solutions
must lie mainly outside of agriculture. More immediately, however, the
Government can and should ensure that people living in the poorer areas have
equal access to education, health services, and potable water. This is
often not true today. It is important to realize that many of the people at
the strictly subsistence level of production are trapped on poor soils with
little marketable surplus and, as a consequence, are generally beyond the
direct reach of the formal credit system. Should the BAAC expand its lend-
ing to farmers with no cash surplus, its overdues would soar because debt
service to a government bank will generally have lower priority than meeting
essential family needs. In contrast, the moneylender will often receive
repayment even at the expense of essential family needs. Distribution of
agricultural inputs such as improved seed and fertilizer may be appropriate
in such instances to ensure that all people have at least an adequate diet.
2.13      The gradual closing of the land frontier has other important
implications. For the longer term, the main source of growth in the sector
must be agricultural intensification; without intensification, agricultural
growth will drop to low levels.  Intensification requires that the Govern-
ment continue emphasizing the following: (a) ensuring that the rate of
taxation on important crops such as rice and rubber remains substantially
reduced from levels of the past; (b) giving appropriate legal title to
farmers, including those in areas suited to agriculture, but presently under
the control of the Royal Forestry Department;/l (c) providing the sector with
appropriate financial services; (d) clarifying and rationalizing the
regulatory framework which today often benefits vested interest at the
expense of agricultural producers (e.g., location of slaughterhouses);
(e) generating useful and relevant research results that serve the needs of
farmers; and (f) ensuring that the extension service works diligently to
serve the needs of farmers.
/1 About 12% of the cultivated area in Thailand has full title, about
another 40% has a title that is generally acceptable as collateral; most
ticled land is held by the larger farmers.



- 11 -
2.14      The structure of incentives to agriculture has artificially
depressed the benefit/cost ratio for the use of fertilizers: first, by the
taxation of agricultural outputs, and second, by impediments to the wide
availability of appropriate low-cost fertilizers. The extension service
has tended to promote the use of the more expensive, but sometimes less
appropriate, compound fertilizers. While it would be inappropriate for
Thailand, given its dependence on world market prices, to reach the levels
of fertilizer use in such countries as Korea or Japan, it will be important
to reduce existing distortions in the structure of incentives, and improve
the quality of the research and extension services, in order to facilitate
rapid intensification in the 1980s.
2.15      If agricultural intensification is to proceed at a pace commen-
surate with maintaining future growth rates in agriculture at 4% to 5% p.a.,
the historical level, the financial system will probably be faced with
fairly rapid increases in the demand for short-term funds to finance
technical inputs such as fertilizer, seed, insecticides, etc; as well as
medium and long-term funds to finance the increases in the capital stock
needed to maintain growth. Despite these potential substantial increases in
demand for short, medium and long-term resources by the agricultural sector,
no great difficulties are foreseen in meeting them if appropriate levels of
taxation and changes in the financial system are put in place.
C. Toward Self-Sustaining Development Finance in Rural Thailand
2.16      Intensification requires increased investment from farmers which
will be forthcoming only if producer prices provide sufficient incentive for
the assumption of higher input costs, higher risks, and appropriate use of
credit. Changes in the financial system will be needed to improve incentives
for lenders. In the past, the Government attempted to influence the rural
financial sector by directives rather than by incentives. But its narrow
focus on lending for agriculture alone, rather than focussing more broadly
on rural development, and the various instruments it has adopted for this
purpose (the mandatory allocation and establishment of a rediscounting
facility and of BAAC) have not functioned as they were intended. Over half
of rural sector income comes from sources other than home consumption and
sale of farm products by their producers, yet credit policy has focussed on
agriculture rather than rural development. As to the banking system, the
narrow spread between the interest rate charged by BOT's rediscounting
facility and the rate for subborrowers is not an inducement for commercial
banks to use the facility. Banks are also finding it increasingly difficult
to meet the mandatory allocation, and the interest rate regime imposed
on the BAAC by Government ensures that it cannot operate as a financially
self-sustaining institution. These policies should be changed with a view
to encouraging institutional lending for rural nonagriculture as well as
agricultural activities, and increasing incentives for banks, including
BAAC, to lend in rural areas generally by allowing interest rates to reach
levels which cover the costs of financial intermediation and promote broader
competition, both within the formal financial system and in relation to the
informal market.



- 12 -
2.17      Regarding the use of subsidized credit, the Government may wish to
reexamine its present policies for achieving its rural development objectives,
to ensure that the financial system is making its full potential contribution,
and that it is not being used to pursue goals that could be more effectively
pursued by alternative means. For example, the financial system is not an
effective vehicle for channelling subsidies directly to the approximately
2 million families living in absolute poverty in rural Thailand. In order to
qualify for credit, a person must be creditworthy, which means having a
potential to generate a cash surplus sufficient to service the debt, but it
is precisely the inability to generate such a cash surplus that is a
distinguishing feature of the absolute poor in Thailand. Public resources
available for helping the absolute poor could be targeted on this group much
more effectively using means available to the Government besides the
financial system.
2.18      Moreover, even within the creditworthy group of farmers, channelling
subsidies through the financial system is neither an effective means of
improving income distribution, nor of offsetting the negative disincentive
effects of agricultural taxation. Within the creditworthy group of farmers,
the overal effect on income distribution of existing credit subsidies is
uncertain, but the larger farmers do obtain a disproportionately large per
capita share of the credit subsidy component. BAAC-s credit is made avail-
able to about 90% of farm borrowers, particularly those within the credit-
worthy group with relatively small- and medium-size farms. Commercial bank
credit to agriculture, which is about equal in volume to that provided by
BAAC, is lent to about 10% of farm borrowers. All of this credit carries
a subsidy element. In the case of BAAC, the subsidy on interest rates in
1982 was about six percentage points. The subsidy in commercial bank
lending was appreciably less per unit lent, but, nevertheless, was estimated
to be about two percentage points. The subsidy in commercial bank credit
stems from the mandatory allocation to agriculture imposed on the commercial
banks. In an effort to meet this requirement in the presence of heavily
subsidized BAAC credit, the commercial banks have little option except to
lower their interest rates in order to attract borrowers. The result is
that large farmers borrow very substantial amounts at subsidized rates
(close to the prime), and are thus in a privileged position to amass rural
assets, including land, with obvious undesireable effects on rural wealth
and income distributions. This injection of subsidized credit into
agriculture has the further undesireable effect of encouraging undue
mechanization in the presence of widespread underemployment. To the extent
that commercial banks fail through direct lending to satisfy the mandatory
requirement, they may make deposits with the BAAC at the deposit rate of
interest. Such deposits now account for about 40% of BAAC-s sources of
funds. It is estimated that about 10% of farm borrowers, essentially the
commercial bank clients, receive 25% of the credit subsidy component, while
about 90% of farm borrowers, essentially the BAAC clients, receive the
balance of 75%. In the case of BAAC-s clients, the subsidy is paid by the
BOT and nonfarm borrowers of the commercial banks; the subsidy to the
commercial bank farm borrowers is again paid by the nonfarm borrowers of the
commercial banks.



- 13 -
2.19      Subsidized credit is seen by some as partially compensating farmers
for the taxes on agricultural products such as rice and rubber. But to the
extent that not all farm borrowers sell rice or rubber, or all rice or rubber
sellers are borrowers, the objective is not achieved. Furthermore, the tax
burden on agriculture is much greater than the subsidy to BAAC. In any event,
this ignores the obvious solution of removing, or at least partially
correcting, the original distortion introduced through agricultural taxation.
The rubber tax is neutral in its income distribution effects on producers,
while the rice tax is somewhat progressive. Given this slight progressivity
in the agricultural tax system, it is unclear what the effects on agricultural
income distribution would be if the subsidies on agricultural credit were
removed, and a compensatory cut in taxes on the agricultural sector were made
simultaneously so as to maintain fiscal neutrality. But it is clear that the
distribution of the benefits of a tax cut would be broader than the
distribution of benefits from credit subsidies, because the number of farmers
affected by agricultural taxes is greater than the number who borrow from
institutional sources.
2.20      The liberalization of interest rates is an important issue affecting
the development of rural financial markets in Thailand. As in many countries,
the Government continues to enforce interest rate ceilings on lending and
deposit taking, which contributes to market segmentation and decreased
resource mobilization. Commercial banks do not lend to potential clients
willing and able to pay an interest rate higher than the ceiling, and
sufficient to adequately compensate lenders for the service and risks
involved. Commercial banks are deprived of potential clients, generally the
small and medium sized borrowers, and such potential clients are sometimes
left to depend on the informal market which is then free to function without
competition from the formal sector in this segment of the market, particularly
in areas where the BAAC does not have an effective presence. It would there-
fore be desirable to remove the interest rate ceiling on commercial bank
lending, presently 19%, in order to allow the financial intermediation process
to channel more institutional funds to rural areas, particularly to smaller
borrowers, where transaction costs and risks are generally higher than in
urban areas. To be really effective, of course, interest rate liberalization
must extend to the BAAC. Otherwise, the commercial banks will probably decide
that the opportunities for increased lending on commercial terms to
agriculture are too limited to justify their mounting a serious effort to
develop this market, except for their lending to large farmers.
2.21      The noninstitutional sector, which lends substantial amounts of
credit which was advanced to it in many cases by commercial banks, probably
remains the single most important source of credit to agriculture. There is
some evidence of noncompetitive behavior in this sector. The best policy
response would be to increase competition by removing the existing interest
rate ceilings on institutional lenders.



- 14 -
2.22       The present regulations requiring commercial banks operating in
rural areas to relend 60% of rural deposits in the areas in which they were
mobilized is a disincentive to mobilization of rural financial savings,
because it lowers the returns to the institutions involved, and discourages
branching into areas where the 60% ratio cannot be profitably met. Since
rural and provincial deposits were about B 94,000 million as of 1980, any
disincentive to increased savings mobilization affects a broad segment of
the rural population. In 1980, the agriculture sector by comparison had
only B 23,000 million in institutional loans outstanding. The mandatory
allocations have not worked to achieve Government objectives. They appear
to have benefitted a small group of large clients in rural areas while
imposing substantial social costs. Nevertheless, they can probably only be
eliminated after interest rate liberalization makes their continuation
unnecessary.
2.23       Financial intermediaries appear to have a problem meeting the
medium and long term credit requirements of clients with fixed rate loans.
It is suggested that floating rates be further encouraged systemwide to
improve the capacity of intermediaries to perform term transformation and
mobilize genuine longer-term savings. In rural lending, this could be
particularly important because of the greater risks associated with term
lending and thus less certainty regarding repayment schedules. Livestock,
mechanization, buildings, tree crops, and land improvements, are all
examples of agricultural developments that require medium to long-term
financing of 3 to 15 years.
2.24       BAAC.  With regard to BAAC's activities, liberalizing its
on-lending rates would be the most effective way of making it a financially
self-sustaining institution. BAAC would then have an incentive to mobilize
savings in areas presently not served by other financial institutions, but
where BAAC already is active in lending. Making such financial services
available more widely to savers in rural areas would be important in
increasing rural incomes, because rural areas are generally substantial net
savers.
2.25       Over the five year period 1975 to 1980, BAAC's loan portfolio,
in real terms, grew at about 9.0% p.a. During 1980-85, BAAC's outstanding
loan portfolio, in current terms, is projected to grow at an annual average
rate of about 15%, increasing from about B 11.0 billion in FY80 to about
B 23 billion in FY85. This implies about the same real growth rate as in
the past. Loan disbursements are projected to increase from B 8.3 billion
in FY80 to B 17.6 billion in FY85. As a result of this increased lending
program, BAAC is expected to expand its clientele from about 2 million farm
families in FY80 to about 2.6 million farm families in FY85.  Based on this
expanded lending program and using FY80 as the base year, projections have
been made of BAAC's financial position up to FY85, assuming, inter alia, the
current financial structure, the existing BAAC onlending rate and commercial
interest rate structure, repayment performance, and B 3.5 billion annually
from the BOT at subsidized rates of 3.5% p.a. The projections indicate



- 15
a steadily deteriorating financial position for BAAC despite the heavy
infusion of public subsidies. In order for BAAC to maintain a trend of
increasing profits up to FY85, the annual contribution of subsidized funds
from the BOT would have to increase by about B 1 billion each year, unless
changes were made in BAAC's onlending rate structure.
2.26       Generally, the BAAC lending rate would need to be about six
percentage points above the long-term deposit rate to make BAAC into a
self-sustaining financial institution; such deposits potentially could be
its main source of funding. W4ith this higher rate, BAAC would have a strong
incentive to mobilize rural financial resources, and it no longer would have
to be dependent on subsidized government funds and commercial bank deposits
resulting from any unsatisfied requirements under the mandatory allocation
to agriculture. BAAC should be allowed to charge interest rates that better
reflect the higher costs and risks involved in rural lending to many small
borrowers, widely scattered, and subject to the vagaries of the elements.
Since the issue of agricultural interest rates is politically sensitive, any
liberalization of rates will probably take place gradually over time. When
BAAG interest rate ceilings are removed, the Government should also consider
allowing BAAC to lend for all iinds of economic activities in rural areas as
a means of further strengthening it financially, and improving financial
services available in rural areas. Lending to cooperatives is a serious
drain on BAAC resources. It is recommended that BAAC ease out of lending to
cooperatives, except to those managed effectively, which, at the present
time, is a small proportion.
2.27       Priority Funding Pool.  Since deposits are the source of most
funds to the banking system, it is not surprising that Thai banks have major
difficulty meeting the term needs of borrowers as compared to meeting their
short-term requirements, where few problems exist. One solution suggested
above is to move to floating rate loans (para. 2.23). For the foreseeable
future, however, there is also a need to supplement the existing sources of
medium and long-term funds with new ones. It is expected that the estab-
lishment of a priority funding pool within the BOT, which would rediscount
medium and long-term loans made by commercial banks or the BAAC for rural
development, would help to integrate rural financial markets, increase the
flow of such funds to rural areas, and create additional economic activity,
and, hence, jobs in rural areas. The proposed project was originally
designed along the lines of such a priority funding pool. However, the
Government indicated that at the present time its preference was for a
project limited to the BAAC. The Bank views the proposed project as an
interim step toward a broader approach for subsequent projects that would
support rural financial market development through the establishment of a
priority funding pool.



- 16 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01       The proposed project would:  (a) improve the functioning of rural
financial markets by raising the level of BAAC lending rates relative to
those prevailing elsewhere in the market and by improving BAAC's loan
recovery rates; and (b) increase the availability of medium- and long-term
loanable funds to the BAAC. The relative increase in BAACGs lending rates
would firstly, partially correct the distortions existing in rural financial
and real sector markets as a consequence of subsidized BAAC lending (paras.
2.17-2.21); secondly, increase the incentives to BAAC to mobilize rural
financial savings (para. 2.10); and thirdly, strengthen BAAC financially and
thus lessen its dependence on subsidies (para. 2.08). Improvements in
BAAC's financial viability would enable it to better achieve its developmen-
tal role of providing financial services to creditworthy farmers who are
unable to gain access to commercial bank lending, or who are outside the
reach of the commercial banks' branch networks and credit policies.
Increasing the availability of term finance to the BAAC would alleviate the
term financing problem which currently exists in rural financial markets in
Thailand (para. 2.23), and, as a consequence, would boost the level of
economic activity in rural areas and thereby contribute toward:
(a)  employment generation and poverty alleviation;
(b)  increased rural production and incomes; and
(c)  improvements in the balance of payments through increased
agricultural exports.
3.02       The proposed project seeks to alleviate rural poverty, especially
through employment creation and by preventing farm families at the margin
from falling below the poverty line. IFAD's participation in the project
would contribute in particular to the objective of helping to prevent small
farmers falling into poverty by: (a) increasing the availability of mediumr-
and long-term credit to small farmers in the North and Northeast;/l and (b)
improving the links between extension, research and credit, so that
short-term credit is used more effectively. It is estimated that 31% of
Thailand-s population has incomes below the absolute poverty line./2 With
90% of the poor residing in the rural areas, the poverty problem i7n Thailand
is mainly a rural problem, and almost 80% of all the rural poor can be found
/1 A small farmer would be one whose annual net cash family income is
approximately $435 equivalent (B 10,000) or less.
/2 The absolute poverty line is defined as $157/year/person in rural areas
and $236/year/person in urban areas (end-1982 prices).



- 17 -
in the villages of the North and Northeast. The overwhelming majority of the
poor households, over 85%, are farm households. IFAD and the Bank put high
priority on the objective of increasing the flow of credit to creditworthy
poor farmers. Under the project, IFAD funds would be earmarked exclusively
for BAACGs lending to small farmers engaged in food production in the North
and Northeast.
3.03      The project would also play an important catalytic role in Thailand
by encouraging the Government's program to strengthen the links between
research, extension and credit. To date, coordination between research,
extension, and credit has not been adequate even though the three services are
complementary in helping farmers raise their production and income levels.
One of the most important institutional requirements for agricultural intensi-
cation is coordination in technology development and transfer. Coordination
is particularly important in the context of extending yield-improving
technologies where elements of a production package of support services
reinforce each other. IFAD funds would be used to finance a pilot scheme in
the North and Northeast, which would provide research/short-term
credit/extension packages, particularly for smaller farmers. If proven
successful, this would provide the basis for similar endeavors throughout
Thailand.
B. Brief Description
3.04      The proposed project would support the growth of BAAC-s lending
activities and finance BAAC's projected resource gap over a two-year period.
The proceeds of the Bank loan would be used countrywide to finance BAAC's
medium- and long-term subloans to farmers, including smallholders, and
medium-term subloans to cooperatives with good performance records. The types
of activities eligible for financing would be as broadly based as possible,
but would exclude purchase of land, housing, poppy cultivation and refinancing
of old debt.
3.05      The proceeds of the IFAD loan in support of lending activities could
only be used by the BAAC to finance short-, medium-, and long-term subloans
made to small farmers for food production in the North and Northeast regions.
Furthermore, within these regions, the use of IFAD funds for short-term
lending would be limited to supporting small farmers engaged in a pilot scheme
planned by BAAC and the Department of Extension to improve the delivery of
technical services to farmers, particularly the poorer ones.
3.06      The project would also attempt to improve BAAC institutionally by
providing funds for additional training activities, financing a study that
would examine BAAC-s policies and criteria concerning lending to small
farmers, and addressing the issues of BAAC's relatively low lending rates and
recovery ratios.



- 18 -
C. Detailed Features
Term Lending Program for Agricultural Investments
3.07      During the project period, BAAC's past pattern of lending is
expected to continue, and subloans are expected to finance mainly investments
in draft animals, agricultural equipment, farm buildings, land improvements,
livestock and poultry (Annex 2). These investments would result in the
increased production of principally rice, maize, treecrops, pigs and poultry.
About 40% of the medium- and long-term subloans are expected to be made in the
North and Northeast, about 30% in the Central Region, and 30% in the South.
Within the creditworthy group, BAAC would be lending principally to middle-
income and smaller farmers. The average size of medium- and long-term loans
during the project period is expected to be about $900 and $1,300, respec-
tively. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that in no instance
would the total amount of subloans partially financed out of the proceeds of
the Bank loan to any subborrower exceed $217,000 equivalent (B 5 million).
Few loans (less than 5%) are expected to exceed $100,000. These loans would
mainly finance investments made by relatively large farmers in pigs and
poultry. Assurances were also obtained that BAAC would submit to the Bank for
its prior approval all subloans made out of the proceeds of the Bank loan for
subprojects exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 (B 2.3 million), and furnish
to the Bank the subproject proposal supported in sufficient detail to satisfy
the Bank that the proposed investment is technically, financially and
economically sound.
3.08      IFAD's Term Lending to the North and Northeast Regions.  IFAD funds
would be limited to BAAC's lending to small farmers engaged in food production
in the North and Northeast, and the total amount of subloans to any individual
farmer would not exceed $4,543 equivalent (B 100,000). To date, BAAC has
devoted a considerable amount of its credit resources to helping the poorer
farmers in the North and Northeast. In FY80, loan disbursements in these
Regions were about 49% of BAAC's total disbursements, and 60% of these loans
were directed to small farmers. Under the project, it is expected that a
similar percentage of loans to the North and Northeast would reach the poorer
farmers. These loans are expected to finance mainly draft animals, land
improvements, livestock, poultry, farm buildings, and farm equipment. These
investments would increase the production of mainly rice, maize and livestock
in these Regions and, in addition, cassava in the Northeast.
IFAD's Participation in a Pilot Scheme to Strengthen Links between BAAC,
the Department of Extension (DAE), and Research in DOA
3.09      BAAC and DAE are now planning a pilot scheme in the North and
Northeast, particularly for small farmers, which would provide extension/
short-term credit packages. The main objectives of this scheme would be to
assist BAAC in achieving its goals of increasing the effectiveness of short-
term production subloans and improving the overall repayment performance of
BAAC client farmers. At the same time, the efforts of the DAE would be
assisted by backing their extension message with a BAAC credit package. The
BAAC credit officers, who would work as a team with the extension officers,
would provide short-term credit to target farmers to finance the purchase of



- 19 -
a package of inputs recognized by both the research and extension services as
most economic for the area. The pilot scheme would be set up in four pro-
vinces, two in the North and two in the Northeast. A committee with repre-
sentatives from the Department of Agriculture (DOA), DAE and BAAC would
oversee and evaluate the scheme (for further details of the pilot scheme see
Annex 3). IFAD would lend its support and encouragement for this pilot scheme
by providing funds for the short-term credit needs of participating small
farmers. This would be complementary to the support it is providing the DOA
through its ongoing research project (Loan 1922-TH, jointly financed by the
Bank and IFAD).
3.10      Training, Technical Assistance and Studies.  Over the past few
years, BAAC has devoted considerable effort to staff training. The Training
Division in BAAC is advised and assisted by a consultant financed under the
Bank's First Agricultural Credit Project. The training programs have been
quite successful and generally adequate, but over the next two years, addi-
tional training is needed for executive and middle-level staff. Under the
project, funds would be made available to BAAC to finance these additional
training activities. Twenty middle-level and executive staff would attend
two- to three-week courses in neighboring countries in fields such as
managerial finance, computers, inventory control, institutional manpower
utilization and internal auditing. Six middle-level staff would also receive
advanced degree training in the Philippines in business administration and
agricultural economics. Project funds would also finance the costs of an
expert to conduct a three-week workshop on training for the monitoring and
evaluation of agricultural projects. No further training beyond that proposed
here would need to be financed under the project. The project would also
finance, with IFAD funds, an expansion of an ongoing study being carried out
by BAAC which includes: (a) a household economic survey of small farmers; (b)
an analysis of the basis for BAAC's current eligibility criteria for lending
to small farmers; and (c) an assessment of new systems of lending to small
farmers in experimental lending programs. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that the BAAC would select training programs and participants in
accordance with procedures and criteria satisfactory to the Bank, and hire an
expert for the training workshop whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank.
D. Cost Estimates
3.11      Total project cost (including taxes and duties) is estimated at
$188.5 million, of which about $47 million, or 25%, represents foreign
exchange requirements. The price contingency amounts to about $16 million,
assuming the following rates of price increase:



- 20 -
1983   1984   1985
Local costs (%)          7.0    7.0    7.0
Foreign costs (%)        8.0    7.5    7.0
Taxes of about $11 million, or 6%, are included in project cost. The project
cost is summarized in Table 3.1, and presented in further detail in Annex 4.
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
For-                     For-            For-
Local      eign    Total   Local  eign  Total   eign
Project components        ------ (B million) ------  --- ($ million) --    %
BAAC Lending
Medium- & long-term
lending to small-
holders in the
North & Northeast         862.5    287.5  1,150.0   37.6  12.5   50.1           25
Medium- & long-term
lending to others,
including small-
holders in the
Center and South        2,086.1    696.9  2,783.0   90.9  30.3  121.2           25
Short-term lending to
smallholders in the
North and Northeast       289.8       96.6    386.4   12.6   4.2   16.8         25
Subtotal              3,238.4  1,081.0  4,319.4  141.1  47.0  188.1          25
BAAC training                  1.0       3.0       4.0    0.1   0.1    0.2        75
BAAC study                     3.6       0.4       4.0    0.2   -        0.2      10
Total Project Cost  3,243.0  1,084.4  4,327.4  141.4  47.1  188.5             25
Of which:
Price contingencies       275.6    101.9    377.5   12.0   4.4   16.4           27



- 21 -
E. Financing
3.12      The financing plan provides for a Bank loan of $70 million,
including the capitalized front-end fee of about $0.2 million. The proposed
Bank loan of $70 million, and the proposed IFAD loan of $20.2 million,
amounting to 40% and 11%, respectively, of project cost net of taxes, would
jointly finance the full foreign exchange cost of 547.3 million, including
the front-end fee, and $42.9 million of local cost. Local currency financ-
ing is justified in view of the low foreign exchange element in BAAC's sub-
loans, and the need for the Bank to make a meainingful contribution to
project costs. The combined Bank and IFAD loans would cover the full
projected resource gap of the BAAC over the next two years. The Bank loan
would finance retroactively an amount of $7 million for expenditures
incurred since April 1, 1983 by BAAC for mediumand long-term subloans to
individual farmers and, medium-term subloans to cooperatives with good
performance records. Subborrowers would provide about $28 million, or 15%
of project cost, inclusive of taxes, in the form of owner contributions to
individual subprojects. The BAAC would provide about $71 million, or 38% of
project cost, inclusive of taxes. Project financing is shown in Table 3.2.
3.13      The Bank loan would be made to the BAAC with the Government acting
as Guarantor of the loan. The IFAD loan would be made to the Government,
who would pass on the funds to BAAC under the same terms and conditions
regarding interest rates and repayment schedules as the IFAD loan. A
condition of loan effectiveness would be IFAD appointing the Bank as
Cooperating Institution to administer the IFAD loan. BAAC would bear the
foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
F. Procurement
3.14      Bulk purchasing under ICB would not be feasible, since the lending
activities would be implemented over a two-year period, be widely distri-
buted geographically, cover a wide variety of investment activities, and
involve a large number of subborrowers. All procurement under the project
would be carried out by individual subborrowers through normal commercial
channels, following established commercial practices. International and
domestic manufacturers are well represented in Thailand, there is a well
developed distribution system for the varied types of inputs expected to be
procured by individual subborrowers, and competition is keen. Furthermore,
the BAAC assists farmers by posting in its many branches and field offices
local price lists by dealers for key inputs. These enable farmers to do
comparative price shopping and have proven to be very helpful in dissemin-
ating price information and in helping farmers avoid poor quality products.



- 22 -
Table 3.2: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million)
Subbor-
rowers     BAAC       IFAD       Bank         Total
Project components            Amt.   X  Amt.   %  Amt.   %   Amt.  %    Amt.   X
BAAC lending
Medium- and long-term
lending to smallholders
in the North and North-
east                       7.5  15  18.7  38  12.0  24  11.9   23   50.1  100
Medium- and long-term
lending to others,
including smallholders
in the Center and South 18.0  15  45.5  38   -         -  57.7   47  121.2  100
Short-term lending to
smallholders in the
North and Northeast        2.5  15   6.3  38   8.0  47   -         -   16.8  100
Subtotal                 28.0  15  70.5  38  20.0  10  69.6   37  188.1  100
BAAC training                  -      -   -      -   -      -   0.2  100    0.2  100
BAAC study                     -      -   -      -   0.2 100   -        -    0.2  100
Total project cost       28.0  15  70.5  38  20.2  10  69.8   37  188.5  100
Front-end fee on Bank loan   -        -   -      -   -      -   0.2  100    0.2  100
Total financing
required              28.0  15  70.5  38  20.2  10  70.0   37  188.7  100
G. Disbursements
3.15      A Special Account would be established at the Krung Thai Bank to
finance subloans and some training expenditures. This Account would be main-
tained in baht, since it would be used to finance expenditures in local
currency with the exception of a small amount for training, where the expendi-
tures may be incurred in other currencies. This Special Account would relate
exclusively to the Bank loan and to Bank-financed expenditures. The amount of
funds on deposit in this Account would not exceed at any time the baht equiva-
lent of $7 million. The initial application requesting deposit of funds would
be $5 million and requests for additional deposits would be submitted when
project needs justify the increase. Each withdrawal application requesting
replenishment of the Special Account would be accompanied by a statement from



- 23 -
the Krung Thai Bank showing transactions in the Special Account for the
relevant period. A condition of loan effectiveness would be the establish-
ment of the Special Account.
3.16      All project subloans would be committed during approximately a
twoyear period and the Bank and IFAD loans would be disbursed over approxi-
mately two-and-a-half years. The Bank would reimburse the BAAC 55% of its
eligible medium- and long-term subloans. For administrative simplicity,
IFAD funds for mediumr and long-term lending in the North and Northeast to
small farmers would be disbursed first, at the rate of 55% of subloans made
by BAAC for this purpose, and Bank funds allocated to this component would
be disbursed once IFAD funds have been exhausted. In addition, IFAD would
reimburse the BAAC for 75% of approved subloans made by the BAAC for short-
term purposes under the project and for 100% of the cost of the study to be
carried out by BAAC. Disbursements for the lending program would be made
against statements of expenditure, which would certify that the amount of
approved lending had taken place. The documentation for the statements of
expenditure would be retained by BAAC and made available to the Bank, IFAD,
and the auditors for inspection during the course of project supervision and
audit inspections. The Bank would reimburse BAAC for 100% of the cost of
technical assistance and overseas training, against normal documentation.
Depending on the circumstances related to indiviual training expenditures,
BAAC may either withdraw funds from the Special Account or request the Bank
to make direct payments to their suppliers. Separate applications would be
prepared for the IFAD-financed and Bank-financed components, since
disbursements would not be made on a joint basis.
3.17      The estimated schedule of disbursements is given below.  The esti-
mated date of project completion would be September 30, 1985 and the
estimated Closing Date would be March 31, 1986. In preparing the
disbursement schedule, account was taken of the disbursement profiles for
credit projects in the Region and the first Agricultural Credit Project
(Loan 1816-TH) in Thailand, in particular. Under Loan 1816-TH, Bank funds
were disbursed ahead of schedule for the nonspecified term lending component
of the project.
Table 3.3. DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
($ million)
Bank
Fiscal year             Disbursed
and semester         during semester   Cumulative
1984   1                 12.0              12.0
2                 14.0              26.0
1985   1                 15.0              41.0
2                 15.0              56.0
1986   1                 10.0              66.0
2                  4.0              70.0



- 24 -
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01       BAAC would be the implementing agency.  The activities of BAAC are
controlled by a Board of Directors whose chairman is the Minister of Finance.
The main responsibility of the Board is to formulate the operating policies of
BAAC and to control and supervise its activities. BAAC's head office is in
Bangkok. It has 62 branches and 514 field units all over the country. The
head office is responsible for planning, control, and general administration.
There are four departments (Planning, Loans, Banking and Accounting, and
General Administration) and two offices (Secretariat, and Audit and
Inspection). The branch offices are in charge of lending (appraisal, approval
within authorized limits, disbursement, supervision and collection) and
soliciting deposits. Under the direct control of branch offices, field units
assist subborrowers in preparing subloan applications, check their adherence
to subloan conditions, particularly on use of funds and on repayment, and
provide subborrowers with some technical advice. (See Charts 23893 and 23894
for the organizational set-up of BAAC's head office and branches,
respectively.)
4.02      At present, BAAC has a total staff of 4,757, of which about 19%
(911) are at the head office and 81% (3,846) are at the branches and field
units.  In general, the staff are well qualified and of good caliber.  The
managers of departments, divisions and branches are usually university
graduates, many of whom have had several years of experience in other
organizations. The salaries paid BAAC staff are commensurate with other civil
service salaries. Promotions are based on regular performance evaluations,
written tests and personality evaluations. Overall, BAAC is administratively
sound. Its organizational structure, staffing and systems are in accordance
with its requirements.
4.03      While BAAC is a well managed institution with no serious organiz-
ational problems that need addressing, major improvements, however, could be
made toward making it a financially self-sustaining institution, both by
increasing its onlending rates and improving its loan recovery rates. Under
the project, attempts would be made to improve its performance in these two
areas.
B. Lending Policies and Procedures
4.04      BAAC provides loans only for agricultural purposes, excluding
agro-industries. For medium-term loans, individual borrowers, who are
unable to provide collateral, are required to join a small informal
guarantee group. This enables BAAC to take advantage of the socio-economic
sanctions arising from the joint liability characteristics of these groups,
particularly in the case of repayment. Each member is liable for his/her
loan and for other loans guaranteed by the group. The minimum group size is
five. The maximum loan amount per group nember is $1,304 equivalent



- 25 -
(B 30,000), but not exceeding 60% of the value of the expected marketable
surplus produced. Individual farmers can receive medium-term loans exceeding
$1,304 equivalent (B 30,000) but less than $43,478 equivalent (B 1 million),
provided they mortgage their assets with BAAC. The prevailing interest on
these loans is 14% with a loan repayment period of 3-5 years. For long-term
loans, the repayment period is up to 20 years, the loan ceiling is $217,000
equivalent (B 5 million), and farmers must submit detailed investment
proposals for BAAC's consideration. Farmers are also required to furnish an
equity contribution of at least 20% of the project's total investment costs
(including noncash costs), and are required to mortgage their fixed assets
with BAAC. The Board of Directors of BAAC approve all loans above $87,000
equivalent (B 2 million). With the exception of interest rates, which are
discussed below, BAAC's subloan terms and conditions are considered adequate.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that BAAC would make project
subloans in accordance with its current lending terms and conditions, as they
may be amended from time to time by agreement between BAAC and the Bank.
4.05      Onlending Rates.  As discussed in Chapter 2, BAAC's low lending
rates have made it heavily dependent on government subsidies. The Bank has
had extensive discussions with BAAC regarding this issue during supervision of
the first Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1816-TH). In April 1981 and 1982,
BAAC's rates were increased by 1% across the board so that rates to individual
farmers and cooperatives/associations are now 14% and 11%, respectively. In
comparison, commercial banks now charge up to 17% for their agricultural term
lending. In a well-functioning credit market, one would expect agricultural
lending rates to be higher than other rates due to the higher risks and
transaction costs involved. At present, BAAC requires a spread of about 6%
between its lending rate to individual farmers and the rate payable on
domestically mobilized savings in order to cover its costs, including
administrative and loan risk costs. However, a big adjustment in rates is not
feasible, at least in the short- to medium-term. During negotiations it was
established that it was BAAC's long-term objective to become a financially
self-sustaining institution capable of mobilizing sufficient domestic savings
to meet adequately the legitimate credit needs of its borrowers. It was
agreed that to provide BAAC with sufficient incentive to pursue this
objective, BAAC requires an adequate spread between its lending rate and the
rate payable on domestic savings in order to cover its costs, including
administrative and loan risk costs. As an interim step toward this end,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, BAAC would adjust at least once annually, and to the extent
necessary its lending rate to individual farmers such that:
(a) when the deposit rate is less than 7%, the BAAC's lending rate to
individual farmers will be the deposit rate plus 6%;
(b) when the deposit rate is 7% or more but less than 10%, the BAAC's
lending rate to individual farmers will be at least 13%;
(c)  when the deposit rate is 10% or more but less than 14%, the BAAC's
lending rate to individual farmers will be at least 14%; and



- 26 -
(d) when the deposit rate is 14% or more, the BAAC's lending rate to
individual farmers will be at least equal to the deposit rate.
The deposit rate referred to above, is defined in the legal documents as the
average of the monthly interest rates in the latest quarter paid on one to
less than two year time deposits by commercial banks, as reported by the
Bank of Thailand in its latest available Quarterly Bulletin. Since changes in
BAAC's lending rates usually take effect on April 1 of any year, the quarter
most likely referred to would be the one ending December 31 of each year.
During negotiations, assurances were also obtained from BAAC that the
differential between its interest rate for individual farmers' loans and its
interest rates for all other types of loans would not be greater than that
existing during its FY82. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
Government, as Guarantor, would take all appropriate measures with respect to
BAAC's lending rates for BAAC to fulfill the above assurances. In the three
years, 1979, 1980, and 1981, the CPI increased 9.9%, 19.7% and 12.7%,
respectively; it is currently increasing at about 6% p.a., and is expected to
increase at about 7% p.a. over the next three years. BAAC rates during the
project period are expected to be positive in real terms.
4.06      Loan Repayments and Lending to Cooperatives.  The loan repayment
rate from individual farmers is fairly good at 73%, with the bulk of overdues
repaid within two years of being overdue and almost 98% repaid within 3 years.
However, the repayment from cooperatives and associations is at adverse levels
of 42% and 49%, respectively (para. 2.09). Financial mismanagement by these
institutions is one of the major causes for this poor performance. Loan
1816-TH finances training courses under a program designed to restructure
agricultural cooperatives in poor financial condition. Under this program,
which is to span the three years l19l-83, cooperatives have been graded
according to performance, with Grade 1 being the best and Grade 3 the worst.
Cooperatives were divided according to size based on membership and business
volume, and were classified into grades based on three major criteria: (a)
general administration and management; (b) business and results of operations;
and (c) financial position, including loan repayment performance. Of the 844
agricultural and land settlement cooperatives that were reviewed, 34 were
classified as Grade 1, 410 as Grade 2 and 400 as Grade 3 (88 of these were
graded as 3 because they were newly established). The program under Loan
1816-TH attempts to rehabilitate a mix of Grade 2 and 3 cooperatives. A first
step in improving BAAC-s overall repayment performance from cooperatives would
be for BAAC not to increase the credit line ceiling of those Grade 3 coop-
eratives whose performance is deteriorating. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that BAAC would: (a) not increase the credit line ceiling of
those Grade 3 cooperatives with deteriorating performance; (b) in collabor-
ation with the National Agricultural Training Institute (NACTI) design
appropriate training programs for Grade 3 cooperatives not yet covered by the
restructuring program; and (c) make its best efforts to improve the rates of
recovery from cooperatives to which it makes subloans. It is expected that



- 27 -
restricting the volume of lending to Grade 3 cooperatives with deteriorating
performance would provide an incentive for them to improve their performance.
During negotiations assurances were also obtained that the Government would
take all measures necessary to encourage the cooperatives to improve their
repayment performance. During negotiations assurances were also obtained
that BAAC would review its lending policy and activities affecting coopera-
tives and discuss the implications of this review with the Guarantor and the
Bank by December 1, 1984. This review is intended to assess the impact of
BAAC's lending through cooperatives and to examine the justifications for
the interest rate spread (currently about 3%) given to cooperatives by BAAC.
Specifically, it will require analyzing the characteristics of the borrowing
cooperative members, the purposes of the loans and the lending terms, and
evaluating the services that the cooperatives as financial intermediaries
provide to their members and to BAAC, respectively. In carrying out the
review of its lending to cooperatives, BAAC would be able to draw on the
information available from the programs for the restructuring of cooperatives
under Loan 1816-TH.
C. Accounts and Audits
4.07      BAAC would maintain separate project accounts for the proposed pro-
ject in accordance with sound accounting principles and methods, consistently
applied. The project accounts and related basic financial statements would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance
with appropriate auditing procedures consistently applied. BAAC would be
required to submit to the Bank within six months of the end of every fiscal
year during project implementation a certified copy of the auditors' report
including a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of disbursements made
on the basis of statements of expenditure. BAAC would also be required to
submit to the Bank an audit of its entire accounts. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations on the conditions specified in this paragraph.
-D. Monitoring and Reporting
4.08      BAAC would be required to submit to the Bank semi-annual progress
reports, an annual evaluation report of the project investments, together with
the annual audited financial statements for the project, a project completion
report, and such other information relating to the implementation and finanr-
cial position of the proposed project as the Bank may reasonably request. The
semi-annual progress reports would contain information on the progress being
made by BAAC in mobilizing domestic savings, and the monitoring of BAAC-s
lending activities to individual farmers as well as cooperatives and farmers'
associations. The annual evaluation report would contain information on the
impact of project investments and determine whether objectives such as
increased output and improved incomes are being met. At present, BAAC's
monitoring and evaluation is carried out by its Planning Department. BAAC is
presently reviewing with the aid of a consultant a management information
system which would aim to: (a) improve procedures for data collection report
format to reduce the large volume of paper flow and duplication in report



- 28 -
content; (b) ensure timely reporting; (c) collect data for preparing annual
work programs by region and lending category; and (d) improve the evaluation
of the financial, economic and social impact of individual lending programs.
5. MARKETING, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Marketing and Markets
5.01      Agricultural production under the project is expected to consist
principally of rice, maize, treecrops, livestock, poultry and fish. The
existing marketing infrastructure and facilities for agricultural inputs and
outputs, which are well established in Thailand, are considered efficient and
capable of handling the agricultural production under the project. The
marketing of agricultural inputs and outputs in Thailand is primarily handled
by the private sector.
5.02      Domestic and export market prospects for the agricultural production
under the project are generally good, except for possibly rice in the long
term. Short-term prospects for some crops like cassava are less favorable
because of world recessionary conditions, but due to its relatively low
production costs, aggressive private sector, and favorable government-to-
government trade arrangements, Thailand's comparative advantage compared with
many other exporting countries should enable it to find sufficient market
outlets. While the medium-term prospects for rice are reasonably favorable,
longer-term prospects for about a projected 5 million tons of exportable
surplus from Thailand are uncertain and require further assessment as to the
potential absorptive capacity of world markets. For the remaining products,
supply rather than demand is likely to be the limiting factor.
B. Prices
5.03      Prices were assumed as shown in Table 5.1 in order to arrive at a
financial rate of return for subproject investments. Annex 2, Table 2 shows a
more detailed list of present and future prices in financial and economic
terms. Project prices for traded goods such as rice have been based on the
Bank's commodity price projections, adjusted for international freight, local
marketing costs and quality differentials. The conversion factors used to
derive some of the economic prices are detailed in the Project File.



- 29 -
Table 5.1. FINANCIAL PRICES OF SELECTED OUTPUTS /a
Financial Price
Unit              1982              1997
Paddy                      B/kg               3.0               4.0
Finished pigs              B/kg              25.0              25.0
Chickens, live             B/head            27.5              27.5
Ducks, live                B/head            55.0              55.0
Chicken eggs               B/dozen           16.8              16.8
Duck eggs                  B/dozen           16.8              16.8
Buffalo                    B/head         8,000.0           8,000.0
/a In constant 1982 prices.
6. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.01      The proposed project would make a positive step toward improving
the functioning of rural financial markets in Thailand by increasing BAAC-s
on-lending rates relative to other rates. This would increase BAAC's
incentives to actively mobilize rural savings; partially correct the
existing distortions resulting from subsidized BAAC lending; improve the
competition in the supply of agricultural credit between BAAC and the
commercial banks; and strengthen BAAC financially, so that it is better able
to serve the needs of the rural people.
6.02      By providing medium- and long-term financing for the rural areas,
the proposed project would boost the level of economic activity in these
areas and thereby contribute toward job creation and raising rural produc-
tion and incomes. Since most of rural production is agriculture based, and
since much of the increased agricultural production would be exported, the
project would contribute toward improving Thailand's balance of payments
through increased agricultural exports. It is estimated that about 150,000
farmers would receive funds channeled through BAAC under the project,
including about 50,000 beneficiaries of IFAD funds in the North and Northeast.
6.03      The potential long-term benefits from the project's support of the
pilot scheme in the North and Northeast could be substantial. With improved
coordinated services between the agencies concerned with research, extension
and credit, the extensive transfer of yield-improving technology, which is
crucial to agricultural intensification, would be facilitated.



- 30 -
6.04      It has not been possible to make a fully quantitative assessment of
the benefits to be achieved under the project. However, several typical
investment models have been developed to measure benefits from some of the
subproject investments for agricultural development./l The models are shown
in Annex 2 and the rates of return are discussed in the following paragraph.
B. Rates of Return
6.05      The financial rates of return on five selected investment models
range from 16% to 26%. The economic rates of return range from 17% to 26%.
The results of sensitivity analysis on these models is presented in Annex 2,
Table 1. The net cash income after debt servicing appears to be satisfac-
tory for all the farm models. Income from these investments would typically
supplement income derived from the main agricultural activity such as rice
production. A summary of the estimated rates of return is presented in the
following table:
Table 6.1: RATES OF RETURN (ROR)
Subprojects              Financial      Economic
ROR (%)       ROR (%)
Draft Animals                23            24
Pig Breeding                 16            17
Pig Fattening                23            24
Duck Egg Production          21            21
Hen Egg Production           26            26
C. Risks
6.06      The level of risk associated with this project, in terms of dis-
bursement of funds, is low because of the broad range of subprojects to be
financed countrywide. However, if the ongoing worldwide recession persists,
it could have adverse effects on Thailand's agricultural growth, and hence
the demand for agricultural loans and loan repayment performance. The risks
common to all agricultural projects would include: failure to achieve
projected yields; changes in Government's agricultural policy affecting
prices, taxes and subsidies which would provide disincentives to farmers;
and deterioration in technical services.
/1 A detailed discussion of the investment models is contained in the
Project Files.



- 31 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      Assurances were obtained from the Government as Guarantor, that:
(a)  it would take all appropriate measures with respect to BAAC's lend-
ing rates for BAAC to fulfill its obligations pertaining to its
lending rates (para. 4.05); and
(b)  it would take all measures necessary to encourage agricultural
cooperatives to improve their repayment performance in respect
of BAAC-financed loans (para. 4.06).
7.02      Assurances were obtained from BAAC that:
(a)  in no instance would the total amount of subloans partially financed
out of the proceds of the Bank loan to any subborrower exceed
$217,000 equivalent (B 5 million). Assurances were also
obtained that BAAC would submit to the Bank for its prior approval
all subloans made out of the proceeds of the Bank loan for
subprojects exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 (B 2.3 million),
and furnish to the Bank the subproject proposal supported in
sufficient detail to satisfy the Bank that the proposed investment
is technically, financially, and economically sound (para. 3.07).
(b)  it would select training programs and participants in accordance
with procedures and criteria satisfactory to the Bank, and hire an
expert for the training workshop whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 3.10).
(c)  it would make project subloans in accordance with its current
lending terms and conditions, as they may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and BAAC (para. 4.04);
(d)  as an interim steps toward achieving the objective of becoming a
financially self-sustaining institution capable of mobilizing suffi-
cient domestic savings to meet adequately the legitimate credit
needs of its borrowers, BAAC would, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, adjust at least once annually and to the extent
necessary its lending rate to individual farmers such that:
(i) when the deposit rate is less than 7%, the BAAC lending rate
will be the deposit rate plus 6%;
(ii) when the deposit rate is 7% or more but less than 10%, the
lending rate will be at least 13%;
(iii) when the deposit rate is 10% or more but less than 14%, the
BAAC lending rate will be at least 14%; and
(iv) when the deposit rate is 14% or more, the BAAC lending rate
will be at least equal to the deposit rate (para. 4.05).



- 32 -
(e) the differential between BAAC's interest rate for individual
farmers' loans and its interest rates for all other types of loans
would not be greater than that existing during BAAC's FY82 (para.
4.05);
(f) it would:
(i)  not increase the credit line ceiling of those Grade 3 cooper-
atives with deteriorating performance;
(ii) in collaboration with the National Agricultural Cooperative
Training Institute (NACTI), design appropriate training pro-
grams for Grade 3 cooperatives not yet covered by the restruc-
turing program; and
(iii) make its best efforts to improve the rates of recovery from
cooperatives to which it makes subloans (para. 4.06).
(g) it would review its lending policy and activities affecting
cooperatives and discuss the implications of this review with the
Guarantor and the Bank by December 1, 1984 (para. 4.06); and
(h) it would:
(i)  maintain in accordance with sound accounting practices
separate project accounts;
(ii) have the project accounts audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with
appropriate auditing procedures consistently applied; and
(iii) submit to the Bank within six months of the end of every
fiscal year during project implementation a certified copy of
the auditor's report including a separate opinion by said
auditors in respect of disbursements made on the basis of
statements of expenditures (para. 4.07).
7.03      Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that:
(i) IFAD would appoint the Bank as Cooperating Institution to
administer the IFAD loan (para. 3.13); and
(ii) A Special Account would be established (para. 3.15).
7.04      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of $70 million, with a term of 20 years,
including a grace period of 6 years. The borrower would be the BAAC.



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES (BAAC) /1
Background and BAAC-s Role in the Thai Economy
1.        BAAC was established in 1966 under the Bank for Agriculture and
Agricultural Cooperatives Act, as a government-owned bank with a mandate to
supply credit for the development of the agricultural sector. BAAC's lending
activities are strictly limited to individual farmers, agricultural coopera-
tives and farmers' associations, and are based on regulations which specify
the types of borrowers, the purposes of loans, repayment periods, loan amount
ceilings and interest rates. BAAC is authorized to attract funds for its
operations by: (a) collecting deposits from the commercial banks and the
general public; (b) issuing negotiable instruments, such as bills and bonds;
and (c) borrowing from domestic or foreign sources. Total indebtedness from
borrowing and issuing negotiable instruments is not supposed to exceed twenty
times the paid-in share capital. The authorized share capital of BAAC is at
present fixed at B 4 billion ($174 million), divided into 40 million shares
at a par value of B 100 each. The shares are to be sold to the Ministry of
Finance (MOF), farmers, agricultural cooperatives, farmers' associations,
financial institutions and other persons subject to the Regulations of the
Bank (the latter two not exceeding 10% of the total paid-up share capital).
In FY81, the paid-up share capital was about $70 million.
2.        Today, BAAC is the single largest credit institution serving
farmers in Thailand. Commercial banks are now playing a far more significant
role in agricultural credit provision than previously, but the farmers they
serve are relatively better off. BAAC devotes most of its credit resources
to the middle-income and poorer farmers who are unable to acquire credit
through other institutional channels. BAAC's loan disbursements in FY80
totaled $463 million and the number of farmers benefiting from BAAC's credit
operations was about 2 million, representing about 40% of the total number of
farm families in Thailand. The volume of operations, nationwide coverage,
numbers of farmers served, diversity of support services, and potential abil-
ity to mobilize rural savings, make BAAC an extremely important institution
in the Thai agricultural economy. Changes in Government policy, particularly
regarding interest rates, would enable BAAC to develop into a sound,
financially viable institution that could even better serve the rural
economy.
/1 BAAC's fiscal year is April 1 to March 31. (FY81 runs from April 1, 1981
to March 31, 1982.) Prior to 1977, BAAC was on a calender year basis.



-   34                            ANNEX 1
Page 2
Institutional Aspects
3.        Organization and Management.  The activities of BAAC are
controlled by a Board of Directors consisting of 11 members. The Chairman
is the Minister of Finance and the Vice Chairman the Under-Secretary of
State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives (MOAC). Other members
are representatives from the Prime Minister's Office, Juridical Council,
MOF, MOAC, Agricultural Land Reform Office, Bank of Thailand (BOT), Budget
Bureau, Thai Bankers' Association, and the General Manager of BA.AC. The
main responsibility of the Board is to formulate the operating policies of
BAAC and to control and supervise its activities.
4.        BAAC's head office is in Bangkok.  It has 62 branches and 514 field
units all over the country. The General Manager is in charge of the
day-to-day operations and is assisted by two Deputy Directors. The head
office is responsible for planning, control, and general administration.
There are four departments (Planning, Loans, Banking and Accounting, and
General Administration) and two offices (Secretariat, and Audit and
Inspection). The branch offices are in charge of lending (appraisal, approval
within authorized limits, disbursement, supervision and collection) and
soliciting deposits. Under the direct control of branch offices, field
units assist borrowers in preparing loan applications, check their adherence
to loan conditions, particularly on use of funds and on repayment, and
provide borrowers with some technical advice. (See Charts 23893 and 23894
for the organizational set-up of BAAC's head office and branches,
respectively.)
5.        Staffing.  At present BAAC has a total staff of 4,757, of which
about 19% (911) are at the head office and 81% (3,846) are at the branches
and field units. In general, the staff are well qualified and of good
caliber. The managers of departments, divisions and branches are usually
university graduates, many of whom have had several years of experience in
other organizations. The salaries paid BAAC staff are commensurate with
other civil service salaries. Promotions are based on regular performance
evaluations, written tests and personality evaluations. Overall, BAAC is
administratively sound. Its organizational structure, staffing and systems
are in accordance with its requirements.
6.        Training.  Over the past few years, BAAC has devoted considerable
effort to staff training. The Training Division consists of four sections:
(a) General Administration; (b) Project Implementation; (c) Monitoring and
Evaluation; and (d) Planning and Design. The Training Division is advised
and assisted by an expatriate consultant, who was previously financed under
the Colombo Plan, but is now financed under the Bank's First Agricultural
Credit Project (Ln. 1816-TH). The training program for 1981/82 comprises
26 different short-term courses and seminars including overseas training,
covering a wide range of topics. The training programs at BAAC have been
quite successful and are considered adequate.



ANNEX 1
- 35             ~            Page 3
Operational Aspects
7.        Types of Loans, Regulations and Procedures.  BAAC provides loans
only for agricultural purposes, excluding agro-industries. Farmers who are
members of cooperatives are not entitled to borrow directly from BAAC. An
individual farmer must fulfill the following 10 criteria to be eligible to
register as a BAAC client: (a) have Thai nationality; (b) be at least 20
years old; (c) be a farmer; (d) have sufficient experience in agriculture;
(e) have permanent residence in the branch area; (f) regularly produce a
sufficient marketable surplus; (g) have an honest and good reputation; (h) be
of sound mind with no mental infirmity; (i) not be bankrupt or insolvent; and
(j) not have been previously expelled from being a BAAC client. Short-term
loans fall under two main categories: (a) short-term loans for agricultural
purposes; and (b) short-term loans for postponement of sale, which is provided
to assist farmers with their loan repayments and post-harvest household
expenses in the event that they are unwilling to sell their products soon
after harvest, due to severely depressed market prices. Short-term production
loans are based on credit needs per rai, fixed by crop, but adjusted to
reflect local conditions in provinces. Individual borrowers, who are unable
to provide collateral, are required to join a small informal guarantee group,
which enables BAAC to take advantage of the socio-economic sanctions arising
from the joint liability characteristics of these groups, particularly in the
case of repayment. Each member is liable for his/her own loan and for other
loans guaranteed by the group. The minimum group size is five. The maximum
loan amount per group member is B 30,000 ($1,304), but not exceeding 60% of
the value of the expected marketable surplus produced. For loans between
B 30,000 ($1,304) and B 1,000,000 ($43,478) the farmer is required to mortgage
his assets with BAAC. The interest on these loans is 14% with a repayment
period of 1 to 1/2 years. Mediumrterm loans are provided mainly for purchase
of farm machinery and equipment, draught animals, land and refinancing of old
debt. The security requirements and interest rate charged are the same as for
short-term loans. The loan repayment period is 3-5 years. Long-term loans
are provided for refinancing old debt and long-term investments in agricul-
ture. For investment in agriculture, repayment is by installment with a
repayment period of up to 20 years, and farmers must submit detailed invest-
ment proposals for BAAC's consideration. Farmers are also required to furnish
an equity contribution of at least 20% of the project's total investment
costs, and are required to mortgage their fixed assets with BAAC. Loans for
refinancing old debt are provided to enable farmers to repurchase or redeem
previously owned land, which has been mortgaged or forfeited to private
moneylenders. Government committees assist BAAC in screening farmers who
apply for this type of loan.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
8.        Loans to Agricultural Cooperatives and Farmers  Associations.
Miost of BAAC's loans to cooperatives and associations are made available
under credit line agreements extended for five and three years, respec-
tively, and renewed annually; these loans therefore function in a manner
similar to a revolving fund. However, BAAC stipulates the amount to be used
for short-term and for medium-term investments respectively. The loan
purposes include: (a) on-lending to members in the form of short- and
medium-term loans for agricultural purposes; (b) purchase of produce from
members; and (c) purchases of farm inputs and supplies sold to members. The
limit on the amount of loans is 12 times the owned funds for cooperatives
and 10 times for associations. BAAC also provides a small amount of
long-term loans for construction of cooperative-owned facilities such as
rice mills and storage facilities.  Interest rates to cooperatives and
associations vary from 6% to 10%.  Table 1 summarizes the terms and
conditions of BAAC's ongoing term lending.
9.         In addition to its regular loan operations, BAAC provides credit
to a sizeable portion of the farming population under special area develop-
ment projects, in cooperation with several Government agencies. These
special projects include new village development, land consolidation, acidic
soils improvement in land reform areas, oil palm promotion and shrimp
farming. In FY80, BAAC also initiated a new program of credit in kind, to
provide farmers with quality inputs at reasonable prices. About 46,000
farmers were issued order forms in lieu of loans and, upon submission of
these forms to designated local merchants, were provided with the desired
inputs. The selection of inputs has been based on technology packages
designed for specific crops in selected areas. This scheme has benefited
farmers in remote rural areas, where the timely supply of inputs of reliable
quality and reasonable prices has been a serious problem in the past.
10.       Credit Operations.  Over the past four years,  BAAC's agricultural
credit operations have grown at an annual rate of about 20%, with loans
disbursed increasing from about $189 million in 1976 to $463 million in
FY81. In FY81, disbursements to individual farmers were $348 million (75%
of the total), to cooperatives $112 million (24% of the total) and to
associations $4 million (1% of the total). There has been no significant
change in the proportion of loan disbursements between these categories over
the past few years. Short-term loans to individual farmers accounted for
55% of the total loan disbursements in FY81. Table 2 shows the loan
disbursements by type and maturity from 1976 to FY81 and Table 3 shows the
breakdown by region.
11.       One of the most striking features of BAAC-s credit operations is
its remarkably wide coverage. The following table shows the number of
farmers serviced by BAAC directly or through cooperatives and associations:



- 37 -                         ANNEX I
Annual
growth
1977     1978     1979      1980      1981    rate
---------------    ( 000)    -------------- -  (%)
Number of farmers
registered with BAAC      702      780      886       960     1,038    10.3
Members of agricultural
cooperatives serviced
by BAAC                   598      674      731       774       792     9.8
Members of Farmers'
Associations
serviced by BAAC          297      284      274       254       230    (6.0)
Total number of
farmers receiving
credit directly or
indirectly from
BAAC                  1,597    1,738    1,891    1,988      2,060
12.       At present about 2 million farm families have benefited from
BAAC's operations. This represents about 40% of the number of farm families
in Thailand. (Note, however, that once a farmer registers with BAAC, it is
not clear to what extent he continues to borrow in later years.) It is
estimated that about 60% of the total number of farmers registered with BAAC
live in the North and Northeast, which are the poorest regions of Thailand.
It is difficult to estimate the number of small farmers who are benefici-
aries of BAAC's credit operations. The Bank's First Agricultural Credit
Project finances BAAC's ongoing term lending in the North and Northeast, and
it is estimated that about 60% of these loans are extended to small
farmers.11
/1 A small farmer is defined as a person, primarily engaged in farming
activities who farms a holding smaller than the average-sized holding in
the particular province.



- 38 -                        ANNEX I
Page 6
Financial! Aspects
13.       Financial Position.  BAAC-s financial structure as of March 31,
1982 was as follows:
Amount
Source                       (million baht)            x
Own capital funds                 2,182                11
Deposits from general public   3,221                   16
Deposits from commercial
banks                          8,181                 41
Borrowings                        2,422                12
Notes payable                    3,500                 17
Others                              544                 3
Total                         20,050                100
As shown above, the bulk of BAAC's sources comes from the compulsory deposits
of the commercial banks. Since 1975, most of the increase in BAAC-s assets
has been funded by these deposits and subsidized loans from the BOT, namely
captive sources, with negative consequences for new deposit mobilization,
efficiency of overall financial intermediation and burden on scarce public
resources (see Figure 1.1).
14.       From FY77 to FY81, BAAC-s total assets grew at an average annual
rate of 20%, and reached B 20.2 billion in March 1982. Total current
assets, excluding the current portion of the loan portfolio, increased
during the same period to about B 7.0 billion at an average annual rate of
about 29%. The loan portfolio (net of provisions for bad debt) increased at
an annual average rate of 16% from B 7.4 billion in FY77 to B 13.5 billion
in FY81. The rapid growth in borrowings from the BOT and foreign sources,
and increases in deposits, supported the growth of BAAC-s portfolio, raising
the total debt/equity ratio from 5.0:1 in FY77 to 7.7:1 in FY81. During the
same period, the current ratio increased from 3.2:1 to 3.5:1. Total equity
as a percent of total assets declined from 16.7% in FY77 to 10.8% in FY81.
In the future, given the high risks and costs involved in BAAC-s lending,
its equity capital would have to increase to enable it to expand its
operations. Table 4 shows BAAC-s comparative balance sheets for the past
five years.
15.       Financial Performance.  BAAC-s gross income increased from B 901
million in FY77 to B 2.3 billion in FY81. The interest expenses during the



FIGURE  1.1
BAAC: CAPTIVE SOURCES OF FUNDING
|   _        AS PERCEN OF LO,WrS O    Noj m)t
...-,...I.s s...... AS RIXcINT CF  UE taE  DTS 3.RZN'rs
-_ ------- \LLEU=rO
200.0-                                                                                   -  200.0
150.0                                                    ,                                  150.0
IQ0.0  ------------------------------------------..-                                    -   100.0 
50.0                                                                                   -  50.0
o. 0              L. o
0.0-f'-                                                           --0.
-50.0                                                                                     -50.0
-IG0.0                                            .                                                   -wX--100.0 i
70     71      72      73      7i      75      7 6     77      78      79     80                                          fD@ 
U;Xl $  .wig a  S'6 NOD U',.o   CA.&'



ANNEX 1
- 40 -                      Page 8
same period increased from B 512 million (57% of gross income) to B 1,393
million (61% of gross income) and the net income increased from B 52 million
to B 132 million. The net income figures shown, however, do not accurately
reflect the true income situation of BAAC. Firstly, BAAC is heavily
dependent on the BOT's rediscounting facilities, with subsidized interest
rates of 1%-3.5%, to enable it to make a profit. Secondly, in FY31 the
potential loss due to the devaluation of the Baht against foreign currencies
amounted to B 140 million. If this were reflected in the income statement,
there would be a net loss of B 3 million. In order to improve BAAC-s
financial performance, its interest rate levels for lending should be
increased, and it should not be made to bear the foreign exchange risk.
Table 5 shows BAAC's comparative income statements from 1976 to FY81, and
Table 6 shows BAACGs income, expenses and net profit as a percentage of
average total assets.
16.       Loan Repayments.  Individual Loans:  Over the past three years
BAAC-s loan collection performance has remained more or less the same
as can be seen in Table 7. In FY81, the repayment rate for individual loans
was 78% for short-term and 62% for medium-and long-term, resulting in an
overall repayment rate of 73%. The higher repayment rate for short-term
loans is attributed to two main reasons. First, if a farmer, who has taken
out both short- and medium/long-term loans, has difficulties in meeting his
repayment obligations, then BAAC requests that payment of the short-term loan
take precedence over the other term loans. Second, the close mutual
supervision amongst short-term loan borrower members of joint liability
groups ensures that the repayment rate for their loans is high. Table 3
shows the aging of loan amounts in arrears. In FY80, the accumulated amount
of principal in arrears for three years and over was only 1.9%'o of the total
amount of the outstanding principal. A fair portion of the amount in arrears
was repaid after one year. The amount of write-offs appear to be negligible.
The reasons for the failures to repay are difficult to establish. BAAC-s
annual reports give statistical analyses of reasons for non-repayment for the
different types of loans. The reasons it gives for nonr-repayment include:
(a) crop losses and misuse of loan proceeds; (b) willful default; (c)
unexpected household expenses; (d) low proceeds from sale of products; (e)
loss of assets due to legal suits; (f) heavy in debt to other creditors; and
(g) other reasons.
17.       Institutional Loans:  The repayment of loans from cooperatives and
associations is at a critically low level, especially the short-term loans
for orr-lenling to members. In FYSO, the repayment rate from cooperatives and
associations was estimated to be about 45% and 35%, respectively.  In the
case of cooperatives, this poor repayment performance can be attributed to a
number of reasons, including lack of a concerted effort to recover past due
loans from members, lack of attention to internal auditing, and the poor
example set by many of the cooperatives' administrators. In FY30, BAAC had
reports of financial mismanagement and corruption in 173 of 822 cooperatives
that borrow from BAAC. Of these cooperatives, 140 had taken or were in the
process of taking corrective measures, BAAC had recalled the loans of 14, and



ANNEX 1
- 41 -                          Page 9
3 had been taken to court to face legal action.  With regard to BAAC's
requirement that cooperatives repay an amount not less than 80% of the
members repayments, only 54% of the cooperatives whose loans to members
matured during the year, were able to comply. The Bank's Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan 1816-TH) finances consultants to assist in a program of
strengthening the cooperative system through the restructuring of
cooperatives in poor financial condition. It is hoped that with the
training and corrective measures introduced, the repayment performance of
cooperatives would improve. The poor repayment performance of farmers
associations is due to mismanagement of funds and corruptions. BAAC has had
to resort to recalling loans and filing suit in court against some of the
associations.
Issues and Future Outlook
18.       BAAC is a well-managed bank within the rules and interest rate
regime imposed on it by the Government. However, major improvements could be
made toward making BAAC a financially self-sustaining institution, thus
enabling it to better serve the needs of the rural people. The principal
problem facing BAAC is the artificially low interest rates at which it is
required to make its loans. Despite the fact that BAAC's rates were allowed
to increase by 1% in April 1982, the rates are still too low. The case for
allowing BAAC to charge a higher than the presently mandated rate is
supported by several factors. The argument of offseting agricultural taxes
by providing a subsidy elsewhere is simply a case for causing distortions
twice over, with added administrative problems and associated costs. If
agricultural taxes are considered to be an undue burden on the farmers, they
should be reduced rather than an attempt being made to offset that burden by
providing a subsidy in the form of lower interest rates. There exists an
informal financial market approximately equal in size to the formal
institutional market, where interest rates are reportedly in the range of
2-5% per month. The existence of such a large informal market and such high
interest rates means that the genuine demand for credit is not being met by
competitive institutional sources and that borrowers are in fact able and
willing to pay significantly higher rates than mandated for BAAC. An
increase in BAAC-s lending rate is also necessary if it is to start actively
seeking rural deposits for which it is uniquely qualified. To date, BAAC
has had no incentive to mobilize rural savings, particularly time deposits,
for which it must pay 13-14%.
19.       BAAC's loan recoveries have been extremely poor in the case of
cooperatives and farmers associations. Improvements would have to be made
in this area if BAAC is to be financially viable.



THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BAAC - Terms and Conditions of Ongoinig Lending Programn /a
Maximum
Interest /b      Term
Type of loan                 Purpose                  Maximumn loan amount                        Collateral            rate p.a.      (years)        Approval authority
Individual Farmers
Short-term              Marketing        For all short- and medium-term loans:         Pledging of produce and  14%                  1-1 1/2  For all loans (excluding
(1) B 30,000 per borrower under group           group guarantee                                      refinancing):
guarantee
Agricultural    (2) B I million per borrower who mortga-  Group guarantee and/or                                       -Branch manager, up to
production            ges fixed assets                            collateral                                              B 80,000
(3) Up to 60%, in exceptional cases 80%,
Medium-term             Draft animals,        of the marketable surplus for agri-   Same as above                  14%                 3-5    -Deputy General Manager,
pumps, etc.           cultural production loans                                                                           B 80,000 to B I million
Long-term               Agricultural    Up to 80% of the appraised investment           Mortgage of fixed          14%-<B 300,000   15-20   -General Manager, B I to
investments      cost                                             assets plus sureties   15%-B 300,000-                   B 2 million
if necessary                 B 600,000
16%->B 600,000             -Board of Directors, over
B 2 million
Refinancing of  B 40,000                                        Same as above              14%                10-12                                             >
old debt                                                                                                                                                        K
Agricultural Coopera-
tives
Cash credit (renewed  Onlending to    B 3 million; 12 times the equity of               Mortgage of immovable    11% (compound)          5     All loan approval author-
every five years)   members            coops after 3 years of operation                 property                                             ity rests with Head Office
as follows:
Purchase of      6 times equity                                 Same as above               6%                  1
inputs                                                                                                                 -General Manager, up to
B 2 million
Marketing        80% of value of pledged produce and            Pledge of produce and    14% (compound)         I
B 5 million                                     mortgage of immovable                                -Board of Directors, over
property                                                B 2 million
Long-term               Investments In  B 10 million                                    Mortgage of immovable    11%                  15- 20
agriculture                                                       property plus equity
contribution of 20%
of investment costs
Farmers Associations
Cash credit             Onlending to    10 times equity                                 Mortgage of immovable    11% (compound)         3      Same as above.
members                                                           property
Purchase of      4 times equity                                 Same as above               6%                  1
inputs
Long-term               Investments in  B 5 million                                     Same as above              llX                15-20                                           r ts
agriculture                                                                                                                                                  A 
/a  Commencing April 1, 1982.
/b Simple interest unless otherwise stated.



THA r1.AND
SECONI) AGRICULTIJRAL CREDIT PROJECT
BAAC:  Loans Disbursed by Maturity/Type /a
(Amotunts in B million)
Actuial                                                     Projections
1976       1977/78       1078/79        1979/80       1980/81       19R1/82       19882/83      1983/84        1984/85
Ant.   =t   Amt.            kn Amt.   4    Amtt.    %    mt.    7    Amt.    7    Amt.    1    Amt.                       , Amt.    '
Individual Farmers
Short-term loans       1,951         2,603         2,966         3,660         4,136           5,845         6,64R         7 ,505        8,411
Medium-term loans    1,160           1,241          1,468         1,551         1,254          1,285         1,246          1,407         1,577
Long-term loans          123           17(1          443           725            560            871         1,170)        1,454          1,734
Subtotal            3,234   75  4,014   73  4,877    73  5,936   75  5,950   7?   8,001  75   9,064  71   10,366  72  11,722  73
Cooperatives
OTlIending to mem-
bers /b                691         1,069         1,407         1,573         1,7'00         2,029          2,146         2,278         2,417
Puirchasing of
agric. inputs           51           101            122           165           176            187           301           3(0            300                         1
Marketing                   1             2            79           113           1l/4            110           116           122           128                         w
Long-term loans /c        72             36            33             3             2               1            11            15           15
Suibtotal             815    19  1,2(8   23  1,641    24  1,854    23  1,992   27    2,327  22   2,574  2(    2,715   19   2,860   18
Farmers' Associations
Onlending to mem-
bers /b                282           256            179           163            88             80             74            69            64
Purchasing of
agric. inpuits            6             7             4             2             2               1             3             3             3
Long-term loanis /c        -              I             -             -             -              -              4             1              9
Su1htotal             288     6    264      4     183     3     165     2       90     1       81    1       81    1        73    1       68    1
Special Governiment
Projects                    -             -             -             -           253            249    2    1,051)   8    1,2(0   8   1,35()   8
Total               4,337   lO  5,486  100  6,71)1 lO   7,955  10O  8,285  100  10,658                  12,769        14,354        16,000
/a  1976 is on a calendar y"ar basis; from 1977 onwards, it is a fiscal year basis (April 1 to March 31).   1977/78 covers
a 15-moith )period.
/b  For relending as short- and medium-term  loans.
Tc  For inivestments In fixed assets, mainlv rice mills and storage godowns.
X Z
v z5



-44 -                                     ANNEX 1
Table 3
THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BAAC Loan Disbursements to Individual Farmers,
Classified by Type and Region - 1980/81
(Amounts in B million)
North    Northeast   Central       South       Total
-Amt. -%- -Amt.F %    Amt.  %    Amt.  %    Amt. Z
Short-Term Loans
Crops - Rice                          545         406         716         261      1,928
- Cassava                         6         410         159          18        593
- Maize                         207         112         140          3         462
- Others                        219         103          91        311         724
Subtotal                           977       1,031       1,106         593      3,707
Livestock, poultry, dairying           76          85          64         156         381
Marine, fishing, sericulture             1          -          22          22          45
Other                                   -           -           2           1           3
Total                            1,054  25  1,116  27  1,194  29    772  19  4,136  100
MediumrTerm Loans
Investment in buildings and
farm equipment                       60          14         126        151         351
Investment in land for
agriculture                          88          25         103         186        402
investment in livestock               120         192          48          46         406
Other                                   2           2          31          60          95
Total                              270  22    233  19    308  24    443  35  1,254  100
Long-Term Loans
Investment in buildings and
5arm equipment                       60          20          64          47        191
Investment in land for
agriculture                          46          12          83         111        252
Investment in livestock                23          50          12          10          95
Other                                   2           6           8           6          22
Total                              131  24      88  16    167  30    174  31    560  100
GRAND TOTAL                      1,455  25  1,437  24  1,669  28  1,389  23  5,950  100



- 45 -                                   ANNEX I
Tahle 4
THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BAAC:  Comparative Balance Sheet, 1977/78 - 1981/82
(B million)
Actual
1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82
Assets
Cash on hand and due from banks/a             2,262      3,571      3,838      5,035      6,353
Government bond                                                        80      1,825         59
Other                                            65         24         34        1l1        137
Subtotal                                  2,327      3,595      3,952      6,971      6,549
Loans to cooperatives                         2,536      3,008      3,263      3,615     4,098
Loans for farmers' associations                 521        482        464        415        362
Accrued interest                                 41         32         37         47         46
Less:  Provision for doubtful debt             (145)      (306)      (431)      (505)      (537)
Institutional Loans Outstanding           2,953      3,216      3,333      3,572      3,969
Loans to individual farmers                   4,403      5,680      6,944      7,317     8,993
Accrued Interest                                306        408        468        549        729
Less:  Provision for doubtful debt             (207)      (241)      (339)      (396)      (568)
Individual Loans Outstanding              4,502      5,847      7,073      7,470      9,154
Fixed assets less depreciation                  124        152        183        243        310
Provision for exchange rate fluctuation           -          -          -        171        200
Total Assets                              9,q06    12,810    14,541    18,427    20,182
Liabilities and Equity
Liabilities
Savings deposits                              281       431         509       510      1,013
Time deposits                              1,298      1,591      1,445      1,791      2,205
Other deposits                                284        145         36          -          3
Deposits from commercial banks              4,539      5,586     6,401      7,187      8,181
Other liahilities                             127         66        133       137        300
Accrued interest payable                      168        189        109       142        256
Subtotal                                  6,697      8,008      8,633      9,767    11,958
BOT rediscount                             1,006      1,990      2,500      4,500      3,500
Long-term borrowing                           544        954     1,413      2,034      2,410
Total Liabilities                         8,247    10,952    12,546    16,301    17,868
Equity
Paid-up capital                            1,300      1,420      1,490      1,541      1,605
Reserves                                       57         57         57         57         57
Accumulated profit                            302        381        448        440        520
Unappropriated profit                           -          -          -         88       132
Total Equity                              1,659      1,858      1,995      2,126      2,314
Total Liabilities and Equity              9,906    12,810    14,541    18,427    20,182
Estimated current ratio lb                      3.2:1      3.5:1      4.2:1      4.9:1      3.5:1
Total debt/equity                               5.0:1      5.9:1      6.3:1      7.7:1      7.7:1
/a  The average during the year is substantially lower than shown here.  This is because
the CBs deposit their funds between December and March and BAAC deposits them back
with the CBs temporarily until funds are needed for loan disbursements in the spring.
/b  Current assets includes an estimate of loans maturing within one year and culrreat
liahilities excludes interbank deposits.
Source: BAAC



46                                  ANNEX 1
Table5
T TMAILANTD
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BAAC: C. oarativelncome Statements, 1976/77 to 1981/82 /a
(B million)
1976  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82
income
Interest earned on:
Loans to cooperatives and
associations                206    261        319       347       369       453
Loans to individual groups  380    546           704      856    1,036    1,264
Deposits                       23      76        152      207       283       462
Government bonds                -       -          -        68       87        87
Miscellaneous income               1     18          3         4         7       27
Total                        610    901      1,178    1,482    1,782    2,293
Expenses
Interest paid on:
Borrowings                     53      66        105       130       81       143
Deposits - General public  }286   }446           116       177      216       313
- Commercial banks}           }        417       558      791       937
Administrative expenses         173    208         259       320      475       564
Provision for bad debt           84    129         196       222      131       204
Total                        596    849      1,093    1,407    1,694    2,161
Net Income                    14      52         85       75        88       132
/a  1976 is on a calendar year basis; from 1977 onwards, BAAC changed to a fis-
cal year basis (April to March 31).



- 47                                 ANNEX I
Table 6
THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BAAC's Income and Expenses as a Percent of
Average Total Assets, 1977/78 - 1981/82
1977/78   1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82
Baht million -
Average total assets                8,688    11,358    13,675    16,484    19,312
--- % of average total assets ----
Interest earned:
Loans                             9.29       9.01      8.80       8.52      8.89
Deposits                           0.87      1.34      1.51       1.72       2.39
Government bonds                  -          -          0.50      0.53       0.45
Miscellaneous income               0.21      0.03       0.03      0.04       0.14
Total Income                  10.37      10.37     10.84      10.81     11.87
Interest paid:
Borrowings                        0.76       0.92      0.95       0.49      0.74
Deposits - general public          5.13      1.02       1.29      1.31       1.62
Deposits - commercial banks                  3.67       4.08      4.80       4.85
Total Interest Paid            5.89       5.62      6.33       6.60      7.21
Gross Margin                   4.48       4.75      4.51       4.21      4.66
Administrative expenses              2.39      2.28       2.34      2.88       2.92
Provision for bad debt               1.48      1.73       1.62      0.80       1.06
Subtotal                       3.87       4.01      3.96       3.68      3.98
Net income before provision
for exchange rate risks           0.60       0.75      0.55       0.53      0.68
Provision for exchange rate
risks                             -          -         -          1.04      1.04
Net Income                     0.60       0.75      0.55      (0-51)    (0.36)



THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BAAC:  Repayment Performance (Principal)
($ million)
FY79                           FY80                             FY81
Repayment                       Repayment                       Repayment
Matured  Repaid   rate (%)   Matured  Repaid   rate (%)   Matured  Repaid   rate (%)
Loans to Individual Farmers
Short-term loans                   4,004    3,171       79         4,807    3,850       80         5,919   4,635         78
Medium-term loans                  1,969    1,284       65         2,085    1,370       66         2,057   1,253          61
Long-term loans: Refinancing          69        33      48            74        38      51             75      36        48
Investment /a    263        176      67           444       306      69            598     390         65
Subtotal                        6,305    4,664       74         7,410    5,564       75         8,649   6,314         73           1
Loans to Cooperatives
Onlending to members /b            3,604    1,311       36         3,868    1,576       41         4,404   1,560         35
Other                                302       290      96           349       328      94           560      543        97
Subtotal                        3,906    1,601.    41           4,217    1,904       45         4,964   2,103         42
Loans to Associations
Onlending to members /b              478       178      37           364       133      36           277      135        49
Other                                  4         3      75             4         2      50              3        2       67
Subtotal                          482       181      38           368       135     36            280      137        49
Total                          10,693    6,446       60        11,995    7,603       63        13,893   8,554         h2
/a Does not include principal deferred.
lb Members loani principal matured.
>l z



THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Aging of Arrears of Individual Loans as of March 31, 1982
(B million)
/b
Short-term loans    Medium-term loans    Long-term loans             Total loans
Arrears               Arrears               Arrears              Arrears
(amount)  % /a        (amount)  % /a        (amount)  x /a       (amount)  % /a
Number of Years
in Arrears
1                                      829    18.7           275    10.4           34.7       -         1,139   12.7
2                                      179      4.1           122     4.6           4.7       -           306    3.4
3                                      114      2.6            69     2.6           0.9       -           184    2.1
4                                       86      1.9            30     1.1           0.1       -           116    1.3
5                                       41      0.9             7     0.3           1.2       -            49    0.5
6                                       12      0.3             3     0.1           -         -            15    0.2
7                                         5     0.0             2     0.1           -         -             7    0.1
8                                         2     0.0             1     0.0           -         -             3    0.0
9                                         2     0.0             I     0.0           -         -              3    0.0
Over 10                                      14      0.3            9      0.3          -         -             23    0.3
Total                                   1,284    28.8           519    19.5          41.6       -         1,845   20.5
Up to 3 years in arrears                     1,122    25.4           466    17.6           40.3       -         1,629   18.2
Greater than 3 years in arrears                162      3.4            53     1.9           1.3      -            216    2.3
/a Arrears as % of principal outstanding.
/b Includes loans for refinancing of old debt and investments in agriculture.
F3 :b-
aM
O0 F



- 50-                                   ANEX 1
Table 9
THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BAAC: Projected Sources and Uses of Funds, 1982/83 to 1985/86
(B million)
1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86
Uses of Funds
Loan disbursements                      12,769      14,354      16,000      17,556
Incremental fixed assets                   310         150         150         150
Debt repayment                               26         52          78          89
Total Uses                           13,105      14,556      16,228     17,795
Sources of Funds
Loan repayment                          10,516      11,937      13,329      14,789
Incremental deposits                     1,444       1,450       1,450       1,450
Net income from operations /a               170         67          30         (74)
Drawdown on cash                            599        122         129         223
Incremental long-term borrowings /b        276           -           -           -
Increase in share capital                  100         100         100         100
Subtotal                             13,105      13,676-    15,038      16,488
Additional fitance needed covered by
proposed project loan for FY83/84          -         880       1,190       1,307
Total Sources                        13,105      14,556      16,228     17,795
/a Net interest income less other operating expenses.
/b OECF, Bank - Loan 1816-TH, etc.



-51-                                       ANNEX 1
Table 10
THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Indicators of BAAC and Three Selected Commercial Banks
Thai            Krung
BAAC          Bangkok Bank       Farmers Bank       Thai Bank
FY79    FY80      FY79      FY80     FY79    FY80      FY79    FY80
--------------------------- (B million) ---------------------------
Average All Funds              13,675  16,484   104,925  113,013   27,582  34,976   35,369  43,605
Average Net Equity              1,927   2,060      5,556    6,117    1,758   1,998    2,099   2,444
Average Total Liabilities      11,749  14,424    99,369  107,176   25,824  32,978   33,271  41,161
Average Deposits                8,072   8,939    65,777   74,205   21,352  26,716   27,056  30,339
Average Loans (outstanding)/a 11,260  12,980    84,110   89,280   20,478  24,057   23,822  26,990
Revenues:
Interest and discounts on
loans                       1,203   1,405    10,462   13,648    2,458   3,640    2,589   3,969
Total revenues                1,482   1,782    11,934   15,647    3,012   4,753    3,313   4,785
Expenses:
Interest and discount
(deposits)                    735   1,007     5,291    7,917    1,483   2,730    1,794   2,874
Financial costs (interest
on borrowings, deposits,
taxes, fees, etc.)            865   1,008     8,415   11,442    1,854   3,365    2,183   3,557
Administration (including
bad debt, exchange risk,
etc.)                         542     606     2,218    2,765       735     899       739     843
Total costs (excl. taxes)    1,407   1,694    10,633   14,207    2,589   4,264    2,922   4,400
Dividends                         -       -        341      510      120      143      111     162
Financial costs & dividends    865   1,088      8,756   11,952    1,974   3,507    2,294   3,719
Net profit after tax             75      88        862      881      307      322      253     187
_  _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _ _ _ _ _ _  ( %.)  ______________________________
Interest on Loan/Average
Loans                          10.7    10.8       13.5     15.3     12.0    15.1      10.9    14.7
Total Income/Average Total
Assets                         10.8    10.8       12.3     13.8     10.9    13.6       9.4    11.0
Interest on Deposits/Average
Deposits                        9.1    11.3        8.4     10.7      6.9    10.2       6.6     9.5
Financial Costs/Average
Liabilities                     7.4     7.5        9.1     10.7      7.2    10.2       6.6     8.6
Dividends/Average Net
Equity                            -       -        6.7      8.7      6.8      7.1      5.3     6.6
Financial Costs & Dividends/
Total Assets                    6.3     6.6        9.0     10.6      7.2    10.0       6.5     8.5
Total Costs/Total Assets          3.0     3.1        1.6      1.7       1.8     1.8      1.5      1.5
Net Profit after Tax/Net         10.3    10.3       10.9     12.6      9.4    12.2       8.3    10.1
Equity                          3.9     4.3       16.9     15.1     17.5    16.1      12.1     7.7
/a  In the case of BAAC, calculated by adding monthly principals and dividing by 12.



52 -                                           ANNEX 1
Table 11
THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Average Financial Situation of BAAC Client Farmers, Classified by Region
(Baht)
North-
Item                 Northern   Eastern   Central   Eastern   Western   Southern            Total
Region    Region    Region    Region    Region           Region
(1) Total Assets                     164,545   125,817   195,953   228,170    149,474   149,474           165,825
(2) Current Assets                    11,670    15,093       15,909     11,669    21,987      12,897       14,590
Cash and deposit                5,264       4,891      4,999      8,295     10,114       6,916       5,886
Crops for sale                  4,603       7,934      7,728      1,678      4,314       3,015       5,863
Livestock for sale               1,686      2,102      2,602      1,275      6,887       2,752       2,563
Unused inputs                      117        166        580        421         672        214          278
(3) Operating assets                  55,285    44,823    72,673    97,705    76,522    41,516             56,916
Draft animals - value           6,479    10,163        3,954      5,355      3,376       3,961       6,762
- head          (1.4)      (2.6)      (0.8)      (1.1)       (0.8)      (1.5)        (1.6)
Breeding animals                1,888       2,306      1,611      1,234      3,379       1,286       2,067
Farm machinery                 11,829       4,642     16,918    29,467    24,718         8,387      11,867
House/buildings                35,n89    27,712       50,190    61,649    45,049    27,882          36,220
(4) Fixed assets                      97,590    65,901    107,371    118,796   151,666        95,061       94,319
Land - value                   85,618    59,023    96,710    102,486   138,353    85,628            83,987
- area (rai)              (20.98)    (26.25)    (16.01)  (26.09)       (22.83)    (19.96)      (22.43)
Others                         11,972       6,878     10,661     16,310      13,313     11,433      10,332
(5) Liabilities                       10,812      6,233     15,060      15,642    27,553       9,173       11,590
In debt to BAAC                 9,185       5,792     11,464     12,269     15,095       7,917       8, 962
In debt to other
financial institutions          410          67        156        737      5,389         112         739
In debt to private
creditors                     1,217         374      3,440      2,636      7,069       1,144       1,889
Net assets (1) - (5)        153,733   119,584   180,893   212,528   222,622    140,301           154,235
(6) Net capital ratio (1)-t(5)         15.22      20.18       13.01      14.59       9.08      16.29        14.31
Liabilities in year prior
to registration               1,007         173      2,614      2,033      3,059         853       1,189
Source:  BAAC Annual Report 1979 (February 1980 prices).



53 -ANNEX 1
Table 12
THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Rural Deposits at Financial Institutions, 1972-78
(Million baht; %)
Commercial    Government                Finance /a               Annual rate
banks       Savings Bank    BAAC    companies        Total      of growth
1972        14,887         4,201          292          -        19,380
(76.8)        (21.6)        (1.6)                  (100.0)
1973        18,649         5,500          359        151        24,659         27.2
(75.6)        (22.3)        (1.4)      (0.7)       (100.0)
1974       25,411          6,533          651        216        32,811         33.0
(77.4)        (19.9)        (2.0)      (0.7)       (100.0)
1975       30,715          6,763        1,175        324        38,977         18.8
(78.8)        (17.4)        (3.0)      (0.8)       (100.0)
1976       39,218          7,646        1,362        449        48,675         24.8
(80.6)        (15.7)        (2.8)      (0.9)       (100.0)
1977       47,550          8,693        1,758        533        58,534         20.2
(81.2)        (14.9)        (3.0)      (0.9)       (100.0)
1978        57,507         9,788        1,995        719        70,009         19.6
(82.2)        (14.0)        (2.8)      (1.0)       (100.0)
/a  Includes only those finance companies which have their head office outside
Bangkok.
Source: Bank of Thailand.



- 54 -                              ANNEX 1
Table 13
THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Credit of Financial Institutions in Rural Areas, 1972-78
(Million baht; %)
Commercial                              Finance                    Annual rate
banks          BAAC       IFCT       companies       Total        of growth
1972     6,212            896       N/A          N/A           7,108           -
(87.4)        (12.6)                                (100.0)
1973     7,471          1,023       175          N/A           8,669          22.0
(86.2)        (11.8)      (2.0)                     (100.0)
1974     9,904          1,736       304          N/A          11,944          37.8
(82.9)        (14-5)      (2.6)                     (100.0)
1975    13,542         3,355        293          N/A          17,190          43.9
(78.8)        (19.5)      (1.7)                     (100.0)
1976    20,561         4,337        291           535        25,724          (46.5)/a
(79.9)        (16.9)      (1.2)        (2.0)        (100.0)
1977    30,391          5,067        210          673         36,341          41.2
(83.6)        (13-9)      (0.6)        (1.9)        (100.0)
1978    40,952/b        6,107       860          976          48,895          34.5
(83.7)        (12.5)      (1.8)        (2.0)        (100.0)
/a  Excluding finance companies, for purposes of comparison.
/b November figures.
Source: Bank of Thailand.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Summary of Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Financial   Economic        Switching values /a
rate of   rate of              Investment  Operating
Farm models           return      return   Benefits    costs       costs
_______________________    (%)  -----------------------
Draft animal              23          24       -29         77         83
Duck egg production       21          21        -5         39           6
Hen egg production        26          26       -11        118          14
Pig fattening operation   23          24        -5         70           6
Pig breeding operation    16          17        -7         29          11
/a Percentage change beyond which the financial rate of return would be
below 12%.



- 5 6 -                             ANNEX 2
Table 2
THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices of Selected Project Outputs
(Baht)
1982                          1997 /a
Commodity          Unit       Financial       Economic        Financial       Economic
Buffalo            head         8,000            7,360          8,000           7,360
Cull buffalo       head         6,000            5,520          6,000           5,520
Calf               head         3,000            2,760          3,000           2,760
Finished pig       kg            25.0             23.0           25.0            23.0
Cull sow           kg            20.0             18.4           20.0            18.4
Cull boar          head         3,000            2,760          3,000           2,760
Weaner             head            760             644            700             644
Day-old chick      head          10.0              9.2           10.0             9.2
Cull hen           head          27.5             25.3           27.5            25.3
Hen egg            egg            1.4              1.3            1.4             1.3
Day-old duck       head          10.0              9.2           10.0             9.2
Cull duck          head          55.0             50.6           55.0            50.6
Duck egg           egg             1.4             1.3            1.4             1.3
/a In constant 1982 prices.



THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Cash Flow and Financing - Draft Animal (Buffalo & Cow) Model /a
(Baht)
Yr 0    Yr I    Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr 5    Yr 6    Yr 7    Yr 8    Yr 9   Yr 10   Yr 11   Yr 12   Yr 13   Yr 14   Yr 15
Basic Cash Flow
Inflow
Lease /b                          0              2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000    2,000    2,000    2,000   2,000   2,000
Calves 7c                         0                       3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000   3,000    3,000    3,000   3,000   3,000
Cull buffalo /d                   0                                                  12,000                                                 12,000
Residual valtue                   0                                                                                                                                     12,160
Outflow
Investment /e                     0   16,000
Working capital /f                0       160
Operating cost                    0                160      160       160      160  16,160       160      160       160      160      160  16,160        160      160      160
Net Benefit Before
Financing                  0  -16,160    1,840   4,840   4,840   4,840           840   4,840   4,840   4,840   4,840   4,840            840   4,840   4,840  17,000
Financial Rate of Return:   23%
Inflation rate (M) /g                       7.0      7.0      7.0       6.5      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0       6.0      6.0      6.0       6.0      6.0      6.0
Inflation factor                          1.070    1.145   1.225   1.305    1.383    1.466    1.554    1.647    1.746    1.851    1.962   2.079    2.204   2.336   2.477
Inflated Net Benefit         0  -17,291   2,107    5,929   6,316   6,694    1,231    7,521   7,971   8,451   8,959   9,496    1,746  10,667  11,306  42,109
Financing
Farmer's share /h                         1,712
Loans received:
- Long-term /i                         15,408
- Short-term lj                           171    1,000                                3,000
Debt service:
- Long-term                                      2,311    3,434   3,434   3,434   3,434   3,434   3,434    3,434   3,434
- Short-term                                       197    1,150                                3,450
Net Benefit After
Financing                           0         0       599   1,345   2,882   3,260         797      637   4,537   5,017    5,525    9,496    1,746  10,667  11,306  42,109
Deflated Net Benefit                  0          0      599    1,098   2,208   2,357        544       410   2,755   2,873   2,985   4,840           840   4,840   4,840  17,000
/a  kssumed all transactions rnade at beginning of year.
/b Rental of buffalo pair for 3-4 mornths.
/c  Assuming a calving rate of 50%; first calf sold in 18 moniths (in Year 3).
/d Buffaloes are culled in 5-6 years; sold at B 6,000 per buffalo.
/e Purchase of in-calf buffalo and breedable buffaloes, 3-4 years old.
/f Cost of medicines asd vaccines in Year 1.
I   prv;CLtLonD of inflatloi. ra.es ,bsUiratcd by tie PrograiT- Dep>;tent, Aur0s>  , 1902.
/h  Farmer's share asstumed at 10% of the investment.
/i  Long-term loan assumed at L5% interest rate anid an 9-year loan including a one year grace period.
/j Short-term loan assuimed at 15% interest rate.
/k Salvage valule of two buffaloes and working capital; buffaloes valued at 6,000 each.
i1
0c 
C"x



-58-                                                                          ANNEX 2
Table 4
ThAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Pig Breeding Operation Model (10 Sow Unit) /a
(D B000)
Yr 0    Yr I    Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr 5    Yr 6    Yr 7    Yr 8    Yr 9   Yr 10   Yr 11   Yr 12   Yr 13   Yr 14   Yr 15
Inflow
Culled sows /b                    0               9.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0    12.0
Culled boars7c                    0               3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0
Ueaners /d                        0              71.4    95.2    95.2    95.2    95.2    95.2    95.2    95.2    95.2    95.2    95.2    95.2    95.2    95.2
Pig Manure |e                     0               3.0      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0
Boar service /f                   0               3.0      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0
Residual value                    0                                                                                                                              113.2
Outf low
Investment
Housing /g                    0     90.0
Breeding stock /h             0     39.0
Other                         0      2.0
Working capltal
Feed /ti                      0     60.7
Medicines, etc.               0       1.5
Other                         0       1.0
Operating costs
Boar replacenent              0               3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0       3.0    3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0
Medicines, etc.               0               1.5      1.5      1.5     1.5       1.5    1.5      1.5      1.5      l.5     1.5      1.5      1.5     1.5      1.5
Feed (breeding stock)         0              60.7    60.7    60.7    60.7        60.7   60.7    60.7    60.7    60.7    60.7    60.7    60.7    60.7    60.7
Feed (weaner) /               0               7.8      7.8     7.8      7.8       7.8    7.8      7.8      7.8      7.8     7.8      7.8     7.8      7.8      7.8
Utilities                     0               2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0       2.0    2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0      2.0
Labor /k                      0               4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0       4.0    4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0      4.0     4.0      4.0      4.0
Other                         0               1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0       1.0    1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0
Net Benefit               0   -194.2      9.4    38.2    38.2    38.2       38.2   36.2    38.2    38.2    38.2    36.2    3R.2    38.2    38.2   151.7
Financial Bate of Return:  16%
Inflation rate (%)                        7.0     7.0      7.0      6.5     6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0
Inflation factor                        1.070   1.145   1.225   1.30j   1.3S3   1.466   1.554   1.647   1.746   1.851   1.962   2.079   2.204   2.336   2.477
Inflation Net Benefit    0   -207.8    10.8    46.8    49.9    52.8    56.0    59.4    62.9    66.7    70.7    74.9    79.4    84.2    89.2   375.8
Financing
Farmer's share /1                        20.8
Loans received:
- Long-term /n                        187.0
- Short-term7n                                 23.0    28.9    35.0    17.2    19.5    21.0    21.5    20.7    17.3
Debt service:
- Long-term                                   28.1    41.7    41.7    41.7    41.7    41.7    41.7    41.7    41.7
- short-term                                           26.5    33.2    40.3    19.8    22.4    24.2    24.7    23.8    19.9
Net Benefit After Financing         0       0        5.7     7.5    10.0    12.0    14.0    16.3    18.5    21.0    22.5    55.1    79.4    84.2    89.2   375.8
Deflated Net Benefit                0       0        5.0     6.1      7.7     8.7      9.6    10.5    11.2    12.0    12.2    28.1    38.2    38.2    38.2   113.2
/a  10-sow unit includes 10 sows and I boar.
/b  150 kg liveweight at B 20/kg.  3 culled sows in Year 2 and 4 from Year 3 onwards.
7W  One culled boar each year at B 3,000.
7W  Weaners sold at about 15 kg liveweight.  Assumes 14 weaners produced per sow per year.
7e Miaston estimates.
7W  Twenty services at B 200/service.
H Housing for 10 cows, I boar, 2 replacements and small feed store.
/h Purchase of 12 young sowa and 1 young boar at B 3,000 each.
F feed for breeding stock 13 tons at B 4.67/kg.
For 136 weaners requiring 8 kg per weaner feed cost at B 7.2/kg.
/k One unit of labor costs for 30 sows at B 12,000 per annum.
7W  101 of investment lost.
7W  9-year loan, including a one-year grace period, at 152 interest.
7W  At 15Z interest rate.



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Table 5
THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Pig Fattening Operation lIodel (100 Pigs Fattened/Year)
Yr 0    Yr I   Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr 5    Yr 6    Yr 7    Yr 8    Yr 9   Yr 10   Yr 11   Yr 12   Yr 13   Yr 14   Yr 15
Basic Cash Flow
Inflow
Finished pigs Ia                            242.5   242.5   242.5   242.5   242.5   242.5   242.5   242.5   242.5   242.5   242.5   242.5   242.5   242.5
Pig manure                                     5.0     5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0     5.0      5.0     5.0
Residual value                                                                                                                                            66.3
Outf low
Investment
Housing /b                         50.0
Other                               1.0
Working capital
Purchase of pigs /c                35.0
Feed /d                            35.2
Medicines, etc.                     1.0
Other                               1.0
Operating costs
Purchase of pigs                           70.0    70.0    70.0    70.0    70.0    70.0    70.0    70.0    70.0    70.0    70.0    70.0    70.0    70.0
Feed /d                                   140.9   140.9   140.9   140.9   140.9   140.9   140.9   140.9   140.9   140.9   140.9   140.9   140.9   140.9
Medicines, etc.                             2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0
Utilities                                   2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0
Labor                                       2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0
Other                                        1.0     1.0     1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0     1.0      1.0     1.0
Net Benefit Before
Financing                  -123.2    29.6    29.6    29.6    29.6    29.6    29.6    29.6    29.6    29.6    29.6    29.6    29.6    29.6    95.9
Financial Bate of Return:  23%
Inflation rate (%)                      7.0     7.0      7.0     6.5     6.0      6.0     6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0     6.0
Inflattoo factor                      1.070   1.145   1.225   1.305   1.383   1.466   1.554   1.647   1.746   1.851   1.962   2.079   2.204   2.336   2.477
Inflation Net Belnefit        -131.8    33.9    36.3    38.6    40.9    43.4    46.0    49.8    51.7    54.8    58.1    61.5    65.2    69.2   237.5
Financing
Farmer's share /e                      13.2
Loans received:
- Long-term  /f                     118.6
- Short-term /
Debt service:
- Long-term                                   24.9    24.9    24.9    24.9    24.9    24.9    24.9    24.9    24.9
- Short-term
Net Benefit After Fia.cing         0               9 .0    11.4    13.7    16.0    18.5    21.1    23.9    26.8    29.9    58.1    61.5    65.2    69.2   237.5
Defilated Net Benefit              0      0        7.9     9.3    10.5    11.6    12.6    13.6    14.5    15.4    16.2    29.6    29.6    29.6    29.6    95.9
/a  Assuning 3% mortality; finished pigs sold at 100 kg liveweight at 3 25/kg.
/b 50 pigs fattened at one time.
/c  50 weaners (15 kg) purchased at B 700 per weaner.
7- Feed-liveweight conversion assumed at 3.6; 4.7 (Baht/kg) x 98 (pigs) x 85 (kg) x 3.6 (conversion) - 140,900 (Baht).  Three months' supply in Year 1.
/e 10% of investment and working capital cost.
/f  9-year loan, at 15% interest,
15% interest.



AO4iIEX 2
6 60 -                                                                             Table 6
TNAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CRLEDIT PROJECT
Duck Eggt Production.Model (200..layer unit) /a
Yr 0     Sr I    Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr 5    Yr 6    Yr 7    Yr 8    Yr 9   Yr 10   Yr 11   Yr 12   Yr 13   Yr 14   Yr 15
BaSic Cash Plow
Inflow
Sale of eggs /b                           16.8     44.8      61.6     44.8     44.8      50.4    61.6       44.8     44.8     50.4      61.6     44.8      44.8     50.4    61.6
Cull layer Ic                                       5.5                5.5       5.5                         5.5      5.5       5.5               5.5       5.5      5.5
Residual val.e                                                                                                                                                                17.0
.Outflow
Inves tment
Housing /d                              11.0
Working capital
Day old dock Ie                          2.2
Feed:
- Starter If                          5.4
-LSayer /g                           27.3
Medicines,estc. /h                       0.3
Utilities /1                             0.2
Repair, et~c. .                          0.3
Labor                                    2.7
Operating costs
Day old duck                                      2.2                2.2      2.2       2.2               2.2       2.2      2.2                2.2      2.2       2.2
Peed:
- Starter                                       4.3      1. 1     5.4       5.4      4.3       1.1      5.4      5.4       4.3      1.1       5.4      5.4      5.4       1.1
-. Layer                                       35.1    45.5      31.2      31.2     35.1     42.9      31.2     31.2      35.1     42.9      31.2     31.2     31.2      42.9
Medicines, etc.                                   0.6      0.9       0.7      0.7       0.6      0.9      0.7       0.7      0.6       0.9      0.7      0.7       0.7      0.9
Utilities                                         0.4       0.5      0.4      0.4       0.4      0.5       0.4      0.4      0.4       0.5      0.4      0.4       0.4      0.5
Repair, etc                                       0.6      0.6       0.6      0 6       0.6      0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6
Labor /k                                          3.7      3.7       3.7      3.7       3.7      3.7      3.7       3.7      3.7       3.7      3.7      3.7       3.7      3.7
Net Benefit Before
Fin-nciag                      -32.6       3.2     11.9       6.1      6.1       3.3     11.9      6.1       6.1      6.8      11.9      6.1      6.1      11.7     28.9
Financial Rate of Return:  21%
Inflatton rate (%)                           7.0       7.0      7.0      6.5       6.0      6.0       6.0      6.0      6.0       6,0      6.0       6.0      6.0      6.0       6.0
inflation  factor                          1.070    1.145    1.225    1.305    1.383    1.466    1.554    1.647    1.746    1.851    1.962    2.079    2.204    2.336    2.477
Inflation Net Benefit             -34.9       3.7      14.6      8.0       8.4      4.6     08.5      10.1     10.7     16.3      23.4     14.7      13.4     27.3     71.6
Ficancing
Fa rmer's share /I                           4.9
Lasso received:
1-Lag-term  /m                           30.0
-Shoct-temn7n                                      0.6                                   0.9
Debt service,
-- long-tern                                          4.5      5.7       5.7      5.7      5.7       5.7      5.7       5.7      5.7      5.7       5.7      5.7
- Short-teno                                                  0.9                                   1.0
Net Benefit After Fina.cing                     0        0         8.0      2.3      2.7       0       11.8      4.4       5.0     10.6      17.7      7.0       7.7     27.3     71.6
Inflated Net-Benefit.                           0        0         6.5      1.8      2.0       0        7.6       2.7      2.9      5.7       9.0      3.4       3.5     11.7     28.9
/a  Assuming that duck laying house with water system is con structed in the first paLrt of Year 1; and day-old ducks are purchased in the Bid-year of Year 1.
7b  Assued that eggs ace produced after 5 months. 20 eggs/duck/month at B 1.4/egg.
7-c Laying ducks are culled after 12.
7?d  Includes duck house structure; water syaten and fence1 average coat about B 55 per duck.
7T. Purchase of day-old ducks (220 ducks, with about 10% mortality) at B 10 per duck.
7?f 1 kg required per duck about first 4 months: 5 kg x 200 ducka x B 5.4 - B 5,400.
130 go. required per day per duclk:   530 kg m 200 ducks x 30 days a B 5.0 -B 3,900 per month (for 200 ducks).
7~Assumed to be 2% of feed cost.
TiAssumed to he 1% of feed cost.
Assumed to be 5% of investment cost.
kPact-time labor based ono one man rearing  1,000 ducks for B 50 per day:  B 50 x 0.2 a 365 days   B 3,650.
7?i 10% of investmnet and working capital cast.
7-  Twelve-year loan, including one-year grace period, at 15% interest.
77   15% interest.



- 61 -                                                                        ANNEX 2
Table 7
ThAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Hen Egg Production Model (1,000-layer Unit)
Yr 0    Yr I    Yr 2    Yr 3    Yr 4    Yr 5    Yr 6    Yr 7    Yr 8    Yr 9   Yr 10   Yr 11   Yr 12   Yr 13   Yr 14   Yr 15
Basic Cash Flo.
Inflow
Cull hens Ia                                    13.8    20.6    27.5    27.5    27.5    27.5    27.5    27.5    27.5    27.5    27.5    27.5    27.5    27.5
Eggs /b                                        192.5   288.8   385.0   385.0   385.0   385.0   385.0   385.0   385.0   385.0   385.0   385.0   385.0   385.0
Manure                                           2.5      3.8      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0
Residual value                                                                                                                                                     15.3
Outflow
Investment
Houslng, 1,000 layers               100.0
Housing, 550 layers                           50.0
Other                                 2.0      1.0
Working capital
Day old cbicks (550) /c               5.5
Grower feed /d                       33.3
Layer feed /e                        35.0
Drugs and mWedicines                  2.8
Utilities                             2.0
Labor                                 5.0
Operating costs
Day old chicks /c                              5.5    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0
Grower feed /d                                49.9    66.5    66.5    66.5    66.5    66.5    66.5    66.5    66.5    66.5    66.5    66.5    66.5    66.5
Layer feed /e                                157.5   210.0   210.0   210.0   210.0   210.0   210.0   210.0   210.0   210.0   210.0   210.0   210.0   210.0
Drugs and m;edicines                           5.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Utilities                                      3.0      5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0       5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0      5.0      5.0
Labor                                          7.5    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Net Benefit Before
Financing                   -185.6   -70.6       0.7   105.0   105.0   105.0   105.0   105.0   105.0   105.0   105.0   105.0   105.0   105.0   120.3
Financial Rate of Return:  26X
Inflation rate (. )                        7.0      7.0     7.0      6.5      6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0
Inflation factor                         1.070   1.145   1.225   1.305   1.383   1.466   1.554   1.647    1.746   1.851   1.962   2.079   2.204   2.336   2.477
Inflation Net Benefit           -198.6   -80.8       0.9   137.0   145.2   153.9   163.2   172.9   183.3   194.4   206.1   218.3   231.4   245.3   260.1
Financing
Farmer's share /f                       19.9
Loans received:
- Long-term /g                      178.7
- Short-term  /h                             110.0   170.0   120         65.0    20.0
Debt service:
- Lang-term                                   26.8    39.8    39.8    39.8    39.8    39.8    39.8    39.8    39.8
- Short-tern                                          126.5   195.5   138.0    74.8    23.0
Net Benefit After Finahcing                  0        2.4      4.6    21.7    32.4    59.3   100.4   133.1   143.5   154.5   206.1   218.3   231.4   245.3   260.1
Deflated Net Benefit                         0        2.1      3.8    16.7    23.4    40.5    64.6    80.8    82.2    83.5   105.0   105.0   105.0   105.0   120.3
/a  500 cull hens in Year 2; 750 in Year 3 and 1,O0O  thereafter.  (B 27.5/hen).  5% chick nortality; 5% layer mortality.
7b  Average number of eggs:  275/hen/year.  Price/egg:  B 1.4.  Average number of hens laying per year:  1,000 from Year 4 onwards.
7W  Price:  B 10/chick.  Buys 550 in Years I and 2, and 1,100 thereafter.
/d  11 kg/chick/year at 3 5.5/kg.  Grower feed for 550 chicks - 550 x 11 x 5.5    B 33,275.
7;e  42 kg/chick/year at B 5.0/kg.  Assume feed required only for 4 mths for 500 hens in Year 1.
7f 10 of investment and working capital cost.
Nine-year loan, including one-year grace period, at 15%.
152 interest.



- 62-                         ANNEX 3
Page 1
THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Organization and Implementation of a Pilot Scheme
in the North and Northeast
1.        Objectives.  The overall objectives of the pilot scheme in the
North and Northeast would be to improve the provision of credit services and
technical advice to small farmers, by coordinating the efforts of the
Department of Agricultural (DOA), Department of Extension (DAE), and BAAC.
Under the scheme, BAAC credit officers, who would work as a team with the
extension agents, would provide short-term credit to target farmers to
finance the purchase of a package of inputs recognized by both the research
and extension services as most economic for the area. If proven successful,
this pilot scheme would provide the basis for coordination between the DOA,
the DAE and BAAC for similar schemes throughout the country.
2.        Selection and Organization of Pilot Scheme Participants.  Ordi-
narily, farmers wishing to receive BAAC short-term loans must first register
with BAAC and join a joint liability group composed of a number of farmers who
share the liability for each group member's loan. These groups are formed to
provide an alternative to collateral and, under present regulations, require
that their members demonstrate an ability to annually produce a marketable
surplus from which they can repay their loans.
3.        Under the pilot scheme, successful medium-sized (20-30 members)
joint liability groups would be expanded to include from one to five viable
f-armers with below average-size holdings and without a significant production
surplus. A viable farmer would be one with a potential to repay a loan with
the input of new technology. Existing groups consisting of small farmers
holding plots below the provincial average size would also be included in the
pilot scheme. The groups with a proven record of performance would become
foci for DAE's training and visit system. The pilot scheme would be
implemented in four provinces in North and Northeast Thailand. After BAAC
field staff prepare a list of suitable groups, final selection of partici-
pating groups would be by the DAE Provincial Liaison Committee on which BAAC,
DAE and provincial authorities would be represented.
4.        Extension Services.  At least two months prior to the start of
each cropping year, DAE would formulate work plans for the participating
groups, identifying the potentially most profitable crops for each pilot
scheme participant and offering him/her a choice of profitable crop and
livestock operations from which to select major and minor enterprises.
During the planting season demonstration plots would be established on below
average-size plots, owned by farmers who are respected by their neighbors,
receptive to agricultural improvements and belonging to existing success-
ful groups. DAE staff would train the target farmers during weekly or



- 63 _                                ANNEX 3
-63-                          ~~~~~~~Page 2
biweekly visits, and the farmers would liaise closely with the "small farmer"
groups. BAAC and DAE staff would periodically meet jointly with farmers in
order to coordinate credit and extension information and activities.
5.        Credit Arrangements.  Target farmers with below average-size
holdings would receive inputs as credit-in-kind wherever possible. BAAC
began the credit-in-kind service in 1980 in order to (a) provide farmers
with locally available inputs and machinery at reasonable prices using
registered local suppliers; (b) ensure that materials are of good quality;
(c) reduce the risk of improper use of cash credit for nonfarm items by the
farmer; (d) reduce BAAC's costs in supervising the use of loan proceeds and
improve the productive performance of farmer borrowers; and (e) expand
BAAC's dealings with the private sector.
6.        Depending on the enterprise to be supported, credit-in-kind would
be used to supply: contract land preparation, recommended seed and planting
material, fertilizer, agricultural chemicals, and simple tools. The package
of inputs supplied would be recommended by the research and extension
services.



THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Total Project Costs
(B million)
1983/84                      1984/85                       Total              Foreign ex-
Project components                     local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total   change (X)
BAAC Lending
Medium- and long-term lending
in North and Nbrtheast to
smallholders                       387.7   129.3       517.0    474.8   158.2       633.0    862.5    287.5  1,150.0          25
Mediumr and long-term lending
to all others                      910.1   304.9   1,215.0  1,176.0   392.0   1,568.0  2, 86.1    696.9  2,783.0              25
Short-term lending to smallhol-
ders in North and Mbrtheast        130.4    43.5       173.9    159.4    53.1       212.5    289.8       96.6    386.4        25
Subtotal                        1,428.2   477.7   1,905.9  1,810.2   603.3   2,413.5  3,238.4  1, B1. 0  4,319.4             25
BAAC Training Component                   1.0      2.0       3.0       -        1.0        1.0       1.0       3.0       4.0       75    C
-     ~~~- 41
BAAC Study Component                      3.6      0. 4      4. 0      -        -          -         3.6       0. 4      4.0
Total Project Costs             1,432.8   480.1   1,912.9  1,810.2   604.3   2,414.5  3,243.0  1,c84.4  4,327.4              25
Of which:  Price contingencies           71.9    27.2       99.1    203.7    74.7        278.4    275.6    101.9    377.5          27
Base Costs (end-1982 prices)  1,360.9   452.9   1,813.8  1,606.5   529.6   2,136.1  2,967.4    982.5  3,949.9                25
Note:  Percentages applied to base cost (end-1982 prices) in appropriate year to give contingency factors:
Project Years:        1983/84         1984/85
Local costs            5.3%         12.68%
Foreign costs          6. 0X        14.10%
mx1
,. .c-



THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Costs of Technical Assistance and Training for BAAC /a
(B'000)
1983/84                 1984/85                   Total           Foreign ex-
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total change (%)
Overseas training program _b         162       488     650   162       488      650    324      976   1,300
Technical assistance /c              160      480      640      -        -        -    160      480     640
Advanced degree training /d          215       646     861   215       646      861    430   1,292   1,722
Total (Base Cost)               537    1,614   2,151   377    1,134   1,511    914   2,748   3,662           75
Price contingencies                   58       195     253    70       232      302    128      427      555      77
Total Cost                      595    1,809   2,404   447    1,366   1,813  1,042   3,175   4,217           75
/a Base cost expressed in end-1982 prices.
/b Ten staff for 2-3 weeks at B 65,000 per staff. Includes travel allowance for S.E. Asia and stipend.
/c Monitoring and Evaluation of Agricultural Development Projects Training Workshop to be conducted by an advisor.
/d Three middle-level staff members to be trained in the Philippines at B 287,000 per staff.
lcDl4



- 66,-
ANNEX 5
Page 1
THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Agricultural
Sector and Rural Credit
A.1       Bank of Thailand Reports
(a)  "Agricultural Credit Targets for Commercial Banks,"
February 1979.
(b) "Participation of Commercial Banks in Rural
Financing in Thailand," November 1980.
(c) "Agricultural Credit in Thailand." May 1977.
(d) "Proposed Framework for the Formulation of a
Medium-term Agricultural Credit Plan,"
September 1979.
(e) "A Project for an Organizational Set-up in
the Bank for Agricultural Credit," December 1979.
A.2       Kasetsart University Reports
(a)  "Structure of Agricultural Financial Markets in Rural
Thailand," June 1980.
(b) "Agricultural Credit in Thailand," May 1979.
(c)  "Credit, Agricultural and Food Policy of Thailand," April 1980.
(d) "Burden of Debt of Thai Farmers, An Overview," August 1979.
(e) "Rural Off-Farm Employment Surveys: Approaches and Methodology,"
May 1981.
(f) "Wealth and Credit: A Descriptive Analysis of Farm Household
Balance Sheets," November 1980.
(g) "Formal Credit Supplies for Rural Enterprises," November 1980
(h) "Credit Needs of Thai Farmers," December 1977.
(i) "Rural Financial Markets in Thailand: Assessment and
Recommendations," May 1978.



- 67-                              ANNEX 5
Page 2
B. General Reports and Studies Relating to BAAC, the Commercial Banks
and Cooperatives in Thailand
B.1       BAAC Reports
(a) BAAC Annual Reports, 1979, 1980.
(b) "Report on the Study of the Impact of OECF Sub-loans on BAAC
Clients," March 1981.
(c)  "Progress Report on BAAC's Long-term Lending Operations,"
December 1981.
B.2       Commercial Banks' Reports
(a) Bangkok Bank Limited, Annual Reports, 1979, 1980
(b) Krung Thai Bank Limited, Statements of Condition as at
June 30, 1978, 1979 and December 31, 1978, 1979, 1980.
(c) Thai Farmers Bank, Report and Balance Sheet as at June 30, 1979,
1980, and December 31, 1979, 1980.
(d)  "The Rural Development Role of Krung Thai Bank, Ltd.," Report
prepared by the Agricultural Credit Department.
B.3       Reports on Cooperatives in Thailand
(a) "Cooperatives in Thailand," Cooperative Promotion
Department, MOAC, 1979.
(b) "Cooperative-Information Note, Thailand," Copac Secretariat,
October 1981.
(c) "Report on the Comprehensive Performance Evaluation and
Classification of Cooperatives," CPD and BAAC, 1980.
C. Table of Contents of the Project File
C.1 Rural Financial Sector
C.2 BAAC
C.3 Farm Models and Economic Analysis



- 6F -
ORGANIZATIONAL-FUNCTIONAL CHART
OF
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES
(HEAD OFFICEI
BOARD OF DIRECTOR
|     GENERAL TAEAEEC
sRrHEll LT-DN CO.IAITTeE                                                                       .
EVALUATE PIDRNAC Of               rD --  - -                                         DEPUTE GENERAL MANAGERS
PRAOCEDU.RES COMM A TEE
CA "CCCII ..... I -IRAT                                                                                             RESIDE OR ASOITISS AND INSPECTION
ICOA EROCESEES AND  ETDS    i                                                                                           - CONDUCTS INTERNAL AUDITING
l  I                                                                                       ACTIVITIES AND INSPECTS ENDING
r    LOC-'TMNf LOGS COM -I7TCE     I                                                                                         OPERATIONS
- VEVICA APP CAT ONE ICR  DEE CE DC SEOTEHOET                                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~ SCRUTINZE RANK S OFFIICE RS OR
-ONO-EVE LOANS AGE              _          CONDUCT GENERAL SECRETARIAL                                                    RANK S BALES
AIPEDGAL AILTVORTEI o                     ACT AXTlES ECE T.E BOARD                                                        EMPUDSRULESCOPINEIT
EIG ONAI LCANh   11                     l  TO GIVE ADVICE TO OTHER  QORKING
ED OAGE1 TON MI/ISO-S                                                                                                      UNITS. eRANCHeS OR FIELn UNITS WITR
"AIAGEE TOS-I-UT VICS                                                                                                     REGARD TO OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES
CiT ICS" OCTrONS  II                                                                     AND CONTROLS
- SCC El C.OM ITT' E                                    
- CTEE'COIES sIVGE; PREEARED                                                 E                                                                          -
sTDCET CC VsON ANT CVALJAcC      I                                                                           
ACTU VAS EI CGETED RESU ETS                CANKIN  ANG  ACCIN NT VG                   GENERA, AD-INISTRATIGE          I r
AhLLv                                            DEPARTMVEM                                 DEPATMENT                           PLANNING DEPARTMENT                        LOANS DEPARTMENT
IEA.KeN. .1V SIGN ENERAL AFFAIRS DIVISION                                           PROJECT  NISIS                           GENERAL LENDIND AFFAIRS IDIVNION
ACQUIRES FUNOE FPOM o                      HE- REGISTRATIDN OF ESSENTIAL            ' PLANNING. CORE-LATING             I  -ONITORING GE PROGEAMS
- CUIAVESCAL SANKS                         DOCUMENTS, GENERAL AFFAIRS,              CREODT PROJECTS FRR OVERSEAS        |      INANCED sr OVERSEAS LOANS
- HANDLES CASH TRA-SFERS TO        _      AND "lULING                              AND LOCAL LOANS                       !-ECRETARE GE LOAN CoMMITTeE
AID AVOID BlANCHEs                         PROVIDE ANK S REGULATIONS,             - COORDINATE WITH GOVERNMENT                  L
ESL C T NIVIEUAL DEPUVITS                  ORDERS AND INSTRUCTIONS FOR              AGENCIES, INTERNATIONAL
I N BANGKOK APIA                           OTHER WORKING UNITS CONCERNED            INSTITUTIONS. AND FOREIGN           f  NOllThERN REGION DIVISIGN
__________________________________                            -   ,.R~~VICE. ASSIST  AND  CONTBGL
g 0   PREPAR TIN0NOF MANU-LS 'OR  l                                                 INSTITUTIONS                             B -ERANCHES. IN RESIGN.O
BIN K, NO ICT 11TIES  II IIC IILATIONI DIIIIICN  I   I                                        4 ~~~~~~ENDING OPERATIONS
G- ENERAL PUELIC RELATIONS               STATISTICAL AND BUDGETING                - IIEV EW NEED FOR E-PANSICN SF
ACTIIVTIES                             DIVISION                                    R  IIANCh NETWORK IN REGION
GOCALNUINS C CISN                          -PAL-CATIO'E0E-AGAZINES.                 - PREPARATION DE ANNAAL               I     IEDIERE LOAN, API CATIDNS
K EE AND COGETRD. V        ARINAS            JOURNALS. ETC.                         - BUDGET    'D ACTOAL D                     GENT TO hEAG DCIDCE
l l   ACCOUNTE OF THE EANK S ASSETE  l                        |  ~~~_ MONItTORING OF ACTUAL Vs.     l
AAC CLNTS GE THE BANE'S ASSETS                                                      BUDGETED RESULTS
OR LIABILITIES                           LEGA DIVISION                     I         GiLECTION O STATITIC                      VSION
TO PTE-DE CNANCIA LANSr                    AAN.E LEGAL CASED DI________________
I INANCIAL ANALTSS ACCOLNTING              THE EANK                                                                                           REGION
ANAILS'S EOR BRANCHES OR OTHER         _                                          RESEARCh AND EVALUATION
I ORKING UNITS                       I                                            DIAIS
- ETEPATE FIIANCFAL AND ACCONToNG          SERVICES DIVISION                        - STUDY ECONOMIC AND                     CD TVAL REGIGN DIDISION
REPORTS ANNUAL DEPART OE                 - TECDRITT. AND GENERAL                    SOCIAL CONDITIONS                      - SAME AS NORTHERN REGION
OPERATIONS                                 OFFICE BUILOING MAIN                     GE CLIENT FARMERS
|   CONDUCTS ACTEV,T- ES OF                  TENANCE                                   OR FARMER INSTITUTIONS
| STAARS,ZIING ACCOUNTING                                                             - | NALVEISOF DELIDUENT LOANS        SOIITAERNREGION GDIVISIN
| RERDCEADUES OER TEC HEAD              PERSONNEL DIVISION                 | 'AME AS NORTHERN REGIDN
|  ICE ANC BRANCH                       - PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.
MANPOWER P  ANNING. VPEFOR             W OKRKING STSTEM GEVELOPMENT'
MAlC EV-AL ATIONGE  ASK-              DIVISION
D OFICERS AND EMPLOYECS,         i    _ REVIEWANDMODIFICATIONOF
1   UGSAPET RECORODS, SALART             RULES REGULATIONS. PRO_
AND sENEFITS ADMINISTRATION              CEDURES. INSTRUCTIONS, MANUALSU
TRAINING DIVISION                   I      AND FDRMS RELATING TO VARIAUS
___TRA__________DIVISION _______ i__         aBUSINESS ACTIVITIES
|- PROVIING TRAINING
1. TOANK SATAF        
- COORDINATE ACTIVITIES
TITD OTHER TRAINING
ETITU BN-TES|Wt                                                                                                   R



- 69 -
ORGANIZATION CHART
OF
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES (BRANCH)
BAAC
(HEAD OFFICE)
BRANCH
OFFICE
|    BANKING AND   1                    rAGRICULTURAL CREDIT
| ACCOUNTING SECTION |                      |      SECTION
BANKING         ACCOUNTI          INSTITUTIONAL       INDIVIDUAL         LONG-TERM
UNIT              UNIT            LOANS UNIT        LOANS UNIT          LOANS UNIT
3FILD OFFICE
VVorld Bank-23894






THAILAND 104j
r I   SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
U M       - -      RBRANCHES - BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES IBAACI
20'                                              4                                                               PROV NCES SBTH RUSC BRANCHES                 20-
-20 -   $   0   ,   -ePlAns  REi:<t-             HEAD ORF CE, BAAC
rI         f X = =,  tt    t           ',,J  %   .                                   *    BRANCH OFFICES BAAC
1M.D Sn  t t                RA-----i _ REIONGAT BOUNbCAI SOUNDARIES
-.  -~ A  NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
CS)  I B,BE g MI.*  k   )     .      N           E    P L   E'S
V                    $  LJR'CBC'        ifLampan                DEM. REP
r                \                (Sakhothaig    K           /=2 "  Udon Th&                   ( 2n"
N.~~~~ ~        ~~~~ T. SaEhBR-ABRE
I1 P ThJo.                                                        _
*     /                                      NEkhon SChos Y x   Kaonn       B
=;  ==: * 5 wJ J ) U hEI /PRiRRB@* jJFC~  o                                Z<, n             -\t hah i 
2~~~~                                                      ~ ~~~~ V  In  7To   /{ Saambun             eB.C                         * 
)                                               )      *    ?fir j-             K
I-.     /              Bah. =R ' ='
W==:f= ~   ~ ~ I =                              *, /= f=ICAX .A=      f  
42   :   :  :    ' i = g   ~~   ;       p   Kkif; S(hkth == ir'!j-'\       =b.  R-h.,2.i 
__  /11   V~~~~j11 
ChAT., N.OH                                                         :
N'"-  R-h-'.                                 /  Si    RSoK R,Bo= RC= r
t~~~~~~~~m i         ,6    *L. B.               0              B,1 R..                                midltveae
P      \AkS-  CCI            - A:  SERB =
N                                                        if t_
NaA//l A                                  BnURfiV               !                              <- t2
Af =   =         i t
- t                                  *CBSBRBB kamt  A- ,_/
!         ROARAB @f2rIROBR$t                                                                  iR?BUR  2_ '
,,DAA4AN  /,                                                                              DEMOCRAT DEM.IC
of; >-\1; oKbabi  /=   0    ;  ;t                              '                 S ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REP. \  
-e  PhubetO l-i [ a =6.A<1, 8-FR-BS ..S_ni         \PnSr.                    'B.  
Ti    '1= t    AI~                                                          _(                     o    srMVIET 'NAMR
_E                                                                                  \ KAMPCH KA.PUCHEA
12'~ ~        ~                                                              >9                        /'T''S_" R;
V ~~~~~~~ 
t:   , t  f   I,                 '-            ~~~~~~~~         ~      ~~~~~MALAYSIA  C-
ME  20  4SG  eG  B; I    EBSp  " H Ij V,                                                                                         SINGAPORE soo s,ofo
Kl4LO   Kt   SO  I tO    f S0                       M  A L A Y S IBA                                                   I N  D O N E S  I A   r 
-H   I                          BoOSTeHBSnUB



