Document of
The World Bank                                       OP
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3484-TH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$70 MILLION
TO THE
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURE COOPERATIVES
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE KINGDOM OF THAILAIND
FOR THE
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 10, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance-of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit -   Baht (B)
$1.00         =    B 23
B 1                 $0.04
B 1 million   =    $43,478
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BAAC - Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
IFAD - International Fund for Agricultural Development
GOVERNMENT OF THAILAND
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC)
Guarantor:       Kingdom of Thailand
Amount:          $70 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee.
Terms:           Repayable in 20 years, including 6 years grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:        BAAC-s current rate to its subborrowers is 14%.  BAAC
would bear the interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
Project
Description: The proposed, project, which would be partially financed by
the Bank and the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD), would support the lending activities of
the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives
(BAAC) over a two-year period. The type of activities
eligible for financing would be broadly based and would
include medium- and long-term agricultural lending country-
wide, and short-term lending for a pilot scheme in the North
and Northeast, which would provide credit/extension packages
to small farmers. The Bank loan would finance term lending
countrywide, while the IFAD loan would be restricted to
financing term lending in the North and Northeast to small
farmers engaged in food production, and short-term lending
under the pilot scheme. The project would improve the
functioning of rural financial markets by raising the level
of BAAC's lending rates relative to those prevailing else-
where in the market, and by improving BAAC's loan recovery
rates. The relative increase in BAAC's lending rates would
partially correct the distortions existing in rural
financial markets as a consequence of subsidized BAAC
lending rates; increase the incentives to BAAC to mobilize
rural savings; and strengthen BAAC financially, making it
less dependent on subsidies. Providing additional
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
resources to BAAC would boost the level of economic activity
in rural areas and thereby contribute towards employment
generation, poverty alleviation and increased rural
production. An estimated 150,000 farmers would receive funds
channelled through BAAC under the project, of which about
50,000 are expected to be small farmers in the North and
Northeast, the poorest regions of Thailand.  The main project
risk is that if the present world recession persists, it could
have adverse repercussions on Thailand-s agricultural growth,
and hence demand for agricultural loans and subloan
repayments.
Estimated Costs:                                        Local    Foreign    Total
------ ($ million) ------
BAAC lending
Medium- and long-term  lending      128.5        42.8      171.3
Short-term lending                    12.6        4.2       16.8
Subtotal                         141.1       47.0      188.1
BAAC training                            0.1        0.1        0.2
BAAC study                               0.2        -          0.2
Total project cost /a              141.4        47.1      188.5
Front-end fee on Bank loan               -          0.2        0.2
Total financing required           141.4        47.3     188.7
Financing Plan:
Bank                                    33.7       36.3       70.0
IFAD                                     9.2       11.0       20.2
BMC                                     70.5        -         70.5
Subborrowers                            28.0        -         28.0
141.4       47.3      188.7
/a Including $11.0 million of taxes and duties.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY      1984     1985      1986
…---- ($ million) -----
Annual                             26        30       14
Cumulative                         26        56       70
Rates of Return:  The economic rates of return on five investment models,
representing typical subprojects, range from 17% to 26%.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4276-TH, dated May 10, 1983
IBRD Map: No. 14506 Ri



I



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES
FOR A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
l.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives for the
equivalent of $70 million, including capitalized front-end fee, to help
finance a second agricultural credit project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including six years grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) will provide a
loan to the Kingdom of Thailand for $20.2 million equivalent for a term of
20 years, including six years' grace, at interest of 4% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report entitled "Thailand:  Toward a Development
Strategy of Full Participation" (Report No. 2059-TH) was issued on
September 18, 1978. Subsequently Thailand's economic situation deteriorated,
and an economic report entitled "Coping with Structural Change in a Dynamic
Economy" (Report No. 3067-TH), which proposed a mediunr-term strategy to deal
with the problems, was discussed with the Royal Thai Government in September
1980 and issued on January 8, 1981. At present, a further economic report
is in draft and will be discussed with the Government in May and issued in
July 1983.  Country data are given in Annex I.
Recent Political Developments
3.        Since the early 1970s, the political process in Thailand has
broadened and matured significantly. Initially, this was accompanied by
frequent and sometimes abrupt changes in government leadership. Since the
1977 general elections, however, Thailand has enjoyed a period of greater
political stability and continuity of policy. Cabinet shuffles have con-
tinued to take place, reflecting shifts in the makeup of the coalitions of
political parties, military and business leaders, and technocrats, which
have governed the country for the past five years. However, only one change
in Prime Minister has occurred during this period. General Prem
Tinsulanonda was appointed as Prime Minister in March 1980 and has been
successful in mobilizing support for a major program of economic structural
adjustment, embodied in the Fifth Five-Year Plan, 1981-86. Senior civil
servants supporting this program were given key positions in the public
sector. A broad public consensus on national policy priorities has been
maintained.



- 2 -
4.        National elections were again held on April 18, 1983, following
the dissolution of Parliament by royal decree at the request of the Prime
Minister. The elections were conducted three days before the automatic
lapsing of certain transitional provisions attached to the 1978
Constitution. These provisions had been designed to ensure that, during a
transitional five-year period, serving military, civilian and other non-
elected officials could continue to play a major stabilizing role in both
the legislative and executive branches of government through their appoint-
ment to the powerful 225 Seat Senate or to Cabinet posts. The Constitution
envisaged that elections conducted after April 21, 1983, when these provi-
sions expired, would be based on provincial winner-take-all system, likely
to consolidate the position of the larger, better organized political
parties in the 324 Seat House of Representatives, and to introduce greater
political discipline. The April 18 elections were accordingly conducted
under the existing unitary constituency rules. Candidates from 10 parties
were elected to Parliament. No party secured an outright majority but the
three leading parties won 221 seats, and have subsequently strengthened
their position through the absorption of smaller parties or the affiliation
of independent representatives. General Prem succeeded in forming a new
four-party coalition Government, which includes two of the three leading
parties and has the backing of approximately two-thirds of the elected
representatives. The new Cabinet was announced May 8. Prospects for
continuation of ongoing policy and institutional reforms are thus good.
Past Economic Trends
5.        A number of positive features have contributed to Thailand-s rapid
socio-economic development over the past two decades. These include the
continued availability of reasonably fertile land and the relatively equit-
able distribution of such land, responsiveness of Thai farmers to economic
incentives, provision of infrastructure by the Government, the openness of
the economy which improved the competitiveness of Thai products, and the
dynamism of the private sector in both industry and agriculture. Thus, the
1960s and most of the 1970s were a period of unprecedented economic develop-
ment in Thailand, with GDP growth averaging 7-8% per year (or 4-5% per
capita). Real agricultural growth of nearly 5% per year, based largely on
an expansion in cultivated area and development of new crops in response to
export opportunities was a major factor contributing to these developments
as well as to a sustained growth of exports.  An increase in the investment
level from about 20% to 27% of GDP contributed to rapid industrial growth.
Investments were largely financed by domestic savings, keeping the debt
service ratio quite low. Exports grew at a consistently high rate. The
incidence of poverty was reduced substantially, from about 57% in 1962/63 to
about 31% by 1975/76, although significant regional disparities continue to
exist, with the Central Region, including Bangkok, not only having the high-
est per capita income, but also being much better served by roads, telecom-
munications, schools, public health and other services than the other three
regions. Still, substantial overall progress was made in meeting the basic
needs of the Thai people. Major gains were made in recent years in reducing



the annual population growth rate from 3% during the 1960s to an estimated
2.2% in 1979 (but only affecting labor force growth two decades later).
Natural gas was discovered offshore and has started to come on stream.
Recently, oil and gas have also been discovered onshore, and hopes are high
that these finds will turn out to be substantial.
6.        Since the mid-1970s Thailand's development problems have been
compounded by adverse external factors including oil price increases, a
resurgence of inflation and slow growth in developed countries. A rela-
tively high rate of overall growth was maintained (8.6% per annum between
1975 and 1978, 6.0% in 1979 and 5.8% in 1980) but this was accompanied by
accelerating inflation, large fiscal and external deficits and growing
dependence on foreign borrowing. Consumer prices increased by 8% in 1977
and 1978, by 10% in 1979 and by 20% in 1980. The overall Central Government
deficit reached 4.4% of GDP in 1980. Notwithstanding continued rapid export
growth, the current account deficit came close to 5% of GDP in 1977 and
1978, but it amounted to 7.7% of GDP in 1979 and 6.2% of GDP in 1980;
consequently there has been a rapid accumulation of Thailand's initially low
external debt.
7.        Over the years 1975-78 the Government was slow in responding to
the changing internal and external conditions, but, beginning in 1979,
policy adjustments were undertaken at a gradually accelerating pace. They
included sharp increases in prices for most petroleum products and electri-
city; measures to increase government revenues; amendments to the usury
laws, which permitted an increase in interest rates; and the introduction of
regulations to increase financial stability and exercise more monetary
restraint. In the second half of 1980, the Government began to give serious
attention to developing a longer-term comprehensive program for the economy,
and continued to implement necessary, but politically contentious, economic
decisions. In October 1980 price controls were lifted on 29 of 36 goods.
In the same month the Government started on a reform of the tariff struc-
ture, reducing import duties on 10 categories of electrical goods by between
10% and 60%. In November, retail prices of sugar, which had fallen out of
line with international prices, causing domestic shortages, were increased
by 60%. In a number of successive steps, electricity and petroleum prices
were increased further, and by mid-1981 they were nearly two-and-a-half
times as high as at the start of 1979. During the first half of 1981,
charges for other public services (water, transport, communications) were
increased substantially (most by at least 50%). During this period, the
Government also introduced various fiscal measures designed to contain the
central government deficit.
8.        Once the Government had decided to implement a broad structural
adjustment program, the state of the Thai economy has been changing quickly,
in response to the rapid deterioration in the external economic environment
and to the changes in domestic policies.  After the earlier overheating was



- 4 -
overcome in 1981, the economy weakened significantly in 1982. Inflation was
greatly reduced, with consumers prices increasing by only about 5% in 1982.
Export prices declined, and the decrease in inflationary expectations led to
an inventory adjustment. Private fixed investments, which had already been
stagnating for several years, are estimated to have dropped by 14% in 1982,
which brought them, in real terms, below the 1977 level (17.8% of 1977 GDP,
but only 12.7% of 1982 GDP). The latest 1982 estimates for growth in pro-
duction and real income are about 4% for industry, 0.5% for agriculture
(because of unfavorable weather), 4.5% for GDP and only about 1% in real
national income. Associated with the slowing of international price level
increases and slower domestic economic growth was a reduced rate of
inflation (13% in 1981 and 5% in 1982). The balance of payments current
account deficit was also considerably smaller in 1982 than in recent years.
Partly because of a high carry-over level of agricultural exportables into
the year, export volume continued to grow at a very rapid rate (17%).
Because of a large fall in export prices, export values, however, increased
by only 7%. At the same time, given the squeeze on inventories and private
fixed investments, imports declined by 14% in volume and 7% in value.
Consequently, the current account deficit was reduced from about $2.3 bil-
lion (7.1% of GDP) in 1981 to $1.2 billion (3.2% of GDP) in 1982. This is
well below the trend assumed for the Fifth Five Year Plan and the structural
adjustment program. However, this deviation from the trend is clearly
related to the present recessionary tendencies in the economy, and as the
economy revives (even if this goes together with some recovery in the terms
of trade) pressures on the balance of payments would tend to recur. As in
other countries, the fiscal deficit has widened considerably in FY82.
Compared to actual FY81 and budgeted FY82 deficits of 2.5-3% of GDP, the
actual FY82 deficit is estimated at over 5% of GDP. The increase can be
fully attributed to shortfalls on the revenue side, which in turn can at
least partly be related to lower inflation, lower domestic activity and
especially lower imports.
Development Prospects and Constraints
9.        For the remainder of the decade, many of the positive features
which contributed to Thailand's rapid socio-economic development over the
past two decades will continue to do so. The recent developments have,
however, demonstrated that the Thai economy is not immune from adverse
international developments, such as low international economic growth, high
interest rates, and declining terms of trade, resulting in lower domestic
growth and a poor investment climate. What is more, fiscal measures have as
yet fallen short of reestablishing balance in the Government's accounts. In
response to these challenges, the Government has searched intensively for
policy alternatives which will correct the fiscal and external imbalances
without undue consequences for the growth of income and employment,
especially for the poor.  Its efforts are reflected in the Fifth Five-Year
Plan, which covers the period October 1981 to September 1986. The major
(and interrelated) objectives are equity, financial stability, and national



- 5 -
security; growth is seen as a derived rather than a primary objective, 'rhe
Government aims at reconciling these objectives over the five-year period of
the PLan, partly through a reduction in lower-priority expenditures, but
mainly through medium-term structural adjustments which improve production
incentives and increase the efficiency of the economy, and improve the
economy's competitiveness, both in the external and domestic markets.
10.       The implications of the recent slowdown for longer-term growth and
for the achievement of the Fifth Plan targets will be assessed in the forth-
coming economic report. The economic developments of the last 15-18 months
make earlier projections for Thailand look overly optimistic, in the light
of a revised outlook for world economy, for world trade and for commodity
prices. This affects the outlook for Thai exports, in terms of volume as
well as prices, and thereby also the country-s debt servicing capacity. A
critical evaluation of these and related factors requires a reduction in the
target rates for GDP growth, investment and government revenue mobilization,
with GDP growth for the Plan period as a whole now projected at about 5.5%
p.a. While this is lower than past average economic growth rates, Thailand
would continue to outperform most other developing countries in the
difficult 1980s.
11.       To assist it in realizing the objectives of the Fifth Plan, the
Government has sought the assistance of the IMF and the Bank. An IMF two-
year standby program started in June 1981. However, in FY82 an increased
budgetary deficit in the wake of revenue shortfalls caused a nonobservance
of the subceiling on net credit to the Government. Under the circumstances,
it was decided not to continue this arrangement and a new 14-month standby
in the amount of SDR 272 million was approved by the Fund in November 1982.
With regard to the Bank, the Government has sought assistance in further
developing and implementing the structural adjustment loans. The first such
loan was approved by the Executive Directors on March 2, 1982; the second
loan wFs approved on March 1, 1983.
Financing Requirements
12.       While the Government is making considerable efforts to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of its spending, the implementation of policies
needed for a satisfactory rate of economic and social progress will require
continued growth in the absolute level of public expenditures, though they
are expected to remain constant relative to GDP. Much greater efforts will
be required to mobilize both domestic and external resources than in the
past. The Government-s domestic revenue, as a percentage of GDP (about 14%
for 1978 to 1980), is low compared to other developing countries at similar
levels of development. Recently the Government has taken steps to revise
the tax structure and to improve collections. Further tax measures are
planned, particularly in the area of improved tax administration and struc-
ture. In addition, the financial situation of state enterprises, which has



-6-
already improved in the wake of tariff increases since 1980, is expected to
continue improving as a result of appropriate pricing policies.
13.       Despite these fiscal policy measures and the ambitious structural
adjustment policies to be implemented in the agriculture, industry and
energy sectors, the demand for external resources will increase. Macro-
economic projections indicate that the current account deficit will remain
at levels about $1.5 billion per annum, but will decline as a share of GDP
to about 2% by 1990. Even the realization of this target will require large
amounts of external borrowing, totalling about $30 billion over the period
1983-90, of which about two thirds is expected to be in the form of public
and publicly guaranteed debt. Assuming a significant level of concessional
assistance, total debt service payments as a percentage of exports of goods
and nonfactor services will rise from 15.4% in 1980 to 19.9% in 1986.  Given
the diversification of Thai commodity exports and the continued expansion of
agricultural and manufactured exports expected as a result of appropriate
structural adjustment policies, these debt service requirements should be
sustainable.
14.       Official donors, particularly the Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund of Japan and the development banks, have been expanding their programs
to meet a larger part of Thailand's growing resource requirements. The rest
has been financed through syndicated loans and bond issues. The Government
has established a Foreign Loan Policy Committee to coordinate and approve
all foreign borrowing by the public sector.  The Bank of Thailand is improv-
ing its procedures for recording private borrowing abroad in order to keep
track of total foreign debt. External agencies, including the Bank Group,
have in recent years increasingly concentrated on project lending to
Thailand in some sectors that have high social benefits, but low foreign
exchange savings or earnings. To achieve the level of external resource
transfer that is now required, it is necessary, in selected projects where
the foreign exchange component is low, to finance some local currency
expenditures.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
15.       Thailand first borrowed from the Bank Group in 1950 for a railway
project and, as of March 31, 1983, had received 73 IBRD loans (including
two third-window loans) and six IDA credits, totaling (net of cancellations)
$2,878.3 million in loans and $124.8 million in credits. As of that date,
$1,270.9 million remained undisbursed on effective loans and credits. No
IDA credits have been extended to Thailand since FY79.  Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as well as
the status of Bank Group projects under implementation.



16.       The sectoral distribution of Bank loans and IDA credits, in dollar
terms, has been as follows:  30% for energy; 25% for agriculture and rural
development; 15% for transportation; 10% for telecommunications; 5% for
urban development; 6% for education; 3% for industry; 1% for population!
health/nutrition; and 5% for structural adjustment lending. Overall imple-
mentation of Bank projects in Thailand has improved steadily during the past
five years. Thailand's disbursement ratio increased from 17.7% in 1977 to
24.9% in 1981.  These rates compare well with other countries.  In 1981, for
example, the ratios for two comparator countries, the Philippines and
Morocco, were 17.9% and 11.7%, respectively.
17.       Over the past six years, the Bank has shifted its lending in
Thailand from a program dominated by investments in traditional infra-
structure projects (accounting for over 80% of the lending through FY75) to
a program which places increasing emphasis on assisting the Government's
efforts to reach the poorer segments of its population more directly. Since
FY76, investments in transportation, power, water supply, telecommunications
and industry have accounted for about 63% of Bank Group lending and about
half of these, in dollar terms, were for projects specifically designed to
benefit the rural population. The proportion of Bank lending to the
agricultural/rural development sector has trebled, accounting for about 25%
of lending operations since FY76. The design of projects in this sector has
also changed, from exclusively large irrigation projects to a more balanced
program covering irrigation (including land development and support services
to the farmer) and a variety of innovative projects to assist farmers
outside the central flood plain (rubber replanting, livestock, agricultural
extension, research and credit, and rural development). Projects in the
social sectors which, prior to FY76, were limited to three in education,
accounting for 6% of the program, have both diversified and grown. In
recent years education, population and low-income housing projects have
accounted for about 12% of the program.
18.       For the future, the Bank's assistance objectives are to support
the Government's development efforts, as articulated in its Fifth Five-Year
Plan for the period 1982-1986, to address:  (a) the long-term issues of
poverty alleviation, promotion of employment, and reduction of income dis-
parities; and (b) the mediumrterm issue of restructuring the Thai economy
through the intensification of agriculture, efficient developaint of the
industrial sector, promotion of domestic energy conservation and development,
increased public resource mobilization, and improved institutional capacity
in the public sector. In addition to these two broad objectives, Bank
assistance in Thailand also aims at moving from project-specific to sectoral
lending, especially in agriculture, industry, energy, and education, and at
strengthening the local Thai capacity for policy analysis and formulation.
19.       In implementing this strategy, projects in the areas of agricul-
ture and rural development will seek to generate employment and income
growth particularly among the poorer farm households in the rai-fed areas



- 8 -
of the country and will support the structural adjustment process by aiming
at continued growth of agricultural production and exports through intensi-
fication. Lending for transport and communications will increasingly aim at
expanding the rural road system and thus be in support of agricultural and
rural development for the medium and longer term. In the urban development
and human resources sectors, Bank lending will be geared to strengthening
the long-term capacity of Thailand to transform itself efficiently from a
primarily agricultural and rural economy to a relatively more industrial and
urban economy, while also supporting the Government's goal to address basic
human needs in the more disadvantaged rural and urban areas of the country.
Lending in the energy and industry sector will be designed to support
structural adjustment and growth through the efficient development and
.utilization of domestic energy resources and the strengthening of the
financial infrastructure. Finally, structural adjustment lending will
strengthen the Government's structural adjustment program through studies,
development of action programs, and policy actions in the areas of agri-
culture, industry, energy, fiscal policy, and institutional development.
20.       Bank loans and IDA credits to Thailand, disbursed and outstanding,
amounted to $1,411.9 million as of March 31, 1983. As of December 31, 1981,
Bank and IDA debt disbursed and outstanding accounted for 12.9% of total
debt (disbursed and outstanding), while the Bank Group's share of total debt
service payments amounted to 6.8% in 1981. This is not excessive in view of
Thail4nd's modest overall external debt (19.7% of GDP in 1981) and the
declining shares of Bank debt in total debt, and of Bank debt service in
total debt service.
21.       As of March 31, 1983, IFC had made fifteen commitments totalling
$110.9 million in ten projects in Thailand. IFC's investments have been
primarily in industry and in the development of financial institutions aimed
at mobilizing domestic resources and providing financing to smaller enter-
prises. Prospects for increased IFC operations in Thailand have been
enhanced by expanding private sector investment activity, and consultations
with the Government have identified several areas where IFC's assistance may
be needed. These areas include very large and complex projects such as the
olefins complex and downstream petrochemical sector, and projects in the
agricultural sector. A tantalum processing project, a palm oil project and
a project to expand a glass manufacturing plant are being considered by IFC
management.
PART III - THE RURAL SECTOR
Background
22.       About 40 million of Thailand's 47 million people live in rural
areas where there are about 5 million farm households and 1.8 million
nonfarm households. The rural economy of Thailand is exceptional by



international standards. It has grown and diversified rapidly ov-er a long
and sustained period. The process at work over the past quarter cer.tury has
been the commercialization, diversification, and mechanization of agricul-
ture, the foundation of rural economic growth in Thailand, predominantly in
response to opportunities in world trade. The chief factors in this
development have been efficiency of private markets, the extension of the
road system, the rapid expansion of the cultivated area often into forested
areas, the expansion of irrigation, and to a lesser degree, the increasing
use of fertilizers. Agricultural production and marketing in Thailand are
largely private sector activities, and generally the Government has created
a decentralized private market environment within which agriculture could
flourish and respond to opportunities in world trade.
23.       Agricultural production (GDP in constant terms) grew at an annual
rate of about 5% during 1960-80. In 1980, agriculture contributed about 26%
of GDP, 58% of exports, and provided full- or part-time employment for more
than 70% of the country's labor force. Furthermore, in the past two decades
the relatively even distribution of farm holdings and the strong agricul-
tural performance has contributed to a substantial reduction in rural
poverty. In recent years, however, growth of agricultural production has
been falling off. Agricultural GDP in constant prices, which had grown at
about 5.5% p.a. in the 1960s, slowed to 5.1% p.a. in 1970-75 and 3.5% p.a.
in 1975-80. The deterioration occurred primarily because earlier growth had
been achieved through expansion of the cultivated area, but, more recently,
poorer marginal lands increasingly came under cultivation and average yields
decreased further. While real agricultural growth has been falling off,
there has been a relatively rapid increase in the income of farm households
from nonfarm sources. Farm family income from sources other than home
consumption and sale of farm products by their producers grew at roughly 12%
p.a. over the six-year period 1972-78, substantially faster than agricul-
tural income. Recent data suggest that, within regions, with the declining
quality and size of farm endowments, proportionately greater efforts are
generally invested in nonfarm activities.
Government Agricultural Policy
24.       The main objectives of the Government's agricultural policy are:
to increase agricultural production; to alleviate rural poverty and reduce
inter-regional income disparities; to expand agricultural exports rapidly to
help the balance of payments; and to better utilize the available land
suitable for agriculture, protect against deforestation and conserve natural
resources. Its efforts to pursue the above objectives involve the following
major strategies: the creation of an environment in which the private
sector will have the needed incentives and confidence to boost production,
marketing and exports; the generation of technical packages to aid intensi-
fication; the demarcation of poverty areas in which line agencies are to
focus their programs, particularly for agriculture, rural infrastructure
(physical and social) and community development; and the establishment of a



- 10 -
land use policy for better utilization of land suitable for agriculture,
including the required legal and regulatory framework to give individual
farmers title to their land and a clear demarcation of zones reserved for
forestry and conservation.
Bank Lending Strategy
25.       The Bank has supported the Government's objectives and strategies
through a lending program for the agricultural sector which has been geared
to strengthening the technical and infrastructural basis for improving
production, and to expanding Government's overall capacity to plan and
implement projects.  The main agricultural activities supported by the Bank
are irrigation, tree crop development, credit, support services of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Coopertives, and land reform. In rural
Thailand, the primary objective of the Bank's lending operations is poverty
alleviation. The broad strategy being followed to achieve this objective is
to boost the level of economic activity in rural areas, thus creating job
opportunities directly and through resulting spinoff activities. The lend-
ing operations are being used to address some of the crucial issues now
affecting the rural areas, i.e., the need for agricultural intensification,
the need for rural development policy to better reflect the increasing
amount of rural income generated by nonfarm activities, and the low level of
social services in many rural areas.
26.       Performance Under the First Agricultural Credit Project (Loan
1816-TH, 1980).  The Bank is already involved with agricultural credit
through a project aimed at improving BAAC-s term lending capability and
strengthening the weak farmer cooperative system.  The Bank loan of $19 mil-
lion financed: (a) BAAC-s medium- and long-term lending for onfarm develop-
ment, oil palm, shrimp culture and nonspecified activities in the North and
Northeast; and (b) a technical assistance program aimed primarily at
strengthening the cooperative system. The bulk of the loan has been used
for nonspecified term lending in the North and Northeast. About 60% of the
recipients of these subloans have been small farmers. Lending for the
specified components has not progressed satisfactorily due to problems
beyond BAAC-s control. For example, implementation of onfarm development
was delayed by difficulties in obtaining full consensus from participating
farmers before proceeding with the land consolidation works. Training
activities to improve the cooperative system are progressing well. Overall
disbursements from the loan are ahead of schedule. Disbursements for the
BAAC components are completed and the other components are scheduled to be
completed by December 1984.
Rural Finance
27.       The gradual closing of the land frontier, which implies that
future growth in agriculture will have to come predominantly from intensi-
fication, and the fact that about 50% of rural incomes are now derived from



-11  
nonfarm sources, have substantial implications for rural finance. In agri-
culture, farmers will need to increase the capital stock, partly through
medium- and long-term borrowing, and also to increase the level of current
inputs to foster intensification, partly through short-term borrowing. In
addition, there is a need to improve the quality of the technical packages
the farmers are financing, and for this reason closer cooperation is needed
between agricultural research, extension services, and credit. The nonagri-
cultural sector in rural areas will similarly need increasing amounts of
short-, mediumr, and long-term funds as it expands and modernizes. Little
difficulty is foreseen in meeting the short-term credit requirements of
rural areas, either from informal or institutional sources, but difficulties
are foreseen in adequately meeting the needs of rural areas for term
finance. Basically, this is so because noninstitutional sources, which
supply about half of all rural credit, lend primarily for short-term pur-
poses, while institutional sources that are dependent on relatively short-
term deposits as their main source of funding are reluctant to lend for
medium- and long-term purposes since it would require substantial mis-
matching of maturities. Furthermore, government credit policies have tended
to rely on directives rather than incentives to achieve its goals in rural
development, and often the attempt has been ineffective and costly.
28.       As part of its rural development policy, the Government has inter-
vened extensively in the allocation of agricultural credit and in the regu-
lation of interest rates, particularly since 1975. The Government intended
firstly, to increase the flow of institutional credit to agricultulre so as
to increase resources available in rural areas; and secondly, it sought to
provide credit to agriculture at below-market interest rates to compensate
for high levels of agricultural taxation, and to direct this credit to poor
farmers in particular.
29.       In pursuit of these objectives, the Government has employed a
number of measures which, generally, have not had the intended results.
Interest rate ceilings on commercial bank credit, now 19%, are controlled at
levels appropriate for near prime borrowers in urban areas, but far below
informal market rates in rural areas. Since the transaction costs and risks
generally associated with rural lending are higher than those in urban
areas, banks are reluctant to lend at rates below the ceiling. Commercial
banks are also required to fulfill several mandatory requirements: 13% of
total deposits must be allocated to agriculture and all new rural branches
must allocate 60% of local deposits to the area served by the branch, one
third of which must go to farmers. The former requirement has benefited
only a small group of large clients, while the latter has acted as a further
disincentive to mobilization of rural financial savings and at the same time
has discouraged commercial banks from opening new rural branches. The Bank
of Thailand has also operated four rediscount facilities directed toward
agricultural lending. Use of these facilities has been limited due to the
narrow spread between the interest rates charged by the Bank of Thailand and
the rate mandated for subborrowers, and the fact that the rediscounted loans
cannot be counted against the mandatory requirement.



- 12 -
30.       The Government and the Bank are now working closely to elaborate a
strategy which will improve the functioning of rural financial markets and
the performance of institutions in these markets. Such a strategy would
take account of the role of the important financial institutions operating
in the rural areas, including the commercial banks. Adequate incentives
need to be created to encourage financial intermediaries to actively
participate in mobilizing financial savings and in lending in rural areas,
including for nonfarm activities, which significantly contribute to rural
incomes and employment. It is expected that the establishment of a priority
funding pool within the Bank of Thailand, which would rediscount medium- and
long-term loans made by commercial banks or the BAAC for rural development,
would help to integrate rural financial markets, increase the flow of such
funds to rural areas, and create additiona-l economic activity, and, hence,
jobs in rural areas. The Government and the Bank view the proposed project
as an interim step toward a broader approach to be adopted in the future
whereby rural financial market development would be supported through the
establishment of such a priority funding pool.
31.       Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives (BAAC).  The
BAAC has played an important role in the Government's rural development
strategy, but again with mixed results. BAAC was established in 1966 to
lend to individual farmers, agricultural cooperatives and farmers- associa-
tions for agricultural purposes, excluding agribusiness. It is legally
barred fiom lending for nonfarm activities.  BAAC is now the most important
single institutional source of credit to farmers, and its credit operations
are remarkably widespread. With 62 branches and 514 field units all over
the country, BAAC has been able to reach about 2 million farm families
through its credit operations. By comparison, commercial banks, with about
1,017 branches outside of Bangkok, reach about 200,000 families directly.
While BAAC has for years channelled large volumes of heavily subsidized
credit to farmers, it has generally not benefitted the truly needy who
generally do not produce a marketable surplus and, therefore, are hardly
creditworthy. Over the period 1976-81, BAAC's credit operations have grown
at an annual rate of about 20%, with loans disbursed increasing from about
$220 million in 1976 to about $460 million in 1981.
32.       Although BAAC is well administered, staffed and managed, the low
interest rates at which it is required by Government to lend prevent it from
being an independent, financially self-sustaining institution. With lending
rates to individual farmers and cooperatives of only 14% and 11% p.a.,
respectively, and a rate on time deposits in 1982, for example of 13-14%,
BAAC has little incentive to mobilize rural savings and instead relies
mainly on direct support from the Government, the Bank of Thailand and com-
pulsory deposits from commercial banks (an alternative to the 13% mandatory
credit requirement). These captive sources of funding as a percent of loans
outstanding have risen from negligible levels in the early 1970s to about
90% by 1980. BAAC is nominally a profitable institution with net earnings
of about $6 million for the year ended March 31, 1982, but if it were not



- 13 -
for the subsidies (about $30 million p.a.), BAAC would have faced an
effective operating loss in FY81 amounting to about one-fourth of equity.
33.        In theory, BAAC's low lending rates are supposed to offset agri-
cultural taxes, but they have only caused more distortions in the system.
If agricultural taxes are considered an undue burden on the farmer, they
should be reduced. Furthermore, the existence of an informal financial
market about equal in size to the formal market and charging interest rates
of 2-5% per month indicates that the demand for credit is not being met by
institutional sources and that borrowers are able and willing to pay
significantly higher rates than those mandated for BAAC. An increase in
BAAC's lending rate relative to other rates is also necessary if it is to
have an incentive to actively seek rural deposits. The proposed project is
designed to address these issues.
PART IV - TIE PROJECT
34.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government in conjuction
with the Bank and IFAD. The project was appraised in February 1982. Nego-
tiations were held in Washington from April 11 to April 14, 1983, with a
Thai delegation led by Mr. Chamlong Tohtong (General Manager, BAAC).
Project Objectives and Description
35.        The proposed project would: (a) improve the functioning of rural
financial markets by raising the level of BAAC lending rates relative to
those prevailing elsewhere in the market, and by improving BAAC's loan
recovery rates; and (b) increase the availability of loanable funds to the
BAAC. The relative increase in BAAC's lending rates would partially correct
the distortions existing in rural financial and real sector markets as a
consequence of subsidized BAAC lending rates; increase the incentives to
BAAC to mobilize rural savings; and strengthen BAAC financially and thus
lessen its dependence on subsidies. Improvements in BAAC's financial via-
bility would enable it to better achieve its developmental role of providing
financial services to creditworthy farmers who are unable to gain access to
commercial bank lending, or who are outside the reach of the commercial
banks' branch networks and credit policies. Providing additional resources
to BAAC to finance farm activities would boost the level of economic acti-
vity in rural areas and thereby contribute towards employment generation,
poverty alleviation and increased rural production. The project would also
play an important catalytic role in Thailand by encouraging the Government's
program to strengthen the links between research, extension and credit.
36.        The project, which would be partially financed by the Bank and
IFAD, would support BAAC's lending activities and finance its resource gap
over a two-year period. The types of activities eligible for financing
would include: (a) medium- and long-term loans for agricultural investments



- 14 -
in rural areas countrywide to individual farmers, and medium-term loans to
agricultural cooperatives with good perFormance records; (b) s'hort-terfn
loa12s to small farmers participating in a pilot scheme planned by BAAC and
the Department of Extension, which would provide credit/extension packages
in the North and Northeast, the poorest regions of Thailand; and (c) support
to BAAC-s training activities during the project period.  The proceeds of
the Bank loan would be used to finance BAAC's term lending activities
countrywide, including lending to small farmers, and would also finance
BAAC's training activities. The proceeds of the IFAD loan would be limited
to supporting short-, medium-, and long-tern subloans to individual small
Farmners in the North and Northeast Cfo food production. In addition to
financing the above components, the project would attempt to improve BAAC
institutionally by addressing the issues of BAAC's low level of onlending
rates and high overdues.  A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Second
Agricultural Credit Project" (No. 4276-TM, dated May 10, 1983) is being
distributed separately. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex
III.
Detai led Features of the Project
37.        Term Lending for Agricultural Investments.  During the project
period, BAAC's past pattern of lenTding is expected to continue, and loanis
are expected to finance mainly investments in draft animals, agricultural
equipment, farm buildings, land improvements, livestock and poultry. These
investments would result in the i Lcreased production of mainly rice, maize,
treecrops, pigs and poultry.  Within the creditworthy group of f-armners, BAAC
would be lending to the middle- income and smaller farmers.  The average size2
of BAAC-s medium- and lonig-terin loans during the project period is expected
to be about $900 and $1,300, respectively. On the basis of BAAC-s past
lending practices, it is expected that about 50% of BAAC-s lending under the
project would be directed to tenant farmers and farmers owning holdings with
a size below the average of the province in which they live. In no instance
would the total amount of subloans partially financed out of the proceeds of
the Bank loan to any subborrower exceed $217,000 equivalent. Few loans
(less than 5%) are expected to exceed $103,000 equivalent. These loans
woluld mainly finance investments made by relatively large farmers in pigs
and poultry. BAAC would submit to the Bank for its prior approval all
subloans mnade out of the proceeds of the Bank loan for subprojects exceeding
t'ae equivalent of $100,000, and furnish to the Banik a description and a
technical, Financial and economic appraisal or i'hle saloprojects to be
financed (Section 4.02 (a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreemnent).
38.        Pilot Scheme in the North and Northeast.  The development and
implementation of cost-effective production packages, which extend yield-
improving technologies, are vital for agricultural intensification to
proceed satisfactorily. BAAC and the Department of Agricultural Extension
are now planning a pilot scheme in the North and Northeast, particularly for
smnall farmers, which would provide extension/credit packages.  The B-AAC
credit officers, who would work as a team with the extension officers, would



- 15 -
provide short-term credit for annual crop production to target farmers to
pnichase a package of inputs recognized by both the research and extension
qerviLcCe  as most economic for the area.  The pilot schneme would be set up in
four provinces, two in the North and two in the Northeast. A committee with
representatives from the Department of Agriculture, the Department of
Agricultural Extension and BAAC would oversee and evaluate the scheme. The
IFAD loan would support this pilot scheme.
39.       Training, Technical Assistance and Studies.  The training programs
at BAAC have been quite successful and generally adequate, but over the next
two years, additional training is needed for executive and middle-level
staff. The project would make funds available to BAAC to finance additional
training needs. Twenty middle-level and executive staff would atLendl snort
courses in Thailand or in neighboring countries in fields such as managerial
'Laance, computers, inventory control, institutional manpower utilization
and internal auditinrv   S> ,,iddle-level staff would receive advanced degree
training in the Phrl.ppines in business administration and agrLcultural
economics. Project funds would also finance the costs of an advisor to
conduct a three-week training workshop on the monitoring and evaluation of
agricultural projects. The project would also finance, with IFAD funds, an
expansion of an ongoing study that would examine BAAC-s policies and
criteria concerning lending to small farmers.
Project Cost and Financing
40.       The total project cost is estimated at $2188.5 million, including a
foreign exchange component of about $47 million (25%) as well as taxes and
duties representing about $11.0 million.  Project cost was calculated assur-
ing annual international price increases of 8%O irl 1983, 7.5% in 1984 and 7%
in 1985.  For local costs, it was assumed that domestic price inflation
would be 7% per annum for 1983-85.
41.       The BAAC would be the borrower of the Bank loan and the Government
would be the borrower of the IFAD loan. IFAD would appoint the Bank as
Cooperating Institution to administer the IFAD loan. The IFAD funds would
be passed on to BAAC under the same terms and conditions regarding interest
rates and repayment schedules as the IFAD loan. BAAC would bear the foreign
exchange and interest rate risks. The financing plan provides for a Bank
loan of $70 million, including the capitalized front-end fee of about $0.2
million. The proposed Bank loan of $70 million and the proposed IFAD loan
of $20.2 million, amounting to about 40% and 11%, respectively, of project
cost net of taxes, would jointly finance the full foreign exchange cost oF
$47.3 million, including the front-end fee, and $42.9 million of local
costs.  Local currency financing is justified in view of the low foreign
exchange elemeen  trn BAAC's subloans, and the need For the Banik to nake a
meaningful contributLon to project costs.  Tre comiohned Bank and IFAD loans
would cover the Full projected resource gap of BAAC over the next two years.
The Bank loan would finance retroactively an amount of $7 inillion for
expenditures incurred since April 1, 1983 by BAAC for medium- and long-term



- 16 -
subloans to individual farmers and medium-term subloans to cooperatives.
Subborrowers would provide about $28.0 million, or 15% of project cost
inclusive of taxes, in the form of owner contributions to individual
subprojects. The BAAC would provide about $71.0 million equivalent or 38%
of project cost, inclusive of taxes.
Procurement
42.       Bulk purchasing under international competitive bidding would not
be feasible, since the lending activities would be implemented over a two-
year period, be widely distributed geographically, cover a wide variety of
investment activities, and involve a large number of subborrowers. All
procurement under the project would be carried out by individual subborrow-
ers through normal commercial channels, following established commercial
practices. International and domestic manufacturers are well represented in
Thailand, there is a well developed distribution system for the varied types
of inputs expected to be procured by individual subborrowers, and competi-
tion is keen. Furthermore, BAAC assists farmers by posting in its many
branches and field offices local price lists by dealers for key inputs.
These enable farmers to do comparative price shopping and have proven to be
very helpful in disseminating price information and in helping farmers avoid
poor quality products.
Disbursements
43.       A Special Account would be established at the Krung Thai Bank to
finance project expenditures related to the Bank loan and to Bank-financed
expenditures. The amount of funds on deposit in this account would not
exceed at any time the baht equivalent of $7 million. All project subloans
would be committed during approximately a two-year period (April 1983-April
1985) and the Bank and IFAD loans would be disbursed over approximately
two-and-a-half years. The Bank and IFAD would reimburse the BAAC for 55% of
its eligible medium- and long-term subloans. In addition, IFAD would
reimburse the BAAC for 75% of approved subloans made for short-term purposes
under the project and for 100% of the cost of the study to be carried out by
BAAC. Bank disbursements would be made against statements of expenditure,
which would certify that the amount of approved lending had taken place.
The Bank would reimburse BAAC for 100% of the cost of technical assistance
and overseas training, against normal documentation. The project is expected
to be completed by September 30, 1985, and the estimated Closing Date would
be March 31, 1986. A condition of loan effectiveness would be the establish-
ment of the Special Account.
Project Implementation
44.       Organization and Management.  BAAC would be the implementing agency
for the project. The activities of BAAC are controlled by a Board of
Directors whose chairman is the Minister of Finance. The main responsibil-
ity of the Board is to formulate the operating policies of BAAC and to



- 17 -
control and supervise its activities. BAAC's head office is in Bangkok. It
has 62 branches for planning, control, and general administration. The
branch offices are in charge of lending (appraisal, approval within author-
ized limits, disbursement, supervision and collection) and soliciting
deposits. Under the direct control of branch offices, field units assist
subborrowers in preparing loan applications, check their adherence to loan
conditions, particularly on use of funds and on repayment, and provide
borrowers with some technical advice. At present, BAAC has a total staff of
4,757, of which about 19% (911) are at the head office and 81% (3,846) are
at the branches and field units. In general, the staff are well qualified
and of good caliber. Overall, BAAC is administratively sound. Its organiza-
tional structure, staffing and systems are in accordance with its
requirements.
45.       Lending Policies and Procedures.  BAAC provides loans only for
agricultural purposes, excluding agro-industries. For medium-term loans,
individual borrowers, who are unable to provide collateral, are required to
join a small informal guarantee group. Each member is liable for his/her
loan and for other loans guaranteed by the group. The minimum group size is
five. The maximum loan amount per group member is $1,304 equivalent, but
not exceeding 60% of the value of the expected marketable surplus produced.
Individual farmers can receive medium-term loans exceeding $1,304 equiva-
lent, but less than $43,478 equivalent provided they mortgage their assets
with BAAC. The prevailing interest on these loans is 14% with a loan repay-
ment period of 3-5 years. For long-term loans, the repayment period is up
to 20 years, the loan ceiling is $217,000 equivalent (B 5 million), and
farmers must submit detailed investment proposals for BAAC-s consideration.
Farmers are also required to furnish an equity contribution of at least 20%
of the project's total investment costs (including noncash costs), and are
required to mortgage their fixed assets with BAAC., With the exception of
interest rates, which are discussed below, BAACGs subloan terms and condi-
tions are considered adequate. BAAC would make project subloans in accord-
ance with its current lending terms and conditions, as they may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Bank and BAAC.
46.       Institutional Improvements in BAAC.  While BAAC is a well managed
institution within the overall framework and interest rate regime fixed by
the Government, measures to increase its onlending rates and improve its
loan recovery rates are needed if it is to become a financially self-
sustaining institution, capable of operating without Government subsidies.
BAACGs low onlending rates have made it heavily dependent on government
subsidies and have been a disincentive for it to mobilize rural savings.
Increasing BAAC's lending rates relative to other rates would not only
strengthen BAAC financially and increase its incentive to mobilize savings,
but also partially correct the distortions in the market resulting from
subsidized BAAC lending rates, and improve the competition in the supply of
credit between BAAC and the commercial banks. In April 1982, all BAAC



- 18 -
lending rates were increased by 1%, and are now 14% and 11% to individual
farmers and cooperatives/farmers associations, respectively. However,
considering that commercial banks charge up to 17% for their agricultural
term lending, BAAC-s rates are still relatively low.  BAAC's long-term
objective is to become a financially self-sustaining institution capable of
mobilizing sufficient domestic savings to meet adequately the legitimate
credit needs of its borrowers. At present, BAAC requires a spread of about
6% between its lending rate to individual farmers and the rate payable on
domestically mobilized savings in order to cover its costs, including
administrative and loan risk costs. It has therefore been agreed that BAAC
would maintain a lending rate to individual farmers 6% above the commercial
bank time deposit rate, when the deposit rate is 7% or less. When the time
deposit rate is in'the higher range, above 7%, it is politically more
difficult in the short-to mediunr-term to achieve a 6% spread in BAAC's
onlending rates. It has therefore been agreed that as an interim step, BAAC
would maintain a lending rate to individual farmers such that: when the time
deposit rate is more than 7% but less then 10%, the BAAC lending rate is at
least 13%; when the time deposit rate is 10% or more but less than 14%, the
BAAC's lending rate is at least 14%; and when the time deposit rate is 14%
or more, the BAAC's lending rate is at least equal to the time deposit rate
(Section 4.03(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). BAAC has also agreed that
the differential between its lending rates for individual farmers' loans
and its lending rates for all other types of loans would not be greater than
that existing during its FY82. The adjustment in BAAC's lending rates, in
line with the above agreements, are expected to take place at least once
annually. In the three years, 1979, 1980, and 1981, the consumer price
index increased 9.9%, 19.7% and 12.7%, respectively; it is currently
increasing at about 6% p.a., and is expected to increase at about 7% p.a.
over the next three years. BAAC interest rates during the project period
are expected to remain positive in real terms. The Government has also
agreed that it would take all appropriate measures with respect to BAAC's
lending rates for BAAC to fulfill the above agreements.
47.       BAAC's loan repayment rate from individual farmers is fairly good
at 73%, with the bulk repaid within two years of being overdue and almost
98% repaid within three years. Ilowever, the repayment from cooperatives and
farmers' associations is unsatisfactory, at 42% and 49%, respectively.
Financial mismanagement by these institutions is one of the major causes of
this poor performance. BAAC is already phasing out its lending to farmers'
associations with loans overdue, and the first Agricultural Credit Project
finances training courses under a program designed to restructure agricul-
tural cooperatives in poor financial condition. Under this program, which
will run through 1983, cooperatives have been graded according to perform-
ance, including loan repayment record, with Grade 1 being the best and Grade
3 the worst. Of the 844 cooperatives reviewed, 34 were classified as Grade
1, 410 as Grade 2 and 400 as Grade 3 (88 of which were Grade 3 because they
were newly established). The first Agricultural Credit Project attempts to
rehabilitate a mix of Grade 2 and 3 cooperatives. The BAAC has agreed that:



- 19 -
(a) it will not increase the credit line ceiling of those Grade 3 coopera-
tives whose performance is deteriorating; (b) in collaboration with the
National Agricultural Cooperative Training Institute (NACTI), it will design
appropriate training programs for the Grade 3 cooperatives not yet covered
by the restructuring program, and that participation in these programs would
be a condition for the continued financial support of BAAC; and (c) it will
make its best efforts to improve the rates of recovery from cooperatives to
which it makes subloans. BAAC has also agreed to review its lending policy
and activities affecting cooperatives and discuss the implications of this
review with the Guarantor and the Bank by December 1, 1984. This review is
intended to assess the impact of BAAC's lending through cooperatives and to
examine the justifications for the interest rate spread (currently about 3%)
given to cooperatives by BAAC (Section 6.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Government has also agreed to take all measures necessary to encourage
the cooperatixes to improve their repayment performance to BAAC.
Accounts and Aulits
48.       BAAC would maintain separate project accounts for the proposed
project in accordance with sound accounting principles and methods, consis-
tently applied. "he project accounts and related basic financial statements
would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in
accordance with appropriate auditing procedures consistently applied. BAAC
would submit to the Bank within six months of the end of every fiscal year
during project implementation a certified copy of the auditors report,
including a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of disbursements
made on the basis of statements of expenditure. BAAC would also be required
to submit to the Bank in audit of its entire accounts.
Monitoring and Reporting
49.       BAAC would submit to the Bank semi-annual progress reports, an
annual evaluation report of project investments, together with the annual
audited financial statement. for the project, a project completion report,
and such other information relating to the implementation and financial
position of the proposed project as the Bank may reasonably request.
Markets
50.       Agricultural production under the project is expected to consist
principally of rice, maize, treecrops, livestock, poultry and fish. The
existing marketing infrastructure and facilities for agricultural inputs and
outputs, which are well establis1ied in Thailand, are considered efficient
and capable of handling the agricultural production under the project. The
marketing of agricultural inputs and outputs in Thailand is primarily
handled by an efficient, decentralized, private marketing system. Domestic
and export market prospects for project production are generally good, but



- 20 -
with some exceptions. Short-term prospects for cassava are less favorable
because of world recessionary conditions, but due to Thailand's aggressive
private sector, favorable government-to-government trade arrangements, and
comparative advantage relative to many other exporting countries, it should
be able to find sufficient market outlets.  While the medium-term prospects
for rice are reasonably favorable, longer-term prospects for a projected
5 million tons of exportable surplus from Thailand are uncertain and require
further assessment as to the potential absorptive capacity of world markets.
For the remaining products, supply rather than demand is likely to be the
limiting factor.
Benefits and Risks
51.       The project would make a positive step toward improving the func-
tioning of rural financial markets by increasing BAAC's lending rates
relative to other rates, and by improving BAAC's recovery rates. This would
increase BAAC's incentive to actively mobilize rural savings; partially
correct the existing distortions resulting from subsidized BAAC lending
rates; improve competition in the supply of agricultural credit between BAAC
and the commercial banks; and strengthen BAAC financially so that it is
better able to serve the needs of the rural people. By providing additional
financing to rural areas, the proposed project would boost the level of
economic activity in these areas and thereby contribute toward job creation
and raising rural production and incomes. It is estimated that about
150,000 farmers would receive funds channeled through BAAC under the pro-
ject, of which about 50,000 would be beneficiaries of IFAD lending in the
North and Northeast. The potential longterm benefits from support of the
pilot scheme in the North and Northeast would be substantial. With improved
coordinated services between the agencies concerned with research, extension
and credit, the extensive transfer of yield-improving technology, which is
crucial to agricultural intensification, would be facilitated.
52.       It has not been possible to make a precise quantitative assessment
of project benefits. However, to demonstrate the benefits expected from
typical subprojects, five investment models were developed, representing the
purchase of draft animals, pig breeding and fattening, duck and hen egg
production. The financial rates of return range from 16-26%, and the
economic rates of return from 17-26%.
53.       The level of risk associated with this project, in terms of dis-
bursement of funds, is low because of the broad range of subprojects to be
financed. Hiowever, if the ongoing world recession persists, it could have
adverse effects on Thailand-s agricultural growth, and, hence, the demand
for agricultural loans and loan repayments. The risks common to most
agricultural projects include: failure to achieve projected yields; changes
in Government-s agricultural policy affecting prices and taxes which would
provide disincentives to farmers; and deterioration in the quality of
technical services.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Bank for
Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives, the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Bank and the Kingdom of Thailand, and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions referred to in the text are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) IFAD would appoint the Bank as Cooperating Institution to
administer the IFAD loan; and
(b) a Special Account would be established;
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 10, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                                   ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
THAILAND                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE94GES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM. )                                                                 -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            514.0                                  MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      182.6              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER, CAPITA (US$)                 110.0        230.0     670.0                 890.1                    1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       59.5        195.2     352.9                 701.7                   1239.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 27039.0       36431.0   46950.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 12.5          13.2      14.4                  32.4                     65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        68.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         100.1
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KMR                        52.6         70.9      89.3                 255.4                     35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    208.8         259.2     251.3                1748.0                      92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.7         46.2      41.9                  39.9                     39.7
15-64 YRS.                          52.6         50.8      55.0                  56.8                     56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.7          3.0       3.1                   3.3                       4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.7          3.0       2.5                   2.3                       2.4
URBAN                               4.5          3.5       3.4                   3.9                       3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      43.6         39.7      30.0                  31.8                      31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      14.9         10.8       7.9                   9.8                       8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.1          2.8       2.0                   2.0                       2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..       202.9/c   761.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           7.6      39.0                  36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           92.0        100.0     125.0                 115.6                    110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
PEQUIREMENTS)                    99.0        100.7      96.9/d               106.4                    108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           44.7         48.7      47.57W                54.4                      66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        1060         14.2      15.27/B               13.9                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      13.3          7.9       4.5                   6.7                       5.6
HIEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    52.3          57.9      62.5                  59.8                      64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           103.0         74.6      54.8                  63.7                      64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         17.0      22.0/e                32.0                      65.6
URBAN                                 ..        60.0      49.07;.               51.9                      78.9
RURAL                                 ..        10.0      12.07;                20.5                     43.9
ACCESS TO gXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        17.0      40.0/f                37.7                      59.3
URBAN                                 ..        65.0      58.07?                65.7                      75.3
RURAL                                 ..         8.0      36.07f                24.0                      30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           7948.0       8446.8    8222.5/e              8540.4                    1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4857.9/g    7045.3    1166.2Te               4829.4                    1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1384.4        896.1     821.0/e              1047.5                    477.4
URBAN                                ..        176.0     525.77e               651.6                    679.8
RURAL                                ..      13884.8    1278.47e              2597.6                   1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        31.0      44.8/e                 27.0                     27.3
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.5/g        5.8       5.5/e
URBAN                               5.3/g        5.8       5.57/a
RURAL                               5.6/g        5.8       5.5se.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..       2.4/e
URBAN                                ..           ..       2.2/..
RURAL                                 ..          ..       2. 4/e
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                *          18.9        ..
URBAN                                ..         86.1        ..
RURAL                                ..          9.0 



X
2 3                                                 Page 2 of 5
THAILAND - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
TRAILAND                         REFERENCE GROUPS (W4EIGHTED AVE~AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb          ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  83.0        81.0       82.0/d                  96.2                    104.3
MALE                  88.0         85.0      85.07o                  99.8                    106.4
FEMALE                79.0         77.0      78.07o                  92.1                    103.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  13.0        17.0       29.0                    37.6                     41.3
MALE                  16.0         20.0      30.0                    41.1                     40.4
FEMALE                10.0         14.0      28.0                    34.1                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)    19.1           22.3      17.1/e                  20.8                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             36.2        34.7       28.9/d                 35.5                      29.9
SECONDARY                           19.8         15.5      26.9Te                  2i1.0                    16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         68.0         78.6      84.0/e                  73.1                      79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.8          5.1       6.4/f                   9.8                     42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0         76.2     131.0                   116.5                    2-C.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.2          6.6      17.6                    37.6                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   10.6         20.5        ..                    53.7                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            1.8/h     1.7                     2.8                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13859.9       16986.9   22428.6
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    48.4        46.8       46.0                   33.6                      24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               84.0        80.0       76.0                    52.2                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   4.0         6.0        9.0                   17.9                      23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 51.3         46.6      47.8                    38.5                      33.6
MALE                                  52.7         49.3      51.3                    50.5                     50.4
FEMALE                                49.8         43.9      44.2                    26.6                      16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9          1.1       0.9                     1.1                       1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   21.8Eg        23.8/i    14.01..
HIGEEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  5o.9 j        49.771    42.2.j
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.2ZA          6.171     7.67.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   14.97k        15.97i    19.1,
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (ES$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      159.0                  194,.
RURAL                                 ..          ..      106.0                  155.X                     184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      115.0                   178.2                    518.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     110.0                   164.9                    371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
TRBAN                                 ..           ..      15.0                    24.4
RURAL                                 ..           ..      34.0                    41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless othervise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Government program only; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1975;  g 1962; /h 1973; /i 1968; 'J Preliminary data for
1975-76, due to lack of data on national basis, the methodology for aggregating the available regional
data overstates incomes of low income groups and understates incomes of higbe. income groups. Thus, this
data is not suitable for any analytical comparisons.
May, 1982



- 24-                                                                                ANNEX I
DEFL'7TIONS OF SOCLAL INDICATORS                                                                 Page   3   of   5
Notes:  Aith-ogh the date ate 1tems fIey  tources  st-etatly judged the Iest a-thoritative and reliable, it shoul also be noted that they may not be inter-
nationally cooeparabie becanse ef the lack of standardiaed definitions and concepts esed by different cnuntr leo in collecting the dote. The date aet cent-
sheleus, useful to des-ribe orders of  -agt.tude, indtcate trend5s end charaoberiot certain major dthifresoes between countries.
The reforenne groups  ra t1) the none country group of the sobject cooetry end (2) a country group etch someshat higher anerope itncoe riot the country teno
of the . hj.ect countyy (excrpt for    digh I nI e   Oil Eoporteos" gnoup etere "Siddl.e In.o.  North Afrt_ snd Hiddle E_st  is chunen because of stronger
sucio-cultural affioitien).  In t. e refertnnt group dots the aveages urn poynlatioc n elgied trithretic swans inn  each indicator sod omen only then
rsio)tty of the countyies in a groep hao date for that indicanor. Since she cocerage of counstrict unosg the indicators depends onu the avaulabhility of dote
cud it not cifors.  caution suet he enrerised to relteing aceraeys of one indicator to afother.  These anerages are only usefol in cooporing toh  yau  of
one indicsetor et a Cioe enang the country erd reference groups.
fREA (nhossand sq=.)                                                                    Populatino pee Hospital hod - total. urban, end rural - fopulattos (total.
Total - Total surfact ores cowprloing land aete  and intandsvatere; i979 dots.          urben, sad roral) dividyd by thint rrespectnve nu=ber of hospital beds
Agoinsitourl - Estirate of ageicultural unto tntd tenparectip on poreatnptly             asnilehie is public and ptivate general end spenlatised hospital sod ye-
for crops, pastures,  market and hitches gardens or to lia fallow  i979 data.         habtll-atln  centers.  Hospitalscenest tlsh en  pnnetty staffed
by at leaot one phyoician. fetablielseoss providing priecipallycusto-
SNP PIt CdAPITA (PS) - INP par ca pits estimates at curreet tenket prices, cal-            diat tore are sot included.  Etuta hospitals. bovener, inctide leelOb
cultned by eacte contersion method as tenld Eark Attas (1978-dg basis); 19ff.           and eedlcet cesters cot pereanently staffed by a piytician (bet by a
19701, dsf 1980 dons.                                                                   pedicel essist.n.  nurse, sideife, etc.) vhich after it-patient accaaot,-
datlotnegd prnnldo a linited tente of mesdical facititirs. Pne statis-
EfNERY C       PSOf tf-TIf PEi CAPITA - Anneal consu=yrion of cesmrytel energy (coal      tical purposes urban boepitals include tils principal/general boopituls,
and lignite, petrole=,. natural gas and hydro-, nclyear end geothermal elec-            and rurol hospitals, locat or rarel hospitals cod sedicat and saterolty
trinity) in kilograme of coal egutvalent per capita; 19td. 1970, cod 1979               centers.  Specialized  hospitals   .ie iluded only ender totel.
data.                                                                                 Admlnslent per hospItal ted - Total camber of edat=ssons so 0r diecharges
from hoapitals d-p-dnd hy th   nutere at heds.
PdPULATION di VITA  SATIITICS
Total PopularioS, Mid-Year (bthouands) - An of July 1; 19601, 1970, end 198f        HOtlO- lt
date.                                                                               Anerage lice of Household (persono per housebold) - total, urban. and rural-
7rban Popolstion (percent et total) - Rstin  of urban to total population;              A hnusehold Connoiss pf a gtoup at individuals vho share lining quarters
dffereOnS definitions of urTan areas Pay affect copararil1ty of data                   and thrir m-ain mgass. A hoarder or lodger may on may not he tyciuded it
dmalg coitnries; 1960. 1970, eNd 1dOh data.                                           thr household tor statistical purppoen.
PppulatYin Projectionn                                                                Avertge nettber of pIrsoct pen rtn=.-totel, urben, sod eunel - nttaic nun-
Population in year 2000 - Curreot poplultton projecriore are hosed on 1980            ber of persons pee room it Otl urhan, and rural urcupied  cnrenat
tctui population by age and sex and their mortalitY and fertility rates.           dInelllngo. respec tively.  Dveellings occlude ecs-persaneon structures san
Projection parameters for =prtalitry rates cocyrise od three letels assu=-          Pnoocesped parts.
tug ltfe enpectency at hirth locreasint cmih country's per copita mnoose          Acceast to Electricity (percent of dwellings) - turdl, urban, and rural -
tl, and Inat life expe tancy atnilieg at 77.5 years. The pnta-                       nnoenvtionnl doellihssvith slerteciry in lining quartern as percentage
meters fur fertility  rate .... hone three levels assu=ing declone it               of totcL. urhan, and rural dvelhlingsrespectively.
fertility nccording to iocoqg tenet and part faut Iy plantitg Ptforeance.
tach country is then assigerd ace of these nice cof- blations of bortalIty      EDUCATION
end fertil try treeds for projertin purposes.                                     Adjusted Esrolltent Ratios
P.atronaty coruionri  -In a stationary population there ia no groveth  inre           PrImary school - totel, rale and fe=slt - Irons total, mtae and female
the htrth rate iaequal to thr death rate, and also tie age structure re-              etralmant of all ages at the prCsary tenet as percentagee of renpectine
malis constant.  Thin is achiened only after fettiLity totes dtritce to                prigroy s phpol-agt populattins; nortully includts children aged h-li
the replace=snt tenet of unit net reproduction rate, ehen each genererion             years but adjusced for differtnt rlcIths of poattay eduontlun; tot
of enataz replaces itself exactly.  The atatoneary population sloe won                countries with universal educatIon enrollpent =ay excted ill percrnt
rstitated on tie basin of the projected cisracteristtns of the population             since soqe puplls are beloe or above she official srch oL age
in tie ytear ZtOUO, and the rote of decline of fertility rate to reptace-           Secondscy sctool - total, nale sod temtie - Computed an alone; secondary
gent lenel.                                                                           tdscanionsnequiresat least four yearn of appeoned peinary instrectiuc;
Year stationary popnunaion is reached - The year then stationary population             prontdes general. nncntinnal. on teacher t~raninlg instrnuctioot tot puptls
clot till be reuc bed.                                                                usually of 12 to 17 years of age; crreeupondttce cnurstu  ere generilty
Populabton Uensity                                                                        excluded.
Per sq. Ice. - did-year poputlatio  per square kltcamrer fill hectares) of          Vyotional etroilment (percent of uecondaty) - Votational insrtitutinns
ntetl ones; 1960, 1970 and 1979 duta.                                               include technical, industrial, or other Ptogresn vhich operate independ-
Per sq. ke  agricultural Land - Co=puted as ahoce for agricuiltrel land               ently  gr en dep-t-sents of secondary inotiut lots
only; lYtU, 19ff and 1979 data.                                                   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary-Totel students enroiled it
Papslatloo Age Structure (percent) - Children (I-lb years). tori itt-ate (15-           priseiry and uecondary leyels divided by testbers of teachers in the
ft yesrs). and retired (65 years sod erer) as percentages of mid-year popu-            correnpondiog  tenets.
tattoo; 190, 1970. and 19ff data.                                                    Adult literacy rote (percent) - LIterate sdolts fable to resad and trite)
Populatics Ireeth late (percent) - tntal - dosed  grueth eaten cf tnral rid-             as a percentage of tosal adult poputtn aged 11  years end over.
lean pnpciatin  forc 1950-6i, i96f-70, aol 1970-ft.
Population frowth late (percent) - orbant-innual greeti rantes of urban pope-       CONilSUPTION
latinns for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 19)0-At.                                          Passesger Cars (pet thousand popuilaton) .- P_ssenger core conpriuneneoor
Crude sirri tote (prr thonsand) - Annual line hicrths per thousand of old-peer          cans sesting lens than right persons; excludes as=blatues, hearses and
population; 1960. 1970, and 19EO data,                                                 oilitary nehcicls.
Ct-de eeatI tart (per thcosesd) - Annual deaths pen thousand  of nil-year             hadit tecetners (ptr th-uss_d population) - All types of tecoiners foe radio
populatdon; 1961, 1970, end 1g50 dots.                                                 broadoasts tn genen-l pubitf per thoustud of popuilaon, excLudea en-
Cress RtProduttiot late- Average  unhybr of daugitern a wasran clill hear in            litensed receivees in countrineasnd in years vhen registratilon of nadio
her nursal reprcdcncriepeariodifeshetxpartcnnes yrteosenage-spectfictfer-              setscas fneffect; datafor recont crate ray not bc coeparsblel;snc
ttilty rates; usually five-yrar aerages en ding in 1960, 1970, and 1995.               soar cosntries hoflisied licensing.
Pas=ily Plastingm- Aceptors. Annual (thonsands) - dotusi number of acceptors           TI' heceicers (petritounand populatton) - TY retainers fee broadcastr to
at birgh-control devlces ouder auspices of netional fanily planning program.           general puItic per thuoesad populartin; exclodes unolicensed TVreceivern
PeaRly Pitstno -lUsers (ptrcent of mantied vannn) - Ptenetatgo of mactied                in countries end in ysetrs mien ctglsseatine of TV nets vaas in effect.
vnpen of chtld-bearing ago (15-44 years) vho suse hirsi-enetrcl  devices to          Neesapwer CirceLattun fpete thousand population) - Shoes tie anetsge cir-
oil married wooton is same age group.                                                 notuation of "deily general intereat cnespaper", defined asoaper iodical
publication denoted primarIly en recording general nets. It is considered
PDOy AND itTAtTIfI                                                                        In he tdailyt if it appearn at tease four tfmes aeRetn.
lnn   fIndetotu  pnCpt  l6)                lif  - loden of peerscpita annual          Cinema Moteal Attrndance per Capita per Year- anted no the nRcher of
prodnuttun of nll food cnR=oedities.  Productini ert ldes sted ond feed and            ticets sold during tin your. including ad=tssions to drivc-In cineris
is at calendar pear batis.  casmodttleecover pciuary gonds (e.g. sufarcanle           and ehils unito.
inatead of sugar) chirt are edihle and contain nutrleers (e.g. toffee sod
tee  are excluded).  Agiregate prodn-tido of nach  country  is hated on           L-AEtt POHC
neitnual average petiurcr price weights; i961-fI, 1979, and l99O  date.             Total iabor Porce (thoussand) - gc nncibaolr   active yerscl s, including
Pee capita sepply of calcries (portent cf reqyoirestnts  - In=spted from                armed foeces and unesployed let encluding hnuseviv-e, students, etc..
energy equivalent of net food suppl its available in cnuntry pee capita               conertng  npe atone of all ages.  Drfinitions inc variou  cesetrten are
per day.  Aeailable supplies coeprine dobestic pruduntinc. iPporns lest               net co-Parahle; 1960, 197f and 19ff data.
erports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies eoclode anima  feed, needs,              Pemate (percent) - 'esate tahoe force as percetorge of total labor force.
quantities used in fund processing, sod losses in distrihurion.  Require-             Anrictultue (percent) - Labor force is farming. forestry, hnreint and
meets cent entimaced by PAO hosed on physiological obeds for sorl al r cti-             fishing as percentage of total labor ftrce; 1960, 1970 and lft  data. 
cIty sod health ccn-lderint mnoieonn=ntc- tempratote, body netthtn, age               Indostry .pe .cnt) - L.abr      " frct in mining, c-cstructtnc, rnfactPring
and see distribution of populetton, and alucving 10 percent fo  caste at                and electricity, toter and g   as percentage of total labI r  forth;
honsehold lend; 1961-61, 1980 and 1977 data.                                            1961, 1970 and 1990 d
Per capita sepply of protein (gra=s par den) - Protein consent of per capita          yarticipation lace (percent) - total, male, and female -Purticipation or
net supply of fond par lay.  bet supply of fond is defined as abovs.  it-             activitytrates are coopored as tecal, maale, amd innate labor force en
l_icenents fcr nil countries established hy USDA provide for ninien                   percentages of total, malend  nele population of all xgeacespentively;
alltunctes of hi grume of  total prote-n pnr dcy and 20 ir.am  of animal end           1960. 19)0, and 19ff dots.  These one hosed on ILOs part_icipationratns
pulse pro-ein. of eh-th 10 grne should he animral protein.  Theee stand-              rtElecting age-nse ructure of tin populatioc, and long time trend.  A
ards are loner rhan those of P5 grame of total protein and 7) grdn        r of        fee no-inates are trot natintal snoures.
anImasl protein as an average foe tie vorld, proposed by PAO to the Third          Rtonno=ic lependenny Ratio - latin cf population under 15 and 69 anod otsr
W:orld Pond Surney; 1961-65, 1970 and 19)) dora.                                      to the total labor force.
Per caciec protein sopply trot atteal atd pulse - Prorttin supply of Eood de-
tivtd Ertp  enim,als 1nd Puises in  rteas pen day; 1961-65. 1970 and 1977 data.   lSlt5lt OlSTtIifCd                                    b         h
Child (Dves 1-a) loath late (per thoaslAi) - Ancnal deaths per thousand in            Percentage nf Ptiyate loate (both in cash asd kind) - Receined by richest
age genep 1- p ears, tn children in thin age group, for mete developingenoun-         5 percent. richesr 20 percent. poorest 20 percent, and poorest 4l percent
tries data derived iron life tables; l9id, 1970 and 19ff data.                        of households.
stAins                                                                                POVRRTY TARCTIg  COUiPH
Life Extpectancy at Ninth (years) - Avearage noumint of yeats of life remaining       The follooing estimatma are tory appronleaito neastres of ponerty leneia,
at birth; 1990, 1970 and 198f date,                                                   end oshuld he interpretad with considerable castion.
Indet or fareittt Rste (per thousand) - Anonal deaths of infants under one year       focimared Absolute Ponerty boneox Lendl (It) per capita) - orbsan and rural -
at age per thousand lice births; 19601, 19(9 and 19f1 duta.                           Absolute pnverty intcte tenet is tier income lenel below whih a rinimal
Access to Safe tarte (percetroE ni ceulettioo  -intela, urban,soad sceni - hnu          nuttitioeally udetinete diet plus eseential ecu-fond requiteentsps n: tot
bet nf penple (turd, snotn, sod rural) vith eessoahln matceat to safe                 affordable.
eater supply (itcluades treated snrface eatans or unrreaned bet escensamfeated      Etiatteed tolatne Povenrty fnnnmr LRe1e (USS per ca pita) - urhan cod rural -
eater such as that fro= protensed herebtito, springs, and meelteep vello) as          Rural relative poenety innese lenel is one-thIrd of anerage per enapita
peremrtaica of their respectise populations.  In aneurbaneareapa pblic                pesoemal locome of the eonutep.  Urban tenet is dressved tram the rueat
fountain nr etaedpoes located sot mace thae 200 masera feet a hoete may he            Renel with adjiestset for bighen cost of lining in urhan areas.
consaidered as beitg eithit recenmaibe access of thant heace.  Is tonal areas       Rtutteated Population Below ahaalsre Povertp tncoti l<end  (pennent) - urban
retaomable Rrneso sennid trsly that tIe heestoitsen or nces of the inoueheld          and Torah - Portent nf pepnletine (unhan end carat) abs see "asholute
do man hayer he pamd a dtopeupcntioneite patt of the day  in tetnhing the             poor'.
family's avater needa.
Aeeama to Rtcreea Dirposal freeness of ceeniattoR) - total, orhap. asd rueal -
Metuer of people festal, urbes, and rurgl) sersed by aemresa diepotal as
peecentatas of thtenr etpetine pepuleslams. trrcent dispesal may irelude
the sasogifarn ate di pasal. wtith at csitbisot mneetaoet. of haste extemtC
and cahte-seatet by cater-horse *p-te   en  tr che oi at pit privtes and ai i-
Ld reaseallatiace.
Paeleties cet Physteian  - Pepelasise divided by nqg ber of proetisi9g physi-                                            iCaot19i0 and Social Data fLi9tine
elaca qamlltief trot a tedical tchool as seiversiry leyel.                                                        tEcntc   alyalt and Projectio_s separemeat
Pepoiltfe eotrt  d--ing Per-de - P-p   -flatil- divided by masber of p -agmisisog                                                    fap 19S2
male ad fPtemblirate                                                                                  PIdoahesmd- atttat aet. pcatrSeal earses d



ANNEX I
- 25 -                                                        Page 4 of 5
Population        47,500 (mid-1981, thousands)
GNP per Capita:  US$758 (1981)
THAILAND - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at              Average annual increase (%)                       Share of GDP at marke,: prices (v)
current prices)                  (at constant prices)                                (at current pri. es)
Indicator                        1981 la       1960-70  1970-75  1975-80  1980-85/b  1985-90/b   1960              1970         19 75         1981/a
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product         36,808           8.4       6.3       7.6        5.5         5.4      100.0        100.0         10lV.0       100.0
Agriculture                   8,935           5.5       5.3       3.2        3.7         4.0       39.8         28.3         3,.5          24.3
Industry                    10,399           11.5       7.8      11.4        6.6         6.0       18.7         25.3         24.8         28.2
Services                    17,474            9.0       7.1       7.9        6.3         5.7       41.5         46.4         43.7         47.5
Consumption                    27,920           7.3       7.0       7.5        4.4         4.8       85.7         78.7         79.3          75.9
Gross investment               10,278          15.8       3.8       8.2        3.0         6.0       15.7         26.2         2'.4          27.9
Exports of GNFS                 9,212          10.5       3.6      13.4        8.9         6.9       17.4         16.7         19.1          25.0
Imports of GNFS                10,899          13.9       3.7      10.5        2.7         5.9       18.9         21.5         23.7          29.6
Gross national savings          7,716          13.7       4.1       5.5        8.0         7.1       14.1         21.5          20.7         21.0
Composition of merchandise trade (°)
(at curntp-es)
1960   1970   1975   1980/a  1985/b  l990/b
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports             7,013           5.5       9.0      14.4        7.0         5.8    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0
Primary                       4,530           4.2       6.6      10.0        6.1         5.0      97.8   80.5   77.3   60.2    46.8    38.7
Manufactures                  2,483          29.2      20.9      25.1        7.7         6.4       2.2   19.5   22.7   39.8    53,2    61.3
Merchandise imports             9,933          11.5       3.3      10.8        2.6         5.7    100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0
Food                            380           4.3      -2.7      11.9        0.0         6.0       9.6    5.4    4.4    3.4        3.6      3.5
Petroleum                    2,982           11.8       5.0       8.7        1.6         0.0      10.9    8.8   22.1   31.4    27.8    23.4
Machinery & equipment         2,494          16.1       5.9       7.4        4.7         7.3      25.3   36.1   35.8   23.5    26.0    27.1
Others                       4,077           10.1       1.0       9.3        4.7         8.1      54.2   49.7   37.7   41.7    42.6    46.0
1975       1976       1977      1978       1979        1980       1981/a
PRICES
GDP deflator                                         100.0      103.3      112.1      121.8      136.9      159.3      173.6
Exchange rate                                         20.4       20.4       20.4       20.3       20.3       20.5       21.82
Export price index                                   100.0       97.3       99.4      107.4      128.3      151.7      153.3
Import price index                                   100.0      105.5      113.4      122.3      141.4      175.6      197.4
Terms of trade index                                 100.0       92.2       87.6       87.8       90.8       86.4       77.7
As % of GDP
19 60          1970           1975            1980-          1981/a
PUBLIC FINANCE /c
Current revenues                                       13.6           13.8            13.2           14.0            13.9
Current expenditures                                   10.6           12.6            11.8           13.5            13.1
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                             +3.0           +1.2           +1.4            +0.5           +0.8
Capital expenditure                                     4.3            5.8             3.4            3.9             3.5
Foreign financing                                       0.2            0.1             0.1            0.2             0.2
1960-70         1970-75          1975-80         1980-85/b          1985-90/b
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (%)                           8.4              6.2             6.9              5.6               5.5
GNP per capita growth rate (5)                5.2              3.4             4.4              3.6               3.9
ICOR                                          2.8              4.0             3.4              4.0               3.8
Marginal savings rate                         0.29             0.23            0.21             0.3               0.3
Import elasticity                             1.7             0.6              1.3              0.5               1.05
/a  Preliminary.
/b  Projected.
/c  Central government only.
April 15, 1983



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
Population         47,50.0 (mid-1981, thousands)                               - 26 -
GNP per Capita:  US$758 (198i)
THAILAND - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(Millions US$ at current prices)
Actual                                                      Projected
Indicator                           1970     1976     1977      1978     1979     1980      1981/d  1982      1983      1984     1985     1986      1990
BALANCE OF PAYMSENTS
Exports of goods and nonfactor
.services                                  1,108    3,490   4,029    4,976   6,456   7,939   8,496   9,146   10,300  ll,880   13,652   15,527  25,722
Of which:  M.erchandise f.o.b.               686   2 959    3,454   4,045    5,234   6,449    6,883    6,974    7,820   8,949   10,205  11,513  18,334
Imports of goods and nonfactor
services                                 -1,430  -3,892  -5,068  -5,894  -8,123  -9,990 -10,686 -10,183 -11,425 -13,096 -14,957   16,923 -27,578
Of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.            -1,148  -3,145  -4,247  -4,913  -6,787  -8,352  -8,928  -8,544  -9,591 -11,004 -12,581  -14,249 -23,278
Net factor inco-e from  abroad                   23      -62      -99     -266     -490      -236     -498     -492      -413      394     -370      -348     -251
Ner transfers                                    49       23       40        40       60      209      164       194      192      210       232    -255       370
Current account balance                       -250    -440  -1,097  -1,153  -2,096  -2,079  -2,525  -1,335  -1,346  -1,400  -1,443  -1,489  -1,737
Private direct lnvestment                        43       79      106        50       51      187      288       179      225      248       272      299      438
ISLT loans (net)                                 32      248      346      670   1,418    1,665    1,631        876    1,38C    1,650    1,926    2,018   2,132
Official                                      21       109      181      290      488       569      621    1,371    2,043   2,024    1,885    1,676    1,554
Private /a                                    10      139       165      380      930    1,096    1,010      -495     -662    -374          41      342      578
Other capital /b                                 93      219      740      782    1,160       153      307       282       70        48      252      293        32
Change in reserves                               82     -96       -95     -349     -543        74      299        -2    -329      -450     -503      -535     -865
Inte-roat oal reserves                         906   2,113    2,208    2,557    3,100    3,026    2,727    2,729    3,058    3,508   4,011    4,546    7 459
Reserves as months imports                        8        7         5        5        S        4         3        3                  3        3        3         3
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements
Co-cessional loans                            11        52       78      153      242       230      223      460       627      726      665       593      697
DAC                                         11       45        50       86      178       176      189      392      546       654      620       563      697
IDA                                          -        7         0        5        4         5       21       17        19       16       12         .        -
Other                                        -        -        19       62       60        49       13       61        62       56       33        15
N.o-cncessional  loans                       188       467      585   1,133   1,816   2,154    2,028    1,288    1,709    2,105   2,634    3,114    4,805
Official export credits                      7        -        32        -        -         3       80       56        39       30        8         -        -
IBRD                                        19       43        65      103      139      143       289      250      319       402      500      57C       661
Other multilateral                           2       46        33       46       36       83        64      212      212       225      312      385       457
Private publicly guaranteed                 17      101      106       411      842      898       805      707   1,084    1,041        982      929    1,275
Private nooguaranteed                      143      277      349       573      799    1,027       790       64        55      406      831    1,231    2,411
Total gross disborsamnts                     199       519      663   1,286   2,058    2,384   2,251    1,748    2,336   2,831   3,299    3,697    5,502
External Debt (fixed-term)
P.blic debt outstanding &
disbursed                                    328      823    1,119    1,820    2,832    4,128   5,169    6,715   8,577   10,259   11,784  13,112   18,092
Official                                   291      672       895   1,254    1,671    2,315   2,843    4,307    6,350   8,374  10,260  11,936  17,852
Private                                     37      151       224      566   1,161    1,813    2,326   2,412    2,227    1,885    1,524    l,176           240
Private nonguaranteed debt
outstanding and dishursed                  382      785      880       931    1,243    1,703    2,099    1,623    1,141    1,109    1,510   2,20C   5,523
Total debt outstanding and
disbursed                                  710   1,608    l,999    2,751    4,075    5,831   7,268   8,338   9,718  11,368  13,294  L5,312  23,615
Undisbhrsed debt                             118      840   1,364    1,899    2,361    3,004   3,081    3,796   3,916    3,892    3,826   3,760   4,867
Debt Setvice
Total servIce pavmesn                        162       378      442      802      962   1,224    1,325   1,689    1,785    2,091    2,357    2,786   5,115
Interest                                    16      107       126      196      322       505      686      817      830       900      984    1,107   1,744
Paysents as % exports of goods and          14.6     10.8      11.0     16.3     14.9      15.4     15.6     18.5      17.3     17.5     17.3      17.9    19.9
onf-actor services
Average interest rate On new loans
(x) /c                                         6.8       7.8      7.0      6.8       7.6      9.3     10.2       9.5      9.5      9.5       9.6      9.6      9.6
Official                                     6.8       7.9      6.1      5.6       5.4      6.8      7.4             -         -        -         -            -
Private                                      6.0       7.3      8.3      8.9     10.5      13.8     13.8         -        -        -         -        -        -
Ave.ragematurity of new loans
(Years) 7c                                    18.9      17.3     14.5     17.1     17.0      16.6     16.7     17.3      17.3     15.8      14.4     13.3     13.0
Official                                    19.4    20.6    19.6        21.1     22.4      21.1     22.4         -        -        -         -        -        -
Private                                     11.2       7.3      7.9      9.4     10.0       8.6      9.3         -        -         -        -        -        -
Bank Group Exposu e (7)
IBRD DD/total DOD                           22.6     18.6      17.3     15.8    13.6       11.6    12.9      13.8      14.6     15.5     16.4      17.3    18.3
IBRD disb-.sen.n-s/nttal gross
disbursements                              9.5      8.3     10.0       8.6      7.0      6.1      13.0     14.3     13.7      14.2     15.2      15.4    12.0
IBRD debt service/total debt
service                                   11.1      9.6    l0.0        6.8      6.9       6.5      6.6      7.4       6.4      8.8     10.0      10.9    12.7
IDA DOD/total DOD                              -      0.7       1.0      0.9      0.7       0.6      0.7      0.8       0.9      0.9       0.9      0.8      0.5
IDA disbrs e.ents/total gross
disbursements                                -      1.3       1.3      0.4      0.2      0.2       0.9      1.0       0.8      0.6      0.4       0.1      0.0
IDA debt service/total debt
service                                      -      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.2      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
As 2 of debt outstanding
at end of 1981
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Principal due within 5 years                                                                     48.4
Principal doe within 10 years                                                                    71.4
Interest strcture of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                   11.2
/a  DOe to change in classification, projected data for  private MLT loans" include some of the category  other capital.
7b  "Other capital'  includes net use of IMF funds and net flow of short-tern capital.
77  Historical data does not include nonguaranteed private debt.
7-' Preliminary.



27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 13
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THAILAND
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Loan or                                                                Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                 Less Cancellations
Number   Year         Borrower                    Purpose         Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Thirty-seven loans and three credits fully disbursed              869.03   31.74
1149   1975   Kingdom of Thailand                 Irrigation       95.00       -       21.43
1198T  1976   Kingdom of Thailand                 Rural Dev.       21.00(TW)   -        1.41
1271   1976   Kingdom of Thailand                 Education        27.50       -        3.87
1393   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                 Agriculture      28.00       -        1.21
1468   1977   Kingdom of Thailand                 Irrigation       55.00       -        9.81
1485   1977  -Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                      Power            50.00       -        3.47
767   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                 Population          -    33.10/a      7.52
1519   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                 Highways        110.00       -       14.09
1527   1978   Provincial Electricity Authority Rural Elect.    25.00           -        2.50
1556   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                 Housing           8.60       -        5.03
1620   1978   Telephone Organization                                                   61.92
of Thailand                      Telecom         90.00        -
1630   1978   Kingdom of Thailand                 Irrigation       17.50       -       10.74
1638   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                 Urban Trans.    16.00        -       10.89
1662   1979   State Railway of Thailand           Railways         16.70       -        8.09
1690   1979   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                      Power            80.00       -       33.68
913   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                 Education            -   35.00       23.54
929   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                 Agriculture          -   25.00       18.40
1752   1979   Kingdom of Thailand                 Ag. Extension   40.00        -       25.74
1770   1980   Electricity Generating Authority
of Thailand                      Power            80.00       -       13.58
1773   1980   Petroleum Authority of              Natural Gas
Thailand                           Pipeline      107.00/b     -       10.55
1787   1980   Kingdom of Thailand                 Irrigation       80.00       -       66.35
1816   1980   Kingdom of Thailand                 Ag. Credit       19.00       -        3.88
1852   1980   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand            Power            72.00       -       28.54
1863   1980   Provincial Waterworks
Authority                        Water Supply    40.00        -       38.06



- 28 -                          ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13
Loan or                                                                 Amount ($ million)
Credit                                                                  Less Cancellations
Number   Year         Borrower                    Purpose         Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1870     1980   Kingdom of Thailand            Housing           29.00         -        24.21
1871     1980   Provincial Electricity         Rural Elec-
Authority                      trification    75.00         -        67.48
1889     1980   Kingdom of Thailand            Inland Waterways 53.00          -        47.92
1918     1980   Kingdom of Thailand            Ports             47.00         -        45.96
1922     1980   Kingdom of Thailand            Ag. Research      30.00         -        29.77
1947     1981   Kingdom of Thailand            Potash
1956     1981   Industrial Finance Corp.         Engineering      8.90         -         4.81
of Thailand                 Industry          30.00         -         4.04
2000     1981   Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand       Power            100.00         -        98.50
2022     1981   Kingdom of Thailand            Irrigation         57.00        -        55.28
2035     1981   Kingdom of Thailand            Provincial Roads 35.00          -        24.27
2078     1982   Kingdom of Thailand            Tree crops       142.00         -       122.82
2143     1982   Telephone Organization         Telecommuni-
of Thailand /c                cations        142.10         -       142.10
2178     1982   Kingdom of Thailand            Education          75.00        -        73.79
2184     1982   Petroleum Authority of         Liquified Petro-
Thailand                       leum Gas       90.00         -        88.67
2198     1982   Kingdom of Thailand /c         Agriculture       17.00         -        17.00
¶Lotal                                                    2,878.33   124.84    1,270.92
of which has been repaid                                  319.89      2.85
Total now outstanding                                     2,560,79   121.99
Amount sold /d                       68.63
of which has been repaid           53.86                   14.77
Total now held by Bank and IDA                            2,546.02   121.99
Total undisbursed                                         1,221.46    49.46
/a  Of which $3.1 million is Norwegian grant participation.
7- Includes refinancing of Loan S-1O-TH ($4.9 million).
77  Not yet effective.
7T  Of which $43.3 million sold to the Bank of Thailand.



- 29 -                            ANNEX 1I
Page 3 of 13
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Amounts ($ million)
Year        Company                Type of Business            Loan    Equity    Total
1959   Concrete Products and   Cement and Construction
Aggregate Co., Ltd.       Materials                  0.30        -       0.30
1964/  Industrial                 Development                     -    0.39        0.39
1970      Finance Corporation       Finance Company
of Thailand (IFCT)
1969/  Siam Cement Group          Cement and
1975/                               Construction
1978/1979                           Materials                 28.33    4.24       32.57
1977   Mutual Fund Company        Money and Capital
Limited                   Market                         -    0.29       0.29
1977   United Sugar Terminal   Food and Food
Limited                   Processing                 2.50    0.20        2.70
1978   Siam Commercial Bank    Small and Medium
Scale Industries          2.00        -       2.00
1979/  Bangkok Glass Industry
1980      Company, Limited        Glass Containers             4.85    0.34        5.19
1979/  Siam City Cement           Cement and Construc-
1981      Co. Ltd.                  tion Materials            63.00    4.00       67.00
1979   Thai Orient Leasing
Co. Ltd.                Capital Market                  -    0.15        0.15
1983   Sea Minerals Limited    Mining                              -    0.33       0.33
Total gross commitments                              100.98    9.94    110.92
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             69.50    2.71       72.21
Net held by the Corporation                           31.48    7.23       38.71
Total undisbursed                                      15.80    0.13       15.93



ANNEX II
- 30 -                  Page 4 of 13
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
(As of March 31, 1983)
Credit No. 929 Northern Agricultural Development Project; $25 Million
Credit of June 28, 1979; Effective Date:  October 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
In general, reasonable progress has been achieved to date, but
the completion of major work programs planned for this year will be
important to the project-s success. Actions are being taken to resolve
difficulties relating particularly to management, staffing, and budgeting.
IDA staff are giving close attention to these problems in an effort to help
resolve them.
Loan No. 1149 Phitsanulok Irrigation Project; $95 Million Loan of July 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 31, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Project completion is now expected by mid-1985, two years behind
schedule, due to slow progress in onfarm works, and the Government is
expected to request an extension of the closing date. However, development
of the onfarm systems is now proceeding well, and the diversion dam and
90% of the main canals and laterals are now complete. All studies financed
under the project have been completed.
Loan No. 1468 Second Chao Phya Irrigation Improvement Project; $55 Million
Loan of September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Rehabilitation works and on-farm works for 62,000 ha and rehab-
ilitation works for 138,000 ha have been completed in accordance with the
appraisal schedule. The Mae Klong component for construction of service
roads and a sugarcane pilot project are behind schedule however, and the
Government is expected to request an extension of the Closing Date,
initially to June 30, 1984.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project implementation.



31 -                   Page Joi- 13
Loan No. 1630 Second Northeast Thailand Irrigation Improvement Project:
$17.5 Million Loan of December 4, 1978; Effective Date:
April 25, 1979; Closing Date:  September 30, 1985
Project implementation is about one year behind schedule due to
initial delays in procurement of equipment and supplies. Procurement of
equipment is now complete. Construction of main and secondary canals is
progressing satisfactorily but on-farm works are well behind schedule. Two
new diversion dams have been built in the Lam Takhong project area, and work
on canal rehabilitation is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1787 Eleventh Irrigation Project; $80 Million Loan of
January 17, 1980; Effective Date: April_2, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The project is about two years behind schedule due to initial
delays in the appointment of consultants and slow processing of civil works
contracts and tender documents. Canal rehabilitation work by force account
is progressing satisfactorily, but on-farm works are behind schedule due to
delays in design work. Implementation is expected to improve following
reallocation of design work between RID and the consultant.
Loan No. 2022 Twelfth Irrigation Project; $57 Million Loan of August 13,
1981; Effective Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Consultants were appointed in September 1981. Surveys and mapping
have been completed for 10,000 ha, and about 30 km of main and lateral canals
have been rehabilitated and/or constructed. A contract for construction of
about 60 km of main and lateral canals was awarded in August 1982. A Plan
of Action for strengthening the Royal Irrigation Department was prepared by
the Department in September 1982.
Loan No. 1198T Northeast Thailand Rural Development Project; $21 Million
Loan of February 27, 1976; Effective Date: June 28, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
The project is scheduled for completion in September 1983.  Con-
struction of almost 1,240 km of village access roads is complete and is
nearing completion on the remaining 30 km. The road maintenance program is
being carried out at an acceptable rate with good quality work using
equipment procured under the project. The village water supply component
has constructed 3,500 freshwater wells and the remaining 500 will be drilled
by September 1983. The other components (extension, upland crops research,
village electrification, and the pilot program for settlement areas) have
been satisfactorily completed.



ANNEX II
- 32 -                    Page 6 of 13
Loan No. 1243  Rubber Replanting Project; $50 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
This loan is fully disbursed. The Project Completion Report is
being prepared.
Loan No. 1393  National Agricultural Extension Project; $28 Million Loan
of May 17, 1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
The project has been successful in achieving the level and type
of organization required to implement a "T and V" system, but the substance
is very variable, due to difficulties in decentralization and to problems
in instituting a uniform system of supervision, guidance and training at
regional and provincial levels. Until recently, linkages with research
have been weak. Effort is being concentrated on training, especially of
subject matter specialists, and on improving the information and reporting
system in the closing months of the project.
Loan No. 1752  Second National Agricultural Extension Project; $40 Million
Loan of September 18, 1979; Effective Date: December 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily and disburse-
ments are ahead of appraisal estimates. Subject matter specialist training
is being given priority attention. Linkages with research are being
strengthened in order to improve the relevance of the information being
disseminated to farmers through the "T and V' system.
Loan No. 1816 Agricultural Credit Project; $19 Million Loan of April 30,
1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Overall Bank disbursements for the project are ahead of schedule.
The Bank for Agriculture and Agricultural Cooperatives' (BAAC) ongoing term
lending component under the project is almost fully disbursed. The most
critical factor affecting the financial viability of BAAC is the interest
rate levels for agriculture. Satisfactory progress has been made by the
Cooperative Promotion Department and the Cooperative Auditing Department in
their training activities and in the construction of regional and provincial
staff housing.
Loan No. 1922  National Agricultural Research Project; $30 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date March 20, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1989
Counterpart budget deficiencies, delays in introducing a
reorganization plan and generally weak management contributed to very slow
progress during the first 18 months of project implementation. The



.1di,!, iX I K i
- 33 -                    Page 7 of 13
appointment of a dynamic and experienced Director-General in October 1982
has recently had a very favorable impact. Reorganization is now complete
and detailed site development plans have been drawn up for the first nine
research centers. A civil works design and construction consultant is being
selected. A technical assistance team, cofinanced by Australia, is
providing substantial advisory support, and the fellowship program is off to
a good start.
Loan No. 2078 Second Tree Crops Project; $142 Million Loan of January 29,
1982; Effective Date: October 22, 1982; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
Physical progress under the project is good. In 1982, the Office
of the Rubber Replanting Aid Fund (ORRAF) replanted 56,000 ha of rubber,
exceeding the target of 50,000 ha p.a. by 12%. The main problem facing the
project is financial. ORRAF has a shortage of financial resources due to a
decline in cess revenues resulting from low world rubber prices, and Govern-
ment budgetary constraints.  The Bank agreed to increase the disbursement
percentages of certain categories of the loan for expenditures incurred from
February 1982 to April 1983, but further increases may be required for the
remaining years of the project.
Loan No. 2198  Land Reform Areas Project; $17 Million Loan of September 29,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1988
The loan is not yet effective.
Loan No. 1271  Fourth Education Project; $31 Million Loan of September 13,
1976; Effective Date: February 9, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project is practically completed, with a cost underrun of
about US$4.96 million (16%). At Government-s request, $3.5 million in
unallocated category was cancelled, effective from October 7, 1982. Although
part of the balance of $1.46 million would be used to finance a proposed
study on agricultural education, to be carried out by the National Education
Commission (NEC), the bulk of the balance may remain unutilized by Closing
Date on June 30, 1983. Preparation of the Project Completion Report (PCR)
is under way.
Credit No. 913  Fifth Education Project; $35 Million Credit of June 28,
1979; Effective Date:  October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project is being implemented in three phases. Phase one and
two are completed and the final phase is progressing satisfactorily. There
are no major problems and credit covenants are being fulfilled. There have
been some delays due to site acquisition problems but, with most critical
activities roughly on schedule, the project would be completed by the
current Closing Date of June 30, 1985. Because of the substantially reduced



ANNEX II
-34  -                  Page 8 of 13
local inflation, project costs are about 5% below appraisal estimates.
Disbursements which now represent 71% of appraisal estimates are expected to
improve with the scheduled procurement of major equipment items. The
multi-component nature of the project has made management and coordination
difficult, but recent administrative actions have minimized this problem and
rendered the CPU more effective.
Loan No. 2178 Sixth (Secondary) Education Project; $75 Million Loan
of July 26, 1982; Effective Date: October 26, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The loan has recently been declared effective.
Credit No. 767 Population Project; $33.1 Million Credit of February 27,
1978; Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project continues to move ahead smoothly, and disbursements
have improved considerably over the past 18 months. All ten national level
training facilities have been completed. Of the 430 rural health
facilities, 406 have been completed, one is under construction and 23 had to
be deleted. The construction program has been delayed about 18 months.
M,ost training, information/education/communication, and population-related
research and evaluation activities have been completed on schedule; the
Innovative Village Nutrition Activity shows considerable promise and is
already being widely replicated. Five other Innovative Activities are
getting under way. A request to reallocate $1.7 million is expected soon.
Loan No. 1556 Bangkok Sites and Services Project; $8.6 Million Loan of
June 15, 1978; Effective Date: September 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
After nearly two years of delays/work stoppage, construction work
has resumed at the Tung Song Hong site since April 1982 and is progressing
well. This was possible after NRA and the Contractor (Union Progress Co.)
agreed to a modified contract. NHA agreed to change infrastructure
(drainage) standards and allowed new rates to be negotiated. Construction
of community facilities through four separate contracts is proceeding on
schedule and slum upgrading works are essentially completed. The closing
date was recently extended by two years.
Loan No. 1638 Bangkok Traffic Management Project; $16 Million Loan of
January 25, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979; Closing
Date:  September 30, 1985
After an extremely slow start the project is now progressing at a
reasonable rate. As of November 1982, 27% of the total project was either
completed or under contract. Civil works schemes, especially comprehensive
route improvements implemented during 1982, are having the desired impact on
traffic operations. The Loan Executive Committee has recently approved a



35 -                    Pa&e   v U. 13
major expansion and enhancement of the traffic signal system and the hiring
of badly needed technical assistance to OCMRT. Policy questions have not
progressed well.
Loan No. 1870 National Sites and Services Project; $29 Million Loan of
August 8, 1980; Effective Date: January 7, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
After an initial delay of 6-12 months caused by problems in land
acquisition and procurement, the project is progressing satisfactorily.
Infrastructure and core housing construction is under way on three of the six
project sites. Land acquisition for the fourth site has been completed and
NRA has proposed alternatives (where land acquisition has been completed) for
the remaining two sites. Phase I of slum upgrading has been completed and
the technical assistance component is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1863 Provincial Water Supply Project; $40 Million Loan of
November 25, 1980; Effective Date: January 4, 1982;
Closing Date: April 3, 1986
Progress on the physical components of the project continue to
lag and disbursements remain a problem. But corrective measures are being
employed and this situation should improve over the next six months. The
components concerning organizational reform and training are satisfactory;
PWA is making good progress in the area of institutional development.
Loan No. 1485 Pattani Hydroelectric Project; $50 Million Loan of
September 23, 1977; Effective Date: December 20, 1977;
CElosing Date: December 31, 1982
The project has been completed on schedule. The dam is serving
all the multi-purposes as planned. The three units of turbine generators
are operating satisfactorily. Construction of the 115 kV transmission line
and substation components associated with the project have been completed.
Loan No. 1527  Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $25 Million
Loan of March 9, 1978; Effective Date: June 7, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Work has been started on 4,134 villages, out of which 3,222
villages have already been electrified. The load promotion program has been
implemented. Disbursements are very close to initial appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1690 Bang Pakong Thermal Power Project; $80 Million Loan of
August 9, 1979; Effective Date: May 23, 1980.
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is about 46% complete, three months behind schedule
because of poor soil conditions encountered during foundation piling. Field



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 13
works are now proceeding satisfactorily, and project execution is expected
to catch up with the original schedule. The first unit is targeted for
commissioning in July 1983, as scheduled.
Loan No. 1770 Khao Laem Hydroelectric Project; $80 Million Loan of
June 17, 1980; Effective Date: September 17, 1980;
Closing Date: February 28, 1985
The project is about 30% complete, one year behind schedule
because of unexpectedly poor rock foundation, but works are now under way
satisfactorily. Disbursements are close to appraisal estimates. Construc-
tion of the resettlement villages is in progress. The transmission system
kOill be completed in 1983.
Loan No. 1871 Second Accelerated Rural Electrification Project; $75 Million
Loan of November 14, 1980; Effective Date: August 20, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Construction started in 719 villages for the first 18 provinces;
235 villages have been electrified. Procurement is proceeding satis-
factorily.
Loan No. 2000 Power Subsector Project; $100 Million Loan of July 8, 1981;
Effective Date: October 26, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1985
Construction of the diversion tunnel has started. The pre-
qualification process for main civil works is almost completed.
Loan No. 1773 Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; $107 Million Loan of
February 15, 1980; Effective Date: May 27, 1981;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1983
Good progress wqas made with the overall physical works and major
project components, including the offshore pipeline and onshore main line
which have been completed on schedule. The pipeline started operations
in September 1981, and all physical works have been completed. The project
has been completed on schedule and below the original cost estimate.
Loan No. 2184 Liquified Petroleum Gas Project; $90 Million Loan of
August 17, 1982; Effective Date: February 23, 1983;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1987
The Loan has recently been declared effective.



37 -                 Pa-ge  1of- 13
Loan No. 1852 Mae Moh Lignite Project; $72 Million Loan of June 17, 1980;
Effective Date: September 17, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The project is being implemented in accordance with the schedule.
Procurement of equipment is proceeding satisfactorily and no major problems
are expected until the completion of the project.
Loan No. 1956 Fourth IFCT Project; $30.0 Million Loan of April 15, 1981;
Effective Date: June 18, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1984
The project is proceeding well. -By the end of February 28, 1983,
an amount of $29.6 million has been committed and $25.7 million disbursed,
considerably faster than originally estimated.
Loan No. 1947 Potash Engineering Project; $8.9 Million Loan of March 4,
1981; Effective Date: December 29, 1981: Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The actual progress of the project is four months behind contract
work schedule due to slow progress of excavation of the incline.
Loan No. 1519 Sixth Highway (Provincial Roads) Project: $110 Million
Loan of March 23, 1978; Effective Date: June 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Construction has been completed on nine of the eleven roads and is
almost finished on the tenth. Construction works are, overall, about 93%
complete. However, the Closing Date was extended by twelve months because
of initial delay in awarding the contract for the eleventh road followed by
slow progress by the contractor. But the contractor s output has improved
and is in accordance with the revised schedule. The maintenance equipment
has been procured and, with recently increased budgetary allocations,
progress with road maintenance program is improving. The studies have been
completed. Detailed engineering of roads for construction under the
Provincial Roads Project (Loan 2035-TH) and for future road projects has
been completed. Costs are closely in line with appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 2035 Provincial Roads Project; $35 Million Loan of August 13,
1981; Effective Date: December 1, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Construction is under way on all 23 road sections, about 40%
complete and substantially on schedule. The first phase of the Trucking
Industry Study is underway and technical assistance was provided to the
Ministry of Communications in carrying out the recently completed studies
on Road User Taxation and Energy Policies for the Transport Sector. On the
basis of a completed pre-feasibility study of Inland Water Transport, terms



ANNEX II
38                     Page 12 of 13
of reference are being prepared for feasibility studies of proposed
investments.  Studies and engineering are under way for preparation of future
road projects. Costs are expected to be within appraisal estimates.
Loan No. 1662 Fifth Railway Project; $16.7 Million Loan of April 23, 1979;
Effective Date: August 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
Mainly due to slow progress in procurement of equipment and
material, project execution is behind schedule.  Contracts are placed or being
placed for all originally agreed Bank financed items, and most of the
contracted equipment and material has been delivered. An amount of about
US$2.9 million remains unallocated. Disbursements are about two years behind
schedule and the Closing Date was recently extended to December 31, 1983.
Operational efficiency is in general good; however, availability of passenger
and freight cars was below appraisal target. The financial position of
SRT remains unsatisfactory despite the 35% and 73% tariff increases for
passengers and freight respectively in June 1981, mainly because of a
subsequent severe decline in freight traffic.
Loan No. 1889 Inland Waterways and Coastal Ports Project; $53 Million Loan
of August 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 10, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The construction contract for improvements to the Chao Phraya
River has been awarded and civil works are well under way. Despite delays
during mobilization and the early stages of construction, work is now
proceeding satisfactorily. Consultants have been appointed for design and
construction supervision of the various project components; they are on site
and work is proceeding satisfactorily. Acquisition of land for port sites
is still incomplete and is likely to cause further delay in the completion
of the project.
Loan No. 1918   Bangkok and Sattahip Ports Project; $47 Million Loan of
December 19, 1980; Effective Date: August 12, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The Government has now made a firm decision to proceed with the
development of a new port at Laem Chabang and is reviewing the effects of
this decision on the present project.  The Government has indicated that it
wishes to proceed with work at the Port of Sattahip under the present
project, as originally contemplated during appraisal, in order to provide
interim facilities to account for overflow from the Port of Klong Toei until
such time as facilities at the new port of Laem Chabang become available.
Consultants for the design of this interim work at the Port of Sattahip are
being selected.  The design of the Bang Su Container Freight Terminal is
under way and is scheduled for completion by April 1983. The Government will
decide on the extent and timing of the proposed work at Bang Su in May or
June 1983. Tender documents for procurement of equipment under the project



ANNEX II
- 39 -                  Page 13 of 13
are now being prepared by consultants and the selection of the remaining
technical assistance advisors for the Port Authority of Thailand is
presently being undertaken.
Loan No. 1620 Third Telecommunications Project; $90 Million Loan of
October 4, 1978; Effective Date: January 3, 1979;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Due to a delay in the borrower's decision on standardization of
switching equipment and subsequent delays in issue of bid invitation and in
evaluation of bids, the project is currently about 18 months behind schedule.
Recent progress has been satisfactory, and procurement of all Bank-financed
items is complete. The financial condition of the borrower continues to be
satisfactory.
Loan No. 2143 Fourth Telecommunications Project; $142.1 Million Loan of
December 20, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
The loan has not yet been declared effective.
Loan No. 2097 Structural Adjustment Lending; $150 million Loan of
March 15, 1982; Effective Date: May 13, 1982
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The Loan was fully disbursed as of July 19, 1982. Implementation
of the structural adjustment program is proceeding satisfactorily.



- 40 -                            ANNEX III
THAILAND
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time required to prepare the project:         5 months
(b)  The agencies which prepared the project:  Bank, BAAC, IFAD
(c) Date of first Bank mission to consider
the project:                                 August 1981
(d)  Departure of the Appraisal Mission:           February 1982
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:                   April 14, 1983
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                September 1983
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        The BAAC has agreed that:
(a) for all subloans partially financed out of the proceeds of the Bank
loan, the total amount of subloans to any subborrower would not
exceed $217,000 equivalent, and the Bank's prior approval would be
sought for subloans financing subprojects which exceed $100,000
equivalent (para. 37);
(b) it would implement the recommendations regarding BAAC's onlending
rates, which the Government, BAAC and the Bank agree are a necessary
step toward achieving BAAC's long-term objective of becoming a
financially self-sustaining institution capable of mobilizing
sufficient domestic savings (para. 46);
(c) with respect to cooperatives, it will not increase the credit
line ceiling of those Grade 3 cooperatives whose performance is
deteriorating, collaborate with the National Agricultural
Cooperative Training Institute (NACTI) in designing training
programs for cooperatives not yet included in the restructuring
program, and review its lending policies and activities affecting
cooperatives and discuss this review with the Government and the
Bank by December 1, 1984 (para. 47).



1010'                                           THAILAND  1014'
ISECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BRANCHES- BANK FOR AGRICULTURE AND AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVES (BAACI
120'        8URMA-p                                  *oi.s                                                      PROVINCES WITH MACE BRANCHES                 20-
B    /                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~HEAD OFFICE, RAAC
kJ""                            U~~~~~~~~~ BRANCH OFFICES RAACE
…CHANGWAT 'PROVINCIAL) BOUNDARIES
~~MaHonqSon~~~                                                                      REGIONAL BOUNBARIES
+   p-i      N.                          -.  -  ~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNAT,ONAL HOUNDARIES
RN~C*    1,  N                LAO
J<        f ~~~P EOP LE'S
V  ,?  Q7~~~~  *        ~ ~                    DEM. REP.
,~~~)  )*BABWOIB  9              i        Vr          N~~~~~~~9    `Ph
&vcgrŽ-         I ~~~~~~~~h-KI0                        O-
r                       *    q~~~~~~~~      Rn on             ci. 
S_EoBP~~)                       (                          / r
L /  NoERonSANon      -~~~~~~~~  *           '~~~~~'-                    Ub
A              I                              E        0CyRA  TI 
BoRHJRooIS  t'"C   4K AM     U     HE 
A'                    -, ,r                                       N    R1R2AO 
NJ!-
TOoC  SPrORRIO BarB ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~   HIN
4-6 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ 
ANIJAAAAW  .                 NB                            (                  DEMOCRATIC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(EMCRTI
$174                                                )Tror)                 KAMPUCHE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMPCE
IV,GAPoloORE~OOOR'
KILomExE(B1                                                                                                                      hBRRS'rffaao
4~~~~I                                                                                 021DioMAAS                 'Nn Eonco naA



