RESTRICTED
FILE   COPY                          Report No.p -571
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
FOR THE
REVISED
THIRD
HIGHWAY PROJECT
November 14, 1967



INTERATIOtNAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AD DEVEPINPtMT
REPORT AND RECOMUMDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO TEE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED SUPPLEMTARY LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR FOR THE REVISED THIRD
HIGIh   PBOJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$2.8 million to
the Republic of El Salvador.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.      The Bank and IDA have financed three highway proje^ts in El
Salvador; the first two, a Coastal Highway Project and a Feeder Road
Program, were financed by the Bank and have been satisfactorily completed.
an IDA Credit of US$8 million, the only one to El Salvador, was ma.de in
1962 to finance the foreign exchange costs of the Third Highway ProJect.
The project consisted of improvement, reconstruction or construction of
seven trunk roads and four feeder roads, maintenance reorganization, and
engineering services.  In 1964, after the growth of traffic had been
much faster than expectedn the Government asked that funds allocated to
finance the construction of the feeder roads be released to upgrade the
design standards of two of the trunk roads, deferring the construction
of the feeder roads to the next stage of the highway development pro-
gram. This change was approved by the Executive Directors on December
23, 19645 but it was never formally ratified by the Salvadorian au-
thorities.  Once the engineering design of the feeder roads was well
advanced and the benefits accruing from their early complet'ion becamne
increstsingljr apparent, the Government decided to retain them in the
project3 and to proceed with their construction.  I agreed that there
*es a good case for constructing the feeder roads but-that the financing
requested would have to be in the form of a Bank loan.
3.      Negotiations were held in Washington during the week of
December 13, 1965.  The Government was represented by the AmAbassador
of El Salvador to the United States, Rarn6n de Glairmont-Duefias.
4.      Presentation of the loan to the Executive Directors has been
delayed because of the need for the Government to obtain authorization
from the National Assembly which in El Salvador is a constitutional re-
quirement,  The Appraisal Report, first prepared in November-l965, was
updated by a mission that visited El Salvador in August 1967.



- 2-
The proposed loan, the eighth to El Salvador, would increase
the Bank1s total lending to El Salvador to US$53 million (net of cancel-
lations).  DA has made one Credit of US$8 dillion. The fol.oweing is a
sumnary of Bank loanls and MDA credits to EL Salvador as at Octo'cer 31.
1967:
___________________________Amount   (Us$  milion)
Ioan or
Credit   Year         Borrower        Purpose       Bank     IDA    Undis-
_umber                                                              bursed
22      1949  Comisi6n del Rio Lempa   Power       12.5            nil
104      1954 Republic of El Salvador Roads         llol            nil
216      1959 Republic of El Salvador  Roads         5.0            nil
221      1959  Comisi6n del Rio Liempa   Power       2.7            nil
263      1960  Comisi6n del Rio Lempa   Power        3.4            nil
31      1962 Republic of El Salvador  Roads                 8o0   lr2
342      1963  Comisi6n del Rio Lempa   Power        6.o            nil
358      1963  Administraci6n Nacional  Tele-  -
de Telecomunicaciones   commmni-      -
cations     9.5             1.0
Total (less cancellations)                50.2      8.0    2.2
of which has been repaid to Bank
and others                              20 04
Total now outstanding            -         29.8
Amount sold                    3.6           -
of which has been repaid      2.6          1.0     _
Total now held by Bank                       -
and IDA                                   28.8    8.0
Total undisbursed                          1.0    l12       2.2
6.      -ix Bank loans have been fully disbursed. Disbu.rsements under
loan 358-ES are proceeding satisfactorily. Disbursements under Credit
31-ES have been slower than expected due to revisions made to the pro-
ject and because of the uncertainty regarding the availability of ad-
ditional financing.  On September 15, 1967 the Executive Directors
agreed to postpone the Closing Date to December 31, 196'7 and also
agreed i.n principle to a further postponement provided the proposed
supplementLary loar would be approved and signed before Deceriber 31, 1967.
It is now expected that Credit 31-ES will be fully disbursed by Novem-
ber 1, 1968 and, as a corollary to the ap?lementzry loon nou proposed,
the Closing Date of Credit 31-ES .ill be postponad to that dateQ



-3-
7.      IFC has no outstanding operations at the present time in ESl
SalvadorO.  A $140,000 investment in  radustrias Te:ti'es, Se. A, made
in 1959, imae paid brack in l962,
8.      An education project in El Salvador has already been appraised
and it is expected that a loan 1j.J.l be presented to the Executive
Directors  withip tlc next £fef months, An irrigati.on project is aLao
tuider study.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
9.      Borroe:_                    Republic of El Salvador
Izaount:                    The equivalent in various currencies
of US$2.8 million.
2urpose:                    To assist in financing the foreign
exchange costs of completing the
improvement, construction or re-
construction of seven trunk roads
and four feeder roadsg totalling
about 340 kms. in length, already
being financed in part by IDA Cre-
dit 31-ES of US$8 million maade
on November 2, 1962e
Araortination:              23 years, including a four-year
grace period; principal repayments
semi-annually from October 1, 1971,
through October-1, 1990O
Interest itate:            6 percent per annum.-
Gaymm"tment Charre:        3/8 of 1 percent per annumn-
PART III   THE PROECT
10.     An appraisal--report entitled "El Salvador - Revised Third
Highway Proj ect" (TO-509a) on the proposed project is attached.
lo      The trunk roads included in the proposed project are among the
most important roads in El Salvador connectTng the principal cities and
ports. One of the ports to be served, Acajutla, has modern facilities
and handles not only a large part of El Salvador's foreign trade, but
also a considerable quantity of cargo originating in or destined to
neighboring countries. Increasing industrial activity has taken place
in the areas around these maJor cities and ports.  Improved access to



-4-
the service areas of the proposed feeder roads would stimulate agricul-
tural development by opening up MrIWxkte and by increasing opprt-
unities for export.
12.     The project is being executed by the Highway Department in the
Ministry of Public Works. The final designs and contract documents have
been prepared by engineering consultants. Consultants wil. also continue
-to supervise construction0   Ths :-iglriay Depart:.ent is r:cll quialified
-uand with the help of consultants should  be able to complete the project
satisfactorily.
13.     The project consists of the improvement, construction or recon-
struction of seven trunk roads, two to upgraded standards, and four
feeder roads.
14.    The present estimate of the total cost of the project is $2o.5
million based on final payments for completed work, revised contract
prices for work in hand and on detailed engineering for works yet to
be started.  Together with the outstanding IDA credit thle proposed loan
would help finance part of the estimated foreign exchange costs of the
jroject.  The balance will be provided by the Government. The project
is expected to be completed by the end of 1970.
15.    'The project has high priority in El Salvadorts road development
program. During the last few years, the growth of traffic on the trunk
roads has been more rapid than  expected   and fully Justfiies tho addi-
tional expenditure required to bring some of the roads to higher stan-
dards; econmmic returns rarnge from 10 percent to  24 percent on indivi-
dual sections, The rate of return of the feeder road program as a
whole would be 17 percent. Incremental agricultural production at full
development, to be reached five years after completion of the feeder -
roads, is expected to reach almost US$2.7 million equivalent per year.
16,     All constructia work  *fill be e'.'d out by contrac.,s
lat on the basis of international competitive  biddin> 0    In order
to  minimize  costs through better competAtion',j the remaining works
will be divided into five sections, and two bids will be called, at
different times, for groups of three and two work sections0 An option
will be given to bid on one or more port.ions of the works, tllus ma:ing
the scope of work attractive to larger contractors, without precluding
participation by smaller local contractors. Disbursement of the loan
will be made on a percentage basis as is being done under Credit 31-ES
and would commence after the Credit is fully disbursed,
PART IV   LEGAL INSTRULE%TS AHD AUTHORITY
17.    The Draft moan Agreement between the Republic of El Salvador
and the Bank which contains the covenants normally included in highway
projects, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,



-5-
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
18.     The loan documents will be submitted for ratification-to the
ILegislative Assembly of El Salvador before the effective date.
PAThR V   TH3 ECONOMY
19.    The report on "Economic Development and Prospects of Central
America" (WH-170a, June 5, 1967)  corcluied that £1  Sa v-ador Is
econoWr has shatn a remar1able Spofti2 in the recent past, esmcia;4
in view of the constraints imposed on a predominantly agricultural
economy by limited land resources eand rapid population growths but that
the economy's growth prospects in the immediate future are less bright-
as a result of the expected slackening in export earnings and the grow-
ing scarcity of land suitable for agricultural production. At the
same time the step up of pubflic investment expenditures contemplated by
the public authorities will require a substantial increase of public--
savings. More recent information and discussions in El Salvador sub-
stantially strengthen these conclusions.
20,    -GDP growith averaged an impressive 7.5 pe-cent annually between
1960-65. This was based mainly on exports which grew at a rate of 13
percent annually. Exports of manufactures to the Central American
Common Market accounted for almost half of the increment In total ex-
ports between 1961-65.  The share of industrial production in GDP has
increased:  in 1966 it accounted for some 18 percent of GDP against 12
percent in 1960. Diring 1966 the g:owth of GDP fe.l1 to 5 percent.
This slowdown in growth of economic activity is likely to continue for
-some time. The underlying reasons are the expected stagnation of coffee
exports - due to limaitations of external markets - and the decline of
cotton exports - due to production problems, These two corwiodities
constituted almost 70 percent of total exptorts in 1965 and 60 pexcent-
In 1966.  Thus, despite some growth of other excports, including a fur-
ther increase of manufactured exports to tlle Central American Common
Tarlcet, the prospects are that overall exports will grow very slowly
for the next few years, though they are likely to rise more rapidly
after 1970 if, as is now expected, market conditions improve and cotton
production problems are solved.  For the next, few years, in order to
avoid balance of payments pressures, considerable monetarwy and fiscal
restraint will therefore be required.
21.     The Government is aware of these prospects and is planning to
increase public in'estment expenditures over the next three to four years
in order to develop new bases for future growth,  Major e-plhasis in
raising the levels of public inrestment is to be given to ir-rigation
and credit programs for export diversification and to improving the
education system. Because of recent improveaent in project planning,
preparation and execution, the public sector appears to have the



-6
technical capacity to undertake the planned investments.  in recent
yearss El Salvadorts public finances have been well managed. However,
the necessary modifications in Dublic sector finances to cope with the
contemplated large increase in investment expenditares have not yet
been made. Hence, E1 Salvador is faced with the imnediate issue of
either having to undertake a substantial additional public saving
effort or to cut the planned levev  of high priority investments.-  A
program of revenue measure-s yielding some additional 14 percent - US$12
million equivalent - in public revenues beginning in 1968 has already
been prepared and the new Government, which took office on July 1, 1967,
is planning to submit the proposed measures to-the Legislative Assembly
for their approval before the end of this year. These are to be the
first in a series of fiscal measures that the Government intends to take
in the near future to help finance investment at the levels planned:
they should prove adequate to sustain a reasonable level of public
investments in 1968.
22.     The external public debt of El Salvador on May 31, 1967 totalled
the equivalent of about-US$82 million, of which approximately US$63 mil-
lion had been disbursed. Debt service payments in 1966 amounted to
US$8.5 million or 4.9 percent of export earnings.  This debt is due to
increase.  Ia addition to the sums availn'ble from undis'lrsed foreign
loans, and even with additional fiscal effort, El Salvador would need
to obtain new external commitments anounting to some US$110 million in
1967T70 to assure the external financing of the investment plan as it
now stands. If this additional debt were incurred on ccnventional terms
the debt service ratio would rise to 5.0-percent of projecte-d export
earnings in 1970 and 6.5 percent in 1975.  However, the debt service
burzdan is still such as to allow substantial amoints of new debt to be
incurred on conventional terms. El Salvadorls good performance and its
plans for confronting its difficult development problems and the related
fiscal problems warrant external support.
PART VI - COMPIIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREENT
23.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - PECOORMIVIDATION
24.     I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:



-7-
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to the Republic of-
El Salvador (Third Highway Project -
Supplementary) in an amount equivalent
to US$2,800000.
RESOLMED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Republic of El Salvador
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to two million eight hun-
dred thousand United States dollars (US$2,800,000), to mature on and
prior to October 1, 1990, to bear interest at the rate of six percent
(6%) per annum and to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be
substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in-
the form of Loan Agreement (Third Highway Project - Supplementary) bet-
ween the Republic of El Salvador and the Bank, which has been presented
to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
By J. Burke KAnapp
Attachment
November i4, 1967



