                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 26572

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                   (IDA-29900; COFN-04030; PPFI-P8970; PPFI-P8971; PPFI-P8972)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 19.2 MILLION (US$26.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                          REPUBLIC OF TOGO

                                                 FOR A

                    NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT




                                                09/30/2003




AFTS3
Country Department 13
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective 08/11/2003)

                                 Currency Unit = CFAF (BCEAO)
                                  577.86 CFAF = US$ 1
                                      US$ 1.73 = 1000 CFAF

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                        01/01    12/31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APNV     Approche Participative Niveau Village
APRT     Ateliers Périodiques de Revue de Technologie
CIEPCA   Centre International d'Echanges sur les Plantes de Couverture en Afrique
CNDC-2   Combatting Nutrient Depletion Consortium
CNRA     Centre National de Recherche Agronomique (Côte d'Ivoire)
COOPEC   Coopérative d'Epargne et de Crédit
CRA      Centre de Recherche Agronomique
CRA      Chambre Régionale d'Agriculture
CROP     Comité Régional d'Orientation et de Programmation
DARS     Dispositif d'Appui à la Recherche Système
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DEA      Diplôme d'Etudes Approfondies
DEP      Direction de l'Elevage et de la Pêche
DGDR     Direction Générale du Développement Rural
DRDR     Direction Régionale du Développement Rural
DSID     Direction des Statistiques Agricoles, de l'Informatique et de la Documentation
DTS      Droit de Tirage Spécial
FED      Fonds Européen de Développement
FIDA     Fonds International pour le Développement Agricole
FNAIA    Fonds National d'Appui aux Institutions Agricoles
FRIDA    Fonds Régional Interprofessionnel pour le Développement Agricole
FSS      Ferme Semencière de Sotoboua
FUCEC    Fédération des Unions de Coopératives d'Epargne et de Crédit
GIFS     Gestion Intégré de la Fertilité des Sols
GPC      Groupement de Producteurs de Coton
GTZ      Gesellschaft für Technische Zusammenarbeit (German Technical Cooperation)
ICAT     Institut de Conseil et d'Appui Technique
IDA      Association International pour le Développement (du Groupe de la Banque Mondiale)
IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural Development
INCV     Institut National de Cultures Vivrières
INRAB    Institut National de Recherche Agronomique du Bénin
INS      Institut National des Sols
INTA     Institut de Nutrition de Technologie Alimentaire
INZV     Institut National Zootechnique et Vétérinaire
IRCC     Institut de Recherche sur le Café-Cacao et Plantes Stimulantes
IRCT     Institut de Recherche sur le Coton et Textiles
ISPEC    Institut Supérieur Panafricain d'Economie Coopérative

ITRA     Institut Togolais de Recherche Agronomique
MAEP     Ministère de l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage et de la Pêche
MDR      Ministère du Développement Rural (devenu MAEP)
MEFP     Ministère de l'Economie, des Finances et des Privatisations
ONG      Organisation Non Gouvernementale
OPA      Organisation des Producteurs Agricoles
OPEA     Organisation Professionnelle Economique Agricole
PASA     Programme d'Ajustement du Secteur Agricole
PEF      Programme Emplois Formation
PNAE     Plan National d'action pour l'Environnement
PNPE     Programme National de Petit Elevage
PODV     Projet d'organisation et de Développement Villageois
PPCR     Programme Pilote de Crédit Rural
PPF      Protection du Patrimoine Foncier
PROPTA   Projet pour la Promotion de la Traction Animale
SG/MAEP  Secrétariat Général du Ministère de l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage et de la Pêche
SOCODEVI Société de Coopération pour le Développement International
SONAPH   Société Nationale pour le Développement du Palmier et des Huileries
SOTOCO   Société Togolaise de Coton
SYNORSEC Synergie Nord-Sud d'Epargne et de Crédit
UA       Unité d'Application
UD       Unité de Démonstration
VLPA     Village Level Participatory Approach

                               Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
                   Country Manager/Director:       Antoinette M. Sayeh
                    Sector Manager/Director:       Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Noël R. Chabeuf

                                               TOGO
               NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
   6. Sustainability                                                                10
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
   9. Partner Comments                                                              13
   10. Additional Information                                                       13
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             15
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             18
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             20
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                21
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            22
   Annex 8. Borrower's Project Completion Report                                    23
MAP: IBRD No. 27983

Project ID: P002891                                                      Project Name: NAT.AGRICULTURE SERV
Team Leader: Noel Rene Chabeuf                                           TL Unit: AFTS4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: September 30, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: NAT.AGRICULTURE SERV                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-29900;
                                                                                                     COFN-04030;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P8970; PPFI-P8971;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P8972
   Country/Department: TOGO                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (52%); Central government
                            administration (45%); Micro- and SME finance (3%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Civic engagement,
                            participation and community driven development (P);
                            Administrative and civil service reform (P); Rural policies and
                            institutions (S); Other financial and private sector development (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    10/15/1994                                        Effective: 01/12/1998              09/28/1998
   Appraisal:    12/15/1995                                            MTR: 08/28/2001                10/15/2000
    Approval:    09/11/1997                                         Closing: 03/31/2003               03/31/2003

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV'T OF TOGO/MIN. OF AGRICULTURE
                      Other Partners:      IFAD, Japan

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Antoinette M. Sayeh                            Theodore Ahlers
Sector Manager:                 Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                             Jean-Paul Chausse
Team Leader at ICR:             Noël R. Chabeuf                                Christian Fauliau
ICR Primary Author:             Nicolas Kotschoubey


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:U

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
        The general objective of the Project was to improve the living conditions of rural households by
sustainably increasing agricultural productivity and production.

3.2 Revised Objective:
        During the Launching Workshop (November 1998), following recommendations from the Bank's
Quality Assurance Group (QAG), the goals, project development objectives and indicators were made
precise for the short term (2 years before mid term review) and medium term (end of project i.e. 5 years).
These are as follows:

        The short-term goal is to complete institutional restructuring through staffing, reliable financial
management, efficient procurement and effective involvement of beneficiaries in planning, monitoring and
evaluation.

        The medium-term goals are to increase living standards of farm households, increase labor
efficiency, reduce household food scarcity and improve nutrition. This can be achieved through the
following objectives:

A. Production 1. Increased yield of main crops 2. Increased area and output from main crops 3.
Increased food availability from own production 4. Increased area under improved seeds 5. Adoption of
agroforestry 6. Adoption of improved cultivation practices 7. Adoption of soil/water conservation
techniques 8. Increased labor productivity of female farmers 9. Increased cash income from livestock.

B. Institutional 1. More cost-effective extension 2. Improved dissemination capacity 3. Improved
relevance of extension messages 4. Upgrading management/supervisory skills 5. Increased efficiency and
effect of research 6. Cost Accounting Systems in operation 7. Efficiency of Agency management 8.
Improved access to agricultural credit; and 9. Improved economic empowerment for farmers.

3.3 Original Components:
        The original components were the following:

Part A: Agricultural Services (Restructuring and support to extension services: USD 17.6 million)

        Strengthen the capacity of the Technical Advice and Support Institute (Institut de Conseil et
d'Appui Technique - ICAT) to provide agricultural extension and support services to the farmers
organizations operating in the territory of the Borrower, including its capacity to assist local media in
disseminating agricultural information, through provision of technical advisory services, acquisition of
equipment and training, and the carrying out of civil works.

Part B: Agricultural Research (Support to Agricultural Research: USD 13.0 million)

        Strengthen the capacity of the Togolese Agricultural Research Institute (Institut Togolais de
Recherche Agronomique - ITRA) in agricultural research through the provision of technical advisory
services, acquisition of equipment and training, and the carrying out of civil works.

Part C: Pilot Rural Credit (Support to Pilot Credit Operations: USD 3.2 million)




                                                    - 2 -

         Prepare and implement a pilot rural credit program aimed at supporting investment in agricultural
activities in rural areas through the provision of technical advisory services, training and acquisition of
equipment to: (i) strengthen the coordination and management capacities of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Animal Husbandry and Fisheries (Ministère de l'Agriculture, Elevage et Pêches - MAEP); and (ii) assist
SYNORSEC, SOCODEVI and FUCEC, respectively, in setting up ten Savings and Loans Organizations
in rural areas and training staff of other nongovernmental organizations involved in the provision of rural
credit in the territory of the Borrower.

Part D: Institutional Support (Support to the MAEP: USD 18.2 million)

1.       Strengthen the capacities of MAEP in policy design, planning, programming and program
evaluation, through the provision of technical advisory services, training, and acquisition of equipment and
vehicles, and carry out civil works for the rehabilitation of its offices.
2.       Prepare an investment program in the rural areas of the Borrower's territory, through provision of
technical advisory services.

Pilot Village Development Fund (USD 0.6 million)

         The project also included a component financed exclusively by the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD), aimed at establishing, through matching grants, in selected villages, a
fund to finance community-based infrastructure (schools, health posts, village marketing facilities, water
supply, lowland development) on a demand basis.

3.4 Revised Components:
         The Midterm Review (MTR) proposed major changes both in project description and
implementation. The rationale for these changes was that (a) since the project had been identified in 1994,
six years before the MTR, new producers organization had emerged and were gaining strength in Togo and
the sub-region (Chambers of Agriculture, commodity producers organizations for cotton and coffee-cocoa),
offering prospects for a greater and more direct involvement of grassroots beneficiaries in sector
management; (b) experience in the sub region (particularly in Cote d'Ivoire) showed that these new partners
were able to mature fairly quickly; and (c) the Government of Togo was encountering increasing difficulties
in providing counterpart funding, thus hindering project implementation (a new concept of "counterpart
funding from the nation", by which beneficiaries would substitute themselves to the Government to provide
a 1 to 10 per cent contribution to the financing of demand driven operations was to be introduced).

         Although all the original objectives and components remained the same, the MTR proposed to
restructure the project in order to transform it from a "top-down" operation into a program that was
"demand-driven" and implemented from the bottom up. Credit funds would no longer be spent directly by
ICAT and ITRA on the basis of their annual programs and direct funding from the Credit. Instead, services
would be provided to agricultural producers by these entities through specific contracts with beneficiary
grassroots organizations for specific support activities (extension, advice, technical support).      These
services would be paid for by the beneficiaries themselves, who would provide a small contribution and
receive a matching grant from new regional entities channeling Credit funds, and would be under the
control of both beneficiaries and government on par. These entities, which were legally created by the
Government through a Law passed on November 22 2001 (Loi No 2001 - 011), were to be called
"Regional Inter-professional Agricultural Development Funds" (Fonds Régionaux Interprofessionnels de
Développement Agricole - FRIDA), and would number 5 nationwide (one for each Region). Another
similar entity also under the control of both beneficiaries and government would channel the funds targeted
to strategic support to national institutions (MAEP, ICAT, ITRA) for activities of a general and strategic


                                                      - 3 -

nature, not subject to direct beneficiary demand and assessment (e.g. monitoring and evaluation, long-term
strategic research, public interest and awareness campaigns for general interest subjects).

         In order to help beneficiaries become organized, a new approach (new to Togo, but proven over
two decades in the sub-region) was to be introduced: the "Village Level Participatory Approach" (VLPA) (
Approche Participative Niveau Village - APNV). Under this approach, a small team of social specialists
would help the grassroots communities identify and recognize their sub-entities (farmer organizations,
women groups and other constituencies), develop their community development plan by identifying and
prioritizing their development constraints and needs; and elect community representative committees (
Comité Villageois de Concertation - CVC). The CVCs would be representative of all parts of the
community and be empowered to speak for it in negotiations. Micro-projects eligible for financing would
have to be among those constituting the "community development plan", and as such would have to be
approved by the CVC. The micro-projects would receive a contribution from the beneficiaries, and be
transmitted by the CVC to the entity approving matching grants.

          Approval of the beneficiary requests for matching grants was to be entrusted to committees
established at the "Préfecture" level (the most decentralized government unit), where major government
departments are represented, but not under the direct authority of the "Préfet" (the most senior government
official at this level). These committees, known as Prefectoral Development and Approval Committees (
Comité Prefectoral de Développement et d'Approbation - CPDA) would be made up, on "par", of
representatives of the government services (Health, Education, Agriculture, Infrastructure, Finances, Social
services), representatives of the beneficiaries (elected by the villagers), and civil society (NGOs,
associations). They would review the requests, evaluate them technically (role of the technical government
services), financially (verify the substance of beneficiary contributions), and regarding their equation to
program objectives and general government sectorial policies. This review should result either in an
approval for financing, notified to the beneficiaries and the regional FRIDA; a rejection that should be duly
justified; or a return of the request to applicant for further information. Approvals should be irrevocable.
The CPDAs would also be in charge of the technical follow-up and supervision of the micro-projects
approved by them.

         Approved micro-projects would be financed through both the beneficiary contribution (in cash,
kind or labor), and a matching grant from the FRIDA. To that effect, a memorandum of understanding for
the matching grant would be established between the beneficiary community and FRIDA spelling out the
conditions of payment for the grant (usually no more than 3 installments). These payments would be made
to the beneficiaries themselves who, in turn, would pay the providers of services or goods directly.

         The FRIDA would be managed by small teams of professionals (3) with financial and
administrative backgrounds, reporting to a FRIDA steering committee in which government and
beneficiaries would be represented on par, and meeting every three months. FRIDAs would disburse credit
funds through a Special Account and regular Bank procedures.

         Although the Laws creating the FRIDA and FNAIA were passed in November 2001, and the
Borrower sent a request for an Amendment to the Credit Agreement in December 2001, the Credit could
not be amended and the project was not restructured because another suspension of disbursements went
into effect in January 2002, preventing any further initiative from being taken.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
         Quality at Entry was not evaluated by QAG. However, based on initial project implementation,
quality at entry is rated "Unsatisfactory" based on the following facts:



                                                      - 4 -

         Although the staffing of ITRA, ICAT, MAEP and Rural Credit was completed and key staff were
appointed within a short time after effectiveness, these initial actions took longer than expected, in part
because the rationale for change and for the creation of the new institutions was insufficiently understood
and ownership was not as strong as it would have been expected. This was the result of poor
communication during the long interval between appraisal and effectiveness, and was partially alleviated
through the Launching Workshop to which representatives of beneficiaries participated very actively.
Negotiations with the three NGOs identified to implement the rural credit program lasted almost a year for
very much the same reasons and because of misunderstandings on the use of Credit funds. Eventually, one
of the NGOs was to renounce its participation in the program. After the Launching Workshop, staffing of
MAEP and agencies was completed, financial mechanisms were operational, procurement of contracts was
processed, ICAT started cooperating with the Société Togolaise de Coton (SOTOCO) to provide support
for the cotton growing season, and ICAT and ITRA started cooperating to draft a joint program for the
first agricultural season.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
         The Togo National Agricultural Services Support Project (Projet National d'Appui au Secteur
Agricole - PNASA) was identified in October 1994 (PCD), and appraised in December 1995. The IDA
Credit (2990 TO) for this project, in an amount of SDR 19,200,000 was negotiated in May 1997, approved
on October 14, 1997 and became effective on September 28, 1998. The IFAD Loan (No 0403 TO), in an
amount of SDR 6,950,000, was approved on January 28, 1998 and became effective on September 28,
1998. The project also benefited from a Grant from the Japanese Government, in an amount equivalent to
USD 1,099,000, for the purchase of computer equipment, which became effective on January 6, 1999, but
this resource was never mobilized for the project. Implementation was slow, and hindered by generic
suspensions of IDA and IFAD disbursements: January-April 1999 for IDA and IFAD, November 14,
2000 - August 15, 2001 for IDA, November 14, 2000 - present for IFAD, January 1, 2002 - present for
IDA. Altogether, disbursements for IDA have been possible only for eight-and-a-half months (and for a
duration of only six weeks for the second opening) over the past three-and-a-half years.

         Following the third supervision (December 1999), in view of the difficulties in implementation,
resulting in part from the time elapsed since the project had been prepared (four years), the Bank
(Cooperating agency for IFAD) and the Government of Togo agreed to move the Mid-Term Review
forward by approximately one year, to October 2000. The MTR was successful in reaching a complete
agreement between Borrower and Donors on the restructuring of the project, but, owing to the subsequent
suspensions of disbursements from both co-financiers, this restructuring never went through, although the
first major steps were taken by the Borrower (Law creating FRIDA and FNAIA, requests for Amendments
to the Credit and Loan Agreements). Implementation gradually ground to almost a complete stop until the
original closing date of the project (March 31, 2003) was reached, and the project closed. Under these
circumstances, it is dubious that the original objective was achieved even partially.

         However, it is clear that the revised objectives for the short term were achieved: the institutional
restructuring was completed, as was staffing of ICAT, ITRA and MAEP, a reliable financial management
system was established, as well as an effective procurement system; beneficiaries were effectively involved
in the MTR and project restructuring.

         Lastly, there are no data to support any claim that long-term goals were achieved.




                                                      - 5 -

        The outcome is therefore rated Unsatisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Part A: Agricultural Services:
        The Technical Advice and Support Institute (ICAT), which was legally established during project
preparation to provide unified extension services to agricultural producers, became operational. Its Board
was established, and includes two Government representatives, one representative from ITRA, one from the
Cocoa-Coffee commodity organization, one from the Togolese importers of agricultural inputs, and five
representatives from the agricultural producers organizations. The full organization was set up: one general
Assembly, one Board, one General Directorate, four Central Directorates (subsequently to be reduced to
two) 5 Regional Delegations, 28 Agencies, and 272 field stations. Its Director-General was appointed, it
was staffed with professionals selected from the Ministry and from SOTOCO, and its statutes and salary
scale were adopted.     The Regional Orientation and Programming Committees (Comités Régionaux
d'Orientation et de Programmation - CROP) were established.
        ICAT was equipped with vehicles, and office and field facilities were officially transferred from the
Government as ICAT assets.
        ICAT was able to complete four agricultural campaigns (1998-2002), of which two included
cotton extension, and three included vaccination campaigns of small livestock (small ruminants and
poultry). In June 2001 cotton extension was transferred back to SOTOCO by a ministerial decision (No
34/MAEP/CAB) signed on June 06, 2001.
        Capacity building was undertaken through the introduction of "Village level participatory
approach" (APNV), workshops for periodical technological reviews (Ateliers Périodiques de Revue de
Technologie - APRT) and through support to the integration of women and young people.

Part B: Agricultural Research:
        The Togolese Institute for Agricultural Research (ITRA), which had been legally established
through the merging of six former research entities (INCV, INS, INTA, INZV, IRCC, IRCT) during
project preparation to provide unified agricultural research services, became operational. Four agricultural
research centers (Centre de Recherche Agronomique - CRA), located in various agro-ecological zones of
Togo, were created. The ITRA Board was established with two representatives from the Government, one
from ICAT, one from the Coffee-Cocoa commodity organizations, one from the cotton commodity
organization, one from the organization of agricultural input importers, and five from agricultural
producers organizations (Organisation Professionnelle Economique Agricole - OPEA, one for each
region). A Director-general was appointed to ITRA, local Research Support facilities (DARS) and
Regional Orientation and Programmation Committees (CROP) were established, and the Institute was
organized into one general Assembly, one Board, one General Directorate, four central Directorates,
including one Scientific Directorate in charge of coordinating the four CRAs. Staff was redeployed within
the various central directorates and research centers, and staff statutes and salary scale were adopted.
        ITRA was equipped with vehicles, and the ownership of land and facilities was transferred from
the Government to the Institute.
        Some research workers were sent to the university to complete their curricula, study tours were
organized to Côte d'Ivoire and Bénin, administrative staff was trained in procurement procedures and some
seed production activities resumed at certain locations.

Part C: Pilot Rural Credit Program:
        According to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), this component was to be implemented
through contracts with three NGOs already identified. Major delays were encountered in signing these
contracts because some of the NGOs wanted to change the destination of IDA funds, while it had been
expressly indicated that there would be no credit line under this component. Eventually contracts were



                                                     - 6 -

signed with only two of the NGOs. A manager was recruited for this component, the network of local
savings and loan agencies was extended, and their managers were trained.

Part D: Institutional Support (to MAEP):
            The Ministry had been reorganized during project preparation, and the project helped its General
Secretariat and central Directorates re-focus their activities on the formulation and control of the
implementation of sector policies. Staff was redeployed within the headquarters, regional and local
sections. Regulations applicable to the agricultural sector were revised and new ones drafted. A committee
to manage the liberalization of the marketing of agricultural inputs was established, a procurement unit was
created within the Ministry, a unit in charge of the vaccination of small ruminants was created and
ownership of the facilities was transferred to ICAT and ITRA.
         Missions were made to Côte d'Ivoire and Burkina Faso to study the land tenure plan, and to Guinea
and Cote d'Ivoire to study the privatized quarantine services plan. A computerized administrative financial
and accounting system was established for the Ministry, studies on the Rural Development Strategy were
carried out, and a mandate to allow private veterinarians to carry out vaccination campaigns was legally
established.

Village Development Fund: implementation of this component never started.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No net present value or economic rate of return was calculated.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
         In spite of the project aborting before the restructuring following the MTR was completed, the
Institutional development impact is rated Substantial because the restructuring of the institutions in the
agricultural sector has been completed: ICAT, ITRA and the restructured MAEP are permanent institutions
of the agricultural sector of Togo. The regional Interprofessional Agricultural Development Funds
(FRIDA) and National Institutional Agricultural Support Fund (FNAIA), have been created by Law, and
could become operational any time.
         The remarkable mobilization of stakeholders exhibited during the project launch seminar, and later
during the Mid Term Review at central, regional and local level have left a lasting mark and raised
expectations which unfortunately were left unfulfilled. Chambers of Agriculture, which hitherto had existed
in name only, have come to life and taken a role in the institutional setup of the agricultural sector.
         It is only unfortunate that in June 2001 for reasons still unclear, extension for cotton production
was returned to SOTOCO, thus depriving ICAT of one of its major activities and "raisons d'être". But due
to the repetitive suspensions of disbursements, ICAT was struggling to survive, and this withdrawal was
both a blow and a relief.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
         The wide fluctuations of world commodity prices, particularly for cotton, coffee and cocoa during
the lifetime of the project did not significantly affect its implementation, mostly because prices were already
very low due to the existing marketing systems, undergoing privatization at that time, and these crops were
the only possible source of cash for rural producers, who therefore were reluctant to give them up
completely.




                                                       - 7 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
         During the lifetime of this project, international support to Togo gradually withered away because
of the internal political situation. The highly controversial presidential election in 1998 and legislative
elections in 1999 suspended financial aid from the main Donors to Togo (European Union, Germany,
France, USA). Apart from support from the European Union under the balance of the 1991-1994 COM
STABEX program, international aid was reduced to a trickle, essentially channeled through NGOs (COM
STABEX is the European Commission's compensatory finance scheme to stabilize export earnings of the
ACP countries).

         After a brief period of improvement, following the devaluation of the Franc de la Communauté
Financière Africaine (FCFA) in January 1994, the Togolese economy continued its drift downwards.
Government revenues gradually shrank, Togo was unable to meet its financial commitments towards
repayments to the international lending institutions and fell into arrears with the Bank and IFAD, at first
temporarily, then definitively since January 2002. The Japanese grant for the purchase of computer
equipment was disbursed by the Japanese government, but never made available to the project for the
purpose for which it had been given, despite repeated interventions from both the Bank and IFAD. Some
categories of civil servants suffered up to seven months of salary arrears.

         However, all commitments that did not have financial implications were met: the ownership of
physical assets (infrastructure, land) was transferred from the Government to ICAT and ITRA as planned
(as the government's contribution to the capital structure of the two semi-private institutions), albeit with
some delays, and the legislation creating FRIDA and FNAIA was passed.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
         MAEP was the central implementing and coordinating agency, but ICAT and ITRA, because of
their semi-private status (Sociétés d'Économie Mixte), enjoyed a great deal of freedom and initiative.
MAEP took charge of the initial centralized procurement for vehicles, a process that lasted over a year and
a half, but was eventually completed. Coordination was effective under the successive MAEP Secretary
Generals, and greatly facilitated project supervision.

         It appeared after two years of efforts that the cash advance that the Government was committed to
giving to ICAT in order to get it started could not be mobilized because it was in an escrow account in a
commercial bank. The government never fully, and always belatedly, released its counterpart funding.
Apart from the Société Togolaise de Coton (SOTOCO), which only partly met its financial obligations
towards ICAT, there were no private stakeholders to contribute financially to ICAT's and ITRA's
operations. Nevertheless, ICAT managed to fully establish its structure and cover the whole country. The
difficult and painful task of dismissing redundant staff was successfully completed. ICAT successfully
carried out two full agricultural campaigns and two partial ones (without cotton), it restored, through three
vaccination campaigns, the coverage level achieved previously for small ruminant plague ("peste des petits
ruminants") and Newcastle disease of poultry, under the specialized "Small livestock project" (IFAD 213
TO, closed in 1997). These achievements are a tribute to the commitment and dedication of ICAT staff and
the leadership of the Director-Generals of the Institute, especially when taking into account the cultural
revolution that was required to move from government managed "training and visit" extension to
"demand-driven" technical support to farmers and farmers' organizations.

         Although ITRA successfully managed to merge staff, cultures, and facilities from half a dozen
different research institutions, it never totally felt at ease with the concept of demand-driven research. Many
of its qualified professionals were aging and new research staff needed training, which could only be
granted on a very limited scale under the project due to the successive suspensions of disbursements. The



                                                         - 8 -

lack of perspective resulting from the succession of interruptions of implementation (and absence of
alternative partnerships) was a serious handicap to the longer-term endeavor that research necessarily is.

         As soon as the IDA Credit and IFAD Loan became effective, difficulties in implementation arose
from discrepancies between the two Agreement: whereas three Special Accounts had been opened under the
IDA Credit (one for each of the implementing agencies ICAT, ITRA and MAEP), only one was allowed
under the IFAD Loan, and it was opened in the name of ICAT. This resulted in difficulties in matching and
reporting disbursements from the two sources, and ICAT had to provide intermediation for the two other
agencies. The IFAD Loan didn't provide funding for training for the Institutional Support Component
(MAEP), while the IDA Credit did, but only up to 60%. This was due to the fact that, at the time of
negotiations of the IFAD Loan, UNDP was expected to provide support to this sub-component. This
support never materialized, and as the IFAD Loan had been negotiated later than the IDA Credit, this flaw
couldn't be corrected before effectiveness. All these issues were raised during the first supervisions,
contributing to the concept of anticipating the MTR in order to correct these discrepancies.

         The DCA signed in October 1997, indicated July 1, 2000, as the date at which financing from the
Credit for operating costs would be reduced from 70 % to 35%. However, this date was not modified
although effectiveness was delayed until September 28, 1998, leaving only a year and a half for this clause
to apply (instead of almost three years as originally planned). The Borrower, in its request for an
amendment to the DCA, requested this date to be postponed by another two years, in order to take into
account the delayed effectiveness and the impact of the first suspension of disbursements, but since the
DCA was not amended, the project ended with an accumulation of non-reimbursable funds on the Special
Accounts because the Borrower continued to spend while expecting the amendment to eventually allow for
full reimbursement from Credit and Loan funds.

         Because there had been no rural sector support project for several years, staff in the implementing
agencies had lost familiarity with Bank procedures, and was initially slow in getting into action. For
instance, although the Credit became effective on September 28, 1998, implementing agencies, absorbed
with the procurement process for the purchase of vehicles, failed to request immediately for the initial
deposits on the Special Accounts. When the first suspension of disbursements occurred (January to April
1999), these request had only just been received by the Bank, and deposits were blocked until the
suspension was lifted. Implementation was hampered, but not completely stopped because counterpart
funds were still available at that time.

         Overall, it can be said that, despite their original relative inexperience with Bank projects, the
implementing agencies, particularly ICAT and MAEP did cope as effectively as could be expected with all
the difficulties arising either from the shortcomings of the Government or the suspensions of disbursements
from the Bank and IFAD. But in the last year of implementation of the Project, the utter limits of what
could be achieved under such adverse conditions seem to have been reached.




5.4 Costs and financing:

The original costs were the following (at appraisal):




                                                     - 9 -

Table 5.1
Costs by Component and Financier (in US Dollars)

                       IDA             TOGO          IFAD       Other Donors      OPEA*           TOTAL

ICAT                  9,200,000        2,400,000     3,900,000       500,000      1,600,000      17,600,000
ITRA                  7,000,000        2,400,000     2,100,000       500,000      1,000,000      13,000,000
SG/MAEP               7,600,000        7,000,000     3,100,000       500,000                     18,200,000
Rural Credit             900,000         400,000       600,000              -               -     1,900,000
Village Dev Fd                                         300,000                                      300,000
PPF                   1,500,000                -              -             -               -     1,500,000
    TOTAL            26,200,000       12,200,000   10,000,000      1,500,000      2,600,000      52,500,000


It should be noted that figures in Parts III C (Project Description) and IV A (Project Costs) of the
Appraisal Report do not match regarding Rural Credit (USD 3.2 million in III C, and 1.9 million in Table
4.2), and Village Development Fund (USD .6 million in IIIC, USD .3 million in Table 4.2). The PPF
refinancing makes up for the differences in Table 4.2, but no explanation is available for this discrepancy
in the SAR. These figures also differ slightly from those from the Borrower's ICR.

Table 5.2
Costs by expenditure category and by Donor (in US Dollars)

                                 IDA          TOGO           IFAD        Other          OPEA*          TOTAL
                                                                        Donors
1. Civil Works                 3.700.000      1.100.000     2.600.000             -               -    7.400.000
2. Equipment                   2.900.000        400.000     2.400.000    1.500.000                -    7.200.000
3. Vehicles                    6.700.000      2.700.000     1.100.000             -               -   10.500.000
4. Studies and Training        4.600.000      3.200.000     1.600.000             -               -    9.400.000
5. Operational costs           6.800.000      3.100.000     2.200.000             -     2.600.000     14.700.000
6. Capital Stock                         -             -      100.000             -               -      100.000
7. Project preparation         1.500.000               -            -             -               -    1.500.000
8. Severance                             -    1.700.000             -             -               -    1.700.000
allowance
TOTAL                        26.200.000      12.200.000    10.000.000    1.500.000      2.600.000     52.500.000
*"Organisations Professionnelles d'Exploitants Agricoles" (Farmers' Organizations)

         The most notable point is that disbursements for this project were very low, as a result of the
numerous suspensions of disbursements due to arrears in repayments of past credits to Togo. Of the IDA
credit of US$ 26.2 million, only US$ 5.6 million (22.4%) were disbursed, while of the IFAD Loan of US$
10 million, only US$ 1.7 million were disbursed (17.88%). In addition, the Japanese grant was never made
available to the project.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

         Sustainability is rated "Unlikely". Implementation of the project is not completed, therefore the
project is unlikely to be sustainable. However, the institutions created under the project (ICAT, ITRA,
FRIDA and FNAIA) are perennial institutions, and, if funding is found in future, could continue
operations. ICAT and ITRA have proved their ability during the past three years to continue to operate,


                                                    - 10 -

albeit with great difficulties, even in the absence of financial resources from donors. FRIDAs, although
they have never become actually operational, seem to have retained the attention of other donors as means
of channeling funds to grassroots beneficiaries in the country, but with some control by the Government.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

         Owing to the conditions under which the project closed, transition arrangements i.e. post-project
arrangements are effectively already in place since, apart from pilot rural credit, all other components have
remained active.

         Furthermore, for the last two years, although no financing has been received by the project, it has
managed to continue its activities, and the ICAT has carried out four agricultural campaigns.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank capitalized on all its experience of similar situations of reforming the agricultural sector in other
countries in the sub-region, especially Côte d'Ivoire, and managed to field missions that included technical
specialists in all the different disciplines that had to be addressed (institutional restructuring, agricultural
extension, agricultural research and livestock). The Bank was very flexible in taking into account local
sensibilities and institutional culture. Nonetheless, Bank performance at Lending is rated "Unsatisfactory".
Although the Bank was not responsible for the delays between PCD (October 1994), Appraisal (December
1995), Board Approval (September 1997), and effectiveness (January 1998) the local situation had evolved
considerably during this period (mostly after Appraisal), and these changes could perhaps have been taken
into account sooner after effectiveness.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance at supervision is rated "Satisfactory"; the Bank was very responsive, as soon as it
became apparent that the original design of the Project was no longer adapted to the situation, in
recommending moving the schedule of the Mid Term Review forward in order to re-assess the situation
jointly with the government and make new proposals. However, the assessment done at mid-term review
could have been more exhaustive, and the project could have been fully reappraised, rather than have the
project design reviewed. Supervision missions continued for the duration of the project (both regular
supervision missions, partial supervision missions, as well as interim support missions), provided that the
credit was not suspended. These occurred at the following times:
Sept 1998: Project effectiveness
Nov 1998: Launching Workshop
May 1999: Second Supervision Mission
July 1999: Extension and Research Supervision Mission
December 1999: Third Supervision Mission
May 2000: Joint Midterm Review Preparation Mission
August 2000: Rural Credit component Supervision Mission
November 2000: Mid Term Review Mission
September 2001: Interim Support Mission.
March 2003: Project Closure

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
         Overall Bank performance is rated "Satisfactory" because the Bank provided guidance and support
to the Borrower from identification and preparation to and throughout implementation. In hindsight, the



                                                     - 11 -

first design with ICAT, ITRA and the restructuring of MAEP was in itself a revolution that was
successfully carried out and there is every indication that the restructuring recommended at the Midterm
Review would have been equally successful. This was due essentially to the fact that the Bank brought into
these processes all experts of its team, carefully listened to the Borrower and stakeholders, and contributed
to creative designs tailored to local situations.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
         At lending and preparation, the performance of the Borrower is rated "Unsatisfactory" because of
the excessive time between identification, preparation and appraisal, and later between negotiations and
effectiveness. However, because of the fact that there had been no projects in the agricultural sector in
Togo for a number of years before this project was identified, the staff appointed by the Borrower were
highly motivated and committed. They managed to rally a variety of stakeholders, who contributed to
project preparation. This is all the more remarkable because at that time, the country was in turmoil and
political uncertainty.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
         Although the implementation agencies ICAT, ITRA and MAEP did their very best, government
performance is rated "Unsatisfactory" because the government failed to contribute its initial cash
contribution to operations of ICAT in an operational manner (the funds it was legally bound to provide
were deposited in an escrow account and unavailable to the implementing agency). The government failed
to provide, in a timely and adequate manner, its counterpart funding to implementing agencies, and, for
reasons still unclear, it withdrew the extension services for cotton production from ICAT and returned them
to SOTOCO from whom they had originally been transferred.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
         Implementing agency performance is rated "Satisfactory" because in spite of this very difficult
context, ICAT, ITRA and MAEP managed to implement reforms that were fundamental to the project and
to achieve success, albeit on a limited scale, in their development activities. When financial resources grew
extremely scarce, all the actions that did not require major financial inputs e.g., preparing and submitting to
the Parliament draft laws for the creation of FRIDA and FNAIA, or preparing amendment to credit and
loan agreements, were successfully completed.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
         Overall Borrower performance is rated "Unsatisfactory" because the failure to complete the project
is primarily due to the failure of the government to pay its arrears to its international lenders. The political
commitment of the government is also put in question by the withdrawal of cotton extension responsibility
from ICAT during the latter part of the project implementation.

8. Lessons Learned

         The first lesson that can be learned is that when implementation is delayed over several years after
identification of a project, whether it is because of delays in fulfilling conditions of negotiation, Board
presentation, effectiveness, or other reasons, every opportunity should be taken to review the project design
in order to verify that it is still practicable and to cope with changes in local situation that may have
developed over time.

         The second lesson is that when there are several co-financiers, and particularly with pari passu
contributions to components, every effort should be made for credit agreements of various financiers to be
negotiated simultaneously or at very close interval in order to prevent financing gaps or imbalances. In any



                                                      - 12 -

case, the Borrower should be careful to ensure that the delay between the negotiations of different credits
do not leave major financing gaps, and that implementation arrangements (such as the opening of Special
Accounts), enhance complementarity and at least do not create difficulties. In this case, parallel financing,
not tied to Bank financing, could be used as an alternative to co-financing.

         The third lesson is that it appears that the capacity of grassroots stakeholders in Togo to
understand and contribute to institutional reforms leading to a greater involvement on their part is generally
underestimated. The substantial effort in consulting stakeholders down to grassroots level, particularly
during the midterm review, apparently paid off handsomely in terms of ownership, participation and
commitment. This knowledge will be useful in future project in Togo and elsewhere in the region, in
agricultural or other natural resource management projects.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower ICR is available (attached as Annex 8 to this report), and acknowledges the difficulties and
failure of the project. With regard to the Bank's performance, it states as problematic the following aspects
:
- that staffing of supervision missions often changed;
- that recommendations were not always "coherent";
- that the research institute (ITRA) may have been pushed too far and too fast down the path of
privatization of agricultural research, when this should remain a responsibility of the Government;
- that the project did not include training for researchers;
- that the vehicles obtained did not respond to the needs of researchers; and
- that the Togolese government's offer to revise the grant and loan agreements did not receive a favorable
response from the financial institutions, although the Bank showed flexibility by sending a mid-term review
mission ahead of schedule.

Overall, the Borrower ICR concludes that:

Quote:
"PNASA reached closure in a state of frustration of the implementing partners, who had nevertheless
placed their hope and energy in this project since its inception until its implementation. It was implemented
under difficult conditions, and the results presented are far from the objectives aimed at. They are however
one step towards the beginning of a sustainable agricultural development."
Unquote

(b) Cofinanciers:
IFAD's project completion report was received on August 15, 2003. Feedback on this ICR was sought but
not received.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
No comments received.

10. Additional Information

         The most important factor in the execution of this project is the broader political situation:
although the performance of the Donors and Borrower had its positive and negative aspects, the project
stalled because of the suspension of disbursements for credits to Togo.




                                                      - 13 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                          1
                Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
For all project' structures: ITRA, ICAT,      Achieved                         Achieved
MAEP, Rural Credit.
- staff efficiency/cost effectiveness
- efficiency of accounting system
- efficiency and transparency
- beneficiaries representatives efficiency in
the boards/ beneficiaries assessment.

1. % rise in average household net incomes NA                                  NA

2. % rise in return per person day of farm    NA                               NA
labor

3. % fall in food scarce HHs                  NA                               NA

4. % decrease in malnourished children        NA                               NA
within 5 yrs


No data ever were available for these indicators, which were to be changed after the MTR and remained
unchanged because the restructuring was stalled by the suspensions of disbursements.

Output Indicators:
                                                                          1
                Indicator/Matrix                      Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Increased yields for maize, sorghum, cowpea n.a                                2-25 for farms under ICAT extension
                                                                               services
Percentage of nationally cropped area under n.a                                61 % for cereals, 52 % for root crops,
ICAT extension                                                                 (Borrower's ICR)
vaccination coverage against "Peste des       n.a                              136,680 head in 2002, 163,647 in 2001,
petits ruminants"                                                              61,344 in 1999
vaccination coverage against Newcastle        N.A.                             592,965 head in 2002, 330,845 in 2001,
Disease of poultry                                                             387,018 in 2000, 338,251 in 1999
Training of Village veterinary Auxiliaries    n.a                              425 over the period 1999-2002
Extension for cotton cultivation              n.a                              In 1999 and 2000 respectively, 255,114 and
                                                                               212,221 cotton farmers were reached by
                                                                               ICAT, covering areas of 154,435 and
                                                                               134,626 ha and for a production of 133,948
                                                                               and 116,871 tons, a reduction of 12.74% at a
                                                                               time when prices collapsed and the
                                                                               nonpayment of cotton seed over two
                                                                               campaigns.

1End of project
The SAR does not contain any targets or a log frame from which indicators could be derived. The non
implementation of the restructuring prevented these items, which did not exist when the project was
originally prepared, from being introduced.




                                                            - 14 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal    Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                             Estimate       Estimate           Appraisal
                        Component                          US$ million     US$ million
Agricultural Services                                          17.60             5.89             33.52
Agricultural Research                                          13.00             2.70             20.76
Institutional Support to MAEP                                  18.20             1.73               9.5
Pilot Rural Credit                                              3.20             0.00                 0
Pilot Village development Fund                                  0.60             0.00                 0

Total Baseline Cost                                            52.60            10.32
                         Total Project Costs                   52.60            10.32
                   Total Financing Required                    52.60            10.32
Actuals are based on the Borrower's breakdown of disbursements by Component and a rate of 577.86
CFAF to the USD

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                 2        N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                  Other
1. Works                            1.30            2.90           0.00            3.20          7.40
                                    (1.20)         (2.50)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (3.70)
2. Goods                            1.60            0.80           0.80            4.00          7.20
                                    (1.50)         (0.70)         (0.70)          (0.00)         (2.90)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00           4.60            4.60          9.20
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)         (4.60)          (0.00)         (4.60)
4. Vehicles                         5.50            1.90           0.00            3.10          10.50
                                    (5.00)         (1.70)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (6.70)
5. Operating costs                  0.00            0.00           8.30            6.70          15.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)         (6.80)          (0.00)         (6.80)
6. Capital stock, Severance         0.00            0.00           1.50            1.80          3.30
pay, refinancing of PPF             (0.00)         (0.00)         (1.50)          (0.00)         (1.50)
   Total                            8.40            5.60           15.20          23.40          52.60
                                    (7.70)         (4.90)         (13.60)         (0.00)        (26.20)




                                                - 15 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.12              0.00             0.00              0.12
                                           (0.00)             (0.02)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.02)
   2. Goods                                 1.70               0.00              0.00             0.57              2.26
                                           (1.56)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.49)           (2.05)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.31             0.20              0.51
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.07)            (0.04)           (0.10)
   4. Vehicles                              0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Operating costs                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Capital stock, Severance              0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
   pay, refinancing of PPF                 (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                1.70               0.12              0.31             0.77              2.89
                                           (1.56)             (0.02)            (0.07)            (0.53)           (2.17)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                IDA         Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Agricultural Services           9.20         3.00         5.30        2.29         1.58       1.14       24.9      52.7     21.5
Agricultural Research           7.00         2.80         3.80        1.28         0.97       0.46       18.3      34.6     12.1
Institutional Support           7.60         6.00         4.60        1.39         0.00       0.00       18.3      0.0       0.0
Pilot Rural Credit              0.90         0.40         0.30        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Pilot Village Development       0.00         0.00         0.60        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Fund


   The Pilot Village Development Fund was never created. Since the Pilot Rural Credit component was
   implemented under MAEP, its disbursements are not distinguishable from those of the Institutional Support
   Component, but were made anyway.




                                                           - 16 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

At appraisal, the ERR was estimated at 21.3 per cent with a Net Present Value of CFAF 9.787 million.
This estimate was based on the following assumptions : (a) a project life of 20 years, commencing in
mid-1997, with a one year lag for the accrual of benefits; (b) an investment period of five years; (c) an
opportunity cost of capital of 12 per cent; (d) all prices in constant 1996 values; and (e) incremental output
to come from the adoption of improved varieties and management practices for food and cash crops.
Although the project would impact on the livestock sector, estimation of economic returns focused
primarily on food and cash crops. These two subsectors account for nearly 75 per cent of agricultural
GDP, with fisheries, livestock and hunting accounting for the remainder. Due to the circumstances under
which this project was closed, there are no data available regarding economic costs and benefits.




                                                     - 17 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/15/1994                2    1 Team Leader, 1 Agricultural
                                             Economist


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/15/1995                6    1 Team leader, 1 Financial             S               S
                                             analyst, 1 economist, 1
                                             livestock specialist, 1
                                             agricultural research
                                             specialist, 1 extension
                                             specialist


 Supervision

              11/12/1998                8    TTL/Institutions (1); Field Task       S               S
                                             Manager (1); Rural Credit (1);
                                             Livestock (1); Ag. Research (1);
                                             Financial Analyst (1);
                                             Procurement (1); Extension and
                                             Research (1)
              06/14/1999                5    TTL/Livestock Spec. (1);               S               S
                                             Institutions Spec. (1); Fd. t.m.
                                             (1); Ag. Research Spec. (1);
                                             Extension Specialist (1)
              12/18/1999                3    TTL (1); Agro-Economist (1);           U               U
                                             Financial Analyst (1)
              12/18/1999                2    Institutions Specialist (1);           U               U
                                             Agricultural Research (1)
              05/27/2000                5    TTL (1); Instit. Spec (1); Adviser     U               U
                                             (1); Extension (1); Agr. Services
                                             (1)
              09/27/2001                1    TTL (1)                                U               U


 ICR
              08/2003                   2     TTL (1), Environmental
                                              Specialist (consultant) (1)




                                              - 18 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                              630.4
  Supervision                                                        357.9
  ICR                                                                   40
  Total                                                            1,028.3




                                            - 19 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

Overall Borrower performance is rated Unsatisfactory because the poor outcome of this project results
from the government not fulfilling its commitments towards international financial institutions.




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Staff Appraisal Report No 16098-TO, August 13, 1997
2. IDA Development Credit Agreement Credit No. 2990 TO, October 14, 1997
3. IFAD Loan Agreement Loan No. 431 TO, January 26, 1998
4. Supervision reports
5. Mid-Term Review Report, October 31, 2000
6. Borrower's implementation Completion Report (Attached), July 2003




                                                - 22 -

    Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Project Completion Report



MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE,                                                   WORLD BANK (WB)
LIVESTOCK, AND FISHERIES
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR                                            AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (IFAD)




       NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL SERVICES SUPPORT PROJECT

                                                               (PNASA)

                                              Implementation Completion Report

                                                 Prepared by the Government of Togo




The following participated in the preparation of this report:

Secretariat General: Sambiani Léini LARE, Wouro Aurélien TCHEMI, Elilim NYASENU, François LARE- KANTANI, Douti LARIDJA
ICAT: Loro ODOU, Kankoé AMEGNINOU
ITRA: Comlan Atsu AGBOBLI, Kodjo LABARE
PPCR: A. OUTCHANTCHA
                                                              Lomé, July 2003




                                                                     - 23 -

INTRODUCTION

The national Agricultural Services Support Project (PNASA) was designed and financed jointly by the
International Development Association for (IDA) through a Development Credit Agreement (No 2990 TO),
approved on October 14, 1997 and effective on September 28, 1998 for a total amount of 19,200,000 SDR,
the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), through a Loan Agreement No 04030 TO
approved on January 26, 1998, effective on September 28, 1998, in an amount of 6,950,000 SDR, and the
Togolese Government for approximately 8,940,000 SDR. Furthermore, a Japanese Grant made effective on
January 6, 1999 in an amount of some 1,099,000 SDR was made available for the purchase of computer
equipment.

The Closing Dates were set at December 31, 2002 for the IFAD Loan, March 31, 2003 for the IDA Credit and
were respected. At the time of closing, SDR 14,967,285.63 remain undisbursed from the IDA Credit. For the
IFAD Loan, this amount is SDR 5,791,448.82. Further to these disbursements, PNASA never benefited from
the Japanese Grant.

Before effectiveness of PNASA, the implementing agencies were created or organized. They are:
- The Institute for Technical Advice and Support (ICAT), created by a Decree No 97-106/PR dated July 23,
1997 for agricultural services;
- The Togolese Institute for Agricultural Research (ITRA), by a Decree No 97-105/PR dated July 23, 1997
for agricultural research;
- The Pilot Rural Credit Program (PPCR), by an "Arrêté" No 14/MAEP/SG dated March 30, 1999 for the
rural credit component;
- Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries (MAEP), through a Decree

This project, launched in November 1998, met with many difficulties. The major ones are: the
non-mobilization of the Government's counterpart funding, and the non-reimbursement of the debts of the
Government of Togo towards the two Donors of this project. These difficulties resulted in delays in the actual
implementation of activities and in repeated suspensions of disbursements, which disrupted the implementation
of programs.

These suspensions of disbursements occurred on the following dates:
- January to April 1999 for the first IDA and IFAD suspension;
- November 14, 2000 until August 15, 2001 for the second IDA suspension;
- November 14, 2000 until to date for the second IFAD suspension;
- January 1, 2002 until to date for the third IA suspension.

In view of the difficulties encountered from the time of effectiveness of the Agreements, and following a first
request for amendments from the Government of Togo, the Borrower and the Bank (Cooperating Agency for
IFAD) agreed to carry out an anticipated Mid-Term-Review of PNASA, which was implemented from
October 15 until November 1, 2000.

Following this MTR, PNASA was restructured, with the submission of a request for amendments to the Loan
and Credit Agreements on the one hand, and the adoption by the Parliament of Togo of Laws No 2001-010
and 2001-011 on November 22, 2001, creating a national Agricultural Institutions Support Fund (FNAIA)
and five regional Interprofessional Agricultural Development Funds (FRIDA), but these Laws were not
enacted.



                                                      - 24 -

I-     CONTEXT OF THE PROJECT

1.1    Macroeconomic context

The strategic focuses whereby the agricultural sector can contribute to achieving the macroeconomic
objectives are set forth in the agricultural and rural development policy declaration for 1996-2000. Three main
objectives are assigned to the agricultural and rural sector: (i) the intensification and diversification of
agricultural production; (ii) combating rural poverty; and (iii) the promotion of environmentally sound
agriculture.

The strategic objectives identified with a view to achieving these objectives concern: (i) the deregulation of
agricultural activity; (ii) redefinition of the roles of the various agricultural institutions; (iii) streamlined
management of natural resources; (iv) agricultural credit; and (v) the agricultural land tenure legislation.

The National Support Program for Agricultural Services (PNASA) is a reflection of this desire to initiate
reforms that can eliminate obstacles to agricultural growth. PNASA established a new institutional mechanism
based on complementarity between the missions entrusted to agricultural institutions. Thus, the functions of
developing agricultural policy, regulation, and supervision, on the one hand, and of implementing agricultural
policy and providing the technical support required to do so, on the other hand, have been clearly delineated
and separated in the new approach. This restructuring is aimed at bringing all the efforts of the agricultural
partners into synergy to the benefit of the needs of agricultural production.

1.2    Institutional context

The Stocktaking of the Agricultural Sector 1960-1989 conducted in Tové from October 22 to 26, 1990, the
conclusions of the Rural Sector Review 1985-1990 finalized in Nangbéto, and the conclusions of the States
General on Agriculture and Land Tenure, held in Tové from March 2 to 6, 1992, make it clear that it is
necessary to re-examine the aforementioned structures of the department responsible for the agricultural
sector.

The preparatory work for the restructuring of the department and the drafting of the PNASA, which were part
of the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Program (PASA), were started in 1994.

To refocus Government on its strictly public service role of policy design and regulation, coordination,
monitoring, and supervision, an institutional restructuring proved essential. This led to the development of the
National Support Program for Agricultural Services (PNASA).

II-         DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT

2.1         Objectives and Components

PNASA had as an objective to improve the living conditions of rural households through a sustainable increase
of agricultural productivity and production.

This objective was pursued through the following components:

- Part A: Agricultural Services



                                                         - 25 -

Development of the capacity of ICAT to deliver agricultural support and extension services to the farmers
organizations established on the national territory and to provide support to the media for the promotion of
agricultural information through the provision of technical advice-service, the purchase of equipment, the
delivery of training and the implementation of civil works.

- Part B: Agricultural Research

Development of the capacity of ITRA in the field of agricultural research through the provision of technical
advice-services, the purchase of equipment, the provision of training services and the implementation of civil
works.

- Part C: Pilot Rural Credit Program

Preparation and implementation of a pilot rural credit program aimed at encouraging investment in agricultural
activities in the rural environment through the provision of technical advice-services, of training, the purchase
of equipments in order to (i) strengthen the management and coordination capacities of MAEP and (ii) to assist
SYNORSEC, SOCODEVI and FUCEC respectively in setting up 10 grassroots savings and loan
organizations in the rural environment and to train the professionals from other Non Governmental
Organizations in the rural credit sector.

- Part D: Institutional Strengthening

i) Strengthening of the capacities of MAEP in the field of policy making, planning, monitoring and evaluation
of programs through the provision of technical advice-services, the purchase of equipment and vehicles, the
provision of training, and the implementation of civil works;
ii) Preparation of a decentralized rural investment program through the provision of advice-service.

2.2    Costs and Financing (in U.S. dollars)

The financial setup of the PNASA is as follows:

                                Table 1: Costs by component and by donor (US$)

                     IDA             TOGO            IFAD             Other Donors            OPEAs           TOTAL
           ICAT           9,200,000        3,000,000      3,900,000          500,000           900,000      17,600,000
           ITRA           7,000,000        2,800,000      2,700,000          500,000           600,000      13,000,000
    SG/MAEP               7,600,000        6,000,000      3,100,000          500,000         1,000,000      18,200,000
    Rural Credit             900,000         400,000         300,000                -                  -     1,700,000
           PPF            1,500,000                 -               -               -                  -     1,500,000
           TOTAL         26,200,000       12,200,000     10,000,000        1,500,000         2,600,000      52,600,000




                                                       - 26 -

                                Table 2: Costs by category and by donor (US$)

                             IDA            TOGO            IFAD           Other                OPE     TOTAL
                                                                           Donors               As
1. Civil engineering             3,700,000      1,100,000       2,600,000               -              -    7,400,000
2. Equipment                     2,900,000        400,000       2,400,000      1,500,000               -    7,200,000
3. Vehicles                      6,700,000      2,700,000       1,100,000               -              -   10,500,000
4. Training and Studies          4,600,000      3,200,000       1,600,000               -              -    9,400,000
5. Operating costs               6,800,000      3,400,000       2,200,000               -     2,600,000    14,800,000
6. Share capital                          -               -       100,000               -              -       100,000
7. Project preparation           1,500,000                -               -             -              -    1,500,000
8. Severance indemnities                  -     1,700,000                 -             -              -    1,700,000
TOTAL                          26,200,000      12,200,000      10,000,000      1,500,000      2,600,000    52,600,000



III-       ACTIONS UNDERTAKEN

3.1        Regarding ICAT

3.1.1      Institutional aspect:

- Establishment of a Board of Directors including representatives of the Government (2), of ITRA (1), of the
cocoa-coffee commodity organizations (1), of SOTOCO (1), of the Agricultural Input Importers Association
of Togo (1), and of farmers' organizations (5, based on one per region);
- Appointment of a Director General
- Reassignment of staff from other services in the Ministry (DGDR, DRDR, SOTOCO, etc), including civil
servants, non-regular open ended contract staff, fixed term staff, and staff from the Job/training program (a
government program aimed at helping younger people enter the job world)
- Establishment of staff statutes and a salary scale;
- Establishment of Regional Orientation and Programming Committees (CROP);
- Organization of ICAT (One general Assembly, one Board of Directors, one general Directorate, 4 Central
Directorates, later brought back to only two, 3 central units, 5 regional delegations, 28 agencies and 272 field
stations).



3.1.2      Infrastructures, equipment and material:

- Purchase of equipment through bulk procurement managed by the general Secretariat of MAEP;
- Reception of facilities (buildings) transferred from the General Secretariat;

3.1.3      Strengthening of capacities:

- ICAT carried out four agricultural campaigns of which two included cotton cropping, and three vaccination
campaigns against PPR (Peste des Petits Ruminants, a contagious disease of sheep and goats);
- On June 6, 2001, cotton extension was transferred back to SOTOCO by a ministerial "Arrêté" No 34 and
35/MAEP;


                                                        - 27 -

- ICAT met with difficulties in mobilizing fully the resources pledged by SOTOCO and the other commodity
organizations.
- ICAT provided support to Agricultural Research centers (CRA), farmers organizations, for the
strengthening of capacities;
- ICAT provided training on Village Level Participatory Approach (APNV), and helped create APNV
villages;
- It organized Periodical Technology review Workshops (APRT);
- It provided support to women and young people's organizations;
- It provided technical support to environmental aspects particularly through extension services aimed at
restoring and improving soil fertility.

3.2         Regarding ITRA

3.2.1       Institutional Aspects:

- Restructuring of agricultural research in Togo through the merging within ITRA of six older institutes
(INCV, INS, INTA, IRCC, IRCT, and INZV);
- Creation of four agricultural research centers (CRA) located in the various agro-ecological zones of Togo;
- Establishment of a Board of Directors composed of representatives of the Government (2), of ICAT (1), of
the coffee-cocoa commodity organizations (1), of the cotton commodity organizations (1), of the Agricultural
input Importers Association of Togo (1), of the farmer's organizations (5, based on one per region);
- Appointment of a Director General;
- Creation of Research Support facilities (DARS), and Regional Orientation and Programming Committees
(CROP) at the level of each region for a participative programming of research activities and a strengthening
of bonds between research, extension and agricultural producers;
- Organization of ITRA (one General Assembly, one Board of Directors, one General Directorate, 4 central
Directorates, including one Scientific Directorate in charge of the coordination of research activities, and 4
CRA);
- Reassignment of staff in the various central and regional directorates and CRAs, the staff including civil
servants, regular contract staff, fixed term contract staff, and staff recruited under the job/training program
(PEF).
- Establishment of statutes an a salary scale for ITRA staff;
- Taking over some activities from certain government structures (Sotouboua seed production farm,
Kolokopé small ruminants support center, SIG unit of the trypanosomiasis program, and production of cotton
seed).

3.2.2       Infrastructures, Equipment and Materials

- Procurement of equipment through bulk procurement managed by the General Secretariat of MAEP;
- Taking over facilities (research stations and experimental plots);
- Reception of facilities transferred from the General Secretariat of MAEP.

3.2.3       Capacity building

- Training of scientists at the Bachelor and Master level;
- Training on scientific report writing
- Study tours by DARs committee members to Cote d'Ivoire;
- Training of financial and administrative staff in accounting and procurement procedures.




                                                         - 28 -

3.3        Regarding the pilot Rural Credit Program

The Development Credit Agreement had provisions for contracting 3 nominally mentioned NGOs. Important
delays plagued the signature of contracts with these NGOs, some trying to alter the planned use of the funds
entrusted to them, while it had expressly been stated that there would be no line of credit under the program. A
manager was recruited for this component. Contracts were eventually signed and the first tranches of funds
were released. One NGO renounced signing a contract. There was an extension of the network of local savings
and loan offices through the creation of 10 new offices and the training of office managers from FUCEC.

3.4        Regarding the General Secretariat of the MAEP

In the context of the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) Support component, the value of what was
achieved is reflected for the most part in the effective refocusing of the Secretariat General and the directorates
of the Ministry on its mission of formulating and implementing agricultural policies. The decentralization of
government offices to the prefecture level that resulted from this process made it possible to bring agricultural
services closer to their recipients.

3.4.1      Institutional Aspects

-     Effective redeployment of personnel;
-     Assembling and drafting legal and regulatory provisions on the agricultural sector;
-     Establishing a committee to manage the process of deregulating inputs.
-     Creating a procurement unit.
-     Organizing a mission to Guinea to examine the organization of phytosanitary agents;
-     Creation of the vaccination unit to control PPR (Peste des petits ruminants;
- Transfer of the SG/MAEP's property rights to ICAT and ITRA;

3.4.2      Infrastructure, Equipment and Materials

-     Purchase of the computer hardware called for under PNASA was not completed; the bidding materials
      were finalized, but as the grant from Japan intended to finance the hardware transferred to the MAEP
      was never made available to the Ministry, the call for bids was not issued;
-     The purchase of vehicles and motorcycles;
-     Preparation of the bidding materials relating to computer hardware, office furniture, and audiovisual
      and communications equipment;
-     Preparation of the bidding materials for copying and communications equipment;

3.4.3      Capacity Building

-     Mission to Côte d'Ivoire on the land tenure plan.
-     Setting up the computerized accounting system for administrative, financial and accounting
      management;
-     Studies on the growth strategy of the rural agricultural sector;
-     The vaccination campaign against "Peste des Petits Ruminants";
-     Enactments of "Mandat sanitaire", a formal authorization for private veterinarians empowering them to
      intervene in the context of the control of contagious animal diseases;
-     Implementation of audits.




                                                         - 29 -

IV -        RESULTS

4.1 - ICAT

Notable achievements at by ICAT include:

4.1.1 -     Institutional Aspects

- Eleven meetings of the Board were held from 1999 to 2002;
- The Director-General was appointed;
- The initial operational staffing plan included 927 employees, but only 640 were left as of June 6, 2001
following the reassignment of all former SOTOCO employees from ICAT, and 615 as of December 31, 2002.
In 2002, the situation is as follows: 99 civil servants i.e. 16% of the total, 11 Permanent contract staff i.e. 2%,
68 staff under the "job/training program i.e. 11%, 420 fixed­term contract agents i.e. 66%.
- Technical work documents and procedures were elaborated and adopted, as well as legal documents.

4.1.2 -     Infrastructure, Equipment and Materials

- One (01) personal computer for accounting work, 650 Suzuki 100 cc motorcycles; 143 Xing-Fu 125 cc
motorcycles; 28 Peugeot pick-up trucks; 8 Peugeot 306 sedans; and one Peugeot 406 sedan were acquired
through consolidated bids, and made available to ICAT;
- Through the inter-ministerial Arrêté N°27/MAEP/MEFP from 29 November 2000, buildings formerly in
the possession of the DRDR, the PNPE, the FED project, the animal power culture project, the GTZ project,
the SONAPH in all regions were transferred to the ICAT.

4.1.3 -     Capacity Building

The agricultural campaign made it possible to achieve the following results through advice support, technical
guidance and the use of improved seed stock. Therefore, according to data obtained in collaboration with the
Statistical Research and Information Directorate (DSID) on food crops, the yields of the principal crops such
as corn, sorghum/millet, cowpea, and yams in 2002 increased by 2 - 25 percent above national average in
ICAT's areas of intervention. For the same year, the sown areas in the ICAT zones now cover 385,113
hectares for cereal grains, including 246,317 hectares for corn, and 119,946 hectares for sorghum, as against
630,326 hectares, 403,228 hectares, and 195,084 hectares cultivated nationally, respectively.

Thus the areas sown in food crops under ICAT supervision range from 50 percent to 62 percent of the areas
under cultivation in Togo, including 52 percent for tubers and 98 percent for leguminous plants. The
contribution by producers counseled by ICAT in the production of the main food crops accounts for 62 percent
of national cereal production, including 63 percent for corn and sorghum, and 57 percent for tubers, including
64 percent for manioc and 48 percent for yams.

The campaign to control "Peste des petite ruminants" made it possible to double the number of vaccinated
animals, with 61,344 in 1999 under the authority of the Directorate of Animal Husbandry and Fisheries (DEP)
versus 147,398 in 2000, 163,647 in 2001 and 136,680 in 2002 by ICAT.

The vaccination of poultry against Newcastle disease has oscillated upwards and downwards: 338,251 birds
vaccinated in 1999, 387,048 in 2000, 330,845 in 2001 and 592,965 in 2002.

During the 1999-2002 period, 425 Village-Level Livestock Assistants (AVEs) on average participated in the


                                                          - 30 -

vaccination campaigns and an average of 300 received training or refresher training annually. In addition,
during the same period, 371 improved henhouses were established.

In the area of knowledge transfer to producers, 62,500 farmers on average, assembled into contact groups,
received training each year. One hundred fifty beekeepers have been trained and 1,800 hives installed.

The same producers benefited from advisory services relating to the Demonstration Units (DUs) and
Application Units (AUs) on their farms. Each trained farmer subsequently trained a number of other producers
(at least three) providing a multiplicative effect.

Training sessions were carried out at 931 OPEAs (farmers organizations), with over 4,700 members
benefiting.

In the area of support for cotton production, four (4) posters were produced by ICAT to support the awareness
and information of cotton producers.

In 1999 and 2000, 255,114 and 212,221 cotton-producing farmers, respectively, were reached. The areas
under cultivation were 154,435 hectares and 134,626 hectares, respectively, with production of 133,948 and
116,871 Tons, or a decrease of 12.74 percent.

The failure to achieve cotton production objectives is attributable to the lack of motivation of producers owing
to:

-      The delay in payment for the seed cotton collected at the Cotton Producer Group (Groupement de
       Producteur de Coton ­ GPC) level;
-      A reduction in the purchase price of seed cotton; and
-      The massive reclassification occurring in the ginning facilities during the course of seed cotton
       purchase;
-      The dysfunctional status of GPCs (Cotton producers groups) following the opaque management of their
       resources, leading to indebtedness.

Environmental Aspects

-   Contribution to the maintenance and restoration of soil fertility:
- Controlling weeds and couch grass;
- The technique of producing and applying organic matter;
- Improved fallow practices;
- The production of manure at the farm level; and
- The cultivation and use of Mucuna spp and support for the multiplication and distribution of cover crop
seeds.

This activity is carried out in the context of collaboration between ICAT and the following partners (NGOs,
Projects and International Organizations):

- The US Peace Corps on the protection of the environment, the fulfillment of agroforestry and
environmental protection by 17 volunteers established in rural families (4 in the Savannas, 5 in Kara, 3 in
Central, 3 in the Plateaux and 2 in the Maritime). These volunteers work in collaboration with Agricultural
Advisors.
- The Village Organization and Development Project (PODV) in the land resource protection component


                                                        - 31 -

(Protection du Patrimoine Foncier ­ PPF) with producers.
- The Cover Crops Information and Seed Exchange Center for Africa (CIEPCA) on the availability of
literature on plants that provide ground cover and on the acquisition of 1500 kg of Mucuna seed for the
restoration of soil fertility and the fight against wheatgrass;
- The IFDC-A within the framework of the CNDC-2 on the Integrated Management of Soil Fertility (GIFS).
- The National Environmental Action Plan (PNAE) in the preparation of the first forum on the National
Action Program on the Fight Against Desertification

It is noteworthy that no data exist to compare the living conditions of households today with those during the
consumer budget census of 1987 ­ 1989.

Gender Issues

ICAT provided advisory services and support to women on engaging in income-generating activities. These
were:

· AVEDJI's Association for the Promotion and Development of Widows and Orphans (APRODEVO) in
Lomé for poultry raising;
· The Atitogon women's group (Agence Lacs) for the processing of neem seed into preserving oil;
· Support for women's groups raising market garden crops in coastal areas.

Other women have been trained as trainers, in collaboration with the U.S. Peace Corps, for the construction of
improved hearths and in the manufacture of soap, preservation of tomatoes, and the manufacture of jams in the
Maritime, Plateaux, Centrale, Kara, and Savanes regions.

It is noteworthy that introducing the village-level participatory approach (APNV) with special emphasis on
work in socioprofessional groups made it possible to encourage these groups to express needs for support in
terms of access to proven technologies. These requests were met with on a contractual basis, with extension
services through the establishment and operation of demonstration units (DUs), plots for intensive follow-up,
and application plots.

4.2-    ITRA

Among ITRA's noteworthy achievements, the following are worth mentioning:

4.2.1 -     Institutional Aspects

- Eight Board meetings were held from 1999 to 2002;
- The Director General was appointed;
- The Operational System put 400 agents in place by 31 December 2002. This situation is as follows: 86
civil servants i.e. 21% of the total, 32 permanent agents i.e. 0.8%, 38 agents in the job/training Program i.e.
10%, 50 short-term contractual agents or 12 % and 194 temporary agents or 49%.
- Technical work documents and procedures were elaborated and adopted, as well as legal documents.

4.2.2 -     Infrastructure, Equipment and Material
-
- One (01) personal computer for accounting work, 28 Suzuki 100 cc motorcycles; 7 Xing-Fu 125 cc
motorcycles; 5 Peugeot pick-up trucks; 7 Peugeot 306 sedans; and one Peugeot 406 were acquired through



                                                         - 32 -

combined bids, and made available to ITRA ;
- Through the inter-ministerial Arrêté N°27/MAEP/MEFP of 29 November 2000, buildings formerly in the
possession of the INCV, INZV, IRCC, INTA, IRCT, of the Sotouboua Seed Farm (Ferme Semencière
Sotouboua - FSS), of INS, DRDR, PROPTA, of the Trypanosomiasis project, of the PNPE project, of the
FED project, of the animal power culture project, GTZ project, the SONAPH in all regions were transferred to
the ITRA.

4.2.3 -     Capacity Building

- Trained 10 researchers to Masters level and DEA;
- Trained 18 researchers in scientific writing;
- Study tour by 6 officials of DARS to INRAB in Benin and to CNRA in Côte d'Ivoire to allow them to
inspire themselves from the experiences of their colleagues in these countries in the field of participatory
diagnosis.
- Trained 11 agents in finance and compatibility on accounting procedures and procurement.

Given that research often requires long time periods to yield concrete results, very few results were obtained
within the timeframe of PNASA implementation owing to the repeated suspensions of disbursements. Other
technical results regarding research have to do with the stratification of the rural setting. The diversity of
agricultural systems and practices in the country do not permit the definition of a uniform development strategy
for a region, even less for the country as a whole. This is how, on the basis of certain geomorphologic (relief,
climate, soil and vegetation) and socio-economic criteria, each of the five regions in Togo has been stratified
into homogeneous zones. ITRA therefore has maps at its disposal that subdivide regions into homogeneous
zones, grouping a subsample of representative villages in each zone. This stratification henceforth allows the
very rapid identification and understanding of specific development problems in each zone.

4.3 - PPCR

- the signature of a draft-agreement between the MAEP and two NGOs involved in the diffusion of the rural
credit (SYNORSEC-FUCEC);
- recruitment of a rural credit manager for the MAEP;
- the creation of 10 new rural credit accounts: 6 by SYNORSEC and 4 by SOCODEVI;
- reinforcement of the Nyilé office;
- training on the administrative and financial management of the COOPEC with focus on its administrators
and managers;
- training on the COOPEC accounting with focus on the managers;
- training on the internal audit with focus on the members of the Board of Trustees;
- training on the topic "how to carry out a good training course designed for adults" with focus on executives
of FUCEC-Togo;
- training of the FUCEC agents on banking (2000-2001);
- the transformation of the FUCEC central account into a Financial Body;

The total amount paid to FUCEC-Togo is thirty-seven million eight hundred and fourteen thousand one
hundred and eight (37.814.108) FCFA on a credit of seventy-eight million seven hundred thousand
(78.700.000) FCFA, i.e., a disbursement rate of 48%.

The total amount of funds disbursed to SYNORSEC is ninety-four million three hundred twenty five thousand
and two hundred and forty four (94.325.244) FCFA on a credit of two hundred and fifty three million and
seven hundred thousand (253.700.000) FCFA, i.e., a disbursement rate of 37,18%.


                                                       - 33 -

4.4-       General Secretariat of MAEP

The General Secretariat of MAEP plays, according to its functions, the role of animation, coordination and
planning of the entire programs and supervision. Therefore, it is noted:

4.4.1-     Institutional Aspect

-     effective redeployment of personnel in relation to the creation of ICAT and ITRA.;
-     collection and drawing up of legal and regulatory texts relating to the agricultural sector;
-     creation of a Management Board of the liberalization process of inputs;
-     creation of a procurement unit;
-     mission on the organization of the network exercise of phytosanitary agents in Guinea and drawing up
      legal framework in the exercise of this profession;
-     creation of the vaccination unit against the plague of small ruminants;
-     development of administrative, financial and accounting manuals, and creation of an accounting and
      computerized system of structures.

4.4.2-     Infrastructures, equipment and material

-     transfer of the SG/MAEP real estate inheritance to ICAT and ITRA;
-     acquisition of computer equipment envisaged within the PNASA framework was not effective: the
      tender documents were drafted, but the Japanese Grant intended for the financing of material transferred
      to the MEFP was not available;
-     acquisition of: 01 microcomputer for accounting work, 202 Suzuki motorcycles (100 cc), 130 Xing-fu
      motorcycles (125 cc), 30 Peugeot pick up trucks, 14 Peugeot 306, 01 Peugeot 406, and 01 Mitsubishi
      Pajéro 4x4 were procured under the grouping method and placed at the disposal of the Secretariat
      General;
-     preparation of the tender documents relating to computer equipment, office furniture, audiovisual
      material, duplication and communication material.

The building designed to shelter the cabinet and the central departments of the SG/MAEP was not built.

4.4.3-     Capacity Building

With regard to these orientations, the following results can be noted:
-     creation by SG/MAEP decree to play a strictly public service role;
-     creation by ministerial decree of a technical coordinating committee and a rural credit technical and
      financial follow up committee;
-     mission in Cote d'Ivoire on land tenure issues;
-     reflection on the creation of a networks observatory;
-     creation of a commission of agricultural statistics users (ICAT-ITRA-Operators-Donors) in connection
      with the networks observatory;
-     establishment of a legal texts list relating to the agricultural sector in the field of legal framework
      modernization started;
-     privatization of the defense plant health activity started;
-     resumption of the immunization cover of small ruminants by vaccination campaigns initiated;
-     development and vote of laws relating to the profession of veterinary and quarantine in the field of the
      modernization of the legal framework of the livestock and fisheries sectors started;


                                                        - 34 -

-      financing by PNASA within the framework of the preliminary phase: external consultants, servicing
       companies, operation of coordinating bodies.

The department is in charge of the reduction of food insecurity both at the qualitative and quantitative levels.
The general orientations of the agricultural sector are summarized in three essential points:
 i. intensification and diversification of the agricultural production;
ii. fight against poverty; and
iii. promotion of environmentally sound agriculture.

For this reason, the following activities are worth mentioning:
-      studies on the growth strategy of the agricultural sector;
-      delivery of the "Mandat Sanitaire", empowering private veterinary surgeons in the fight against animal
       diseases;
-      setting up by SG/MAEP since 1999 of objectives, in particular the definition of agricultural policies and
       strategies, coordination, monitoring and evaluation, and capacity and competency building.

4.4.4-      Impact on the policies and procedures

The project has had an unquestionable effect on the agricultural sector by refocusing the State on its truly
public service role. It contributed to the realization of studies on the growth strategy of the rural sector, which
takes into account inter alia, the fight against poverty, and sustainable agricultural growth by the environment.
With regard to procedures, their effect was mostly felt at the procurement level. The treatment of files was not
always done on time. Procedures caused
(i) delays in the treatment of tender documents; and
(ii)delay in the execution of procurement of vehicles.

With respect to audit of the accounts, they were done every semester, in 1999 and 2000, by the firm
KEKAR-UCI and in 2001 and 2002 by Afrique Audit Consulting. These missions had to control accounts
movements, the respect of accounting procedures, and the regularity of financial operations.



V -         IMPORTANT FACTORS HAVING INFLUENCED PROJECT EXECUTION

5.1-        Factors out of the Government control

The execution of programs was not significantly influenced by the fluctuations in the prices of commodities.

5.2 -       Factors generally under the Government control

The project was carried out in a favorable socio-economic environment marked by the setting up of a
disengagement policy by the State and liberalization. On the other hand, the execution was penalized by:
-      partial installments of the Government's counterpart contributions and non-repayment of the debt,
       which led to suspensions of disbursements;
-      non-observance of the salary scale envisaged and the irregular payment of wages.

5.3-        Factors generally under the implementing agency control

In spite of the difficulties, implementing agencies made considerable efforts to implement the project. The
involvement of all the stakeholders with respect to project implementation was undeniable.


                                                         - 35 -

5.4-        Disbursements made




                                         By component and by donor
                                                (in CFA francs)
Structures       IDA                 TOGO               IFAD             Other        OPEA TOTAL
                                                                         donors
ICAT                  1,321,163,271       910,680,663        657,968,279                            2,889,812,213
ITRA                    739,381,527       559,458,620        263,612,767                            1,562,452,914
SG and PPCR             805,029,671                          193,513,255                              998,542,926
PPF                     652,210,864                                                                   652,210,864
TOTAL                 3,517,785,333     1,470,139,283      1,115,094,301                            6,103,018,917




                                          By category and by donor
                                                (in CFA francs)
Category                    IDA                 TOGO              IFAD            Other       OPEA TOTAL
                                                                                  donors
1.Civil engineering               9,481,902                     -   57,167,080               -         -    66,648,982
2.Capital goods                  28,172,911                     -    6,244,738               -         -    34,417,649
3. Vehicles                   1,082,851,821                     -  274,764,176               -         - 1,357,615,997
4. Research and training        643,891,142                     -  290,078,244               -         -   933,969,386
5. Operations                 1,101,176,693       1,470,139,283    436,840,063               -         - 3,008,156,039
6. Share capital                            -                   -   50,000,000               -         -    50,000,000
7. PPF                          652,210,864                                                  -         -   652,210,864
Total                         3,517,785,333       1,470,139,283 1,115,094,301                            6,103,018,917

It is worth noting that the government disbursed approximately CFAF 495,156,615 in counterpart funding
corresponding to customs duties on vehicles and motorcycles.

VI -        ASSESSMENT AND PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY

6.1-        Institutional capacity

PNASA implementation, while partial, achieved interesting technical results which augur well for a promising
future in respect of enhancing the awareness and increasing the accountability of partners (private sector,
public sector, OPAs, NGOs, Associations, etc.) in the agricultural sector in respect of the roles they have to
play in providing quality agricultural services in the context of decentralization of decision-making and the
regionalization of programs.

With the deconcentration of public agricultural services to the prefecture level, a nearby service benefiting
producers and close coordination of agricultural and rural development activities are possible if the human and
financial resources needed to support these structures are forthcoming.



                                                       - 36 -

6.2-        Economic and financial sustainability of activities

The project activities that entail financial costs were terminated with the suspension of disbursements.

VII-        PERFORMANCE OF THE DONOR INSTITUTIONS

Supervision missions

In accordance with the credit agreements, supervisory and audit missions were conducted from the launch date
of PNASA through the midterm assessment in October 2000 and even thereafter. All told, there were three
supervision missions, one mission to prepare for the midterm assessment, the midterm appraisal mission itself,
and an interim support mission.

These missions, initiated and executed by the financial partners, in particular the World Bank, monitored
project implementation. They made it possible to speed up the execution of activities, to find solutions to
stumbling blocks, or to identify corrective steps to rectify errors and take unforeseen developments into
account. They made it possible to discuss the status and compensation of ICAT and ITRA personnel, and to
speed up the bidding and procurement processes for the purchase of equipment (automobiles and ATVs).

During the second supervision mission, it was decided that PNASA would assume responsibility for the
operating costs of the Regional Chambers of Agriculture and the National Bureau of the Network of Regional
Chambers of Agriculture. It was during the third supervision mission that the idea of conducting an early
midterm assessment and of reformulating PNASA was launched.

Each mission produced an aide memoire taking stock of the situation and reporting the discussions that
occurred and the recommendations made, together with a plan of action. The early midterm appraisal mission
was extended to cover the validation workshop for the PNASA reformulation and was followed up by an aide
memoire and a report.

An interim support mission, consisting of a working meeting held on September 27, 2001, was held to discuss
the activities scheduled following the reformulation of PNASA. It bears noting that the timing of this mission
was such that it occurred after disbursements had been already been suspended.

Supervision missions were conducted at acceptable frequencies. However, they were never performed with a
complete team of specialists on the ground at the same time, despite communications from the project
management team drawing attention of Bank officials to the risks of insufficient concentration regarding
recommendations. Also, the rural credit component was not sufficiently supervised.

VIII-       PERFORMANCE OF BORROWER

8.1-        Local contribution to design

In preparing for the project, major national entities were established for analysis, supervision, and monitoring.
These included the partners (central government, development partners, OPAs, producers, NGOs,
Associations, etc.) at both the central and regional levels. The departmental authorities wished to use this
approach to ensure that a technical consensus was reached through a participatory approach regarding the
selection of intervention strategies and to guarantee the success of the project through concerted
implementation.


                                                          - 37 -

8.2-        Observance of clauses of Loan agreement

Item 5 of Annex 1, Article VIII of IDA Credit Agreement No. 2990-TO and Item 5 of Annex 2 of IFAD Loan
Agreement No. 431-TG called for reductions in operating expenditure from 70 percent to 35 percent and from
30 percent to 15 percent, respectively, effective July 1, 2000. In addition, the launch of the project was delayed
(November 1998 instead of September 1997) and coincided with the suspension of IDA disbursements
(November 1998 to April 1999). These two factors made it difficult if not impossible to reduce the ratio of
operating expenditure covered by IFAD and IDA as from the date originally set forth in the agreements. In
anticipation of this problem and in order to avoid any impediment to disbursements, not to mention project
execution itself, the Togolese party was careful to formulate requests for amendments with a view to adjusting
the budgetary planning. These requests were not responded to. The solution imposed following our contacts at
the last supervision mission prior to the early review of PNASA consisted in continuing to effect expenditure
using the old ratio, but the reimbursement requests would have to relate to reduced eligible percentages. The
waiting account that would be created for the portion paid from the account but not reimbursed was to be
regularized following the amendment of the Loan Agreement envisaged in the context of an amendment of the
Credit. At the time when this situation was envisaged, the prolonged suspension of disbursements completely
blocked all the efforts made by the project team and donors to ensure an amendment of the Credit Agreements.



IX - LESSONS LEARNED

- The absence of a legal expert and technical experts during negotiations led to major omissions in the
Agreements.
- Within the current context characterized by the weakness of the agricultural private sector, it becomes
apparent that the status of Mixed Economic Company for ITRA is premature.
- The Regional Orientation and Programming Committees (CROP) that were the first generation of producer
organizations turned out to be a tool for the improvement of research programs.
- In future, the long lapse in time between the signature of Credit Agreements of a project and its
implementation should be avoided.
- The methodology of the broad consultation going to field level and which proved successful during the
Mid-Term Review will have to be implemented from the very beginning of project conception.
- In the case of cofinancing, negotiations will have to be done by one single team for different Credit
Agreements to be in accordance, and for special accounts to be harmonized.


X -   AFTER-PROJECT PROCEDURE

- The associations created (ICAT, ITRA and SG/MAEP) are the result of the restructuring of the MAEP and
must continue to function.
- The incorporation of the Rural Credit component in the form of a Directorate is planned at the level of the
SG/MAEP.
- The FNAIA and the FRIDA, which are considered perennial organizations, can be made operational at any
moment.

CONCLUSION

The PNASA came to an end in a feeling of frustration of the interested parties, who nevertheless placed their



                                                        - 38 -

hope and their energy in this project from its inception until its execution. It was executed in difficult
conditions and the results presented are far from the planned objectives. They are however a fragile step
towards the start of the development of a sustainable rural development.




                                                       - 39 -

- 40 -

