Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 2990 TO
Development Credit Agreement
(National Agricultural Services Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 14, 1997
CREDIT NO 2990 TO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 14, 1997, between THE REPUBLIC OF TOGO (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter, dated November 22, 1996, from the 
Borrower, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen the agricultural sector of the Borrower's economy (the Program) and 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
Page  2
no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“ Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have 
been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous 
period of 
thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, 
after consultation 
with the Borrower, that an amount of the Association  will not be required to finance 
the Project’s cost to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at 
any time the Association 
determines, with respect to any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices 
were 
engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the 
Credit during the procurement or the execution of such contract, without  the Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to remedy 
the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (d) at any 
time, the Association determines that the procurement of any 
contract to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement 
and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the 
Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association  may, by notice to the Borrower, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  
Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Project Year” and “PY” mean the twelve-month period beginning from the 
Effective Date and ending twelve months thereafter (the First Project Year), and any 
twelve-month period beginning at the end of the First Project Year, or the end of 
subsequent Project Years;
(b)
“ICAT” means the Institut de Conseil et d’Appui Technique, established 
and operating pursuant to Borrower’s Décret No. 97-106/PR of July 23, 1997;
(c)
“ITRA” means the Institut Togolais de Recherche Agricole, established and 
operating pursuant to the Borrower’s Décret No. 97-105/PR of July 23, 1997;
(d)
“TOGOGRAIN” means Société Nationale de Stockage des Céréales, established 
and operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;
(e)
“SAFICC” means Structure d'Appui à la Filière Café-Cacao, a public entity 
established and operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower; 
(f)
“Special Account” means each of the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this Agreement;
(g)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan described in the Borrower’s 
letter dated May 20, 1997, specifying, inter alia, procedures and other arrangements 
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association for the purpose of the 
implementation of the Project;
(h)
“OPEA” means the organisations professionnelles économiques agricoles, 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(i)
“SOCODEVI” means Société de Coopération et de Développement 
Page  3
Internationale, a non governmental organization established and operating under the 
laws of the Borrower;
(j)
“SYNORSEC” means Synergie Nord-Sud pour l’Epargne et le Crédit, a non 
governmental organization established and operating under the laws of the Borrower;
(k)
“FUCEC” means Fédération des Unions des Coopératives d’Epargne et de 
Crédit, a non governmental organization established and operating under the laws of 
the Borrower;
(l)
“Savings and Loans Organization” means a village credit association, a 
credit union or a peasant association, or any other entity engaged in lending 
activities to small farmers;
(m)
“CCS” means Comité de Concertation et de Suivi, established and operating 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Arrêté Interministeriel of January 31, 1995;
(n)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
September 12, 1994, May 19, 1995 and March 26, 1996 between the Borrower and the 
Association;
(o)
“FCAF” means Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine, the currency of 
the Borrower;
(p)
“ICAT Multi-year Program Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Borrower and ICAT referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same shall 
be amended from time to time; 
(q)
“ITRA Multi-year Program Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Borrower and ITRA referred to in Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same shall 
be amended from time to time; and 
(r)
“MAEP” means the Borrower’s Ministère de l’Agriculture, de l’Elevage et 
de la Pêche. 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to nineteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 19,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A of the Project, open and 
maintain in CFAF a special deposit account (Special Account A), for the purposes of 
Part B of the Project, open and maintain in CFAF a special deposit account (Special 
Account B), and for the purposes of Parts C and D of the Project open and maintain in 
CFAF a special deposit account (Special Account C) all in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against setoff, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of each Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Page  4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2007 and ending March 15, 
2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2017 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: 
(i)
the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for 
three 
consecutive years the level established annually by 
the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and 
(ii)
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association 
and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the 
Borrower's economy, modify the repayment 
of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) 
above falling 
six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
Page  5
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
(i)
shall cause ICAT and ITRA, respectively, to carry out Parts 
A and Part B, respectively, of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
managerial, technical, agricultural, and environmental 
practices, 
shall take, or cause to be taken, all action, 
including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and 
other resources necessary, or 
appropriate, to enable ICAT 
and ITRA, respectively, to carry out 
Part A and B, 
respectively, of the Project, and shall not 
take, or permit 
to be taken, any action which would prevent, or 
interfere 
with, the carrying out of Parts A and B, respectively, of 
the Project by ICAT and ITRA, respectively; and 
(ii)
shall carry out Parts C and D of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
managerial practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for Parts C 
and D of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall cause ICAT and ITRA to carry out Parts A and B, respectively, of the Project, 
and shall carry out Parts C and D, all in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to 
time to Categories 1 (a), 2 (a), 3 (c), 4 (a), and 5 (a) of the table in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for Part A of the Project available to ICAT, under an 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ICAT, under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Association.
(d) 
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to 
time to Categories 1 (b), 2 (b), 3 (b), 4 (b) and 5 (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for Part B of the Project available to ITRA under an 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ITRA, under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Association.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the ICAT Multi-year Program 
Agreement and the ITRA Multi-year Program Agreement in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the ICAT Multi-year Program Agreement, the ITRA 
Multi-year Program Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
Page  6
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
(i)
cause ICAT to open, and maintain for the duration of the 
Project implementation, an account (the ICAT Account) in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Association and on terms 
and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association; and
(ii)
make available to ICAT, under terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Association, an initial amount equivalent 
to CFAF 490 million, and thereafter, at quarterly 
intervals, 
make available to ICAT such amounts as shall be 
agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association;
(b) 
(i) 
cause ITRA to open, and maintain for the duration of the 
Project implementation, an account (the ITRA Account) in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Association and on terms 
and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association; and
(ii)
make available to ITRA, under terms and conditions 
acceptable to the Association, an initial amount equivalent 
to CFAF 350 million, and thereafter, at quarterly 
intervals, 
make available to ITRA such amounts as shall be 
agreed upon between 
the Borrower and the Association; and 
(c)
ensure that funds made available to ICAT and ITRA, respectively, in 
accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) above shall be used exclusively to finance the 
Borrower’s contribution to the financing of expenditures under the Project other than 
those financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of 
ICAT, ITRA and other departments and agencies of the Borrower responsible for the 
carrying out of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall, and shall cause ICAT and ITRA, to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section including those for the Special Accounts 
for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six (6) months after the end of 
each 
such year, a certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said 
Page  7
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof as 
the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of 
the Special Account 
was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause ICAT and ITRA:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on their operations and conduct their affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain their facilities, equipment and 
other property, and from to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound technical and financial practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out;
(b)
The Borrower’s instruments establishing ICAT and ITRA shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of ICAT or ITRA to perform any of their obligations under the 
ICAT Multi-year Program Agreement and the ITRA Multi-year Program Agreement, 
respectively; 
(c)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that ICAT or 
Page  8
ITRA will be able to carry out Parts A and B, respectively, of the Project; and 
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ICAT, ITRA, or the suspension of 
their operations.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely that any event specified in 
paragraphs (b) and (d) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
(i) ICAT and ITRA have been established with terms of reference, 
organization, financial structure, management and staffing acceptable to the 
Association; and (ii) the boards of directors of ICAT and ITRA, respectively, have 
held their first meeting;
(b)
the ICAT Multi-year Program Agreement and the ITRA Multi-year Program 
Agreement have been duly executed by the Borrower and ICAT and ITRA, respectively;
(c)
(i) MAEP has been restructured in accordance with terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association, and (ii) MAEP’s staff not retained for employment in 
either ICAT, ITRA or the restructured MAEP, have received severance payments in 
accordance with the relevant laws of the Borrower; and 
(d)
The Borrower has made available to ICAT and ITRA, respectively, the 
initial amounts referred in subparagraphs (a) (ii) and (b) (ii) of Section 3.04 of 
this Agreement.
Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that the ICAT Multi-year 
Program Agreement and the ITRA Multi-year Program Agreement have been duly authorized 
or ratified by the Borrower, ICAT, and ITRA, respectively, and are legally binding 
upon the Borrower and ICAT and ITRA, respectively, in accordance with their terms. 
Section 7.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministre de l’Economie et des Finances
B.P. 387
Lomé
Republic of Togo
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIE
5286
Page  9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
By /s/ Kossivi Osseyi 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   Credit
     % of
  Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
     to be
Category
SDR Equivalent)
    Financed
(1)
Works 
55% of foreign 
expenditures and 
45% of local 
expenditures
(a) under Part A 
of the Project
600,000
(b) under Part B
of the Project
500,000
(c) under Parts C 
and D of the Project     1,300,000
(2)
Equipment 
60% of foreign 
expenditures and 
Page  10
45% of local 
expenditures
(a) under Part A 
of the Project
650,000
(b) under Part B
of the Project
950,000
(c) under Parts C 
and D of the Project
300,000
(3)
Vehicles
75% of foreign 
expenditures and 
70% of local 
expenditures
(a) under Part A 
of the Project
     1,900,000
(b) under Part B
of the Project
800,000
(c) under Parts C 
and D of the Project     1,700,000
(4)
Consultants' 
services and Training
60%
(a) under Part A 
of the Project
650,000
(b) under Part B
of the Project
650,000
(c) under Parts C 
and D of the Project     1,750,000
(5)
Operating Costs
70% until July 1, 
2000 and 35% 
thereafter.
(a) under Part A 
of the Project
     1,700,000
(b) under Part B
of the Project
     1,700,000
(c) under Parts C 
and D of the Project     1,200,000
(6)
Refunding of
     1,100,000
Amounts due
Project
pursuant to
Preparation
Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
     1,750,000
     _________
TOTAL
    19,200,000
    ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
Page  11
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures 
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign 
expenditures”; and
(c)
the term “operating costs” means incremental Project-related costs on 
account of vehicle and equipment operations and maintenance, communications (phone, 
fax, mail), office supplies acquisition, office rent and utilities payment, and local 
staff travel allowances (per diem).
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and for services: (i) for firms under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and (ii) for individual under contracts 
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the living conditions of rural 
households by sustainably increasing agricultural productivity and production.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Agricultural Services
Strengthening the capacity of ICAT to provide agricultural extension and support 
services to farmers organizations operating in the territory of the Borrower, 
including its capacity to assist local media in disseminating agricultural 
information, through provision of technical advisory services, acquisition of 
equipment and training, and the carrying out of civil works.
Part B:
Agricultural Research
Strengthening the capacity of ITRA in agricultural research through provision of 
technical advisory services, acquisition of equipment, and training, and the carrying 
out of civil works.
Part C:
Pilot Rural Credit 
Preparation and implementation of a pilot rural credit program aimed at 
supporting investment in agricultural activities in rural areas through provision of 
technical advisory services, training and acquisition of equipment to: (i) strengthen 
the coordination and management capacities of MAEP; and (ii) assist SYNORSEC, SOCODEVI 
and FUCEC, respectively, in setting up ten Savings and Loans Organizations in rural 
areas and in training staff of other non-governmental organizations involved in the 
provision of rural credit in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part D:
Institutional Support
1.
Strengthening the capacities of MAEP in policy design, planning, programming and 
program evaluation, through provision of technical advisory services, training, and 
acquisition of equipment and vehicles, and the carrying out of civil works for the 
rehabilitation of its offices. 
2.
Preparation of an investment program in the rural areas of the Borrower’s 
territory, through provision of technical advisory services.
* * *
Page  12
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995, and revised in January and August 1996, (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, works and goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more each.
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic
contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix  2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2,500,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less 
than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$2,400,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, and 
laboratory equipment required under Part A of the Project, up to an aggregate amount 
of $350,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $35,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $350,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for works or goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Page  13
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each of the first eight contracts for goods estimated to 
cost between $30,000 and $50,000 equivalent, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping 
procedures the Borrower shall provide to the Association a 
report 
on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) 
and 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for the Project, estimated to cost less 
than $20,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants.
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for small contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for contracts to be implemented estimated to cost less than $20,000 
equivalent per contract for individual consultants and $50,000 equivalent per contract 
for consulting firms, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for technical and professional support under the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract for individual consultants and $50,000 
equivalent per contract for consulting firms, may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  14
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for consultants and other contractual staff employed in Project 
implementation for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
annual plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to 
the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$30,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after said approval shall have been given. With respect to any such consultant 
contract estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
review, promptly upon receipt, except for contracts under Parts D.1 and D.3 of the 
Agreement, for which such terms of reference and terms of employment shall be 
furnished to the Association for its information. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall cause ICAT to implement Part A of the Project, ITRA to 
implement Part B, in accordance with the ICAT and ITRA Multi-years Program Agreements, 
and shall implement Parts C and D through the Rural Credit Monitoring Unit of MAEP and 
the Secretary General of MAEP, respectively, all under the overall supervision of CCS.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) carry 
out Parts C and D of the Project, and cause ICAT and ITRA, respectively, to carry out 
Parts A and B of the Project, all in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, 
and (ii) not permit, the Project Implementation Plan, or any provision thereof, to be 
waived or abrogated in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
3.
The Borrower shall, and shall cause ICAT and ITRA to:
Page  15
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with performance indicators satisfactory 
to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
furnish to the Association for its review and comments semiannual 
progress reports on the status of the implementation of the Project, including regular 
assessment the impact of the Project on quality of agricultural services, agricultural 
production and productivity, and farmers standard of living;
(c)
not later than October 30 of each year, commencing on October 30, 1998, 
undertake, in conjunction with the Association and ICAT and ITRA, a joint annual 
review on all matters relating to the progress of the Project and, in particular, the 
progress achieved by the Borrower and ICAT and ITRA during the current fiscal year, 
having regard to the monitoring indicators referred to in subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph;
(d)
not later than one month prior to each annual review, furnish to the 
Association: (i) for its approval, a proposed annual work program, including a 
proposed budget and financing plan, for the forthcoming fiscal year; and (ii) for its 
review, a report in such detail as  the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
progress of the Project during the current year;  
(e)
following each annual review, act promptly and diligently in order to 
take, or assist ICAT and ITRA in taking, any corrective action deemed necessary to 
remedy any shortcoming identified in the implementation of the Project, or to 
implement, or assist ICAT and ITRA in implementing, such measures as may have been 
agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the Project; and 
(f)
promptly after the Effective Date, take all measures necessary on its 
part to organize, in conjunction with the Association and ICAT and ITRA, a workshop 
for the launching of the Project implementation which shall cover, inter alia, 
disbursement and procurement procedures and detailed timetables for the implementation 
of the Project.
4.
Midterm Review
(a)
Not later than by the end of the third Project Year, the Borrower shall 
carry out jointly with the Association and ICAT and ITRA a midterm review of the 
progress made in carrying out the Project under terms of reference agreed with the 
Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall, at least four weeks prior to the Midterm Review, 
furnish to the Association a separate report describing the status of implementation 
of each component of the Project and a summary report of Project implementation 
generally.
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than four weeks after the Midterm Review, 
prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, for further implementation 
of the Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, 
implement such action program.
5.
In accordance with the Project Implementation Plan, for the purposes of Part C 
(ii) of the Project, the Borrower shall enter into agreements with SOCODEVI, SYNORSEC 
and FUCEC, respectively, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
6.
Not later than three months after the Effective date, the Borrower shall carry 
out, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, a base-line survey to 
develop methodologies, mechanisms and indicators to assess on continuous basis the 
impact of the Project on poor farmers.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  16
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 (a), 2 (a), 3 (a), 4 
(a), and 5 (a) with respect to Special Account A, Categories 1 (b), 2 (b), 3 (b), 4 
(b), and 5 (b) with respect to Special Account B, and Categories 1 (c), 2 (c), 3 (c), 
4 (c), and 5 (c) with respect to Special Account C, set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to CFAF 250 
million in respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project (Special Account 
A), an amount equivalent to CFAF 250 million in respect of the Special Account for 
Part B of the Project (Special Account B), and an amount equivalent to CFAF 250 
million in respect of the Special Account for Parts C, and D thereof (Special Account 
C), to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to CFAF 175 million in respect of Special Account A, an amount 
equivalent to CFAF 175 million in respect of Special Account B, and an amount 
equivalent to CFAF 175 million in respect of Special Account C, until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into b
y the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for the Project 
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits into the respective 
Special Account of an amount which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for 
deposits into the respective Special Account at such 
intervals as 
the Association shall specify; and
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the 
payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Association shall, 
on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the 
respective Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
respective Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
Page  17
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account minus the total amount of any 
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date 
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6. 
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
