Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USIE ONLY
Report No. 13996
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3029-PAK)
FEBRUARY 28, 1995
Country Operations and Industry & Finance Division
Country Department III
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(annual average)
Rs per US$1.00           US$ per Rs 1.00
FY83                        12.75                     0.078
FY84                        13.48                     0.074
FY85                        15.16                     0.066
FY86                        16.13                     0.062
FY87                        17.17                     0.058
FY88                        17.55                     0.057
FY89                        19.18                     0.052
FY90                        21.39                     0.047
FY91                        22.37                     0.045
FY92                        24.37                     0.041
Note: Since January 8, 1982 the exchange rate for the rupee has been managed
with respect to a weighted basket of currencies.
ABBREVIATIONS AND PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS
ABL         Allied Bank Limited
ADB         Asian Development Bank
BEL         Bankers Equity Limited
DFI         Development Finance Institution
FEBC        Foreign Exchange Bearer Certificate
FI          Financial Institution
FIB         Federal Investment Bond
FSAL        Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GOP         Government Of Pakistan
HBFC        House Building Finance Corporation
ICP         Investment Corporation of Pakistan
IDBP        Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
IMF         International Monetary Fund
LDP         Letter of Sectoral Development Policy
LMM         Locally Manufactured Machinery
MCB         Muslim Commercial Bank
NBFI        Non-Bank Financial Institution
NBL         National Bank of Pakistan Limited
NCB         Nationalized Commercial Bank
NSS         National Savings Scheme
OECF        Organization of Economic Cooperative Fund
PBC         Pakistan Banking Council
PCR         Project Completion Report
PICIC       Pakistan Industrial Credit & Investment Corp.
PLS         Profit and Loss Sharing
SBP         State Bank of Pakistan
TOR         Terms of Reference
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Pakistan and IBRD                     July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
February 28, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Pakistan -
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan Project (FSAL) (Loan 3029-PAK)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled Project Completion Report on Pakistan - Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 3029-PAK), prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. The Borrower
did not prepare a Part II.
The loan was approved on March 28, 1989, and closed on June 30, 1992. Closing of the loan
was delayed by eighteen months from the original closing date of December 31, 1990, due to delays
in a number of areas of the program, which resulted in the withholding of the second tranche.
The objectives of the project were: (i) to strengthen the health and competitiveness of the
banking system by recapitalizing and restructuring of the commercial banks and improving prudential
regulation and supervision of financial institutions; and (ii) to reduce segmentation of financial markets
and develop capital markets by establishing a more efficient system for issuing Government debt and
allocating credit in response to market signals.
The project's objectives were mostly met. In a number of areas, reforms went farther than
originally envisaged. The impact of the project on institutional strengthening was substantial. The
FSAL project has improved the financial system's allocative efficiency, established a more efficient
system for issuing Government debt, and reversed the financial disintermediation of the pre-FSAL
period.  Prudential regulations, credit analysis and debt recovery procedures also have been
strengthened.
Two main lessons emerge from the implementation of the project: (i) the time-frame for
institutional building should be adequate; and (ii) fiscal stabilization is a precondition for financial sector
reforms. Lack of appreciation of both was the primary reason for the delay of the second tranche
release.
The PCR is of good quality. Project outcome is rated as satisfactory, and sustainability as
likely. Institutional development is rated as substantial. An audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3029-PAK)
CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i
Evaluation Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ii
Part I. REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.   Loan Identity    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
2.   Background      .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    . 1
Macroeconomic Setting  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
Financial Sector Context    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
3.   Program Objectives and Bank Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Program Objectives    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Bank Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
4.   Implementation Experience    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
A. Macroeconomic Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
B. Government Domestic Debt Management    . . . . . . . . . . 6
C. Monetary Management Policies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
D. Organization and Supervision of
the Banking System    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
5.   Program Results and Sustainability  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Results    .      .     .    .     .    .     .    .     .     .    .     .     .    .     .     .     .    .     .    .     .     .    .     .     .  11
Sustainability    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
6.   Bank Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
7.   Borrower Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Procurement of Goods and Disbursements    . . . . . . . . .  15
8.   Lessons Learned    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Part II.  REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE (NO COMMENTS RECEIVED FROM BORROWER)
Part III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related Bank Loans & Credits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Loan    Data  .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .  .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .  17
Loan Processing Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Loan Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Use of Bank Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
I.    Staff Inputs    . . . I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
II.   Mission Data    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
ANNEXES
Annex 1. Letter of Sector Development Policies
Annex 2. Overview Matrix
Annex 3. Concessionary Credit to Private Sector
Annex 4. Overview of Financial Sector
Annex 5. Differences in Intra-Institutional Taxation and Regulation, FY93
Annex 6. Auction of Government Securities and Six-Month Treasury Bills
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3029-PAK)
PREFACE
1.          This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL - Loan 3029-PAK) to the Islamic Republic of
Pakistan in the amount of US$150 million equivalent. It was approved on March
28, 1989, signed on April 14, 1989, and became effective on July 7, 1989. The
loan supported the Government of Pakistan's Financial Sector Adjustment
Program.
2.          The FSAL was released in two tranches of US$75 million equivalent
each. The first tranche was released upon effectiveness. Release of the
second tranche, expected approximately one year after effectiveness, was
withheld until March 1992 due to delays in a number of elements of the
program. Consequently, the loan closing date was extended twice, by a total
of 18 months, to June 30, 1992. The loan was fully disbursed with the last
disbursement in March 1992.
3.          Japan OECF supported the Government's Financial Sector Adjustment
Program and co-financed the FSAL to the tune of US$150 million equivalent.
Its first tranche was released in September 1989 and its second tranche at the
same time as the Bank's second tranche in March 1992.
4.          This PCR was prepared by the Country Operations, Industry and
Finance Division, Country Department III, South Asia Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III, Annexes). Part II, which is to be
prepared by the Government of Pakistan, was not received.
5.          Preparation of this PCR is based, among other sources, on the
Initiating Memorandum, President's Report, Loan Agreement, Country Economic
Memorandum FY93 entitled, "Progress under the Adjustment Program" of March
1993, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower,
and other internal Bank documents.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3029-PAK)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. Objectives
1.          In 1989, the Government of Pakistan formulated a Financial Sector
Adjustment Program to strengthen the country's financial system and provide a
macroeconomic framework within which the financial sector could flourish. The
Government's Financial Policy Statement, attached as Annex 1, sets out the
objectives of the reform program and the concrete measures planned to
implement them.
2.          The Government's program was supported by the World Bank,
hereinafter called the Bank, under a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL),
co-financed with Japan OECF. The FSAL was an integral part of the Bank's
broader strategy of assisting the Government in implementing its stabilization
and medium-term adjustment program, and it complemented sector adjustment
loans in agriculture and energy. The IMF supported the adjustment program
through a Structural Adjustment Facility and a Standby Arrangement, both
approved in December 1988.
3.          The broad objectives of the Bank's FSAL were to support a stable
and sustainable macroeconomic environment within which financial sector reform
measures aimed to:
a. reduce segmentation of financial markets and develop
capital markets, inter alia, by: (i) establishing a more
efficient system for issuing Government debt; and (ii)
allocating credit in response to market signals; and
b. strengthen the health and competitiveness of the banking
system, inter alia, by: i) recapitalizing and restructuring
the nationalized commercial banks and increasing their
autonomy and accountability; ii) improving prudential
regulations and supervision of all financial institutions; and
iii) allowing private banks to enter the market.
B. Implementation Experience
4.          Overall implementation of the financial sector reform program was
satisfactory, with reforms in a number of areas going farther than envisaged,
for example, in commercial bank restructuring and establishment of new private
financial institutions, both domestic and foreign. The main slippage was on
stabilization with the fiscal deficit and inflation both considerably higher
than targeted.
5.          Government domestic debt management improved significantly with
the introduction of an auction for Government debt. This consolidated a
previously-segmented money market and provided Pakistan's central bank, the
State Bank of Pakistan (SBP), with a more effective monetary policy
instrument, as well as information against which the price of other securities
could be set. The secondary market framework was also developed, including a
primary dealer network, a book-based clearing and settlement system and a
growing number of secondary dealers. Management of domestic debt fell short
of program expectations, however, mainly due to Government concerns about the



- iii -
budgetary implications of increased T-bill rates: these went from 8.5 percent
at the first auction in March 1991 to 13.2 percent a year later. As a result,
the Government tended to accept significantly less than the pre-announced
volumes distorting yields.
6.          Implementation of the Government's monetary management policies
was satisfactory overall during FY89-92, although it deteriorated somewhat
since release of the second tranche in March 1992.   Rates of return on
concessionary credit schemes were increased and the Government complied with
the second tranche release target namely, to achieve lending rates under these
schemes higher than the anticipated inflation rate. However, as actual
inflation was significantly greater than projected, most concessional schemes
continued to carry negative rates at the end of the FSAL. During the program
period, the volume of credit advanced under the Government's directed credit
schemes stayed within agreed limits. Abolition of bank by bank credit
ceilings was announced in February 1992, at the time of the second tranche
release, and implemented in July 1992.
7.          Government's efforts to improve the financial sector's health and
competitiveness went farther than originally envisaged. Improved prudential
regulations were introduced and SBP supervision of the financial sector was
strengthened. The legal and administrative basis for debt recovery was also
improved although, as with other institutional reforms, less quickly than
anticipated.
8.          Efficiency of Nationalized Commercial Banks (NCBs) was to have
been achieved through restructuring and recapitalization. During FSAL
implementation, the Government committed itself to privatize four of the five
NCBs, recognizing that it would probably be more cost-effective than
restructuring, and would retain the fifth to perform treasury functions. As a
result, during 1991 a majority stake in one bank was sold to private domestic
shareholders, and 26 percent of a second bank sold to its employees, with
management devolved to the staff (another 25 percent of the second bank was
sold in August 1993). Government committed itself to further dilute its
shareholdings in these two banks and to achieve full privatization of three
NCBs, including the largest, by end-1992. In the event, privatization plans
for the other NCBs have not been acted upon, due in part to Government
concerns about the absorptive capacity of the domestic private sector and the
need for transparency in the privatization process.
9.          The number of financial institutions (FIs) increased dramatically
from 49 to 103. This has increased innovation in financial instruments and
management as well as introduced some price competition. The profitability of
banks has grown significantly with the introduction of more market-based rates
on T-bills. However, there remains a concern that some FIs have been
established at least in part to exploit differences in regulatory and tax
treatment rather than real economic opportunities.
C. Results
10.         All the FSAL-supported reforms have been implemented in whole or
in part. While it is difficult to separate their effects from other policy
changes introduced around the same time, notably opening up the exchange and
payments system, FSAL-supported reforms have already had a positive impact on
overall sector performance, notwithstanding lack of progress in reducing the
fiscal deficit and containing inflation. However, without significant
improvements on the stabilization front the benefits of these reforms have
been much reduced.
11.         Many reasons can be found for delays in achieving the
stabilization targets, both exogenous, including terms of trade deterioration,
and endogenous, including slippages in policy implementation. Frequent



- iv -
changes in Government, four in the four years from FSAL appraisal in FY89 to
Second Tranche Release in FY92, did not help. M2 to GDP remained at around 40
percent (excluding the effects of the liberalization of foreign currency
accounts for residents in February 1991), showing little signs of financial
deepening. In contrast to rapidly growing East Asian countries, the financial
sector has only roughly kept pace with nominal GDP over the past decade.
12.         In retrospect, both the Bank and Government probably
underestimated the time needed for institutional elements of the program to be
set up, notably the system for auctioning Government securities. Also, while
there is a consensus as to the importance of fiscal adjustment and FSAL
documents gave prominent attention to the negative consequences of continuing
high fiscal deficits on the auction price for Government securities, during
implementation these two policies appear to have been pursued independently.
There is a view that introduction of the auction in and of itself compounded
the degree of fiscal adjustment required, leading to higher prices for
Government securities. Although prima facie there is little evidence to
support this view, more work is probably warranted to establish the facts.
13.         Large and persistent budget deficits took their toll on a number
of other reforms. Rates of return on lending have ranged from 20 to 24
percent with inflation officially estimated at around 10 percent. Thus, new
investment has been discouraged by high interest rates and growth of private
sector credit has been increasingly consumed by concessional credit schemes.
Significant differences in the regulatory and tax treatment between different
classes of FIs also distorted economic decisions.
14.         Notwithstanding these concerns, the financial system has been
substantially strengthened by the financial sector reforms. It has dealt
adequately with the virtual elimination of exchange controls, policy reforms
in the real sector, privatization of many industrial and commercial firms,
elimination of investment sanctioning, and trade reforms. A more efficient
system for issuing Government debt has been established. Financial
institutions have continued to work out new instruments to share risk and
return in accordance with Islamic requirements. The financial
disintermediation of the pre-FSAL period appears to have been reversed, rates
of return on deposits and lending have been further liberalized, and
prudential regulations, credit analysis and debt recovery procedures
strengthened. Meanwhile the financial sector has been opened further to
domestic and foreign competition.
D. Sustainability
15.         Improvements to the financial system's allocative efficiency work
best in fairly stable macroeconomic environments. While Pakistan's financial
sector reforms are still in their early days, clearly this pre-condition has
yet to be met. There has been insufficient agreement on the damage caused by
persistent high fiscal deficits, both directly on private sector economic
activity, distorting the price of credit, and on the health of FIs'
portfolios.
16.         Institutional reforms typically take longer and are less directly
affected by macro-stability. Many FSAL reforms fell into this category, such
as prudential regulations, SBP supervision, the credit bureau, and banking
courts and tribunals. These reforms are now taking hold and appear to be a
lasting legacy of the program.
17.         Where policy makers can change at fairly short intervals, there is
a need to engage in policy dialogue with representatives of a wide spectrum of
public opinion, as well as with the Government. Such efforts to generate
consensus would improve sustainability prospects and are best started as early
as possible in the reform process.



- v -
E. Lessons Learned
18.         The main lessons can be summarized as follows:
a.   where stabilization is a precondition for sector policy
reforms such as improving the allocative efficiency of the
financial system, treat it as such, rather than as a parallel
and independent target. Financial reform would facilitate,
but not substitute for, effective stabilization;
b.   focus on a few key conditions and on their
interrelationships;
c.   where major reforms are contemplated, break them into
phases, with expectation of subsequent phases to follow
without a break should the initial phase be implemented
successfully. Indeed, the FSAL envisaged a phase two reform
program with full open-market operations introduced and
concessionary credit phased out completely only at the second
phase;
d.   together with implementation agencies, carefully estimate
Government's capacity to implement new activities and allow
sufficient time for necessary technical assistance to be in
place;
e.   broaden audience for discussing reforms, through
seminars, study tours, and written briefs;
f.   define, to the extent possible, clearly monitorable
targets and outcomes which should reduce debate during
implementation about their meaning;
g.   have upfront action, i.e., before loan approval, on the
most important conditions; and
h.   define conditionalities in a manner that targets the real
variables under the program, rather than intermediate
variables.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3029-PAK)
Part I. Review from Bank's Perspective
1.          Loan Identity
Loan Name            :    Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL)
Loan Number                3029-PAK
RVP Unit                   South Asia Region
Country              :    Pakistan
Sector               :    Financial
2.          Background
Macroeconomic Setting
2.01        Following a somewhat turbulent 1970s, the 1980s witnessed rapid
economic growth in Pakistan. Throughout most of the 1980s, real GDP rose at
an average of more than 6.5 percent annually, with strong performance in all
sectors. Manufacturing value-added grew at more than 7 percent per annum with
exports growing rapidly at an annual average of more than 20 percent between
FY86 and FY88. Inflation remained modest.
2.02        GDP growth was helped by increased reliance on market forces
including introduction of a flexible exchange rate policy that saw the real
exchange rate depreciate steadily from 1985. Deregulation of investment
licensing also helped as did the linking of agriculture support prices to
international prices, reductions in input subsidies, and rationalization of
utility rates and the public investment program. Increased demand for
Pakistan's goods and labor from oil rich states of the Arab Gulf contributed
to maintaining buoyant exports and avoiding open unemployment among a rapidly
growing labor force. In the period leading up to the FSAL in FY89, inflation
was moderate and external debt servicing difficulties were avoided.
2.03        Notwithstanding strong GDP growth and selected trade and financial
sector reforms, structural weaknesses remained. Recorded savings and
investment rates were low. The fiscal deficit, never less than 5 percent
throughout the 1980s, had weakened considerably in the three years prior to
approval of the FSAL, reaching 8.5 percent in FY88. Heavily dependent for
revenues on inelastic trade taxes, current expenditures were largely absorbed
by defense which, at 7 percent of GDP, exceeded development expenditures and
also exceeded interest payments. The growing fiscal deficit was financed by
heavy domestic and external borrowing.
2.04        Mainly as a result of persistent fiscal deficits, external and
internal imbalances deteriorated sharply and in FY88 the external current
account deficit reached 4.4 percent of GDP and reserves fell to less than
three weeks of imports. This ensuing macroeconomic crisis coincided with a
change in Government. A caretaker Government established a Medium-Term Policy
Framework for FY89-91. Following agreement with the newly-elected Government,
it was approved by the IMF and the Bank in December 1988.
2.05        Key elements of the policy framework were: (a) fiscal deficit
reduction through revenue reform and expenditure restraint; (b) correction of
domestic price rigidities and distortions through adjustment to administered



prices and deregulation; (c) trade and exchange liberalization and tariff
reform; (d) enhanced private investment and investment deregulation; and (e)
prudent exchange rate management to support firm demand management and assist
in preserving international competitiveness.
2.06        The Government's overall macroeconomic reform program received
strong support from the donor community. The IMF approved a Standby and
Structural Adjustment Facility in December 1988 for a total of about US$900
million equivalent. The Bank alone provided three sector adjustment loans in
agriculture, (US$200 million, approved in November 1988), energy, (US$250
million, approved in 1989), and the FSAL (US$150 million, approved in March
1989). Japan OECF co-financed the FSAL to the tune of US$150 million
equivalent.
Financial Sector Context
2.07        At the time the FSAL was designed, the financial sector comprised
a large number of institutions dominated by five NCBs, four of which were
nationalized in 1974 and the fifth, the National Bank of Pakistan, was set up
expressly to perform Government's treasury functions. These five account for
about 80 percent of the banking system's assets. Nineteen foreign private
commercial banks with ten percent of assets and four specialized banks made up
the group of so-called scheduled banks. In addition, there were a large
number of NBFIs, including Development Finance Institutions (DFIs), leasing
and investment finance companies, Government savings bureaus, the national
post office, two stock exchanges, mutual and pension funds, and insurance
companies.
2.08        Monetization of the economy had increased significantly during the
1980s. This was mainly as a result of the National Savings Schemes (NSS)
which mobilized considerable funds from the non-bank public as they carried
rates of return of up to 15 percent tax free to the final investor compared to
between 7 and 9 percent on time deposits.
2.09        In the period leading up to the FSAL, several initiatives had been
taken to reform the financial system:
a.   to create a more competitive climate for resource
mobilization and investment: (i) 17 foreign private banks and
one new domestic investment bank had been licensed with
expectation of more to come; and (ii) the capital base of NCBs
strengthened;
b.   limits had been placed on: (i) growth of mandatory credit
targets for agriculture, tobacco marketing, small industry,
business, etc; ii) credit lines for development finance
institutions; and iii) the volume and scope of concessional
credit schemes; and
c.   Islamization' of the financial sector, started during the
mid- 1970s, by 1985 required rates of return on all non-
Government domestic lending and deposit rates to be set on the
basis of profit and loss sharing (PLS), effectively
liberalizing them from prevailing ceilings. Meanwhile,
'In line with Islamic banking practices, the terms "rate of return",
"cost of borrowing","profit and loss sharing" are normally used in
place of "interest" in this report. Interest is used when referring to
general interest rate policy as for the period before Islamization of
the economy, or with reference to Government or foreign borrowings.



foreign borrowings as well as Government domestic borrowing
continued to carry interest rates as they do today.
2.10        This move to Islamic banking had two somewhat contradictory
effects. As lending rates were no longer subject to credit ceilings, in
theory, lending became more attractive for banks. However, the same banks
became less active in resource mobilization as deposit rates were now to be
set twice yearly as a function of a bank's preceding six-month profitability.
Fairly aggressive provisioning substantially reduced banks' profits and
consequently deposit rates. Nevertheless, some time deposits and most lending
rates remained positive in real terms from the early 1980s to FY88.
2.11       Notwithstanding these efforts, to finance the deficit the
Government was paying directly to the public rates of return that were some 6
percentage points higher than the rates offered on bank deposits. The lending
capacity of banks, particularly of the scheduled banks, was suppressed by the
Government's increasing demand for financing at fixed low rates (0.5 percent
for ad hoc T-bills and 6 percent for T-bills on tap), and by credit ceilings
and liquidity requirements. Also, within their credit ceilings, banks were
forced to lend to certain priority sectors at subsidized rates. This led to
financial repression.
2.12        The large discrepancy between Government rates on borrowing from
the banking sector and those paid on NSS from which scheduled banks were
excluded compounded the banks' disadvantages. Furthermore, NBFIs, which did
not come under the purview of the SBP, were exempt from credit ceilings and
reserve requirements. This led to financial disintermediation during the
1980s, stimulating the growth of these NBFIs. This is evidenced by a decline
in the M2/M3 ratio. (See Table 1.)
2.13        The Government's demands for deficit financing, coupled with the
narrow range of available monetary policy instruments, as well as their
application only to the scheduled banks, all served to restrict Government's
ability to use monetary policy as an effective tool of economic policy. In
addition, Government remained concerned about the quality of the NCBs'
portfolio. Thus, at the time of FSAL appraisal in late 1988, the Government
was convinced of the need for a more comprehensive package of reforms that
would create a healthier and more responsive financial sector.
Table 1. M2 & M3 = GDP
«o    ....   ......................................~~.....................................
40
9a .                       . ..     .  .     .     ...   ......... . . .. . . ...     . ..
2 0   -               .    ..   .. ...    ..    .. .    ..   ..    ..   ..... .... . .. . . . . . .
10  ................................... ........................
1981 982 1983 1984 1988 t980 1987 1988 1989 190 t991 1992 1993
-M2/ODP  +M3/ODP
Source: Government of Pakistan.
Ministry of Finance.
Economic Advisors Wing.
Islamabad, Pakistan.



3.          Program Objectives and Bank Strategy
Program Objectives
3.01         In 1988, the Government of Pakistan formulated a Financial Sector
Adjustment Program to strengthen the country's financial system and provide an
adequate macroeconomic framewcrk within which the financial sector could
flourish. The Government's program was supported by the Bank under the FSAL
and co-financed with Japan OECF. The broad objectives of the FSAL were to
support a stable and sustainable macroeconomic environment within which
financial sector reforms could best be pursued.
3.02        The stabilization objective was to be achieved by reducing the
fiscal deficit and controlling monetary aggregates. To achieve the sectoral
objectives, the program was designed to:
a.   reduce segmentation of financial markets and develop
capital markets by, inter alia: (i) establishing a more
efficient system for issuing Government debt; and (ii)
allocating credit in response to market signals by raising
concessional rates of interest and limiting directed credit
schemes; and
b.   strengthen the health and competitiveness of the banking
system by, inter alia: i) recapitalizing and restructuring
the nationalized commercial banks and increasing their
autonomy and accountability; ii) improving prudential
regulations and supervision of all financial institutions; and
iii) allowing private banks to enter the market.
3.03        Lower fiscal deficits coupled with a move to market pricing for
government debt were expected to ensure price stability, reverse the financial
disintermediation and financial repression trends, and ensure more efficient
credit allocation to growth sectors of the economy. Efficiency of the
financial system was to be achieved through deregulation and increased
competition. This would improve credit allocation and economic growth,
increase resource mobilization, reduce disintermediation, support capital
market development, and reduce information and negotiation costs. Improved
prudential regulations were seen as specifically helping to recapitalize the
banking sector and new banking courts and tribunals were also expected to
improve banks' portfolios by allowing quicker action on delinquent clients.
3.04        The SBP was expected to play a strengthened regulatory and
advisory role over statutory banks and, for the first time, NBFIs eventually
including DFIs. Recognizing that NCBs were a special case despite having been
recapitalized in FY87 to the tune of some 50 percent of their capital base,
further recapitalization and restructuring under the FSAL was envisaged.
During implementation, however, Government decided that privatization was to
be preferred over restructuring.
3.05        While this was a fairly cornprehensive program of financial sector
reforms, a number of subsectors were not addressed directly, notably DFIs and
the insurance and stock markets, although the reforms had a substantial impact
on many of their operations.
Bank Strategy
3.06        The Bank's financial sector involvement with Pakistan started with
lending to individual financial institutions for on-lending to specified
sectors and subsectors. This strategy persisted until the late 1970s,
followed by lending through apex institutions to eligible intermediaries,
which predominated to the mid-1980s. Because apex lending was perceived to



have limited impact on sector policy and performance, the Bank, in
consultation with Government, decided to support a broader program of
financial sector reform. Sector knowledge was enhanced by a comprehensive
Financial Sector Review carried out by the Bank in 1987. This identified
several structural weaknesses in the financial system including:
overregulation of the monetary system side by side with insufficient
supervision of financial institutions; an unsustainable strategy for domestic
borrowing; and inefficient institutional credit markets. In response, the
Government drew up a Financial Sector Adjustment Program supported by the
Bank's FSAL that was expected to cover a two-year implementation period.
3.07        The FSAL was an integral part of the World Bank's broader strategy
of assistance to the Pakistan Government and it complemented sector adjustment
loans in agriculture and energy as well as the Government's stabilization and
medium-term adjustment program as described in the Policy Framework Paper
1999-91.
4.          Implementation Experience
4.01        Overall implementation of the financial sector reforms was
satisfactory, in a number of areas going beyond what was envisaged under the
program, for example, in the area of commercial bank restructuring and
competition from new private financial institutions, both domestic and
foreign.
4.02        Release of the second tranche of the FSAL was postponed by over a
year and one half due to delays in: a) achieving the fiscal deficit target; b)
establishing a satisfactory auction system for government securities; c)
achieving positive real rates of return on all Government concessional credit
schemes; d) adopting measures to increase the number of special banking courts
and tribunals, and streamlining their jurisdiction and procedures; and e)
establishing the necessary inspection capability in SBP for supervising
modarabas (mutual fund type of arrangement with a managing firm investing or
trading with the funds of a fairly large number of passive investors), leasing
companies and investment banks. Implementation experience overall is
described below while the status of measures that were to be taken by the
second tranche is described in Annex 2.



- 6 -
A. Macroeconomic Management
4.03        The main implementation shortfall was in Government's
macroeconomic management with the fiscal deficit and inflation both remaining
stubbornly high, in most years considerably higher than targeted under the
Financial Sector Reform Program. (See Table 2 below.)
Table 2: Macroeconomic Targets and Results
FY88      FY89      FY90      FY91      FY92  ]
Fiscal Deficit as %
of GDP:
Target                                    6.5        5.5       4.8      4.8
Revised Target                                       6.3       5.5      4.8
Actual                          8.5        7.7       6.5       8.7      7.5
Inflation - 1 Change
from Previous Year:
Target                                    9.2        8.0       6.0     <6.0
Revised Target                                                          8.0
Actual                          6.3      10.4        6.1      12.7      9.6
Sources: World Bank. Financial Sector Adjustment Loan Memorandum to the
President. Washington, D.C. March 1989.
World Bank. Policy Framework Paper 1991/1993. Washington, D.C.
December 1991.
World Bank. Pakistan Country Economic Memorandum. Washington, D.C.
March 1989.
4.04        Initial progress in reducing the fiscal deficit was not sustained
and the deficit widened in FY91 and FY92 due to partial and delayed responses
to both domestic and external developments. In particular, efforts to improve
resource mobilization were not successful, and both total and tax revenues
have remained stagnant at some 18-19 percent and 13-14 percent of GDP,
respectively.  This occurred even though the assessment at the time of the
second tranche release, based on data available at that time, was that actions
taken under the third annual SAF arrangement, and additional commitments made
at that time would place the macroeconomic program on target.
4.05        High fiscal deficits coupled with negative public savings and
excessive borrowings from the monetary system and the non-bank public have
undermined price scability and private investment as well as the impact of one
of the main financial sector reforms, Government domestic debt management, as
discussed below.
B. Government Domestic Debt Management
4.06        Government domestic debt management improved significantly during
the FY89-92 period although less than anticipated. In March 1991, the
Government introduced an auction program for six-month T-bills, and three,
five and ten-year federal investment bonds (FIBs). This led to a significant
shift in the composition of outstanding domestic public debt from non-
marketable to marketable securities and from short-term floating and unfunded
debt to longer term permanent debt. (See Table 3 below.) By reducing
dependence on shorter term instruments, the Government has been better able to
plan and manage its overall debt strategy and secure lower financing costs.



- 7 -
Table 3: Composition of Government Domestic Debt FY88 - FY93
FY88    FY90    FY92    FY93
A. Permanent Debt - Long-Term,e.g.
FIBs:    in %                               22.0    25.9    35.5      37.0
in Rs billion                      63.8    98.7   185.1   222.6
B. Floating Debt - Short-Term,e.g.
T-bills: in %                               44.0    38.0    37.2      36.6
in Rs billion                    127.5   145.0   193.9   219.7
C. Unfunded Debt - e.g., NSS:
in %                               34.0    36.1    27.3     26.4
in Rs billion                      98.8   137.6   142.7   158.7
Total:        in Rs billion                     290.1   381.3   521.7   601.0
Source: Government of Pakistan. Economic Survey 1992/1993. Islamabad,
Pakistan, June 1993.
4.07         Introduction of the auction had a number of other beneficial
effects, including consolidation of a previously segmented money market and a
more effective monetary policy instrument, as well as information on which
other securities could be priced. The profitability of scheduled banks
increased and, as they could now offer deposit rates that were competitive
with rates paid directly to the non-bank public on NSS, this helped to halt
the disintermediation trend of the pre-auction period.
4.08        Under the auction, yields increased fairly quickly from 7 percent
per annum at the first auction in March 1991 to 13.2 percent one year later
as higher than forecasted fiscal deficits fed into higher volumes of
Government borrowings. Rates on FIBs also increased markedly but they tended
to replace unfunded debt of similar or higher yields, notably three-year
savings (Khaas) certificates. The higher volume of government borrowing
coincided with elimination of the price subsidy on T-bills resulting in higher
debt servicing costs at a time of increased pressure to control the fiscal
deficit. (See Table 4 below.)
Table 4: Federal Government Domestic Debt
Federal Government Domestic Debt    FY88   |  FY90]    FY92   I   FY93
Total:       in Rs billion             290.1       381.3       521.7      601.0
Total:       as * of GDP                43.0        44.6        43.1       44.2
Interest:   in Rs billion               22.6        35.9        50.3       57.8
Interest:   as % of Year's
Average Debt Stock         8.3        10.1        10.4       10.3
Interest:   as % of GDP                  3.3         4.2         4.2        4.3
Source: Government of Pakistan. Economic Survey 1991/92. op.cit.
4.09         Wary of the budgetary implications of market-determined rates, the
Government at an early stage opted to fix the auction price allowing



- 8 -
quantities to fluctuate. Whereas the tender size was pre-announced starting
towards the end of 1991, the Government's average acceptance2 rate was only
61.8 percent in FY92. This trend continued in FY93 (see Part III, E III). As
a result, a major potential benefit of the auction, securing "price"
competition and price information from the market, has been forestalled.
Price information from the market has also been susceptible to a perceived
irregularity of these auctions and the uncertainty about Government's overall
fiscal and monetary policy stance.
4.10        The auction is often attributed with increasing the cost of the
Government's overall domestic debt servicing costs. However, as appears from
Table 4, the major increase in debt servicing costs occurred between FY88 and
FY90, prior to the auction.   Clearly, quantity was the driving force behind
the increased debt servicing costs. Government policy makers had acknowledged
at the time of the FSAL that the auction would only "...reduce the burden of
Government debt on the budget if accompanied by sufficient reduction in
Government borrowing requirements as fiscal deficits are reduced" (see Annex
1). Nevertheless, the larger than anticipated increase in the T-bill rate
concerned government officials who believed that this cost had not been
adequately anticipated in FSAL's design, and thus the degree of fiscal
adjustment was substantially more onerous than had appeared.
4.11        Focus on debt servicing costs has also distracted attention from
the underlying objectives of the auction, to provide a more efficient means of
raising money and pricing Government securities, and to eliminate the hidden
subsidy. It also ignores the beneficial effects of making explicit the true
cost of Government borrowings, not least reversing the disintermediation trend
of previous years and increasing the profitability of banks. Indeed, the
auction has directly benefited the Government's own balance sheet by helping
to avoid refinancing the NCBs and allowing the whole banking sector to meet
the tougher prudential regulations without any new injection of capital. The
Government's profits and dividends from the banking sector have likewise
increased.
4.12        During the design of the FSAL, it was expected that the primary
auction would be followed fairly quickly by development of a secondary market
for Government debt and ultimately, i.e., beyond the expected two-year life of
the FSAL, by complete reliance by Government on open market operations.
Within the timeframe of the FSAL, the framework for a secondary market was
developed, including a primary dealer network, a book-based clearing and
settlement system and a growing number of secondary dealers. In early 1992,
the Government introduced a repurchase facility for T-bills available to
scheduled banks and this has enhanced the liquidity of these instruments.
Because the Government continues to manage the auction price, accepting less
than the pre-announced rates, development of a secondary market has made less
progress than expected, and the move to open market operations has been
delayed. At about the same time, the Government announced that, with effect
from July 1, 1992, credit ceilings would be abolished.
4.13        Both the Bank and Government underestimated the time required to
set up the auction. Originally, it was to have been set up by end-1989 but
this was delayed by some 15 months. One reason advanced for the delay was a
reluctance among some policy makers to take this step. With the arrival of an
advisor financed by the IMF not long before the targeted second tranche
release date, the Government's capacity to introduce the auction was enhanced.
2There have been occasions on which the auction has cleared at
a higher than the pre-announced volume.



- 9 -
C. Monetary Management Policies
4.14         Implementation of the Government's monetary management policies
was considered satisfactory during the period of the FSAL (FY89-92). Rates of
return on concessionary credit schemes were increased during the period and,
at the time of the second tranche review, the Government was in compliance
with the tranche release target. This target was to achieve lending rates
under Government concessional credit schemes higher than the agreed benchmark,
namely, the anticipated inflation rate, projected at between six and eight
percent. However, as actual inflation was significantly greater than this,
most concessional schemes continued to carry negative rates at the end of the
FSAL as they do today.
4.15        Abolition of bank by bank credit ceilings was announced in
February 1992, at about the time of the second tranche review, and implemented
in July 1992. This represented a significant step in improving the health and
efficiency of the banking system. However, these ceilings were replaced by a
credit/deposit ratio at a rate initially of 30 percent on rupee deposits and
40 percent on foreign exchange deposits. While this reduced discrimination
between banks, it continued to distort prices by exempting certain classes of
borrowers, notably public enterprises, the provincial governments, and
borrowings for export. And, by applying only to banks, it favoured NBFIs.
4.16        credit expansion, moderate in the early years of the FSAL,
accelerated in two years, FY91 and FY92. While more than 70 percent of this
large and unprogrammed expansion was attributable to budgetary support,
overall private sector credit expanded by Rs 21.8 billion in FY88, Rs 23.2
billion in FY90, and Rs 30.2 billion in FY92. (See Table 5 below.)
Table 5: Domestic Credit Expansion
Change from Previous Year
FY88               FY90               FY92
Rs bn     I        Rs bn      I       Rs bn      I
Total Domestic
Credit:                  32.5    12.6       37.9    12.3       101.6    24.9
of which
Government:             18.2    17.3       12.5      8.7       76.5    39.9
Public
Enterprises:            1.2     3.3        0.6      1.7       -0.1    -0.4
Private
Sector:               21.8    15.2        23.2    13.4       30.3    13.7
Source: State Bank of Pakistan. Annual Report 1991/1992. Karachi, Pakistan,
December 1992.
4.17        During FY89-92,  the volume of credit advanced under the
Government's directed credit schemes stayed within agreed limits, in that its
share in the annual credit plan (net of foreign financing) did not exceed its
share in FY89, as a percentage of total incremental directed credit to the
private sector. (See Table 6 below.)



- 10 -
Table 6: Commercial Banks' Directed Credit
(in Rs billion)
FY88             FY90            FY92
Target  Actual  Target Actual  Target Actual
1. Agriculture                4.9    5.2        5.3    3.6      6.7    4.2
2. Small Loans
a. Agriculture (gross)   2.5    3.9         2.7    2.4       3.3    3.1
b. Business (net)          0.2    0.5       0.1    0.3       0.1    0.5
c. Industry (net)          1.4    1.7       2.0    1.6       2.5    2.6
3. Tobacco                    0.3    0.4        0.2    0.3      0.2    0.5
4. Total                      9.3   11.7       10.3     8.2    12.8   10.9
5. Total Private
Sector Credit                    21.8             23.2             30.3
6. Directed
Credit as % of Total
Private Sector Credit            53.7             35.3             36.0
Source: State Bank of Pakistan. op. cit.
4.18        Much of the increased credit was committed for concessionary
credit schemes, including locally manufactured machinery (LMM) and the export
finance scheme. By FY92, concessionary credit absorbed one-fourth of total
credit to the private sector compared to less than one-sixth in the pre-FSAL
years. (See Table 6 below.) This would appear to violate the spirit if not
the letter of the Government's declared intentions under its financial sector
adjustment program to "eventually free all rates of return, abolish sectoral
credit targets, and to allow market forces to determine their structure and
level." In addition, concessionary credit incurs substantial fiscal and
economic losses while not obviously raising the welfare of the target groups.
4.19         Differences persist in rates of return on financial instruments of
comparable risk and maturity, particularly after differences in tax treatment
are taken into account.   For example, those on bank deposits are lower than
rates available on NSS and on Foreign Exchange Bearer Certificates (FEBCs),
with deposits subject to withholding tax, while NSS and FEBCs are not. Thus,
a market-based yield curve is yet to develop.
D. Organization and Supervision of the Banking System
4.20        Government's efforts to improve the financial sector's health and
competitiveness went farther than originally envisaged in a number of areas.
First, it improved prudential regulations widely cited as one of the major
causes of improved health of the financial sector.
4.21         Secondly, it strengthened SBP supervision of the scheduled banks
and extended its supervisory responsibility for the first time to the NBFIs.
For the latter purpose, it added a new department, hiring qualified and
experienced staff from outside the organization. Furthermore, a detailed
review of SBP's organization was carried out and recommendations with respect
to strengthening its organization and personnel policies are being
implemented, albeit slowly.
4.22         Thirdly, a Credit Bureau was established in the SBP to pool



- 11 -
information from all financial institutions on customers' exposure and payment
record - this had previously been done by the Pakistan Banking Council (PBC),
although only for the NCBs.   While the new Bureau has yet to establish a
track record, its potential usefulness is established.
4.23        Fourthly, Government established new banking courts and tribunals,
contributing to improving portfolio quality in the financial sector. However,
to date their effectiveness is hampered by inadequate numbers, staffing and
continuing difficulties in executing court orders.
4.24        Fifthly, management of the NCBs and their financial situation were
strengthened in a number of ways including:
a.   portfolio audits were carried out, on the basis of which
recapitalization and restructuring plans were formulated.
Reforms in this area were impressive and by end-1991 all but
one of the NCBs had achieved the requisite capital adequacy
ratio of three percent of liabilities. The exception was
United Bank which was given until end-1993, and subsequently
end-1995, to achieve this ratio; and
b.   in late 1989, the Government recognized that it would
probably be more cost effective to improve the efficiency of
NCBs by privatization rather than restructuring and
recapitalization. As a result, during 1991 it sold a 51
percent stake in one bank to private domestic shareholders and
privatized the management of another, coupled with selling
some 26 percent of shares to the management and staff (another
25% of shares in the second bank were sold in August 1993).
The intention was to sell off the majority of shares in two of
the other three state-owned commercial banks as soon as
domestic market conditions allowed. While there have been
questions about the speed and transparency of the
privatization process to date, there is no doubt that reforms
in this area went farther than originally envisaged.
4.25        The Government also opened up the financial sector, allowing the
number of financial institutions to more than double between 1988 and 1992
from 49 to 103 (see Table 7 below). This has led to increased competition and
resource mobilization improved, although less than expected.  Real rates of
return on deposits remain low, while on lending they appear to be in excess of
ten percent. SBP's capacity to regulate the activities of the burgeoning
financial sector needs to be strengthened.
4.26        Some element of the growth in number of financial institutions can
be attributable to a desire to exploit differences in regulatory and tax
treatment rather than in response to real economic opportunities, contrary to
one of the main objectives of the FSAL namely, to reduce market segmentation.
(See Table 8 below.)
5.          Program Results and Sustainability
Results
5.01        All of the sector-specific reforms envisaged under the financial
sector program have been implemented in whole or in part. (See Annex 2 for
details.) While it is difficult to separate their effects from other policy
changes introduced at or around the same time, notably liberalization of the
exchange and payments system, it is clear that FSAL-supported reforms have had
a positive impact on overall financial sector performance. This is
notwithstanding persistent and large macro imbalances which have reduced the
effectiveness of a number of sector-specific reforms, notably auction for



- 12 -
government debt and the move to market rates of return on credit schemes.
5.02        Many reasons can be found for delays in achieving the fiscal
targets, both exogenous, including terms of trade deterioration and the Gulf
crisis, and endogenous, including major slippages in revenue collection and
delays in policy implementation, as a result of, inter alia, frequent changes
in Government - four in the four years from FSAL appraisal in FY89 to second
tranche release in FY92. While GDP growth averaged much above 5 percent per
annum between FY89 and FY92, both external and internal imbalances have
remained acute. The fiscal deficit, never less than 6.5 percent, increased to
8.7 percent in FY91 and 7.5 percent in FY92.   Notwithstanding a rise in
domestic savings from 10.5 to 12.2 percent of GDP, results were significantly
less than expected. In particular, overall gross domestic investment remained
stagnant at between 18 and 19 percent of GDP while M2 to GDP remained at
around 40 percent (excluding the effects of the liberalization of foreign
currency accounts for residents in February 1991), showing little signs of the
expected financial deepening. (See Table 7 below.)
Table 7: Economic Development Indicators
Comparison with Selected Asian Countries
Pakistan     Indonesia    Malaysia       Thailand
GNP per capita  1988         350           440         1940          1000
US$              1990        390           570         2340          1420
1991        400           610         2520          1570
Savings          1988         11            34           36            27
as % of GDP    1990          12            37           33            30
1991         12            36           30            32
Investment      1988          18            32           26            29
as % of GDP    1990          19            37           33            38
1991         19            35           36            39
M2/GNP           1988         40            31             70            65
1990         38            45             70           75
1992         40      not available  not available    not available
Source: World Bank. World Development Report and World Tables [various years].
Washington, D.C.
5.03        Financial sector reforms have helped the financial system deal
with the relaxing of exchange controls, policy reforms in the real sector,
privatization of many industrial and commercial firms, elimination of
investment sanctioning, and modest, if delayed, efforts on trade reform. In
addition, financial institutions have continued to work out new instruments to
share risk and return in accordance with Islamic requirements. Rates of
return on deposits and lending have been further liberalized and the financial
sector opened further to domestic and foreign competition (although some would
say this has been too much and too fast), prudential regulations strengthened,
and a more efficient system for issuing Government debt established. These
achievements are perhaps more remarkable in light of the disappointing
macroeconomic results.
5.04        Government's domestic debt management has improved, although to
date, fallen short of program expectations. First, Government borrowings from
the SBP are not at market clearing rates, perhaps due to the volatile fiscal
environment. Interest rates are insufficiently flexible in the primary market,
not fully reflective of money market conditions nor dealer expectations.
Continued predominance of fiscal over monetary policy objectives is driving



- 13 -
Government's intervention in the auction and prevents the development of a
market-based yield curve. Indeed, there are few incentives to trade - high
liquidity requirements force banks to hold paper, high credit deposit ratios
make the search for new business less important, and to date there appears to
have been little active marketing of these securities. Consequently, a
secondary market for long-term debt at fixed rates of return has yet to become
attractive. The secondary market thus remains shallow and is largely confined
to the inter-bank sector.
5.05        While there is a consensus as to the importance of fiscal
adjustment, in retrospect, the intractability of the fiscal deficit and its
effect on the auction was underestimated. There is a view that introduction
of the auction in and of itself compounded the fiscal deficit, leading as it
did to higher prices for Government securities. While more work on this issue
with Government is probably warranted to establish the facts, prima facie
there appears to be little evidence to support this view as domestic debt
servicing as a percentage of GDP has not increased substantially since the
auction started. (See Table 3.)
5.06        Concessional schemes have flourished in the past year, most
carrying rates of return that are negative in real terms. Schemes included:
a) export finance; b) LMM; and c) agriculture production loans for small
farmers. Contrary to what was intended, almost one quarter of total credit to
the private sector in FY92 was at concessionary rates compared with 14.3
percent in FY90. (See Table 6.)
5.07        Capital market development has been helped by a number of reforms
in the real as well as in the financial sectors, including opening up of the
economy to foreign private investment. New investment has however been
discouraged by high interest rates with considerable efforts directed at
exploiting the significant differences in the regulatory and tax treatment
between banks and with NBFIs.
Sustainability
5.08        Policy reforms which seek to improve the financial system's
allocative efficiency work best in fairly stable economic environments. While
many of these reforms are still in their early stages, clearly this pre-
condition has yet to be met. There has been insufficient emphasis on the
damage caused by persistent high fiscal deficits, in terms of crowding out the
private sector and distorting the price of credit. Improvements on the
stabilization front are, therefore, needed if the financial system gains are
to be sustained and expanded.
5.09        Reforms directed at institutional strengthening typically take
longer and are less directly affected by macro-stability. Under the FSAL,
many elements of the reforms fell into this category, such as prudential
regulations, SBP supervision, credit bureau, and strengthening banking courts
and tribunals.
5.10        Where policy makers can change at fairly short intervals, there is
a need to engage in policy dialogue with representatives of a broad spectrum
of public opinion, as well as Government. Such efforts to generate consensus
and improve sustainability prospects are best started as soon as possible in
the reform process.
6.          Bank Performance
6.01        The Bank's role in design and implementation of the Government's
financial sector reform program was key. It started with discussions during
the preparation and review of the Bank's Financial Sector Report which
provided a sound basis for dialogue. One of the first FSALs financed by the



- 14 -
Bank, its design reflected conventional wisdom and has stood well the test of
time. Stabilization of the economy was to have been achieved before fully
liberalizing the allocation of financial resources by, for example, postponing
to a subsequent phase the complete elimination of concessional credit schemes
and moving to open market operations. (See Annex 2.)
6.02        The reform program was appraised during the tenure of an interim
Government, in office for about three months, while final agreement was
reached with a newly-elected Government. Thus there was no track record
against which the Bank could judge the authorities' commitment to the reform
program, particularly to the stabilization targets. In such circumstances,
there should probably have been a more explicit assessment of the effect of
continuing high fiscal deficits on the price of Government securities under an
auction system and a requirement for more upfront actions. Implementation
problems have underscored that reform sequencing is not only a technical but
very much a political process. Substantial upfront action on the most
important reform(s), in this case fiscal deficit reduction, could have helped
set the process of change in motion.
6.03        Key members of Government believe that introduction of the auction
in and of itself was inconsistent with the targeted reduction in the fiscal
deficit. Supervision missions indicated that the fiscal targets were to be
discussed and agreed to in the context of the PFP. Thus, while the practical
division of labor with Bank (and IMF) staff working on the PFP made sense, it
may have given the appearance that macro-stability was of little relevance to
improving efficiency in credit allocation, the contrary of what was intended.
6.04        Implementation was helped by continuity of task managers, two in
all between appraisal and second tranche release. Both the quality of advice
and speed of turnaround time was good. Availability of an experienced
financial specialist at the Bank's Resident Mission from FSAL design to
completion also helped. Notwithstanding this continuity, only 14.1 staffweeks
were devoted to supervision in FY91, despite the fact that the second tranche
release had been planned for the beginning of that fiscal year. This may have
reduced the opportunity for dialogue with the authorities on the need to
maintain and deepen the reform efforts. The quality of consultant advice was
judged to have been good throughout.
6.05        The expected time period for implementation was overly ambitious -
one year from effectiveness to second tranche - during which a variety of
institutional measures were to have reached a stage that monitorable progress
would be visible. It took more time than planned to establish the auction
mechanism and secondary market, as well as the credit bureau, and
strengthening the State Bank's capacity to supervise NBFIs, not to mention the
restructuring of NCBs, and portfolio audit of the House Building Finance
Corporation (HBFC). In a few areas, the Government lacked the in-house
capacity to implement changes.
6.06        In retrospect, perhaps there were too many tranche release
conditions, some ten in all, two with several components. Indeed, the
Operation Committee had called attention to the need for relatively few
conditions to ensure focus of both the borrower and the Bank on key issues,
and indeed a few were dropped, although what remained was still possibly too
many. For example, the importance of the fiscal deficit and the auction
became only two issues among many.
6.07        For the second tranche release, the Government may have been
somewhat aggrieved that movement on all conditions was equally necessary,
notwithstanding that some were clearly more fundamental to the health and
efficiency of the financial system. In retrospect, it appears that the Bank
compromised, perhaps excessively, on the macroeconomic condition. Clearly it
would have been difficult to have done otherwise given agreement with the IMF



- 15 -
on the third annual drawing under the Structural Adjustment Facility and with
the Bank and the IMF on a revised Policy Framework Paper just weeks before the
tranche review mission.
6.08        Finally, implementation would have helped by focussing early on in
the design stage on prior actions and a timetable for key institutional
aspects of the reforms. Examples where this would have helped include pre-
conditions for a well-functioning auction and banking tribunals. Only today
is Government finding that local and district administrations are unable or
unwilling to execute orders of these new tribunals and a further round of
reforms is required to try to overcome this latest bottleneck.
7.          Borrower Performance
7.01        Overall Government implementation of the financial sector reforms
was satisfactory, in some areas going beyond what was originally envisaged.
While changes in Government took their toll on implementation, particularly on
macroeconomic stabilization, the overall direction of policy remained
unchanged. A number of institutional elements of the program appear on the
way to achieving lasting results, e.g., strengthening prudential regulations,
as well as the broadened supervisory role of the SBP and privatizing two NCBs
in 1991, with their improved efficiency over the past two years. The credit
bureau in the SBP and new banking courts and tribunals are yet to have a major
impact.
7.02        Government's "policy to eventually free all rates of return,
abolish sectoral credit targets, and to allow market forces to determine their
structure and level, was not achieved, although the specific tranche release
condition was met. Concessionary credit, defined as having a rate of return
of up to 10 percent to the ultimate borrower, represented some 14.3 percent of
credit to the private sector alone at end-June 1990.
7.03        The lack of a level playing field among financial intermediaries
is worrisome and causes financial institutions to pursue tax and regulatory
loopholes rather than real investment opportunities, as well as pushing the
reforms in the opposite direction from that intended, thus increasing market
segmentation.
7.04        Procurement of Goods and Disbursements.  Procurement was
undertaken in accordance with Bank guidelines, and attested as such by the
external audit, as were disbursements. Delays in furnishing the audit reports
to the Bank and questions about the scope and the conclusions of the audit
were due to unfamiliarity of the Government officials and the auditors with
Bank audit requirements.
8.          Lessons Learned
8.01        The main lessons can be summarized as follows:
a.   where stabilization is a precondition for other policy
reforms, treat it as such, rather than as a parallel and
independent target. Success of some sector reforms pursued
under the Project, notably auction for the government debt and
the move to market rates of return on credit schemes, was
reduced due to persistent and large macro imbalances.
Financial reforms would facilitate, but not substitute for
effective stabilization;
b.   the Bank and the borrower should focus on a few key
conditions, clarifying any sequencing issues and their
interrelationships. Critical elements of the program run the
risk of becoming just one or two of many conditions without



- 16 -
such focus;
c.   where major reforms are contemplated, break them into
phases with expectation of a follow-up program and loan to
follow, should first phase be implemented successfully;
d.   the Bank and the Government should carefully assess the
capacity of the agencies to implement new activities. This
should include close dialogue with the staff of the
implementing agencies and allow sufficient time for necessary
technical assistance to be in place;
e.   broaden audience for discussing reforms through seminars,
study tours, and written information. Wide dissemination of
the content and underlying rationale helps to build consensus
that is necessary for successful implementation of wide
ranging reforms;
f.   define clearly monitorable targets and conditions to
reduce debate during implementation about the meaning of
targets and conditions;
g.   to the extent there are no overriding sequencing issues,
have upfront action, i.e., before loan approval, on the most
important conditions. Implementation steps when interrelated,
are always adversely affected by slippages; and
h.   define conditionalities in a manner that targets the real
variables under the program, rather than intermediate
variables, i.e., as a conditionality regarding concessional
interest rates should have targeted real rates rather than a
nominal rate.



- 17 -
Part III.
Statistical Information
A.    Related Bank Loans & Credits
Title                                           Date     Amount
(FY)    (US$ million)
Export Development                              1986      70
Third Industrial Investment Credit              1986    150
Third Small & Medium Industries                 1987      54
Private Sector Energy Development               1989    150
Microenterprise                                 1991      26
B.    Loan Data (in US$ million equivalent)
as at 6/30/93
original   Disbursed Cancelled  Repaid  Outstanding
Loan 3029-PAK      150         150        --         --       --
C.    Loan ProcessinQ Timetable
Original Date            Actual
Initiating Memorandum                    02/05/88                02/05/88
Appraisal                                10/02/88                10/02/88
Negotiations                             02/08/89                02/08/89
Letter of Development Policy             02/22/89                02/22/89
Board Approval                           03/28/89                03/28/89
Loan Signing                             04/14/89                04/14/89
Effectiveness                            05/01/89                07/05/89
Second Tranche Release                   07/05/90                03/12/92
Closing Date                             12/31/90                06/30/92
Accounts Closed                          12/31/91                03/30/92
D.    Loan Disbursements  (in US$ million, unless otherwise stated)
FY90      FY91          FY92
(i)       Estimated                     75.0       75.0           -
(ii)      Cumulative                    75.0      150.0        150.0
(iii)     Actual                        75.0        -           75.0
(iv)      Cumulative                    75.0       75.0        150.0
(v)        (iv) as percent of (ii)    100.0        50.0        100.0



- 18 -
E.    Use of Bank Resources
I.      Staff Inputs (staffweeks)
FY:                      88       89      90      91      92       93
Preparation            126.5
Appraisal                        15.2
Negotiations/
Board Approval                   33.0
Supervision                       4.3   23.9   14.9   27.7        12.0
Total                  126.5    52.5   23.9   14.9   27.7         12.0
Cumulative
Total                 126.5   179.0  202.9  217.8  245.5    257.5
II.   Mission Data
Date        Time in      No. of      Expertise    Report
Field       Persons                    Date
(days)
Preappraisal I    03/88           22            5       Ec; Fa; Bkg   06/88
Preappraisal II   06/88           20            9       Ec; Fa; Bkg   08/88
Appraisal          10/88           19           5       Ec; Fa; Bkg   09/88
Supervision I      07/89          22            2       Ec: Fa         09/89
Supervision II    12/89           12            3       Ec; Fa; Bkg   02/90
Supervision III   03/90           12            3       Ec; Fa; Bkg   05/90
Supervision IV    08/90           11            3       Ec; Fa         09/90
Supervision V      03/91          10            2       Ec; Fa         04/91
Supervision VI    05/91           14            2       Ec; Fa         06/91
Supervision VII   10/91            8            3       Ec; Fa         11/91
Supervision VIII  02/92            6            5       Ec; Fa         02/92
PCR                09/92          10            1       Fa             08/93
Notes: Ec = Economist; Fa = Financial Analyst; Bkg = Banking Expert



- 19 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 6
PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Letter of Sector Development Policies
Islamabad
February 22, 1989
Mr. Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Conable,
I am writing this letter in reference to the proposed Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan. The Government recognizes the central importance of
financial sector policies in effecting reforms for sustained growth along with
rapid structural transformation of the economy. The Government is determined
not to allow financial sector reforms to be forced upon it as a result of an
acute economic crisis. It has undertaken a series of measures to strengthen
the financial system and has agreed with the World Bank to formulate an
additional reform program for the medium-term. This policy statement sets out
the objectives of the resulting reform program and the concrete measures
planned to implement it.
The Government of Pakistan has progressively deregulated the
economy through substantial liberalization measures especially in the areas of
industrial policy as well as rationalization of public investment programs and
utility tariffs. Furthermore, since 1982, the exchange rate has been flexibly
managed. To support adjustment in the real sectors, a healthy and responsive
financial sector is needed that allocates credit efficiently to growth
sectors, provides restructuring services and finances the costs of necessary
adjustment. To this end, steps have been taken to make the financial system
more market-oriented. In the context of Islamization of the financial system,
the Government started to liberalize rates of return. Today, a sizeable part
of lending and deposit rates are no longer subject to binding restrictions.
Important linkages exist between macroeconomic and financial sector
policies. While a sound financial sector is necessary for an economy to carry
out successful macroeconomic adjustment measures, large fiscal deficits can
threaten the health of the sector, particularly the banking system. To
provide an adequate macroeconomic framework, within which the financial sector
can flourish, the Government intends to reduce substantially its fiscal
deficit which has risen to 8.5 percent of GDP in FY88. Under the Government's
medium-term macroeconomic plan, which is spelled out in the Policy Framework
Paper prepared with the Bank and the IMF and is supported by a structural
adjustment facility of the IMF, the fiscal deficit will be reduced to 6.5
percent in FY89. The agreed targets for FY90 is 5.5 percent and 4.8 percent
for FY91. Also, measures including operational limits on Government's ability
to borrow from the banking system will be taken to contain the inflation rate
at 10 percent in FY89 and at 6 percent by FY91. For any given private sector
credit demand, reduced public sector claims on domestic savings would allow
real financial rates which, for some Government debt instruments exceed the
real rate of GDP growth, to subside. Lower rates would, in turn, reduce any
incipient financial distress that may arise due to rising real financial rates
and lower, in particular, the budgetary burden of the Government's borrowing
cost.



- 20 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 6
OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE OF THE PROGRAM
In this environment of fiscal discipline, the Government plans to
introduce a series of reforms in the financial sector. These would cover the
following priority areas:
i)    government debt management;
ii)   monetary management policies; and
iii) organization and supervision of the banking system.
The long-term objective in these areas is to enable the Government to better
achieve its economic policy goals and to increase the efficiency of the
financial system.
The long-term vision that guides the policy of Pakistan is the creation
of a financial system in which:
i)    Government debt is priced and sold in flexible markets, thus
allowing the real cost of Government's borrowing requirement to be
determined;
ii)   monetary policy targets can be enforced through market-based
mechanisms;
iii) credit is allocated in response to market-determined rates of
return through a system of intermediation, which is able to
adequately serve the growth sectors of the economy, to contribute
to the country's economic development and to raise the living
standards of the population;
iv)   a strong central bank -- in addition to implementing monetary
policy -- closely supervises all financial institutions (including
DFIs), provides early warning of impending problems in the
financial system and takes timely preventive action against them;
and
v)    healthy financial institutions provide a wide menu of credit and
financial services in a competitive manner.
To achieve its long-term objectives, the Government has drawn up an
action program that initially covers a two-year period. Implementation,
revision and updating of the program would be overseen by a high-level
committee chaired by the Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Ministry of
Finance, and composed of representatives of the Economic Affairs Division, the
State Bank of Pakistan and the Pakistan Banking Council. The following
sections describe in more detail the elements of the initial two-year program
for each area of reform.
GOVERNMENT DEBT MANAGEMENT
In recent years, the Government was able to finance its budget deficits
mostly in a non-inflationary way, by selling a large amount of Government
securities to the non-bank public. Highly advantageous rates of return were
offered to place these securities. As a result, rates of return on certain
Government debt instruments by now widely exceeded the returns on bank
deposits of comparable maturity. Furthermore, Government debt was issued to



- 21 -
Annex 1
Page 3 of 6
the public and the banking system in ways which disguise the real cost of
Government debt to the economy, drive up the interest rates on private sector
borrowing, while exerting downward pressure on deposit rates, and thus leading
to disintermediation.
The Government now intends to improve and refine the pricing and
marketing of Government debt. To this end, it will introduce an auction
system for Government debt instruments by the end of 1989 which will be
characterized by the following features. The Government has already reduced
the sales commission of the popular Khaas certificates from 1 to 0.5 percent.
When the auction system is made fully operational, existing Government debt
instruments will either be discontinued or in determining their rates of
return the rates obtained at auction will be taken into account. Equally, the
rediscount windows would be adjusted so as not to undermine the development of
secondary markets. In the fully operational auction system, the new auctioned
Treasury bills will be eligible for the liquid asset requirement and the tap
would be closed on existing Treasury bills. Adequate mechanisms have been
designed to ensure that Government borrowings from the State Bank will be at
market rates except to cover temporary short-term liquidity shortfalls. In
designing and pricing Government debt instruments, particular attention will
be paid to the preference of small savers for secure returns and the need for
a balanced maturity structure of Government debt. Therefore, liquidity of
debt instruments will be increased through the creation of secondary markets,
which will promote stable conditions for trading of Government's financial
obligations and will reverse financial disintermediation. At the same time,
the increased liquidity of financial instruments will lower rates of return
and reduce the burden of Government debt on the budget if accompanied by
sufficient reduction in Government borrowing requirements as fiscal deficits
are reduced. These measures are expected to support the development of
markets for commercial paper issued by private enterprises as well.
Additional measures in connection with the introduction of the auction
will include allowing repurchase agreements, encouraging the establishment of
institutions that would offer money management accounts, and promoting direct
trading of Government securities. To ensure competitive auctions, adequate
rules would be established to license and supervise primary dealers allowed to
bid for Treasury bills. Primary dealers will be required to hold a portfolio
of Government securities and to stand ready to post bid-and offer rates for
these securities to enable secondary markets to develop. To conduct this
program of improved debt management, a special department will be set up in
the State Bank of Pakistan. The department would implement the borrowing
strategy formulated by a joint Committee of the Ministry of Finance and the
State Bank of Pakistan.
In addition to its debt, the Government has assumed contingent
liabilities resulting from: guarantees for loans under mandatory credit
programs and loans to public enterprises; full guarantees on all NCB deposits;
and foreign exchange risk coverage for foreign loans and letters of credit.
The Government recognizes that these contingent risks need to be managed
prudently. In the case of such risks associated with foreign exchange, the
Government also recognizes that both direct and contingent external
liabilities should be managed jointly in a manner that does not result in
inefficient price discrimination against a particular group of creditors. It
is the intention of the Government to introduce such a management policy when
Pakistan achieves sustainable macroeconomic conditions. The Government plans
to conduct a study to assess comprehensively all of its existing and
contingent liabilities, and to formulate appropriate management strategy of
such liabilities as well as alternative options available for implementation.



- 22 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 6
MONETARY MANAGEMENT POLICIES
Monetary management is being exercised in Pakistan using a set of
instruments comprising rate of return policies, credit allocation schemes,
refinancing facilities and credit lines provided by the State Bank of
Pakistan, reserve and liquid asset requirements as well as ceilings on system-
wide credit expansion. These instruments have enabled the Government to
pursue the overall monetary policy goals of domestic price stability, growth
and balance-of-payments equilibrium, as well as more detailed sectoral
targets. The Government now plans to sharpen further the market orientation
of the policy instruments, improve their coordination and interaction and
reduce unintended side effects.
In the early stages of credit market development in Pakistan certain
sectors such as small scale industry and agriculture had limited access to
credit. The Government has attempted to provide funds to such sectors through
subsidized and targeted credit. However, by now, a more sophisticated system
of financial intermediation has developed and banks are developing their
capabilities to lend to neglected sectors. Furthermore, subsidized programs
are costly and subject to abuse as credit is channelled to unintended and
uneconomic uses. Therefore, it is the Government's policy to eventually free
all rates of return, abolish sectoral credit targets, and to allow market
forces to determine their structure and level.
As a first step to phase out concessional rates of return, the
Government has raised the rate of return for the small scale agriculture
program from zero to 8 percent and the rates on other programs to 6 percent,
(i.e., locally manufactured machinery and export credit). By FY91, the
Government will ensure that the rates on all concessional credit programs
(including housing) will exceed the expected rate of inflation. To further
deregulate the market for long-term debt, the practice of obligatory
consortium financing will be discontinued and financial institutions will be
free to negotiate fees and rates for syndicated advances.
In addition to liberalizing rates of return, the Government plans to
reduce the dimension and incidence of directed credit programs as financial
institutions gain experience in and become more attracted to lending to
important sectors such as small scale enterprises. As a first step, the
annual net increase in mandatory credit targets/ceilings (fixed investment,
agriculture, tobacco marketing, small industry, small business) as a
percentage of total net incremental private sector credit will be limited to
the ratios obtained in FY88/89. However, sector specific credit lines, e.g.,
from the ADB or from the World Bank, will be additional. The asset quality of
the loans extended under the mandatory and concessional lending programs will
be monitored annually.
The subsidized credit programs are at present partly supported by low-
cost State Bank refinancing. To provide greater incentives for resource
mobilization, the Government will implement a program to reduce State Bank
credit lines and thus induce financial institutions to raise deposits.
Refinancing facilities for the industrial development finance institutions
have already been cut back.
ORGANIZATION AND SUPERVISION OF THE BANKING SYSTEM
For many years, the State Bank of Pakistan and the nationalized banking
system have effectively supported a vigorous development of financial
intermediation. The Government, with the help of the Pakistan Banking Council



- 23 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 6
and the State Bank of Pakistan, has guided the banking system through
difficult times partly caused by portfolio problems in the banks which date
back to the large-scale devaluation of 1972. A variety of measures were taken
to improve the responsiveness and health of the banking sector. For example,
the entry of foreign private banks, of which there are now 17 in Pakistan, was
facilitated, providing additional competition and thus enriching the provision
of services. The capital base of the Nationalized Commercial Banks has also
been continuously strengthened in recent years, although portfolio problems
continue to exist.
The Government recognizes that sound financial institutions, which can
withstand exogenous shocks, are essential for fostering a healthy and growing
economy. It therefore intends to further strengthen the financial system by:
(i) improving prudential regulations and strengthening supervisory
institutions; (ii) reforming the legal and administrative bases for the debt
recovery system; (iii) reforming management of nationalized banks and
restructuring their financial position, where necessary; and (iv) increasing
competition through entry of private financial institutions.
New prudential regulations for all financial institutions on loan
classification, accrual and provisioning policy, exposure limits and audit
requirements for borrowers have already been issued. On this basis, a
comprehensive portfolio audit of the five Nationalized Commercial Banks, which
account for 80 percent of the banks' loans, has been undertaken. At this
time, action programs for each Nationalized Commercial Bank are being drawn up
with a target capital/liability asset ratio of 3 percent to be achieved by
1991. These programs will be formulated and initiated by December 1989. In
the formulation of these programs, the full range of options to recapitalize
and restructure problem banks will be considered including privatization
options with a view to ensure that in the future the incidence of classified
loans will be reduced. The State Bank is vested with powers to deal with
problem banks and will restructure such banks as and when deemed appropriate.
The State Bank of Pakistan will start supervising financial institutions
such as leasing companies, modarabas and the new investment banks as of July
1989. In the medium-term and as development finance institutions develop into
full scale banks, the supervision of all such financial institutions will be
unified under the State Bank of Pakistan.
In addition, the State Bank is establishing a credit bureau which will
pool information from all financial institutions on their customer's exposure
and payment record and make it available to banks for credit decisions. The
Government intends to strengthen the State Bank of Pakistan to ensure that it
can adequately fulfill its supervisory functions as well as those related to
Government debt management and monetary policy. To this end, a review of the
State Bank's organization will be carried out in 1989 with a view to designing
additional measures to strengthen the Bank.
As a crucial complement to improved banking supervision, the Government
has prepared a set of concrete measures to improve the recovery of bad debts.
They consist of changes in laws and procedures to enable speedier processing
of court cases and effective mechanisms to seize and dispose of collateral.
Bankruptcy and liquidation procedures will equally be reformed. In addition,
the number of banking courts and their staffing will be increased. The
Government intends to implement this program over the coming two years. The
program will be complemented by specific arrears reduction programs both for
public and private sector debt. In particular, all arrears of uncollectible
Government guaranteed debt are to be settled by end June 1989, and you will be



2  -4
Annex 1
Page 6 of 6
informed accordingly.
Better supervision and debt recovery procedures will provide the
framework for improved bank performance. To also provide banks with the
incentive to perform better, the Government intends to follow a two-pronged
strategy of: (i) increased privatization of the banking system; and (ii)
greater autonomy and accountability for the Nationalized Commercial Banks.
The Government has authorized several applicants to apply for licensing as
private investment banks. Issuance of a final license to operate is expected
by mid-1999. To be able to grow and become a meaningful competitive force
quickly, these banks will initially operate outside the system of credit
ceilings. Over the medium-term, the investment banks will be allowed to
graduate into full-fledged commercial banks.
In addition, several measures have been taken to improve the autonomy
and accountability of the Nationalized Commercial Banks. These include: (i) a
policy to divest up to 20 percent of the authorized commercial banks; (ii)
introduction of a performance evaluation system and corresponding systems of
compensation and sanctions; (iii) restiiction of the role and staffing of the
Pakistan Banking Council to that of an advisory body to the banks' ownership
and, by the same token, granting of full autonomy to the boards of the
Nationalized Commercial Banks; and (iv) improvements of credit policies and
procedures (e.g., denial of credit to defaulters), as well as internal
organization and information systems.  The Government will ensure through
these and additional measures that may become necessary thlat the NCBs will be
healthy and efficient banks.
The Government believes that the implementation of the action program
will result in a sound, efficient and diversified financial system, capable of
mobilizing both short- and long-term resources and allocating them
efficiently, thus facilitating investment and growth.  A dynamic and
responsive financial system will also permit more effective monetary
management. However, it is recognized that reforms in the financial system
will not in themselves lead to increased investment and growth. Macroeconomic
and structural policy reforms under the planned adjustment pr-ogram are
necessary to create growth opportunities as well as a stable and favorable
business environment to ensure that these opportunities are translated into
investment decisions.
In view of the initiati-es and actions already taken by the Government
of Pakistan in the formulation and implementation of the Financial Sector
Adjustment Program, the Government requests your favorable consideration for
the extension of a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan to support the program in
the amount of at least US$150 million. The Government would also appreciate
IBRD's assistance in organizing cofinancing from other multilateral or
bilateral sources to support the program.
With best regards,
Yours sincerely,
IHSANUL HAQ PIRACHA



- 25 -
Annex 1
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
Islamabad
November 5, 1991
Mr. Lewis Preston
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Preston,
I am writing this letter in reference to the Financial Sector Adjustment
Loan (FSAL) that was approved by the Executive Directors in March 1989. In
particular, I would like to include the privatization of the Nationalized
Commercial Banks (NCBs) as an additional important policy initiative in the
Government's financial sector reform programme.
As mentioned in the Letter of Sectoral Development Policies (LDP) of the
Government dated March 1989, an objective of its financial sector reform
programme is to create healthy financial institutions providing a wide menu of
credit and financial services in a competitive manner. The Government
expressed its intention to restructure the NCBs throLugh recapitalizing the
banks Up to 3% capital-adequacy ratios, closer monitoring of the performance
of NCBs and introducing more market-based measures in the financial sector.
However, it has become evident in the past few years that privatization would
be the best means to tackle the major underlying cause of the NCB's poor
performance. The Government has, therefore, decided to privatize the NCBs as
a step toward their restructuring. Furthermore, the Government has also
decided to allow the entry of new private commercial banks.
The Government is committed to privatize 4 of the 5 nationalized
commercial banks. All of the shares of 3 NCBs will be privately-owned (or
full privatization) by the end of 1992. The National Bank of Pakistan, Ltd
(NBL) will remain publicly-owned.  To date, 26% shares of Muslim Commercial
Bank (MCB) and Allied Bank Ltd. (ABL) have heen transferred to a private
group, who will manage the bank and hold its controlling interest. Another
25% will be publicly issued within a few months. Additional blocks of shares
of the remaining 49% held by Government will be transferred gradually to the
private sector, until all the shares are privately owned.  In late October,
1991, the Government invited applications for prequalification as well as bids
for the sale of 26% of the shares of Habib Bank Limited and United Bank
Limited as well as two development finance institutions, the National
Development Finance Corporation and the Industrial Development Bank of
Pakistan. The applications are expected by November 30, 1991, and the
Government expects to select the qualified bidders by end-1991.
The Government, while still a shareholder, has also committed to
ensuring that autonomy is granted to private management. In the case of MCB
and ABL, a group of executive directors, composed solely of private
management, which deal with banking policies, has been created.  The
Government has commnitted in its privatization agreement with these Banks to
support the decision of the executive directors.
The Goverrnment recognizes the need to install. the appropriate tax, legal
and regulatory framework necessaiy to promote a level playing field in the
financial sector.  The Government is currently reviewing the existing



- 26 -
Annex 1
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
framework and intends to prepare an action plan to implement the required
changes as soon as possible.
The Government intends to implement the prudential regulation on the
capital adequacy of commercial banks. The SBP will ensure that domestic
commercial banks will be recapitalized by their owners (public and private) up
to 39 of callable liabilities by December 31, 1992, a year later than
originally envisaged. The delay is due to the Government's decision to go
ahead with the privatization prior to recapitalizing the banks. However,
because privatizing without initially recapitalizing to prudent levels is
associated with a high risk of bank failure, the Government will ensure that
at least the 3% capital adequacy ratio is met by end-1992 and that the
required capital adequacy will be increased closer to internationally accepted
levels within the next few years. However, it is currently assessed that in
the case of UBL, this date may have to be extended to end-1993.
With best regards,
Yours sincerely,
QAZI M. ALIMULLAH
Finance Secretary



PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Overview Matrix
Key Reforms Areas                          First Phase                            Second Phase                            Medium-Term
(By Board Presentation)              (By Second Tranche Release)               (Potential Future Loans)
1. Government Debt Management.         Program for introducing market-         Rationalization of rate structure   Full development of secondary
based borrowing program.               on Government securities and full   markets.  Refinement of monetary
auction program. Establishment of   control mechanisms.
revised rediscount facilities.
2. Interest Rate Policy and            Increase of concessional interest   Further movement toward market              Market-determined rates and
Directed Credit.                        rates, market-determined long-term  rates of interest.                         abolition of credit targets.
credit rates, limit on directed
credit and monitoring asset
quality under directed credit
schemes.
3. Bank Supervision,                   Tighter prudential regulation,          Restructuring/recapitalization of   Unified prudential regulation and
Restructuring, and Legal Reforms.   improved supervisory framework,            major banks, first steps to unify   supervision of all financial
portfolio audit of major banks,        supervision of financial                institutions under State Bank;
improved credit policies and           institutions under the State Bank.  further improvements in
reform of legal system for debt                                                supervision and credit policies.
recovery.
4.  Autonomy, Accountability and    Improved autonomy and                                                              Graduation of private investment
Competition in the Banking System.  accountability for Nationalized                                                    banks into full fledged banks;
commercial Banks (NCBs), licensing                                             disinvestment of NCBs.
of new private investment banks.
N_J
ID



PAKISTAN                                                                              (
FINANCIAL SPCTOR ADJUSTHXNT LOAN                                                                     ro
matrix of Pro.oe-d AQreementa and Actions                                                              0
A. DEBT MANAGEMENT                                                                         _
Schedule of Proposed Agreements/Actions
Area of Reform            Actions Taken Before Board Presentation   Conditions of Second Tranche Release                 Implementation Status
1.    Auction Program for GOP   Announcement of Government program to          Implementation of full auction
debt.                      issue three to twelve months securities    program including:
at auction. Preparations underway to                                                                Implemented.
appoint primary dealers & set up proper    -        setting up primary dealer
institution/procedures at the State Bank           network with obligation to
of Pakistan and the Ministry of Finance.            provide two-way quotation to
ensure full secondary market.
-     ensuring yield on all                           Implemented, except for
Government paper on tap for                    occasional placement of
relevant maturities linked to                  ad-hocs.
returns obtained at auction, to
avoid arbitrary floor for rates
on Government paper.
-     adjusting rediscount polices to                 Implemented.  Normal
enable full secondary market to                rediscounting facility
develop.                                       discontinued with effect
from Feb. 92.
-     allowing repurchase agreements                  implemented.
to develop liquid secondary
markets.
-     setting up appropriate                          Implemented               X
departments at the SBP (inc.
training) and adequate
coordination and planning
mechanism for issuance of debt.



Schedule of Proposed Agreements/Actions (continued)
Area of Reform            Actions Taken Before Board Presentation   Conditions of Second Tranche Release                 Implementation Status
-     mechanism to ensure Government                  Not fully implemented,
issues paper to SBP at market                  notwithstanding progress
rates, allowing direct ad-hoc                  in pre-announcing action
financing of GOP from SBP in                   amounts.  Government
the short-term to meet                         average acceptance of T-
liquidity shortfalls.                          bills only 61.8t in FY92.
-     eligibility of auctioned T-                     Implemented.
bills for Liquid Asset
Requirement and closing tap for
other T-bills.
2.    Management of GOP          Terms of Reference for study of GOP           Completion of Study.                                  Implemented.
contingenit liabilities.   contingent liabilities agreed.
Government working group appointed.
NJ
(D
l
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N



(Dl
PAKISTAN                                                                              tN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN                                                                 °
Matrix of Proposed Agreements and Actions
B. MONETARY MANAGEMENT
Schedule of Proposed Agreements/Actions
Atea of Re folm        AcLions  Taken ntfoie Board Present at ion  C(1aditions of Second Tranche Release   Implemenitation Status
1.    Coneessional Credits  Pate of Returni fot small Agriculture          Raise rates of return on all              Implemented with one exception as at
(Export Finiance,      Scheme raised to 8%; rate of return for   concessional schemes to positive real  2/92.  However, during FY89-92,
LMM, Agricultture,     locally manufactured machinrery raised to  rates.   (Expected inflation defined    concessional schemes have grown in
Hiousilng).            6%.                                          as agreed under SAF program.)             proportion to total credit to private
sector.
2.    Credit Allocation       Mandatory credit targets limited as          Adherence to agreed policy.               Implemented.
Program.               percentage of total private sector
credit (incl. Fixed Investment, Small
Industry and Business Credit,
Agricultural Credit, Tobacco Marketing)
but excluding special credit program
such as World Bank, IDA, ADB., etc.
loans/credits (Base Year FY89).
Performance incl. incidence of non-
performing assets under schemes subject
to credit target and/or concessional
rates is being monitored.
3.    Limit automatic        Credit lines to PICIC, BEL, IDBP, ICP         Adherence to agreed policy; issuance   Implemented.
refinancing and        being phased out.  SBP credit lines for   of time-bound action plan completion
credit lines by SBP   financial institutions limited as             of portfolio audit for HBFC.                                                         tx
to special credit      percentage of total private sector
schemes and            credit (Base Year FY89).
institutions (e.g.
ADB, HBFC, FBC).



PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Matrix of Proposed Agreements and Actions
C. HEALTH OF THE BANKING SYSTEM
(Supervision/Regulation)
Schedule of Proposed Agreements/Actions
Area of Reform             Actions Taken Before Board Presentation         Conditions of Second Tranche Release               Implementation Status
1.    Improvement of             Full set of tightened prudential
prudential regulations regulations issued by SBP.
(loan classification,
provisioning, accrual
policy, capital
adequacy).
2.    Strengthening of SBP:
i)    Unify                                                                Authorization of SBP to supervise           Being implemented.
supervision of                                                      modarabas, leasing companies and
financial                                                           investment banks and establishment of
institutions                                                        requisite capability in SBP.
under SBP; and
ii)   Increased           SBP initiated review of its organization    Review completed and recommendations    Being implemented.
autonomy.          under TOR agreed with Bank.                      made.
3.    Credit Bureau.             Art. 25(a) of Banking Companies Ordinance   Establishment of Credit Bureau as                Implemented although later than
allows SBP to operate Credit Bureau.            separate unit/department at SBP.             expected due to time needed to
Consultants from Bank of France advising                                                     train staff and equip new bureau.
SBP.
0]
(0
-h



PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SRCTOR ADJUSTMXNT LOAN
Matrix of Prosoaed Aoreements and Actions
D. HEALTH OF BANKING SYSTEM
Schedule of PropoBed Agreements/Actions                                                               °
Area of Reform           Actions Taken Before Board Presentation        Conditions of Second Tranche Release            Implementation Status
1.    Recapitalization/   First test portfolio audit under new               Concrete program for capital build-up  Being implemented.  One bank
Restructuring of    regulations and preliminary assessment of          and operational restructuring and         given until 12/95 to comply
NCBs.                additional capital requirement completed.         progress in accordance with programs.  with capital adequacy ratio.
First regular ageing report based on   Originally all NCBs to have
new prudential regulations.               complied by 12/93.
2.    Improve system for  Draft proposal to streamline legal                 Submission of required legal              Being implemented, although
debt recovery:       procedures and strengthen court system.           amendments to Parliament to improve    number and staff of these
legal procedures.  Establishment of    tribunals and councils remain
new courts.                               inadequate, with frequent and
lengthy vacancies in key staff
(judge) appointments.
Difficulties emerging in
capacity of these courts to
enforce 'execution" orders.
i)    Improvements
of
procedures,
organization
s (e.g.,
special                                                                                                                                             I
courts, 
liquidation
departments
in NCBs,
etc.); and
ii)   Program to    Proposal to settle Government guaranteed           (Condition of effectiveness)              Implemented.
recover        debt agreed between Government and banks.        Settlement of Government guaranteed
arrears of                                                      debt.
publicly
guaranteed
debt of
private
debtors.



PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
B. EFFICIRNCY OF THE BANKING SYSTEM
Schedule of Proposed Agreements/Actions
Area of Reform           Actions Taken Before Board Presentation         Conditions of Second Tranche Release            Implementation Status
1.    Private Financial   Legislation authorizing private domestic                                                       A total of 11 new domestic
Institutions.        investment bank passed.  One private                                                         commercial banks and 3 new
investment bank authorized to apply for                                                     foreign commercial banks
licenise.  Disinvestment of NCBs up to 20%                                                  authorized during FY89-FY92.
announced.
2.    Autonomy and                                                                                                       2 NCBs privatized, 3 being
Accountability of                                                                                                 restructured.
NCBs.
ii)   Structure of PBC    New law passed and notifications issued                                                        Role of PBC restricted but
and Board of NCBs.  providing greater autonomy to NCBs and                                                        autonomy of NCBs still limited
restricting role of PBC.                                                                    and their boards still
predominately Governmental.
iii)  Credit                Guidelines issued concerning denial of                                                       Implemented.
Policies/Processes  credit to defaulters (incl. parastatals),
abolition of obligatory consortium financing
and other matters.
(D
0Hj



- 34 -
Annex 3
Table 6: Concessionary Credit to Private Sector
Change from Previous Year
(in Rs billion, unless otherwise indicated)
FY88          FY90         FY92
1. Commercial Banks                 2.5            2.3         5.9
of which:
a) Export Finance              (2.2)          (2.2)       (4.7)
b) LMM                         (0.1)          (0.5)       (1.5)
c) Agriculture                 (0.2)        (-0.4)       (-0.2)
2. IDBPs (LMM)                      0.2            0.3          0.4
3. NBFIs (LMM)                      0.7            0.8          1.2
4. Total Concessionary
Credit to Private
Sector                          3.4           3.3          7.5
5. Total Credit to
Private Sector                 21.8          23.2         30.2
6. Ratio of Concessionary
to Total Credit to
Private Sector                 15.8          14.3         24.9
7. Target Inflation (CPI)%          8.0            8.0         8.0
8. Actual Inflation (%)             6.3            6.1          9.6
Source: State Bank of Pakistan.  op. cit.



- 35 -
Annex 4
Table 7: Overview of Financial Sector
Number of Financial Institutions
Financial Institutions            |      FY88       I      FY92
1. Commercial                     |             29               40
Nationalized Commercial
Banks (NCBs)                                     5                5
of which Privatized                            (0)              (2)
Other Domestic Banks                             5               11
Foreign Commercial Banks                        19               22
Provincial Banks                   _                              2
2. Non-Bank Financial             l              20 l             63
lInstitutions (NBFIs)||
DFIsF                                                             9
of which: Industrial                           (7)              (7)
Other                               (2)              (2)
Leasing Companies                                5               10
Modarabas                                        0               34
Investment Banks                                 6               10
Total                             |             49              103
Sources: World Bank. Financial Sector Adjustment Loan Memorandum to
the President (Report No. 4945-PAK) . Washington, D.C.
March 1989
State Bank of Pakistan. op. cit.



- 36 -
Annex 5
Table 8: Differences in Intra-Institutional Taxation
and Regulation, FY93
Tax or Regulat4on Rule                                            NCBs      Ne.,      For        Z_P  |AD88  | Fls             Modardbas       01er
Banks     Banks                        I                            5I50
Equity/Callable Liabilities                                       3t        8%        7 5%       31        3t        NA            NA          IA
EqcuityTotal Liabilities                                          NA       NA         NA         NA        NA         0t           10t%        :t
Equity/Contingent Liabilities                                     10%      10%        10t        10%t      10        I 0%t         10t         10t
Minimum Equity                                                    NA        300       5          NA        NA        NA             25         CLA
Liquidity,Deposits                                                40t      40t        40t        40t       40%       15t           15t         15%
Credit/Deoosits, Foreign Currency                                 40%      40%        40%        NA        NA        NA             NA         NA
Credit/Deposits, Ruoces                                           3 0t      3 0%      30t        NA        NA        NA             NA         NA
Suspended Interest, Short-Term Operations                         90d       Sod       90d        I,          d       lyr.          90d         90d
Provisions for Arrears,90d, Short-Term  Operations                2%       2%         2%         0%        2%        0t             2t         2t
Provisions for Arrears>180d, Short-Term  Operations               25t      25%        25t        0t        25t       0t            25%         25%
Provisions for Arrears>l yr, Short-Term  Operations               50t      50t        50t        25%       50%       25t           50t         50t
Provisions for Arrears 4>2 yr., Short-Term                        100t     100%t      100%       50%       l0t       50t          100t         100t
Operations                                                                                   _
Suspended Interest, Long-Term  Operations                         180d      180d      180d       180d      lyr.      180d         180d         . Od
Provisions for Arrears,130d, Long-Term  Operations                2t       2%         2%         0t        2%        0t            2%          .
Provisions for Arrears>l  yr., Long-Term Operations               25%      25%        25t        25t       25t       25%           25t%        .5
Provisions for Arrears>2 yr..  Long-Term  Operations              50t      50%        50%        50t       50%       50t           50t         50t
Provisions for Arrearso3 yr., Long-Term Operations                100%     100t       100t       50%       50t       50t          100t         100t
Exposure to Single Borrower, Advances/Equity                      20%      20%t       20t        20t       20%       20t           20%         20V
Exposure to Single Borrower, Total/Equity                         30t      30t        30t        30%       30%       30%           30%         30t
Income Tax on Profits                                             66%      65%        66%        66%       0t        66t           25%         44%'
Excise Tax on Advances                                            2%       2%         2%t        1t        l%        1              1          1t
Deductibility of SBP Mandated Provisions                          yes      yes        no         no        no        no            yes         yes
Source: World Bank.  Restructuring of the Financial System:  Building on
Financial Reform in Pakistan. Washington, D.C. April 1993 (unpublished)
3Preferential treatment of depreciation of leased assets.



Annex 6
-  37 -
Table 9.  Auction of Government Securities and Six-Month Treasury Bills
(in Rs million)
Ratio of
Weighted  Amount ot
Bid                                Running    Yield                Amount  Average  Discount to
Aucbon   Auction      Settlement      Pate      Amount       Amount        Total      %       Amount        ot       Yield    Amount
No.       Date           Date      Accepted    Othered       Accepted   (of Col. 6)    p.a.    Realized    Discount        p.a.  Accepted (9J
1        2              3           4           5            a           7         8          9          10        11        12
1st    4-3-1991    6-3-1991           95 90       8,484 50    5.028.00    5.028.00    8.53    4,857.79     170.21     7.02        3.39
2nd    14-3-1991   17-3-1991          95.67       5,165.00     1,645.00   6,673.00    9.03     1,577.59     87.41     8.48        4.10
3rd    6-4-1991    9-4-1991           9569        3.211.00     1,181.00    7,85400    8.98     1,131.82     49.18     8.66        416
4th    22-4-1991   25-4-1991          95 46       7,350.00    6.09000    13.944.00   9.49      5.829.32    260.68     8.92         4.28
5th    30-4-1991   5,6,7,-5-1991      95.43       2,944.00     1.749.00    15.693 00   9.50    1,870.80     87 20     9.28        4.47
6th    14-5-1991   18-5-1991          95.43       4.268.00    2.124.00    17,817.00    9.50    2,027.45     96.55     9.45        4.55
7th    28-5-1991   1-8-1991           95.44       8,070.00     5,985 00    23.802.00    9.53   5.721.97    263.03     9.17        4.39
8th    11-6-1991   16-6-1991          95.45       7,900.50    5,770.50    29,572.50    9.51    5,510.58    259.92     9.41        450
9th    26-6-1991   29-6-1991          95.45       1,845.00     1,150.00    30.722.50    9.51   1,097.98     52.02     9.45        4.52
1Oth   9-7-1991    14-7-1991          9543        4.368.C3    4.083.00    34,805.50    9.50    3,898.93    18407      9.37        451
1 tth   24-7-1991   28-7-1991         95.42       7,730.00    7,055 00    41,860.50   9.52    6,735.01     319.99     9.42        4 54
12th   7-8-1991    11-8-1991          95.37       5,534 00    5,024.00    46.884 50    9.63   4,794.30     229.70     9.50        4.57
13th   21-8-1991   25-8-1991         95.343       3.374,00    2,104.00    48.988.50    9.69   2,006.97      97 03     9.59        4 51
14th   4-9-1991    8-9-1991           95.39       3 375.00    1,510.00    50.498.50    9.69    1,440.54     69.46     9.67        4.60
15th   18-9-1991   23-9-1991          95.38       5,36500     4.805.C0    55,303.50    9.71   4,585.32     219.68     9.81        457
16th   2-10-1991   6-10-1991              -         540.00        0.00    55,303.50    0.00       0.00       0.00     000         0.00
17th   16-1C-1991  20-10-1991         95.20         225.00      12500    55,428.50   10.08      119.10       5.90     9.91        4.72
18th   23-10-1991  27-10-1991         95.35          10.00       10.00    55,438.50    9.75      9.535      0.465     9.75        4.65
19th   6-11-'991   10-11-1991             -         260.00          -    55.438 50      -            -          -        -           -
20th   19-11-1991  23-t 1-1991        94.90         770.00      280.00    55,718.50   10.81    26a.945     13.055     9.83        4.66
21th   28-11-1991  1-12-1991          9483        3,275.10    2.340.10    58,058.60   10.90    2.225.386    114.714    10.31      490
22nd   15-12-1991  18-12-1991         94.62       3.22500     3,125.00   61,183,60  11.38    2.968.500    156.500    10.54        5.01
23rd   19-12-1991  23-12-1991         94.33         970.00      770.00    61,953 60  12.00     728.438     41.562    11.38        5.00
24th   26-12-1991  30-12-1991         94.24         480 00      480.00    62.433.80  12.22     452.930     27.070    11.95        5.64
25th   1-1-1992    5-1-1992           94.38       6,920.00    5,42000    67,853.o0  12.75   5.110.2795   309.7205    12.19        571
25th   8-1-1992    14-1-1992          93 91       2.940.00    1.165.00   69,018 60  13.01   1.095.4861    89.5139    12.73        5.97
27th   15-1-1992   20C--1992        93 3124       1.465 00      300.00   69.318.60  13.00      281.789     18.210    12.96        6.07
28th   22-1-1992   28-1-1992        939124       11775.00    10.975.00   80.293.60  13.00  10,357.1618   617,8382    11.96        5.63
29t11   6-2-1992    11-2-1992         93 87       9.218 CO    6,423 00   86,716.80  13.10   6.036.5937   386.4063    12.84        8.02
30t1   2-3-1992    8-3-1992           93 81       4,815 00    2,140 00   88,856.60  13.09   2,008.4873   131.5127    12.99        6.14
31St   17-3-1992   22-3-1992          93 76       1,670 00      360 00   89,216.60  13.20     337.6995    22.3005    13.10        6.19
32nd   1-4-1992    12-4-1992         93793        3.59000      1.840 00    9 05660   13.20   1,726.2060   113.7940    13.15       6.18
33rd   19-4-1992   25-4-1992         93.a25       6,02500     2,40000    93,45660   13.20   2,252.5130   147.4870    13.13        6.14
34th   5-5-1992    11-5-1992          93776       7.44000     5.12000    98,576.60  13.20   4,.02.1934   317.8061    13.13        6.21
35th   24-5-1992   27-5-1992              -      10 096f10          -   98,576 60       -            -          -        -           -
36th   27-5-1992   T-6-1992          9.14 33     10.556.10   4,030 00   102.606 60  12.50   3.796.1989   233.8011    12.28        5 80
37!h   17-6-1992   23-6-1992          94 19       6.705 10    4.130 10  106,736 0   12.30   3,892.7872   237.3128    12.16         5.74
172,134 430  106 736 700                    101.354599  5.391.099



