Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
6Z/ Al3oq - Prk
Report No. P-4945-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$150 MILLION
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
MARCH 3, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =        Rupees (RS)
US$1                     =        17.6 Rs (FY88)
Rupee 1                  =        0.057 US$
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ADB     -     Asian Development Bank
ADBP    -     Agricultural Development Bank of Pakistan
DFI     -     Development Finance Institution
EDL     -     Export Development Loan
ESL     -     Energy Sector Loan
EFF     -     Extended Fund Facility
FBC     -     Federal Bank of Cooperatives
FSAL    -     Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FY      -     Fiscal Year
GDP     -     Gross Domestic Product
GNP     -     Gross National Product
GOP     -     Government of Pakistan
HBFC    -     Home Building Finance Corporation
IBRD    -     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB     -     International Competitive Bidding
IDA     -     International Development Association
IFC     -     International Finance Corporation
IMF     -     International Monetary Fund
MIS     -     Management Information System
NCB     -     Nationalized Commercial Bank
NSS     -     National Savings Scheme
OECF    -     Overseas Economic Cooperative Fund of Japan
PBC     -     Pakistan Banking Council
PFP     -     Policy Framework Paper
SAF           Structural Adjustment Facility
SAL     -     Structural Adjustment Loan
SBP     -     State Bank of Pakistan
SOE     -     Statement of Expenditure
T-bill  -     Treasury Bill



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LWAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN SUMMARY .* ..*..**...**      .......*e*......................t.      i
PART   I: - THE ECONOMY ..........   .........................................  1
A.  Recent Performance ............. *......*....*..... ..       1
B.  Medium Term Policy Framework ................. . .........   3
PART  II: - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY IN PAKISTAN .........      4
PART III: - THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ................      6
A.  Background .......      ............  ....  ...... .... ..........  6
B.  The Financial Sector Reform Program .............7...... 
C.  Macroeconomic Impact of the Reform Program     ............  8
D.  Agenda of Financial Sector Reform     .....................  9
D.1 Management of Domestic Debt and the Money Supply .      9
D.2 Cost of Funds and Directed Credit ...........*.....    13
D.3 Supervision and Restructuring of Banks ...........    16
D.4 Autonomy, Accountability and
Competition in the Banking System .................    19
PART  IV: - THE LOAN ...............................................    20
PART V: - RECOMMENDATION ........**.        ... ....*****...             25
ANNEXES
I      Key Economic Indicators
II     Status of Bank Group Operations
III    Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
IV     Letter of Sector Development Policies
V       Policy Matrix
VI      Loan Classificatio2 Guidelines
MAP   IBRD No*......
This document has a restricted distribution and may be uased by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authodzation.



- (i) -
PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:                        Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Amount:                          US$150 million
Terms:                           20 years including a five-year grace period at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Obiectives and Description:      The loan would support the Government's
program for financial sector reform. The
reform is accompanied by a medium-term
macroeconomic adjustment program, which is
supported by an IMF/IBRD Structural Adjustment
Facility and IMF Standby Arrangement (for a
total of about US$900 million). Reform
measures aim at allocating credit in response
to market signals, improving the health and
efficiency of the banking system and
establishing a more efficient system to issue
Government debt.
Benefits and Risks:              Measures to deregulate financial markets would
imptove credit allocation and economic growth,
increase resource mobilization, reduce
disintermediation, support capital market
development and reduce information and
negotiation costs in financial markets. The
program would also strengthen bank
supervision, improve the health of banks
through recapitalization and restructuring and
increase efficiency by providing competition
from new private banks and through increased
autonomy and accountability for the
Nationalized Commercial Banks. The main risks
relate to the ability of the new Government to
maintain an effecti-ve consensus on economsic
matters, whicb would support both the
macroeconomic and the financial sector reform



- (ii) -
program. As the financial sector reform
program always conwmanded a broad consensus and
as the new Goverunent has clearly expressed
its commitment to the reform program, the
risks appear acceptable.
Estimated Disbursements:         The proceeds of the loan would be released in
two tranches - US$75 million following loan
effectiveness and the balance of US$75 million
subject to satisfactory implementation of
agreed policy measures. Release of the second
tranche is expected approximately one year
after effectiveness. The loan would be fully
disbursed against imports (subject to a
negative list). Cofinancing of up to US$150
million may be obtained from OECF of Japan to
be disbursed pari passu with the Bank's two
loan tranches.
Staff Appraisal Report:          Not applicable
Map:                             IBRD



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
for the equivalent of US$150 million to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan to
support a financial sector adjustment program. The Loan would have a term of
20 years, including a grace period of five years, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
PART L THE ECONOMY
2.       A country Economic Memorandum Report No. 7118-PAK was circulated to
the Executive Directors in 1988. A mission to prepare the next Country
Economic Memorandum visited Pakistan in September 1988. The findings of the
mission are to be discussed with the Government in April 1989. The report of
the mission is expected to be distributed to the Executive Directors shortly
thereafter. The following assessment is based on the findings of the mission
as well as the analysis of th.. joint Bank/Fund missions which prepared a SAF
for Pakistan in the course of 1988. Key economic indicators are attached as
Annex 1.
A. Recent Performance
3.       Unlike many other countries that have introduced financial sector
reforms in the recent past, Pakistan initiated the reform process before any
economic crisis arose. Following the somewhat turbulent 1970s, the 1980s have
witnessed rapid economic growth with real GDP rising at 6.5 percent per annum
between FY80 and FY88.&'  To a certain extent this expansion has been helped
by increased demand for Pakistan's goods and labor from the oil rich states of
the Arab Gulf. Open unemployment has not been a problem to date. Following
the second oil price shock inflation briefly rose above 10 percent, but
subsided again and averaged around 5.5 percent per annum during the four years
to FY88. Export performance also improved, with growth above 20 percent per
year in dollar terms over the last three years. This performance has been
achieved thro'sh increasing reliance on market forces and private sector
initiatives,&' including introduction of a flexible exchange rate policy,
and investment licensing deregulation, linking of agricultural support prices
Pakistan's fiscal year extends from July 1 to June 30.
In FY88 net private investment accounted for 85 percent of total net
incremental investment.



- 2 -
to international prices as well as reductions in input subsidies, and
rationalization of utility rates and public investment programs.
Nevertheless, economic performance continues to be inhibited by two key
structural weaknesses: large fiscal imbalances and vulnerability of the
external current account.
4.       The overall fiscal deficit rose from 5.2 percent of GDP in FY81 to
8.6 percent in FY88, owing to an increasing share of government expenditures
in GDP, while tax revenues remained fairly constant as a share of GDP. A key
structural problem is the narrow tax base which results in a low elasticity of
the tax system. The mounting fiscal deficits of the last five years have
mainly been financed through an increase in domestic borrowing, which rose
from 2.4 percent of GDP in FY81 to 7.4 percent by FY88. Altogether, the stock
of domestic Government debt rose from 24 percent of GDP in FY81 to 42 percent
by the end of FY88. To minimize monetization of the deficit, the Government
borrowed mainly from the non-bank public.  It d£i so with the help of various
National Saving Schemes (NSS). As a result, the share of non-bank domestic
borrowing rose from 1.6 percent of GDP in FY81 to 4.5 percent in FY88.
Nevertheless, borrowing from the banking system remained at about 2 percent,
compared to a target of 1 percent envisaged under the first annual SAF
arrangement. External borrowing remained roughly constant at just under
2 percent of GDP.
5.       This structure of deficit financing, while instrumental in keeping
past inflationary pressures in check, is not sustainable. Deficits of the
present size would continue to absorb domestic and foreign savings, lead to
domestic financial instability and possible crowding out of private sector
investment, and put pressure on the balance of payments. The real cost of
public domestic borrowing has now risen above the real growth rate of the
economy, thus limiting the room for further expansionary policy. Continued
high levels of deficit would require increased external financing and/or force
the Government to monetize the deficit, thus fuelling inflation.
6.       Pakistan's external current account deficit averaged 3.6 percent of
GNP in FY8S-88. In spite of the growing fiscal deficits during this period,
the current account deficit improved during FY86-87 because of strong export
performance, particularly in cotton-based products, and lower world oil and
commodity prices. In FY88, however, the current account deficit deteriorated,
reaching almost 4 percent of GNP. The gross foreign reserve position weakened
further; reserves were sufficient to cover only about three weeks of imports
by the end of FY88. The financing of these external deficits and the need to
maintain official reserves at adequate levels through cotmercial borrowing
raised the external total debt-service ratio to about 30 percent of exports of
goods, services, and transfers in FY87 and FY88. With the present low level
of reserves and the high debt-service ratio, a reduction in the current
account deficit is needed.
7.       There are also a number of structural weaknesses in the balance of
payments that will need to be corrected in order to maintain a viable external
position. Pakistan's export performance remains dependent on a narrow range
of goods, primarily cotton-based, and non-traditional export performance has
been modest. Thus, it is vulnerable to external shocks and limited in terms
of future growth potential. The count=y is also facing a decline in workers'
remittances, as the oil boom abates, thus putting more pressure on future
export performance to finance needed imports.



- 3-
EL Medium Term Polic Framework
8.       To address these problems the Government has proposed a framework of
medium-tarm macroeconomic policies flanked by supporting structural adjustment
measures, to correct the fiscal imbalance, improve the structure of the
external current account, and reduce distortions in domestic prices and costs.
The reform program is laid out in the Policy Framework Paper, which was
approved by the Board on December 19, 1988 and is the basis for a SAF program
covering FY89-91. The proposed adjustment proa am, the first year of which has
already been put in place in the context of the FY89 budget, contains the
following important elements:
o    Reduction of the fiscal deficit to a sustainable level of 4.8 percent
of GDP by FY91, through revenue generation and expenditure control.
Tax reform, centering around the introduction of a general sales tax,
is an important feature of the resource mobilization effort; improved
tax administration, changes in the income tax structure, gradual
reduction of direct subsidies, and higher user charges are also
important. Expenditure measures strike a reasonable balance between
the need for fiscal discipline and longer term development
objectives. Inflation is to fall from about 10 percent in FY89 to 6
percent in FY91. At these inflation rates and with GDP growth of
about 5.5 percent per annum a budget deficit of about 5 percent would
appear to be sustainable, i.e. it would not require increases in the
ratios of domestic and foreign debt to SDP.
O    Reduction of the external current account deficit to 2.5 percent of
GNP by FY91, with a corresponding build-up in foreign exchange
reserves.
O    Trade policy reforms, with emphasis on liberalization of non-tariff
barriers to import, accompanied by gradual reduction in the average
level and dispersion of import tariffs, supplemented with continued
implementation of flexible exchange rate policy.
O    Further relaxation of industrial regulatory controls, particularly
those pertaining to investment sanctioning.
O    Financial sector reforms aimed at improving the efficiency and
profitability of the banking system and at longer-term development of
capital markets (covered under the proposed FSAL).
O    Other structural reforms in agriculture and irrigation, energy,
transportation, and urban sectors to improve public investment
resource allocation and use, increase operational efficiency, and
continue progress toward economic pricing of sectoral input and output
prices.
9.       For FY89, the key policy requirements are (a) a reduction of the
fiscal deficit to 6.5 percent of GDP, through an enlarged sales tax and other
measures to broaden the tax base and through a substantial containment of
expenditures, and (b) initiation of trade policy reform, with significant



liberalization of non-tariff barriers to import. The Government has
implemented these requirements in the FY89 budget. The overall fiscal deficit
and inflation targets of the SAF are of particular importance for the proposed
loan and are thus explicitly part of the loan's conditionality.
PART II. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY IN PAKSAN
10.      The Bank Group has made 66 loans and 105 development credits to
Pakistan since 1952, totalling US$2,855.60 million and US$2,760.03 million
(both net of cancellations), respectively. Of these amounts, US$690 million
has been repaid and US$2,438.8 million was still undisbursed as of September
30, 1988. Since 1958, the IFC has made 36 commitments in Pakistan totalling
US$288.7 million of which US$202.6 million has been repaid, sold, terminated
or cancelled. Of the balance of US$86.1 million, US$70.7 million represents
loans and US$15.4 million equity. During its long association with Pakistan,
the Bank Group has been involved in most sectors ot the economy.
Approximately 29 percent of total Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan have been
for energy, including gas pipelines and petroleum; 22 percent for industry; 11
percent for infrastructure; 30 percent for agriculture, and 8 percent for
social programs in education and population.
11.      Pakistan's low per capita income and needs have justified the Bank
Group's extending most of its financing turough IDA. Since 1982 an
increasingly larger percentage of Bank Group financing to Pakistan has been
through IBRD lending and since FY85 new IBRD lending has been more than twice
t4at of new IDA financing. The amount of IDA funds available to Pakistan are
likely to remain small. IBRD resources will therefore have to continue to be
utilized if Bank Group resource transfers to Pakistan are to be maintained, or
increased. Pakistan's high growth rate in the Fifth and Sixth Five Year Plans
and its willingness to undertake significant economic policy changes and
adjustments have made it creditworthy for Bank lending, despite low income
levels. Pakistan's continued creditworthiness will depend on its ability to
solve its fiscal and balance of payments problems by taking measures to
increase domestic resource mobilization and increase exports as well as its
making further policy adjustments in the energy, agricultural, financial and
industrial sectors. With such an adjustment effort, Pakistan's total debt
service, now at 30 percent of exports of goods, services and transfers in
FY88, would fall back to about 20 percent by the mid 1990s.
12.      The proportion of external assistance contributed by the Bank Group
has grown significantly since 1970. In 1970, the Bank Group accounted for 13
percent of the total commitments, 18 percent of gross disbursements and 18
percent of net disbursements as compared with 36 percent, 37 percent, and 60
percent respectively in 1987. In 1987, about 13 percent of Pakistan's total
debt service payments were to the Bank Group. In June 1987, Pakistan's
outstanding and disbursed civilian external public debt as registered by the
World Bank'a debt reporting service was estimated to be about US$13.1 billion,
of which the Bank Group's share was US$2.7 billion, or 20 percent, of which
US$1.8 billion was IDA debt and US$0.9 billion was IBRD debt.
13.      The Bank's assistance strategy in recent years has emphasized support
of the Government of Pakistan's (GOP) efforts to formulate and implement
policy reforms in three sectors - energy, industry and agriculture - which
have shaped the structural adjustment of the economy. To ensure that the
gains from adjustment are sustained in the long term and shared more broadly,
the strategy has also included investments in physical infrastructure and the



social sectors that have been neglected in Pakistan's development efforts.
The Bank Group's lending program is comprised of both project and quickly
disbursing adjustment loans and credits. Although the projects loans have
supported specific investments, they have also frequently contained conditions
requiring policy reforms and adjustment. The Bank has also actively utilized
the other tools available to it to support its dialogue with the Government of
Pakistan, had frequent consultations with the Government on policy issues and
has promoted aid coordination through its chairing of an Aid Consortium and
actions on individual projects.
14.      Policy-based lending to Pakistan has been pursued through a
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), an Energy Sector Loan, an Export Development
Loan (EDL), and an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL).
15.      The first and so far only - SAL (US$140 million) was approved by the
Bank's Board in 1982 under the umbrella of an EFF provided by the IMF. The
SAL focussed on reforms in agricultural pricing and investment, gas sector
development and public sector management. Tranche release conditions were met
in substance as well as on time. The Bank's assistance program to Pakistan
has since focussed on sectoral policy reforms in place of a second Structural
Adjustment loan. This emphasis reflected GOP preferences and the Bank's
difficulty in proceed ag with a SAL following Pakistan's failure to meet the
conditions for the final drawing of the EFF program with the IMF. In 1985 the
Bank's Board approved an Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (US$178 million), which
addressed power tariff policy, producer and consumer pricing policy for
natural gas and energy sector investment priorities. All conditions have been
fulfilled. The loan was disbursed against energy specific investments. In
1986 an Export Development (US$70 million), Loan was approved. It focussed on
the development of a rational export incentive system, reductions in import
quotas and industrial deregulation. While the Government largely implemented
the reform program, measures to improve the system of export institutions and
incentives have taken longer than expected. Finally, an Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan (US$200 million) was approved in August 1988. Overall the
experience has been that once specific conditions were agreed between the
Government and the Bank, they were implemented. Continuing support for
structural reforms, through other sector loans, is envisioned for the next few
years.
16.      As one element, the Bank Group strategy in Pakistan encompasses
sector work and lending operations designed to support GOP in achieving its
objectives of efficient industrialization. To achieve this objective, the
Bank assistance is provided according to an outward-oriented and market-based
strategy for industrial development. The Bank Group has carried out extensive
work in the area of trade policies, regulatory framework, and financial sector
policies   Based on those analyses, the Bank's sectoral assistance strategy
has been mapped into a sequence of structural reforms in the medium-term,
which is both consistent with and complements Pakistan's current priority
objective of macroeconomic adjustment. With a more manageable macroeconomic
framework, the country will also be able to weather immediate repercussions of
structural reforms. In sequencing the structural policies, the Government has
correctly taken the first step through deregulation of many business decisions
in the industrial sector. Here, it is important to note that the actual and
potential size of Pakistan's domestic market is relatively large. Therefore,
raising competition and contestability of domestic markets through
deregulation is as important as foreign competition through trade



-6-                         or"  4
liberalization. Moreover, industrial producers' hands have been significantly
freed from regulatory constraints in order to combat external competition at
home and abroad. While pursuing the remaining agenda for deregulaticn, the
next step is to reform financial sector and trade policies. In view of the
potentially negative implication on the balance of payments in the short term,
trade policy reform must be implemented in close coordination with appropriate
macroeconomic and exchange rate policies. Both trade liberalization and
domestic deregulation imply substantial adjustments for firms and workers.
The management of the economic and social adjustment cost of this transition
process will require close attention in the Bank's assistance strategy. The
trade policy reforms, however, can strain the economy's financial system,
since the intended shifts in relative prices and profitability of past
investments mean business rationalization, restructuring, and even
bankruptcies along with new investments. An important ingredient in the
adjustment process is therefore a healthy financial sector that can survive a
substantial change in profitability of its loan portfolio, move investment
funds according to new incentives in the real sector, and provide the credit
to help firms adapt to the new environment. Thus, the trade policy reforms
must be coupled with financial sector reforms that are designed to prevent
temporary financial distress from becoming a systemic problem and to improve
the efficiency of financial intermediation. An appropriate macroeconomic
framework is also a prerequisite since pressures of deficit financing on the
financial system must be eased.
PART m. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSIMENT PROGRAM
A. B
17.      Institutions.  The financial sector in Pakistan comprises a large
number of institutions. Five Nationalized Commercial Banks (NCBs) accounting
for about 80 percent of the system's assets dominate the banking sector.
Another nineteen foreign private commercial banks (10 percent of the assets)
and four specialized banks make up the group of Scheduled Banks. In addition,
there are a number of non-bank financial institutions (DFIs, leasing and
investment finance companies), Government savings bureaus, the national post
office savings scheme, two stock exchanges, mutual funds (both open- and
closed-ended), insurance companies and pension funds.
18.      Monetization.  Monetization of the economy increased significantly
during the 1980s. Between 1982 and 1987, the ratio of M2 to GDP rose from 31
to 35 percent. Special government savings schemes successfully mobilized
additional funds.  Pakistan's broad money measure, M4, includes these savings
schemes and rose from 34 percent in 1982 to 43 percent in 1987. Since 1974
loans and deposits grew by 10 percent per year in real terms, compared to zero
growth during the preceding decade. The number of depositors increased from
7.2 to 11.5 million and the number of borrowers from 365,000 to 1.1 million by
1987.
19.      Islamization.  Islamization of the financial sector during the early
and mid 1980s affected above all the country's interest rate poiicy.
Technically, all lending and deposit rates are now set on a profit and loss
sharing basis. Lending rates for investment credit are no longer subject to a
ceiling and short-term loans may carry rates varying between 10 and 20
percent.



- 7 -
Deposit rates are determined retroactively twice a year as a fun.tion of the
banks profitability during the preceding six months. Partly as a result of
the aggressive provisioning policy of the NCBs (para 52), profits have been
reduced and deposit rates have consequently subsided by one to two percentage
points. Nevertheless, most lending and time deposit rates have remained
significantly positive in real terms since the early 1980s.'
B. The Financia Sector Reform Program
20.      Based on its financial sector report, the Bank's strategy for the
financial sector is to assist the Government in broadening and deepening
financial markets to support an expansion of private investment and savings.
Currently credit flows are administered through a system of nationalized
commercial banks with overall cr3dit ceilings, segmented credit markets with
mandatory credit targets and/or sobsidized interest rates and high reserve
requirements to provide captive funds for government financing at below market
rates. The NCBs also carry significant amounts of non-performing assets.
Among the main reasons are poor credit analysis (partly due to political
pressures) and willful default (supported by weak credit recovery
mechanisms). The capital markets still play a limited role in mobilizing
resources. The proposed FSAL would serve as the umbrella under which needed
financial sector reforms would be undertaken. Under this loan the Government
would: (a) reduce segmentation of financial markets and develop capital
markets by: (i) introducing a system to auction Government debt, (ii) raising
concessional rates of interest, (iii) limiting directed credit schemes; and
(b) strengthen the health of the banking system and increasing competition by:
(i) recapitalizing and restructuring the nationalized commercial banks, (ii)
improving prudential regulations and bank supervision, (iii) increasing the
autonomy and accountability of the nationalized commercial banks, and (iv)
allowing private domestic banks to enter the market.
21.      Supported by the Bank's financial sector revi.w, the Government has
also developed a set of long term policy objectives for the financial sector.
In particular the Government aims at raising concessional rates to market
levels and at merging and eventually abolishing the remaining subsector credit
targets/ceilings. The Government further plans to review the system of
development finance institutions. This is being initiated at this time
through a study of the system af DFIs which is being carried out under a loan
by the ADB. Policies with a time horizon exceeding the life of the proposed
FSAL are outlined in the Government's policy letter to the Bank (Annex IV).
22.      The proposed loa', would support a set of key actions to be
implemented during the ccG_ng two years.  Future loans could support the
continuation of this program. The overall reform program is outlined below
and the concrete actions to be agreed under this loan are discussed. The
overview matrix (Annex V) summarizes the short and medium term measures of the
reforma program for each of these areas. Annex V also contains the detailed
policy matrix covering the reform measures supported by the proposed loan.
~'    In line with Islamic usage, the term "interest" is not used in this
report, but terms such as "rate of return", "cost of borrowing", etc.
The term "interest" is only used when the report refers to general
issues of interest rate policy or to the period before Islamization of
the economy.



- 8 -
23.      The financial sector review (para 20) included a review of capital
markets in Pakistan, which was carried out with the help of IFC. In addition,
the system for issuing Government debt was analyzed and recommendations
developed in close consultation with both the IMF and IFC. Measures directly
related to the financing of private enterprises via the capital market have
been agreed with the Government as conditions for the Third Industrial
Investment Project approved on January 31, 1989. The agreed measures focus on
reducing the incentives for debt financing, improving brokerage institutions
and deregulating pricing rules for paper traded on the stock exchange. The
proposed FSAL on the other hand includes an action program to develop an
auction system for Government securities (para 37) which complements measures
agreed under the above project and constitutes the single most important step
planned at this time to develop financial markets in Pakistan. The measures
planned under both the Third Industrial Investment Project and the proposed
FSAL would promote new instruments and institutions and are thus expected to
have a major developmental impact on the financial system in Pakistan.
C. Macroecononic Inpact of the Reforn Program
24.      A healthy banking system would reduce the likelihood of bank
failures with system-wide implications and pressures on Government to
eventually support a sick banking system through money creation. Overall, a
healthier, less restricted and less segmented financial system should improve
resource allocation, help reintegrate the black economy - with consequent
improvements in the efficiency and equity of taxation as well as total tax
collection - and reduce the scope for rent-seeking activities. In the short-
to medium-term, however, the proposed financial sector reform has to be
accompanied by an adequate program of macroeconomic adjustment to cushion the
immediate impact of the reforms on the Government budget.
25.      The proposed reforms would have a significant impact on macroeconomic
variables, in particular the budget deficit. Proposed measures such as
issuance of Government debt at market rates and abolition of concessional
rates aim at reducing distortions and segmentation in the financial markets in
Pakistan. As a result, financial intermediaries would no longer be taxed
through forced lending of low cost funds to Government. The immediate impact
would be an increase in Government expenditure. To some extent increased
profits of the State Bank of Pakistan (SBP) and financial intermediaries would
flow back to the Government via increased dividends or taxes. However, the
auction system per se is unlikely to affect average real interest rates (in
the formal and informal markets) in a significant way. The key to reducing
system-wide real interest rates and to enhancing the availability of credit to
the private sector is a reduction in the fiscal deficit.
26.      As provisions for bad debts would be tax deductible, the proposed
capitalization of banks would reduce Government tax revenues. Taking into
account the Government's fiscal deficit targets, all efforts would be made to
recapitalize the banks without burdening the Government budget. In
particular, privatization options would be explored. In this way the proposed
reforms would simply lead to recognition of existing losses (bad debts).
While the proposed recapitalization of the NCBs may require some budgetary
resources, the proposed auction system would at the same time provide banks
with higher interest income on Government paper. This would increase bank's
retained earnings and would reduce the need for recapitalization of the banks



- 9 -
from the Government budget. As the amounts required for recapitalization are
likely to exceed the increased revenue of NCBs due to the introduction of the
auction system, it is expected that the recapitalization needs will crucially
determine the overall short to medium-term budgetary impact of the reforms
proposed under this loan.
27.      This recapitalization need will have to be met within the constraints
imposed by the medium-term macroeconomic and structural adjustment program
that is being implemented with financial assistance from SAF resources.
Before second tranche release, a full program for phased recapitalization and
restructuring of the NCBs, would be designed which will take the macroeconomic
impact into account and establish adequate measures to avoid excessive needs
for cash outlays from the Government, e.g. by privatizing up to 20 percent of
the NCBs and by using long-term government bonds for the settlement of
Government guaranteed accounts and other non-performing assets, which are to
be taken off the banks' books.
D. Aengda of Financi Sector Reform
28.      Overall the proposed loan addresses the following reform areas:
o    Management of domestic debt and the money supply
o    Cost of funds and directed credit programs
o    Supervision and restructuring of banks
o    Autonomy, accountability and competition in the banking system.
D.1 Management of Domestic Debt and the Money Supply
Issues
29.      As tax revenue has not increased in line with expenditure, fiscal
deficits have grown in recent years. Consequently, domestic debt has grown
from 25 percent of GDP in FY81 to 41 percent in FY87. Real rates on key
savings instruments issued to the non-Bank public now exceed the rate of GDP
growth in real terms. Such a borrowing policy is unsustainable. Greater
fiscal discipline is needed to contain the growth of domestic debt and to
reduce the real cost of borrowing.
30.      Market Segmentation.  Government debt is sold in segmented markets
and there are no secondary markets that can effectively provide liquidity and
reduce Government borrowing corts from the non-bank public. Consequently,
there is also no market-based benchmark rate that can serve as a guide to
price Government securities. All rates on Government debt are thus
administratively determined, and the rate structure is highl distorted
ranging from 0.5 percent on ad-hoc Treasury bills (T-bills) via 6 percent on
regular T-bills on tap to 15 percent tax-free for the most important of the
National Savings Schemes.
31.      The skewed structure is a direct consequence of market segmentation,
which the Government uses to mobilize low cost funds through the banking
system and other captive creditors such as insurance companies. In



- 10 -
particular, about 15 to 20 percent of incremental domestic debt is financed
through T-bills on tap. Banks are required to hold these papers to meet their
30 percent liquid asset requirement, which exists in addition to a 5 percent
cash liquid asset requirement. The high reserve requirement, combined with
low rates on paper eligible to meet it, drive up rates to private sector
borrowers. Whatever the Government cannot finance from NSS or T-bills on tap
it raises through ad-hoc T-bills issued to the SBP. Such financing directly
increases the money supply and risks fuelling inflation.
32.      Excessive Rates on Goverpment Debt.  Over the last six years about 50
percent of incremental domestic borrowing was financed through saving schemes
directed at the non-Bank public. Given past inflation rates, the rate of 15
percent paid on the most popular NSS, "Khaas" Certificates, which account for
about 40 percent of NSS, appeared excessively high. The Government could
probably attract similar amounts of funds from the non-Bank public by paying
rates closer to those offered by banks for comparable time deposits that were
and remain cheaper. However, the Government has no policy or mechanism to
price its debt close to what market conditions allow.
33.      Khaas (nominally a three-year certificate) pays 15 percent tax-free
regardless of maturity, while other NSSs exhibit upward sloping yield curves.
The minimum holding period for Khaas is only six months. Thus, investors are
able to receive, net of the religious "zakat" tax, 12.5 percent tax-free for a
six month paper compared to 8-10 percent taxable returns on six month bank
deposits. The high annual turnover (60-70 percent) of this instrument
indicates that investors are taking advantage of its high liquidity and are
using it for investing surplus cash. A high sales commission (one percent)
paid by the Government to banks further encourages frequent sales. In
addition, many investors take out loans from banks, the cost of which is tax
deductible, to purchase these tax-free instruments. They thus profit from
administratively maintained opportunities for rate of return arbitrage.
34.      In addition to its debt, the Government has assumed contingent
liabilities resulting from: guarantees for loans under mandatory credit
programs and loans to public enterprises; full guarantees on all NCB deposits;
and foreign exchange risk coverage for foreign loans and letters of credit.
For the first two types of liabilities no fees are charged. A risk premium
linked to individual currencies is charged for the foreign exchange risk
coverage. The level of the premium has in the past been adequate to cover
expected depreciation. However, management of the Government's liabilities
has been based on incomplete information resulting in ad-hoc management.
Also, slightly different risk coverage schemes govern bi- and multi-lateral
foreign loans on the one hand and private commercial loans on the other.
There is thus a potential for discrimination.
35.      Leaks and Weaknesses in the System of Credit Ceilings.  Today, the
Government and the SBP use credit ceilings as the key instrument for monetary
policy. Combined with projections of the change in net foreign assets and
targets for the government deficit, the credit ceilings on lending to
non-government sectors are meant to achieve desired money supply targets.
Annual credit expansion targets for the entire system are allocated among
banks based on their foreign currency deposits and their share of total
domestic deposits. The existing formula is performance oriented - a bank's



- 11 -
ability to lend is linked to deposit mobilization, and trading of ceiling
among banks is allowed. Trading of credit ceilings and a pragmatic
semi-annual adjustment of credit ceilings have limited potential rigidities in
credit flows.
36.      The system of credit ceilings as currently applied in Pakistan can be
an effective mechanism of monetary control. It, however, exhibits several
weaknesses. One weakness concerns the control of short-term changes in
liquidity, since it is difficult and cumbersome to adjust credit ceilings bank
by bank quickly to sterilize such liquidity changes. Without the protracted
process of evaluating and negotiating each bank's liquidity position, such
adjustments can be done more efficiently through open market operations.
Secondly, as innovation occurs in the financial system and as new
intermediaries develop, leaks tend to develop in any system of credit
ceilings. For instance, Governments tend to exempt certain financial
institutions from credit ceilings. This is the case for development finance
institutions in Pakistan, as well as for the new private investment banks
(para 62) to promote their growth into a meaningful competitive force in the
country's financial system. Even when Governments do not extend such
exemptions, it is usually difficult to control innovative forms of lending
that evade the ceil:-ngs. Therefore, as Pakistan's financial system develops,
it is desirable to introduce open market operations as a complementary
monetary control mechanism. As evidenced in a number of OECD countries,
credit ceilings and open market operations can be used in parallel during a
transition period.
Reform Strate
37.      Auction Program for Government Securities.  Approximately by early
1990, a debt financing and management strategy is to be prt in place that
would (a) enable the Government to meet its requirements in a market based
manner, (b) facilitate effective monetary control, and (c) remove distortions
and segmentation of the financial markets which inter alia give rise to the
large unregulated financial markets and (d) promote capital market
development. To this end, the Government intends to fundamentally change its
way of issuing debt. In line with a plan present-i to the Bank the Government
intends to start auctioning securities before sec4nd tranche release. After a
few years it would issue most Government paper by way of auction. As long as
other Government papers are issued their yields would be related to those
obtained at auction. To develop effective secondary markets a group of
primary dealers would be appointed, who would be obliged to "make markets,"
i.e. to provide two-way quotations for all Government paper. To ensure
effective competition a diverse group of financial institutions including
NCBs, private foreign banks, development finance institutions and the proposed
new investment banks would be eligible to become primary dealers. The
eligibility criteria for primary dealers would as a minimum comprise (a)
minimum capital requirements and (b) willingness to act as a marketmaker by
(i) maintaining a sufficiently large portfolio of securities, and (ii)
willingness to quote bid and offer rates within margins set by the SBP. To
enhance the liquidity of instruments and encourage the development of a
secondary market, the Government would allow repurchase agreements. The
rediscount operations of the State Bank would be adjusted to provide
sufficient incentives for banks and financial institutions to use the
secondary markets to satisfy their liquidity needs.



- 12 -
38.      Rediscount Policy.  The introduction of the auction system entails
important changes for rediscount operations. First, the State Bank would
conduct the rediscount through a window open to the primary dealers in
Government securities. To make this operation effective, the present
automatic discounting facilities (e.g., the discount facility available at the
bank rate or the automatic discounting of T-bills at 6.06 percent per year)
would be discontinued so as not to undermine the working of the market for
auctioned T-bills. Secondly, SBP's credit lines for specific credit schemes
or institutions will be limited in the context of the National Credit Plan.
Thirdly, it would be ensured that the total holdings of Government securities
in the Central Bank's portfolio are not unduly large, as the very idea of
developing a secondary market is to enable the market to hold the bulk of the
papers. For this reason and to protect the State Bank from pressures to
accommodate Government deficit financing, a limit has been imposed on changes
in SBP's net claims on Government. This is also determined in the context of
the annual credit plan (as presently under the SAF).
39.      Government borrowing by way of ad-hoc bills at concessional rates
would also be discontinued. To the extent that direct Governm_nt borrowing
from the SBP remains necessary, particularly to meet very short term liquidity
requirements, it would be at market rates. Otherwise, the Government would
satisfy its borrowing requirements from the market. To the extent that the
State Bank purchases government securities at market rates, its profit would
increase and would be returned to the Government. There should therefore be
no significant niet cost to Government from discontinuing the issue of ad-hoc
bills. In this way the Government would pay the true cost of its debt and
rates on private sector debt would be in line with rates on Government debt.
40.      Emergency Discount Window.  To develop a viable and efficient
secondary market for Government paper, while at the same time giving SBP
sufficient flexibility to provide emergency credit to banks or financial
institutions threatened by bankruptcy, it is also planned to open an emergency
discount window for banks threatened by failure. Normally, banks (other than
primary dealers) would have two instruments to raise funds for short term
liquidity requirements: (i) the inter-bank market, which already exists and
(ii) the new Government paper market. The emergency rediscount window at SBP
would be used when there is a threat of a bank failure. The Central Bank's
injection of funds into the bank would be subject to the condition that SBP
may immediately take over the management of the bank and that the Board of
Directors of the bank could be suspended. The various measures described
above would be put in place by the time the auction system for Government Debt
is introduced.
41.      Debt Management Institutions.  To manage the new system a department
would be established at the SBP, which would (a) issue all Government paper,
(b) conduct discount window operations, and, eventually, open market
operations, and (c) monitor primary dealers and promote the development of
secondary markets. To ensure adequate coordination and communication between
the Ministry of Finance and SBP, a coordinating committee responsible for debt
and cash management would be established. The Committee would be responsible
for the Government's borrowing program on a weekly basis with due regard for
prevailing monetary conditions. The borrowing program would be based on an
integrated system of Government revenue and expenditure management.



- 13 -
42.      Open Market Operations.  As the auction system for Government debt
leads to the development of full secondary markets, open market operations may
be introduced and conducted through active SBP intervention in this market.
The auction is to be introduced before second tranche release. Full secondary
market development will take several years. While the present system of
credit controls will therefore not be changed in the near future, the
conditions will be created to significantly improve monetary policy conduct
later on.
43.      Contingent Liabilities.  The Government recognizes the need to manage
contingent liabilities in a prudent manner. In the case of such risks
associated with foreign exchange, the Government also recognizes that both
direct and contingent liabilities should be managed jointly in a manner that
does not result in inefficient price discrimination against a particular group
of creditors. To this end, and before second tranche release, the Government
plans to complete a study to assess comprehensively all of its existing and
potential contingent liabilities, and to formulate an appropriate management
strategy for such liabilities as well as alternative options available for
implementation.
D.2 Cost of Funds and Directed Credit
Issues
44.      Concessional Credit.  With the advent of Islamization, banks obtained
considerable freedom in setting lending rates (para 19). In particular,
short-term rates are now set in a substantially free market. However, several
issues remain. In FY88 the following concessional rates schemes existed:
Amount In Percent of:
Destination of         Lending            Maximum   Outstanding   Incremental
Credit             Institution           Rate       Credit-'       Credit-'
Small Farmers        NCBs                     0%          4.0           -4.8
Locally Manufactured NCBs and Non-Bank        3%          4.4            5.7
Machinery            Financial Insti-
tuitions
Export               Foreign Banks, NCBs      6%          4.8           12.1
Housing              House Building           7%          7.8            7.8
Finance Corporation
General Agriculture  Agricultural Develop-  12X          10.4           15.4
ment Bank
33.4          36.2
' Outstanding credit to private sector as of 5/28/88.
I' Incremental credit to private sector during FY88.



- 14 -
45.      The credit scheme for small farmers and for locally manufactured
machinery carried clearly negative real rates. The small farmer scheme, in
particular, led to widespread abuse. Not more than about one quarter of the
credit actually reached small farmers. Export and housing finances were
priced at about the rate of inflation, I' while general agriculture credit
carries clearly positive real rates. If banks were no longer forced to invest
excess liquidity in low yield Treasury bills, and if the planned fiscal
adjustment takes place, market rates for rivate sector credit, which are
around 14-15 percent at present, might drop to around 12 percent in the medium
term. In this sense the level of long term agricultural credit rates need not
be considered concessional.
46.      The Government has already undertaken major steps to correct the
distortions in finarcial rates. In 1985, it had raised the rate for export
finance to 6 percent. In the context of the FY89 budget it has now also
raised the rate for locally manufactured machinery to 6 percent and tightened
eligibility criteria. Only a limited program for power looms remains at 3
percent during FY89 and will be discontinued thereafter. Most important of
all, against strong political opposition, it has raised the rate for small
farmers from zero to 8 percent. Thus, key recommendations of the financial
sector report have been implemented.
47.      State Bank Refinancing and Credit Lines.  To enable financial
institutions to earn an adequate spread SBP provides low cost lines of credit
for concessional credit programs. This masks the subsidy provided under
concessional credit programs. Only the small farmers credit scheme was
financed from the budget. The SBP credit lines are disbursed at the
initiative of the institutions. This weakens the state Bank's control over
the money supply and also defeats deposit mobilization efforts. Consequently,
the provision of SBP funding will be limited and tied to improved resource
mobilization.
48.      Consortium Financing.  Loans with de-facto controlled rates dominate
the market for non-concessional long-term loans. On the one hand
international lending agencies have so far on-lent long term credit at fixed
rates (presently 14 percent) in the local market. Most of the remainder of
long-term credit extended in the official market has been made available at 15
percent under loans extended by consortia, in which NCBs are obliged to
participate. This system has prevented the development of a market based
yield structure, and ma, have contributed to a general reluctance of banks to
extend investment credits.
49.      Directed Credit.  Sectoral targets presently exist for lending for
agriculture, including tobacco marketing, fixed industrial investment, and
small scale industries and businesses. The targets for agricultural lending
only apply to NCBs, the others also to foreign banks. The Government claims
Recently, inflation has accelerated and is presently running at about 10
percent as opposed to 6.3 percent in FY88. Under the Bank's planned
shelter project, the level and structure of rates of return on housing
finance would be addressed. The proposed Industry and Trade Policy Loan
would address export finance.



- 15 -
that the banks have not been pushed into making bad loans on account of these
mandatory schemes. Under its annual credit plan, the Government has reduced
the incidence of targetted credit for the commercial banks. (In FY86 only 30
percent of net new bank lending was outside these targets, but this share rose
to 63 percent by FY88). The Government is of the view that the NCBs still
need targets for industrial investment and agricultural credits to develop
their capability for such lending, which was until 1982 the domain of
specialized banks and DFIs.
Reform Strate.v
50.      To deal with the remnants of concessional and administered rates and
directed credit, the Government proposes to proceed as follows. As a matter
of policy, the Government aims at abolishing these instruments so that market
forces will eventually determine credit allocation. The strategy to approach
this goal gives priority to increasing rates to market levels, and then
abolishing sectoral credit targets. The Government pursues the following
measures:
o    First the Government has already substantially raised rates for
concessional credit programs and tightened eligibility criteria
during FY89.
o    Second, the Government will ensure that all real rates will be
positive before second tranche release.
O    Third, the Government will continue to set limits for refinancing and
credit lines by SBP for special credit schemes as part of the annual
credit plan.  However, the credit lines for these programs would be
phased out or at least be frozen as a share of total credit. To
promote resource mobilization by financial institutions which are
largely dependent on SBP credit lines, additional SBP financing would
only be granted if matched by increases in own funds mobilized by the
financial institutions. The State Bank has already reduced its
financing for the industrial DFIs and is starting to do so for the
Agricultural Development Bank (ADBP). For one problem institution,
which is today fully dependent on SBP credit lines, namely the House
Building Finance Corporation (HBFC), a specific reform program is
being drawn up to enable the institution to become more profitable
and efficient over the medium term. Completion of a time-bound
action program and a portfolio audit for HBFC is a condition of
second tranche release.
o    Fourth as of 1988 consortium financing has become voluntary.
O    Fifth, as Government debt would be priced at auction (para 37), the
associatej market based yield structure can be used as the benchmark
for pricing other types of credit and thus significantly reduce
information and transaction costs in the system.
O    Sixth, the mandatory credit targets are now limited as a percentage
of total incremental credit to the private sector with FY89 as the
base year, and asset quality under these programs will be monitored
annually in the context of normal bank supervision by SBP.
Implementation of this policy is a condition of second tranche
release.



- 16 -
D.3 SuDervision and Restruurn of Banks
Issues
51.      Non-Performing Assets and Prudential Regulation.  The Government
recognizes the importance of improving the health of the banks and has already
conducted an aggressive provisioning drive for the NCBs during the last three
years, including capital injections of Rs 4.3 billion in 1987 (equal to 50
percent of the NCBs' 1986 capital). Substantial provisions have also been
made from retained earnings helped by reductions in deposit rates under the
Islamic profit and loss sharing system. According to the audited statements
of the NCBs, no non-performing loans remain unprovided for. While the causes
for the non-performing assets are difficult to ascertain, it appears,that poor
credit anilysis (partly due to political pressures) and willful default
(supported by weak credit recovery mechanisms) are among the main ones.
52.      Under the existing guidelines for loan classification, accrual of
income and provisioning in Pakistan the Nationalised Commercial Banks show a
capital-to-liability ratio of about 2 to 3 percent only. In addition, these
guidelines are inadequate. Overdrafts, which account for most loans largely
escape classification at present as they are routinely renewed or increased on
demand. Income can be accrued indefinitely and no provisions are required for
substandard loans. No effective standards for capital adequacy exist.
Otherwise, loans are at present classified as substandard, doubtful, and loss
after being overdue for one, two and three years respectively. Provisions of
50 percent for doubtful loans and 100 percent for loss are made. However,
collateral can be offset against these provisions. More appropriate
guidelines as introduced under this loan will reduce the banks' capital. In
the context of this loan a portfolio audit has been conducted to assess this
problem (para 58), and a second one will be completed before second tranche
release.
53.      Credit Policies.  Banks do not appear to check systematically whether
applicants for loans have an adequate payment record with other financial
institutions or how large their total exposure to the financial system is.
Nor are banks able to do so in the absence of a credit reporting system, which
would pool such information and make it available to the financial
institutions. In particular, banks are not able to determine adequately
whether companies are part of a "group", what the total exposure of the group
is and whether additional loans would lead to imprudent levels of exposure to
the group. Finally, many loans are made to small and medium borrowers in the
absence of audited financial statements.
54.      Debt Recovery.  Laws are in force to foreclose assets and recover
debt, and about 38,000 cases are pending in court for recovery of roughly
Rs 5.5 billion of debt (US$300 million). But cases stay in court for an
average of 5-8 years and recovery almost never occurs through seizure of
assets or liquidation. Among the reasons are understaffed courts, cumbersome
procedures, and legal provisions that permit excessive challenges of court
rulings by debtors. In particular, once a court has decided in favor of the
creditor, the creditor needs to apply for "execution of decree", which de
facto entails a repetition of the proceedings.



- 17 -
55.      Bank Supervision.  The banks are supervised by the State Bank and
audited by competent commercial external auditors. The State Bank's 75
inspectors cover routinely some 60 percent of the portfolio of the NCBs.
While State Bank supervision and collateral valuation and appraisal procedures
appear satisfactory, there is a need for further strengthening of SBP to allow
it to cope effectively with the existing problem of asset quality, the
changing structure of the financial system, and the large size of the banking
system.
56.      Consolidation of Regulation/Supervision.  The commercial banks and
the specialized banks are supervised and regulated by SBP, while the DFIs are
supervised and regulated by the Ministry of Finance. As a result of this
divided responsibility, the system is unable to respond quickly to new forms
of financial institutions, e.g., cooperative banks, leasing, and the proposed
new private investment banks. Furthermore, partly as a result of fragmented
supervisory structure and partly bccause of deliberate policy, financial
institutions are not subject to uniform regulations and treatments.
57.      Strengthening of SBP.  In the last two decades, SBP's ability to
supervise the financial system, manage monetary policy and give government
high quality advice on macroeconomic management has been significantly
impaired as a result of its personnel policies. SBP has yielded to union
pressures by agreeing to recruit all professional staff from clerical levels.
SBP has recently recruited 16 university graduates (MBAs) for the first time
in years. Recruitment of high caliber staff is also hampered by its salary
policies.
Reform Strte
58.      Having improved the banks' reserves in recent years the Government
now intends to tackle the issues more thoroughly:
_    First, new rules for loan classification, accrual of income,
provisioning and capital adequacy have been introduced in 1989 (see
Annex VI). The new rules are designed to substantially tighten
accounting requirements but not to provide shock treatment to a
banking system, which at present is not in a crisis. In particular,
under the new ruies income may no longer be accrued once interest is
180 days overdue, an objective overdue definition for overdrafts is
introduced, 25 percent provisions will be made against substandard
loans and only readily marketable collateral with perfected liens
will be offset against required provisions (thus excluding equipment
and real estate as well as commodities without proper warehouse
receipts). For assets classified as loss no collateral may be offset
against provisions. A target for capital adequacy has been
introduced namely a three percent capital-to-liability ratio by 1991.
O    Second, as a matter of policy all financial institutions would be
subject to the same regulations and be supervised by the same
institutions. In the medium term all financial institutions would be
subject to supervision by the State Bank. Initially, and before
second tranche release, the SBP will start inspecting new financial



- 18 -
institutions such as leasing companies, mudarabas and the new private
investment banks (para 62). Other non-bank financial institutions
will for the time being continue to be supervised by the Ministry of
Finance.
o    Third,  before second tranche release, a detailed organizational
review of the SBP would be carried out to make recommendations with a
view to strengthen the SBP's organization and personnel policies.
O    Fourth, a comprehensive portfolio audit of the five NCBs has been
undertaken and a second one would be completed before second tranche
release.
o    Fifth, on the basis of this review recapitalization/
restructuring plans for the five NCBs will be designed before second
tranche release, taking into account the settlement of (a) Government
guaranteed loans, (b) higher income following abolition of
concessional lending rates, (c) higher rates paid on Government paper
eligible for liquid asset requirement and (d) options to privatize at
least up to 20 percent of the NCBs. These plans should enable all
banks to achieve at least the capital-to-liability ratio of three
percent by 1991.
o    Sixth, to prevent banks from making bad loans in the future, credit
policies are to be tightened. To this end the NCBs have recently
been instructed not to make new loans above Rs 1 million (about
US$55,000), unless all other NCBs certify that the prospective
borrower is not in default with any of them.
o    Seventh, the Pakistan Banking Council has also started collecting
information on system-wide exposure and payment records of major
companies and groups. Under the auspices of SBP a full-fledged
credit reporting system (credit bureau) is now to be set up and w411
be fully established before second tranche release.
O    Eighth, the concept of "group" has been defined and individual as
well as group exposure limits have been set. Exposure limits would
be a major tool to address issues of loan concentration.
o    Ninth, before second tranche release, major reforms of the debt
recovery system will be introduced by increasing the number of
special banking courts and judges and streamlining the legal and
procedural requirements. Where changes in laws are required, the
Government will submit adequate laws/legal amendments to parliament
before second tranche release.
O    Finally, targets have been set for banks to reduce arrears from
public and private borrowers. In particular the Government
guaranteed uncollectable overdue debt will be settled before loan
effectiveness through issuance of Government bonds to the NCBs
carryi!g annually payable rates of return.



- 19 -
D.4 Autonomy. Accountabiity and Competition in the Banking System
Issues
59.      Autonomy and Accountability of the Nationalized Commercial Banks.  At
present the NCBs hold the key to a more efficient and competitive banking
system. Improving the efficiency of the NCBs would require changes in their
governance structure and improvement of their policies and procedures. With a
view to insulate NCBs from government interference, a professionally staffed
body - the Pakistan Banking Council (PBC) - was established in 1974 to
undertake a wide range of supervisory and advisory functions. The existence
of PBC, however, made the role of the banks' board of directors unclear. At
the same time PBC's role remained ambiguous vis-a-vis the Government.
Furthermore, in the area of personnel management, (salaries in particular) the
NCBs' autonomy is limited by government rules and regulations. In addition,
the boards were almost identical with the top management of the banks. As a
result the boards appeared largely ineffective. Finally, there was a lack of
clear criteria for evaluating and rewarding performance and thus establishing
accountability. Partly as a result of this, the management accounting and
information systems and credit analysis/approval processes are weak.
60.      Competition.  Since nationalization in 1974, private domestic banks
have not been allowed to operate in Pakistan. Consequently, competition in
the banking system has been constrained. Moreover, there is a high degree of
market concentration, with 3 NCBs accounting for about 75 percent of the loans
of the commercial banking system. In recent years, with a view to increasing
competition and reducing the role of government financial institutions, the
government has allowed establishment of private sector leasing companies.
Restrictions on entry of new foreign banks have been relaxed and now 19
foreign banks operate in the country and are dominating the export credit
business. While these initiatives are in the right direction, market
competition would be greatly enhanced by allowing new private domestic banks,
which are more likely than foreign banks to focus on domestic business and to
branch out into the provinces.
Reform Str
61. To resolve these issues the Government pursues the following measures:
o    First, A new law has been passed in September 1988 under which (a)
PBC sets and evaluates performance targets for the NUss but otherwise
only retains an advisory role and (b) the banks' boards of directors
have received full autonomy. Four out of seven board members will be
outside members, up to two of whom will be from the private sector.
O    Second, a performance evaluation system for the NCBs has been
established. This accountability framework would help pave the way
for greater autonomy for the NCBs. The system is managed by PBC. A
comprehensive set of performance criteria - established on the basis
of a consultant study financed by the Bank - are given to the boards
of the NCBs for each financial year.   The criteria comprise
quantitative performance measures such at financial ratios as well as
qualitative targets such as the developmernt of policies for a
particular area of business. At year's end PBC will evaluate the
performance of the NCB's management against the original targets.
Rewards and penalties for NCB management will be based on this system.



- 20 -
o    Third, the accounting and MIS systems will be upgraded.  Detailed
work is underway and is supported under the Bank's Industrial
Investment Projects.
O    Fourth, tighter credit policies have been introduced in the NCBs in
particular clear instructions to deny credit to defaulters. In
addition, the account officer system is being introduced assigning
responsibility for accounts to specific staff members of a branch.
O    Fifth, Credit discipline would be supported by the introduction of
the credit reporting system (credit bureau) (para 58).
62.      The Government is also licensing new private domestic investment
banks which meet the Government's eligibility criteria. The criteria are in
line with normal business practices, essentially requiring minimum capital (Rs
100 million) and a good reputation of the applicant. The policy of allowing
new private banks to enter the market, while leaving the NCBs essentially in
public hands, corresponds to the long-standing policy the Government has
pursued vis-a-vis all public enterprises. The new banks would start with a
clean slate and could soon provide effective competition for the 5 NCBs, which
would come under increased pressure to clean up their portfolio, reduce
operating costs, and enhance efficiency. The Government does not intend to
impose credit ceilings on the proposed investment banks, in order to promote
their rapid growth as long as such an exemption is not considered by SBP to
undermine overall monetary control. Credit expansion by these banks is in any
case limited through the minimum equity-to-liability ratio of one-to-seven
during the first two years of operation and one-to-ten thereafter. The new
investment banks will be able to provide a full range of services in money and
capital markets, project financing and corporate finance. Initially, they
would not be able to accept deposits of less than 30 days maturity and to
provide checking services. But, they would subsequently be permitted to
develop into full service banks. The Government plans to take this gradual
and cautious approach, not least because an adequate supervisory framework is
only just being established (para 58). In addition, the Govornment has
introduced a new policy to divest up to twenty percent of the NCBs. Following
the portfolio audit of the NCBs (para 58) a concrete plan for disinvestment
will be considered as part of the restructuring and recapitalization program
for the NCBs.
PART n: THE LOAN
63.      Loan Amount and Borrower.  The loan in the amount of US$150 million
will be made to the Government of Pakistan, which will make the proceeds
available to the State Bank of Pakistan, which in turn will administer and
disburse the funds. The loan will be made available in two tranches. The
first tranche of US$75 million will be available upon effectiveness, while the
second tranche of US$75 million will be released upon fulfillment of tranche
release conditions (para 71).
64.      Cofinancing.  The Government is seeking an additional US$ 150 million
of cofinancing from OECF of Japan. Such cofinancing would be untied and would
be subject to the same tranche release conditions as the Bank's loan. A
decision by OECF is expected about three to six months following loan approval
by the Bank's Board.



- 21 -
65.      Disbursement and Procurement.    The loan would finance about 1
percent of Pakistan's total merchandise imports over the expected disbursement
period (June 1989 - May 1991). The proposed loan would finance all goods to
be imported into Pakistan except those financed by other sources and a
specific list of excluded goods such as military or para-military items,
luxury goods, nuclear reactors and parts, and uranium.
66.      Procurement would be limited to goods from countries eligible under
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Both private and public sector imports
would be eligible for financing. All contracts exceeding US$10 million in
size would be awarded through international competitive bidding. These
contracts would be subject to ex-post review; that is, a report containing
evidence that each was let in accordance with Bank Guidelines and conformed
copies of the contract would be submitted to the Bank before making the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contracts. For
contracts under US$10 million, procurement by private firms would follow
normal commercial practices; and procurement by the public sector would be in
accordance with the Government's standard procurement practices. Reports for
contracts under US$10 million containing evidence of t:ie procedure used for
procurement and contract copies would be presented to the Bank to support
withdrawal applications.
67.      The proposed Loan would finarnce 100 percent of the c.i.f costs of
eligible imports. The State Bank of Pakistan would be responsible for
collecting appropriate supporting documentation, the preparation and
submission of withdrawal applications, and the maintenance of necessary
accounts fir the loan funds. In order to facilitate disbursement, a Special
Account would be established at the State Bank of Pakistan on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The initial deposit would be US$25
million. Reimbursements for expenditures to be funded from the Special
Account would be accompanied by a Statement of Transactions on the Special
Account since the previous application with the balance certified by the State
Bank of Pakistan. Payments under contracts above US$2 million would be fully
documented. Disbursements from the proposed loan for item" below US$2 million
would be made on the basis of modified statements of expenditure from the
State Bank of Pakistan detailing individual transactions in a given period by
SITC group and source, in respect of eligible imports, together with a
certification of the amounts involved. Documentation would be forwarded by
concerned commercial banks to the State Bank of Pakistan and would be
available for review by Bank supervision missions. The decumentation
supporting withdrawal applications would consist of a copy of the invoice from
the supplier, evidence of shipment, and evidence of payment. The project
account, including the Special Account, would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and the annual audit report would be submitted
to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The audit
report would include a statement verifying that amounts disbursed against
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose they were intended.
The auditors' report will include an opinion on whether satisfactory
procedures are in operation at the SBP regarding the use of Statements of
Expenditure (SOE).The closing date for disbursements will be 30 months after
loan signature.



- 22 -
68.      Technical Assistance.  A program of technical assistance to SZP and
the Ministry of Finance for establishing a credit reporting system, training
of bank inspectors, and assistance for debt management, development of
institutions for the conduct of monetary policy, and assistance to NCBs such
as the study on organization, MIS, etc. would be financed under TA components
of existing Bank credit lines. Procurement of consulting services would be
conducted according to Bank guidelines.
69.      Implementation and Monitoring.  The Government of Pakistan has
created a committee chaired by the Secretary of Finance to supervise project
implementation. Periodic progress reports will be prepared and submitted to
the Bank. Monitoring of performance involves several complementary
activities. First, macroeconomic policies will be monitored by joint
Bank/Fund missions under the SAF. Second, a first recapitalization/
restructuring program for the banks will be designed by March 1989 to allow
the Government to take any impact on the budget into account in the FY 1989/90
budget. The program would attempt to minimize any budgetary impact by
exploring all possible non-budgetary means of recapitalizing the banks.
Before second tranche release, this program would be updated based on the
regular aging reports following the initial portfolio audit. Third, release
of the second tranche will be reviewed probably towards the end of
1989/beginning of 1990. Fourth, technical assistance activities (para 68)
which accompany the reform program and are financed from separate T.A. funds,
will be supervised.
70.      Condition of Effectiveness.  Prior to Effectiveness the Government of
Pakistan will settle the Government guaranteed, uncollectable and overdue debt
with the NCBs through issuance of Government securities carrying annually
payable rates of return.
71.      Conditions for Tranche Release.  The release of the second tranche of
the loan will be based on completion, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, of
the following actions:
(i)    reduction of the Government deficit to 6.5 percent of GDP in FY89 and
satisfactory progress to achieve the reduction to 5.5 percent of GDP
in FY90 as well as adequate monetary policy measures to attain the
targetted decrease in inflation aimed at a rate of 6 percent by FY91
(para 8).
(ii)    Establishment of an auction system for Government debt containing the
essential elements discussed in paras 37 to 41.
(iii)   Completion of study on contingent liabilities (para 42).
(iv)    Adjustment of rates on all concessional credit schemes to positive
real rates. (para 50)
(v)    Adherence to the limits on directed credit agreed under this loan
(para 50).



- 23 -
(vi)    Adherence to the limits on SBP credit lines agreed under this loan
and issuance of a time-bound action plan as well as completion of a
portfolio audit for HBFC (para 50).
(vii)   Completion of the study on SBP's organization; authorization for SBP
to supervise leasing companies, mudarabas and investment banks and
establishment of the required inspection capability (para 58).
(viii)  Establishment of the credit bureau as a department of the SBP (para
58).
(ix)    Adoption of a phased program for recapitalization of the NCBs (para
58). The underlying principle would be to supplement
recapitalization with such restructuring measures (including partial
privatization) as are deemed necessary to prevent the high number of
non-performin-g loans from recurring in the future.
(x)    Implementation of agreed measures to strengthen the court system
dealing with debt recovery cases and submission of laws to parliament.
72.      Coordination with the IMF.  The Bank's financial sector report which
led to the proposed loan was reviewed by the IMF, who also commented on the
loan's Initiating Memorandum and this President Report. A staff member of the
IMF's Central Banking Department participated in the project's appraisal and
negotiations. Negotiations were also observed by a representative of the
IMF's Area Department responsible for Pakistan. The medium term macroeconomic
program has been designed jointly by the Bank and the Fund under a SAF. The
Bank and the IMF will continue to coordinate their supervision of both the SAF
and the proposed Financial Sector Loan.
73.      Social Costs.  The most immediate social costs would be the
additional financial burden on small farmers due to the abolition of costless
credit targetted for them. However, the attractiveness of the loan scheme had
led to rapid increase of lending under this scheme with corresponding increase
in abuse, and only about one quarter of loans did actually reach the target
group. In part to moderate the impact of the abolition of the scheme on small
farmers, the Government is considering better targetted lending schemes and
investigating the utility of such models as Bangladesh's Grameen Bank. The
Agricultural Credit VII (FY91) and the Micro-enterprises Project (FY9lS) are
planning to assist the Government's effort to extend credit delivery to the
less priviledged economic entities in the informal sector.
74.      Benefits and Risks.  The principal benefits of the proposed reform
program will be improved credit allocation in response to market signals, and
a healthier and more efficient banking system, due to better supervision and
competition. Increases in rates on concessional credit schemes, deregulation
of the long term credit market, and above all, the new auction system for
Government debt would:
(a) reduce misallocation of credit to unintended users
(b) reduce allocation of credit to activities with low economic returns.



- 24 -
(c) improve resource mobilization by offering banks higher yield
Government papers for investment, which will provide an incentive to
banks to raise deposits and not to reduce them as happens at
present. By the same token, this would reduce the extent of informal
money markets and the likelihood for the future of the emergence of
fraudulent investment companies, which have cropped up repeatedly in
recent years.
(d) establish a market based yield curve, which can be used by banks and
the non-bank public to price financial instruments more easily. In
this way, the information generated by the market would greatly
reduce information and negotiation costs in the financial sector.
(e) improve pricing of Government debt. The development of secondary
markets in Government debt would also promote private capital market
development and would provide the SBP with the tools to conduct more
effective monetary policy using market oriented instruments such as
open market operations.
75.      The recapitalization and restructuring of the NCBs combined with
improved credit policies and improved supervision will improve the health of
banks, reduce their dependence on the Government and allow them to better
absorb external shocks or shocks due to structural adjustment measures.
Healthier banks combined with new investment banks will lead to greater
competition, which should improve quality and the cost structure of financial
services. The improved debt recovery system would deter bad borrowers and
generally improve the health of banks.
76.      The main risks relate to macroeconomic performance which recently
started to deteriorate significantly. The reform program established under
the SAF should reverse this. Effective program implementation is intimately
linked to a continued political consensus on the essential macroeconomic
measures. Resistance to tax increases and limits on expenditure reduction due
to military requirements circumscribe the narrow room for manoeuvre. One
result could be neglect of long term development expenditures for
infrastructure and the social sectors, which might prove harmful in the long
term. Under the new political regime the consensus and necessary discipline
to carry out the required macroeconomic reforms may be put to test. On the
other hand, there is a broad consensus on the proposed financial sector
reforms.
77.      While the reform elements are hardly controversial, the capacity of
the institution to carry them out may have limits. If Government nominates
key personnel without sufficient regard to qualification or if necessary
training is not undertaken, then the reform program may suffer. Reform of the
financial institutions also requires steady improvements in labor-management
relations.



- 25 -
78.      As much as possible, the policies agreed under the SAF and the
proposed loan as well as the technical assistance to be financed under the
concurrent industrial credit lines attempt to contain possible risks.
However, it is ultimately the ability of the new Government to shape an
effective consensus on necessary economic reforms, which will determine the
outcome of the reform program.
PART V. RECOMMENDATION
79.      I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and I recommend that the Executive Directors Approve
the proposed Loan.
Barber B. Conable
President



Page 1 of I
PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Key Indicpto. 188-1990/91
(In Dereant. un1oss ot=hrwie indieatad
Prov.    Off.
Actuals             Actuals   Proj.       Program Projections
1980/81   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88  1988/89    1989/90  1990/91
GOP growth rate (1959/60) market prices)        7.6       8.2       7.8       5.4       5.3      5.2        S.5      5.5
Real consumption/capita growth rate             3.5       5.6       6.2       0.2       2.3      1.1       -0.8      0.8
Debt Service (million USS)                      888a'   1273       1831      2137      2247     2276       2337    2253
Debt service/current receipts                  14.71"   20.9       27.2      30.2      29.7     28.2       26.8     23.8
Debt service/GOP                                3.1t      4.0       5.4       6.0       5.8      5.6        5.4      4.8
Gross investment/GOP                           17.1      16.7      16.4      17.0      16.4    16.2        17.9    18.9
Domestic savings/GOP                            6.3       4.7       7.0      10.5       9.2    10.1        13.0    14.4
National savings/GOP                           13.4      11.4      12.8      15.0      12.3    12.8        15.2    16.4
Marginal national savings rate                    -      -3.2      23.2      37.3      -9.4     15.9       34.3    26.0
Government investment/GOP a'                   10.4       6.5       6.8       5.8       7.0      6.4        7.2      7.4
Government savings/GDP 3                        4.2      -1.1      -0.8      -1.9      -1.6      --         1.8      2.7
Private investment/GOP                          6.7      10.1       9.6      11.2       9.3      9.8       10.8    11.5
Private savings/GOP                             9.7      12.5      13.6      16.8      13.9    12.8        13.2    13.3
Ratio of government/private investment        155.5      64.4      71.1      51.3      75.2    65.4        66.2    64.1
Government revenues/GoP 4'                     17.3      16.6      16.9      17.4      17.6    18.0        19.5    20.0
Government expenditures/GOP 4/                 22.5      24.2      24.6      25.2      26.2    25.0        25.0    24.8
Overall fiscal deficit/GOP 4/                  -5.2      -7.6      -7.6      -7.7      -8.6    -6.5        -5.S     -4.8
Export fob (growth rate)                       19.S      -7.9      19.7      18.9      24.1     13.4       11.7    12.1
Exports/GOP                                     9.9       7.8       8.7       9.9      11.1     11.4       12.7    13.2
Import fob (growth rate)                       14.5       0.3      -0.4      -3.2      18.8      2.9        3.6      8.0
Imports/GDP                                    19.6      19.1      17.6      16.4      17.6    17.4        17.0    17.0
Current account (million US$)                  -991     -1680     -1236      -719    -1594    -1374       -1195   -1196
Current account/GOP                            -3.5      -5.2      -3.6      -2.0      -4.1     -3.4       -2.8    -2.6
Consumer price index                           12.4       6.1       4.6       3.8       6.3      --         --       --
Real effective exchange rate s'                 4.4       --      -14.6    -15.9       -7.1      --         -_       __
Sources: Pakistan authorities, and Fund and Sank staffs estimates and projections.
I Actual payments (scheduled debt service payments totaled US$1.041 million before rescheduling).
2/ Government investment is defined as budgetary development expenditures.
3Sd Budoetary current revenues plus surplus of autonomous bodies less current expenditures.
4/ Includes autonomous bodies.
5/ A minus sign indicates a depreciation.



STATUS OF DANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN                Annex II
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS                 Page I
(as of September 30. 1988) /a & /b
-US I llToEA-
Loan/                                             (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit  Fiscal                                                           Undis-
Number  Year                  Purpose                  Bank      IDA     bursed
119 loans and credits fully disbursed                           950.5  1408.4
754       1978     Salinity Control & Reclamation        -       70.0   49.0
877       1979     Salinity Control & Recl. (Mardan)    -        60.0    33.2
1157/c    1981     Grain Storage                         -       32.0    14.2
1158/c    1981     Agricultural Research                 -       24.0     2.5
2122      1982     Fourth Telecommunications            40.0    -         0.2
2247      1983     Reservoir Maintenance Facilities      10.2             3.9
2324      1983     Fifth Sui Northern Gas Pieline       43.0            11.3
1239/c    1982     Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation    -        40.0     1.5
1243/c    1982     Baluchistan Minor Irrig. & Agr.      -        14.0    11.1
1256/c    1982     Technical Assistance                 -         7.0     0.4
1348/c    1983     Lahore Urban Development             -        16.0    13.7
1350/c    1983     Population                           _        18.0    12.1
1314/c    1983     Karachi Water Supply                 -        25.0    12.3
1375/c    1983     Fourth Drainage                      -        65.0    67.8
2351      1984     Petroleum Exploration                 51.5    -       17.8
2380      1984     Industrial Investment Credit          50.0    -       12.6
1439/c    1984     Industrial Investment Credit         -        50.0    13.0
1461/c    1984     Integrated Hill Farming Dev.         -        21.0    19.0
1480/c    1984     Second Technical Ass4stance          -         7.0     1.4
1487/c    1984     Command Water Management             -        46.5    41.6
1499/c    1984     Second Small Industries              -        50.0    9.6
1532/c     985     Left Bank Outfall Drain - Stage 1   -        150.0   179.2
1533/c    1985     Baluchistan Agricultural Extension   -        8.3      6.6
2499      1985     Fourth WAPDA Power                   100.0    -       89.2
1602/c    1985     Second Primary Education             -        52.5    59.9
1603/c    1985     Second On-Farm Water Management      -        34.5    15.S
2552      1985     Energy Sector Loan                   178.0    -       19.5
2553      1985     Petroleum Resource Joint Venture      55.0    -        7.7
2556      1985     Fifth WAPDA Power                    100.0    -       92.7
2648      1986     Industrial Investment Credit         148.0    -       96.3
1646/c    1986     Industrial Investment Credit         -        2.0      2.1
1652/c    1986     Karachi Special Development          -        70.0    75.4
1670/c    1986     Second Vocational Training           -       40.2    44.4
1693      1986     SCARP Transition Pilot               -        10.0     8.4
1699      1986     Agric. Oev. Bank of Pakistan VI      -        55.0    10.0
2693      1986     Agric. Dev. Bank of Pakistan VI      165.0    -      100.1
2698      1986     Kot Addu Combined Cycle               90.0    -       78.7
2743      1987     Telecommunications V                 100.0    -       77.1
1755/c    1987     Third Technical Assistance           -         7.0     6.0
1762/c    1987     Ag. Extension IV                     -       42.1    41.8
1821/c/d  1987     Third Primary Education              -       145.0   145.6
2792      1987     Power Plant Efficiency                70.0    -       65.0
2814      1987     Fourth Highways                      152.0    -      142.6
2839      1987     Third Small Industries                54.0    -       53.9
2842      1987     Refinery Energy Conservation          21.0    -       19.0
2884      1988     Cement Industry Modernization         96.0            94.0
1888/d    1988     Second Irrigation Systems Rehab.              79.5   75.1
1895      1988     Punjab Urban Development                      90.0    85.0
1936 /d   1988     National Oilseed Development                  20.0    18.7
2973 /d   1988     National Oilsled Development          31.4            31.4
2982 /d   1988     Private Sector Energy Development   1SO.0            150.0
2986 /d   1989     Agriculture Sector Adjustment        2CoD            INAfl
Total                                                   2855.6  O7M  2438.8
of which has been repaid                             _6Q7  9     82.1
Total now outstanding                                   -47      2677.9
Amount sold
of which has been repaid                                 -        -
Total now held by IBRO/IDA                              2247.7  2677.9
Total undisbursed                                       1362.7  1076.1 2438.8
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate re-
port on all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated
twice yearly and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and
October 31.
/b  Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for
projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by
Bangladesh.
/c  IDA Credits under the 6th and 7th Replenishments are denominated in Sofs.
The principal and non-effective Credits are shown in US$ equivalent at the
time of negotiations. Disbursed amounts are computed at the exchange rate
applicable on the transaction dates. Undisbursed amounts are valued at
the exchange rate applicable on the date of this statement.
/d   Not yet effective.



AMIEX It
Page 2
STATUS F or K GPOUP OPRATIANS IN PAKISTAN
B.  STAMtEINT OF !fc iUwSamNS
(AS of Septebr 30. 1986)
Investivnt   Fiscal                                                            mount USS millions
rg    Year          ab igatar                 Tre of lusinoss             Lean     touitv      tOtal
140        19S6       Steel Corp. of Pakistan   Rolled Steel Products         0.63      -        0.63
90         1919        damjee tndustries Ltd.   Textiles                      0.75       -        0.7S
440/920    1962/61    Charibwal Cement            'ement
Industries Ltd.                                      S.25     0.42      5.67
6SS0-S2/   1963/      P?CZC                       Oeveloping Financing
7610-7611  69/7S                                                               -       3.63       3.63
170        196S       Crescent Jute Products    Textiles                      1.84     0.11       1.9S
910/5070/  196S/      Packages Ltd.               Paper Products
6150-51/  80/82
9260-81                                                                      26.01     1.01      27.02
1230-31    1967/76    Pakistan Paper Corp.       Paper
Ltd.                                                   S.38     2.02       7.40
1330       1969       Oawood Hercules            Fertilizers
Chemicals Ltd.                                       1.00     2.92       3.92
4570-73/   1979        1ilkpak Ltd.               Food and food Processing
9410                                                                          2.40     0.41       2.81
4720-21/   1979       Pakistan Oilftields         Chemicals and Petro-
6060/6800             Ltd. and Attock               chemicals
Refinery Ltd.                                         29.00     2.04      31.04
5060       1980       Fauji foundation           Woven Polypropylene Sags   1.78        -         1.78
984        1988       fecto Cement                Cement and Construction
Materials               18.58      -        WS.16
953        1967       Anglo-Suisse                Chemicals and Petro-
chemicals                 -       4.30      4.30
1080       1980       Premier Board Hills Ltd.  Particle Board                2.70      -         2.70
9790       1988       Millat                      Tractors                    4.90      -         4.90
S760-61    1961       Habib Arkady                Food & Food Processing      3.11     0.16       3.31
6210       1982       Asbestos                    Cement                      3.50     O.S1       4.01
6S0-S2/   1983       Pakistan Petroleum          Chemical and Petro-
7610-11                   Ltd.                       chemicals              104.50     1.56    106.06
1069       1989       Shams Textile              Textiles & Fibers            2.89      -        2.89
7S00-7SO0  1985       National Development       Money and Capital Market
Leasing Corp.                                       S.49     0.37      S.86
1070       1989       Suraj Cotton               Textiles S Fibers            2.89      -        2.89
8220-8223  1986       Mari Gas                    Chemicals and Petro-
chemicals              .L 53       _         L.is
Total Gross Commitments                              269.17    19.46    288.63
Less Cancellations. Terminattons.
Repayiments and Sales                             19a.47     4.11    202.S
Total Comitments Now Held by IFC                      70.70 L  L.JI    a.6. s
Undisbur;ed (including Participant;)                  30.03    4.0o    _39L7*



AMREX III
PAKISTAR
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TIMETABLE OF KEY PROJECT PROCESSING EVENTS
(a) Time taken by GOP to prepare the project:      8 months.
(b) Responsible Agencies                           uinistry of Finance, State
Bank of Pakistan, Pakistan
Banking Council
(c) First consideration by the Bank                February 1988
(d) Date of Appraisal Mission                      October 1988
(e) Date of completion of negotiations             February 1989
(f) Planned date of effectiveness                 May 1, 1989



ANNEX IV
Page I of 7
DRAFT
PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Letter of Sector Development Policies
Islamabad, Dated
.1989
Mr Barber B. Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington D. C.
Dear Mr. Conable,
I am writing this letter in reference to the proposed Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan. The Government recognizes the central importance of
financial sector policies in effecting reforms for sustained growth along with
rapid structural transformation of the economy. The Government is determined
not to allow financial sector reforms to be forced upon it as a result of an
acute economic crisis. It has undertaken a series of measures to strengthen
the financial system, and has, agreed with the World Bank to formulate an
additional reform program for the medium-term. This policy statement sets out
the objectives of the resulting reform program and the concrete measures
planned to implement it.
The Government of Pakistan has progressively deregulated the economy
through substantial liberalization measures especially in the areas of
industrial policy as well as rationalization of public investment programs and
utility tariffs. Furthermore, since 1982, the exchange rate has been flexibly
managed. To support adjustment in the real sectors, a healthy and responsive
financial sector is needed that allocates credit efficiently to growth
sectors, provides restructuring services and finance the costs of necessary
adjustment. To this end, steps have been taken to make the financial system
more market-oriented. In the context of Islamization of the financial system,
the Government started to liberalize rates of return. Today, a sizeable part
of lending and deposit rates are no longer subject to binding restrictions.
Important linkages exist between macroeconomic and financial sector
policies. While a sound financial sector is necessary for an economy to carry
out successful macroeconomic adjustment measures, large fiscal deficits can
threaten the health of the sector, particularly the banking system. To
provide an adequate macroeconomic framework, within which the financial sector
can flourish, the Government intends to reduce substantially its fiscal
deficit which has risen to 8.5 percent of GDP in FY88. Under the Government's
medium-term macroeconomic plan, which is spelled out in the Policy Framework
Paper prepared with the Bank and the IMF and is supported by a structural



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 7
adjustment facility of the IMF, the fiscal deficit will be reduced to 6.5
percent in FY89. The agreed targets for FY90 is 5.5 percent and 4.8 for
FY91. Also, measures including operational limits on government's ability to
borrow from the Banking System will be taken to contain the inflation rate at
10 percent in FY89 and at 6 percent by FY91. For any given private sector
credit demand reduced public sector claims on domestic savings would allow
real financial rates which, for some Government debt instruments, exceed the
real rate of GDP growth, to subside. Lower rates would in turn reduce any
incipient financial distress that may arise due to rising real financial rates
and lower, in particular, the budgetary burden of the Government's borrowing
cost.
OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE OF THE PROGRAM
In this environment of fiscal discipline, the Government plans to
introduce a series of reforms in the financial sector. These would cover the
following priority areas:
i) government debt management
ii) monetary management policies
iii) organization and supervision of the banking system
The long-term objective in these areas is to enable the Government to better
achieve its economic policy goals and to increase the efficiency of the
financial system.
The long-term vision that guides the policy of Pakistan is the
creation of a financial system in which:
i)    Government debt is priced and sold in flexible markets, thus
allowing the real cost of Government's borrowing requirement to
be determined;
ii)    monetary policy targets can be enforced through market-based
mechanisms;
iii)    credit is allocated in response to market-determined rates of
return through a system of intermediation, which is able to
adequately serve the growth sectors of the economy, to
contribute to the country's economic development and to raise
the living standards of the population;
iv)    a strong central bank -  in addition to implementing monetary
policy - closely supervises all financial institutions
(including DFIs), provides early warning of impending problems
in the financial system and takes timely preventive action
against them; and



ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 7
v)    healthy financial institutions provide a wide menu of credit aud
financial services in a competitive manner.
To achieve its long-term objectives, the Government has drawn up an
action program that initially covers a two-year period. Implementation,
revision and updating of the program would be overseen by a high-level
committee chaired by the Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Ministry of
Finance, and composed of Representative of the Economic Affairs Division, the
State Bank of Pakistan and the Pakistan Banking Council. The following
sections describe in more detail the elements of the initial two-year program
for each area of reform.
GOVERLNMENT DEBT MANAGEMlENT
In recent years, the Government was able to finance its budget
deficits mostly in a non-inflationary way, by selling a large amount of
Government securities to the non-bank public. Highly advantageous rates of
return were offered to place these securities. As a result, rates of return
on certain Government debt instruments by now widely exceeded the returns on
bank deposits of comparable maturity. Furthermore, Government debt was issued
to the public and the banking system in ways, which disguise the real cost of
Government debt to the economy, drive up the interest rates on private sector
borrowing, while exerting downward pressure on deposit rates, and thus leading
to disintermediation.
The Government now intends to improve and refine the pricing and
marketing of Government debt. To this end, it will introduce an auction
system for Government debt instruments by the end of 1989 which will be
characterized by the following features. The Government has already reduced
the sales commission of the popular Khaas certificates from 1 to 0.5 percent.
When the auction system is made fully operational, existing Government debt
instruments will either be discontinued or in determining their rates of
return the rates obtained at auction will be taken into account. Equally, the
rediscount windows would be adjusted so as not to undermine the development of
secondary markets. In the fully operational auction system, the new auctioned
Treasury bills will be eligible for the liquid asset requirement and the tap
would be closed on existing Treasury bills. Adequate mechanisms have been
designed to ensure that Government borrowings from the State Bank will be at
market rates except to cover temporary short term liquidity shortfalls. In
designing and pricing Government debt instruments, particular attention will
be paid to the preference of small savers for secure returns and the need for
a balanced maturity structure of Government debt. Therefore, liquidity of
debt instruments will be increased through the creation of secondary markets,
which will promote stable conditions for trading of Government's financial
obligations and will reverse financial disintermediation. At the same time,
the increased liquidity of financial instruments will lower rates of return
and reduce the burden of Government debt on the budget if accompanied by
sufficient reduction in Government borrowing requirements as fiscal deficits
are reduced. These measures are expected to support the development of
markets for commercial paper issued by private enterprises as well.



ANNEX IV
Page 4 of 7
Additional measures in connection with the introduction of the
auction will include allowing repurchase agreements, encouraging the
establishment of institutions that would offer money management accounts, and
promoting direct trading of Government securities. To ensure competitive
auctions, adequate rules would be established to license and supervise primary
dealers allowed to bid for treasury bills. Primary dealers will be required
to hold a portfolio of Government securities and to stand ready to post
bid-and offer rates for these securities to enable secondary markets to
develop. To conduct this program of improved debt management, a special
department will be set up in the State Bank of Pakistan. The department would
implement the borrowing strategy formulated by a joint Committee of the
Ministry of Finance and the State Bank of Pakistan.
In addition to its debt, the Government has assumed contingent
liabilities resulting from: guarantees for loans under mandatory credit
programs and loans to public enterprises; full guarantees on all NCB deposits;
and foreign exchange risk coverage for foreign loans and letters of credit.
The Government recognizes that these contingent risks needs to be managed
prudently. In the case of such risks associated with foreign exchange, the
Government also recognizes that both direct and contingent external
liabilities should be managed jointly in a manner that does not result in
inefficient price discrimination against a particular group of creditors. It
is the intention of the Government to introduce such a management policy when
Pakistan achieves susti-inable macroeconomic conditions. The Government plans
to conduct a study to assess comprehensively all of its existing and
contingent 'iabilities, and to formulate appropriate management strategy of
such liabilities as well as alternative options available for implementation.
MONETARY MANAGEMENT POLICES
Monetary management is being exercised in Pakistan using a set of
instruments comprising rate of return policies, credit allocation schemes,
refinancing facilities and credit lines provided by the State Bank of
Pakistan, reserve and liquid asset requirements as well as ceilings on
system-wide credit expansion. These instruments have enabled the Government
to pursue the overall monetary policy goals of domestic price stability,
growth and balance of payments equilibrium, as well as more detailed sectoral
targets. The Government now plans to sharpen further the market orientation
of the policy instruments, improve their coordination and interaction and
reduce unintended side effects.
In the early stages of credit market development in Pakistan certain
sectors such as small scale industry and agriculture had limited access to
credit. The Government has attempted to provide funds to such sectors through
subsidized and targeted credit. However, by now, a more sophisticated system
of financial intermediation has developed and banks are3 developing their
capabilities to lend to neglected sectors. Furthermo.e, subsidized programs
are costly and subject to abuse as credit is channelled to unintended and
uneconomic uses. Therefore, it is the Government's policy to eventually free
all rates of return, abolish sectoral credit targets, and to allow market
forces to determine their structure and level.



ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 7
As a first step to phase out concesp',onal rates of return, the
Government has raised the rate of return for the small scale agriculture
program from zero to 8 percent and the rates on other programs to 6 percent,
(i.e. locally manufactured machinery at. export credit). By FY1991, the
Government will ensure that the rates on all concessional credit programs
(including housing) will exceed the expected rate of inflation. To further
deregulate the market for long-term debt, the practice of obligatory
consortium financing will be discontinued and financial institutions will be
free to negotiate fees and rates for syndicated advances.
In addition to liberalizing rates of return, the Government plans to
reduce the dimension and incidence of directed credit programs as financial
institutions gain experience in and become more attracted to lending to
important sectors such as small scale enterprises. As a first step, the
annual net increase in mandatory credit targets/ceilings (fixed investment,
agriculture, tobacco marketing, small industry, small business) as a
percentage of total net incremental private sector credit will be limited to
the ratios obtained in FY88/89. However, sector specific credit lines e.g.
from the ADB or from the World Bank will be additional . The asset quality of
the loans extended under the mandatory and concessional lending programs will
be monitored annually.
The subsidized credit programs are at present partly supported by
low-cost State Bank refinancing. To provide greater incentives for resource
mobilization, the Government will implement a program to reduce State Bank
credit lines and thus, induce financial institutions to raise deposits.
Refinancing facilities for the industrial development finance institutions
have already been cut back.
ORGANIZATION AND SUPERVISION OF THE BANKING SYSTEiM
For many years, the State Bank of Pakistan and the nationalized
banking system have effectively supported a vigorous development of financial
intermediation. The Government, with the help of the Pakistan Banking Council
and the State Bank of Pakistan, has guided the banking system through
difficult times partly caused by portfolio problems in the banks which date
back to the large-scale devaluation of 1972. A'variety of measures were taken
to improve the responsiveness and health of the banking sector. For example,
the entry of foreign private banks, of which there are now 17 in Pakistan, was
facilitated, providing additional competition and thus enriching the provision
of services. The capital base of the nationalized commercial banks has also
been continuously strengthened in recent years, although portfolio problems
continue to exist.
The Government recognizes that sound financial institutions, which
can withstand exogenous shocks, are essential for fostering a healthy and
growing economy.  It >   efore intends to further strengthen the financial
system by: (i) improving prudential regulations and strengthening supervisory
institutions; (ii) reforming the legal and administrative bases for the debt
recovery system; (iii) reforming management of nationalized banks and
restructuring their financial position, where necessary; and (iv) increasing
competition through entry of private financial institutions.



ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 7
New prudential regulations for all financial institiutions on loan
classification, accrual and provisioning policy, exposure limits and audit
requirements for borrowers have already been issued. On this basis, a
comprehensive portfolio audit of the five Nationalized Commercial Banks, which
account for 80 percent of the banks' loans, has been undertaken. At this
time, action programs for each Nationalized Commercial Bank are being drawn up
with a target capital-liability asset ratio of three percent to be achieved by
1991. These programs will be formulated and initiated by December 1989. In
the formulation of these programs, the full range of options to recapitalize
and restructure problem banks will be considered including privatization
options with a view to ensure that in the future the incidence of classified
loans will be reduced. The State Bank is vested with powers to deal with
problem banks and will restructure such banks as and when deemed appropriate.
The State Bank of Pakistan will start supervising financial
institutions such as leasing companies, mudarabas and the new investment banks
as of July 1989. In the medium term and as development finance institutions
develop into full scale banks, the supervision of all such financial
institutions will be unified under the State Bank of Pakistan.
In addition, the State Bank is establishing a credit bureau which
will pool information from all financial institutions on their customer's
exposure and payment record and make it available to banks for credit
decisions. The Government intends to strengthen the State Bank of Pakistan to
easure that it can adequately fulfill its supervisory functions as well as
those related to Government debt management and monetary policy. To this end,
a review of the State Bank's organization will be carried out in 1989 with a
view to designing additional measures to strengthen the Bank.
As a crucial complement to improved banking supervision, the
Government has prepared a set of concrete measures to improve the recovery of
bad debts. They consist of changes in laws and procedures to enable speedier
pracessing of court cases and effective mechanisms to seize and dispose of
collateral. Bankruptcy and liquidation procedures will equally be reformed.
In addition, the number of banking courts and their staffing will be
increased. -he Government intends to implement this program over the coming
two years. The program will be complemented by specific arrears reduction
programs both for public and private sector debt. In particular, all arrears
of uncollectible Government guaranteed debt are to be settled by end June
1989, and you will be informed accordingly.
Better supervision and debt recovery procedures will provide the
framework for improved bank performance. To also provide banks with the
incentive to perform better, the Government intends to follow a two-pronged
strategy of: (i) increased privatization of the banking system; and
(ii) greater autonomy and accountability for the Nationalized Commercial
Banks. The Government has authorized several applicants to apply for
licensing as private investment banks. Issuance of a final license to operate
is expected by mid-1989. To be able to grow and become a meaningful
competitive force quickly, these banks will initially operate outside the
system of credit ceilings. Over the medium term the



ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 7
investment banks will be allowed to graduate into full-fledged commercial
banks.
In addition, several measures have been taken to improve the autonomy
and accountability of the Nationalized Commercial Banks. These include: (i) a
policy to divest up to 20 percent of the authorized commercial banks;
(ii) introduction of a performance evaluation system and corresponding systems
of compensation and sanctions; (iii) restriction of the role and staffing of
the Pakistan Banking Council to that of an advisory body to the banks's
ownership and, by the same token, granting of full autonomy to the boards of
the Nationalized Commercial Banks (iv) improvements of credit policies and
procedures (e.g. denial of credit to defaulters), as well as internal
organization and information systems. The Government will ensure through
these and additional measures that may become necessary that the NCBs will be
healthy and efficient banks.
The Government believes that the implementation of the action program
will result in a sound, efficient and diversified financial system, capable of
mobilizing both short- and long-term resources and allocating them
efficiently, thus facilitating investment and growth. A dynamic and
responsive financial system will also permit more effective monetary
management. However, it is recognized that reforms in the financial system
will not in themselves lead to ir.creased investment and growth.  Macroeconcmic
and structural policy reforms under the planned adjustment program are
necessary to create growth opportunities as well as a stable and favorable
business environment to ensure that these opportunities are translated into
investment decisions.
In view of the initiatives and actions already taken by the
Government of Pakistan in the formulation and implementation of the Financial
Sector Adjustment Program, the Government requests your favorable
consideration for the extension of a Financial Sector Adjustment Loan to
support the program in the amount of at least US$150 million. The Government
would also appreciate IBRD's assistance in organizing cofinancing from other
multilateral or bilateral sources to support the program.
With best regards.
Yours sincerely,



AIIEX V
Page I of 6
Financial Sector Ai4usttmnt Loan
Overview Matrix
Key Reform Areas                   First Phase                             Second has                               NediiXO T
(By Board Presentation)                 (By Second Tranche Release)             (Potential Future Loans)
i) Government Debt Management.   Program for introducing market              Rationalisation of rate              Full development of
based borrowing program.                 structure on government             secondary markets.
securities and full auction         Ref1nenwnt of monetary
program.  Establishment of          control mechanisms.
revised rediscount
facilities.
11) Interest Rate Policy            Increase of concessional                 Further movement toward              M4arket determinated rates
and Directed Credit.           interest rates. market                   market rates of interest             and abolition of credit
determinated long ter                                                        targets.
credit rates, limit on
directed credit and monitoring
of asset quality under
directed credit schemes.
ii) Bank Superv1sion.               Tighter prudential regulation.           Restructuring/recapitaliza-          Unified prudential
Restructuring, and              improved supervisory framework.          tion of major banks, first           regulation and supervision
Legal Reforms.                  portfolio audit of maJor banks.          steps to unify supervision           of all financial institutions
improved credit policies and            of financial institutions            under State Bank. further
reform of legal system for debt         under the State Bank.                improvements in supervision
recovery.                                                                    and credit policies.
iv) Autoncom,                       Improved Autonomy and Accounta-                                               Graduation of private invest-
Accountability and              bility for Nationalised Commer-                                               ment banks into full fledged
Competition in the              cial Banks (NCBs), licensing of                                               banks. disinvestment of lCBs.
Banking System.                 new private investment banks.
I~~~~ I.



ANNEX V
Page 2 of 6
PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Matrix of Prooosed Aareement and Action
A. DEbT MANAGEMENT
Schedule of Proposed Agreements/Actions
Area of Refonr             Actions Taken Before Board Presentation          Conditions of Second Tranche Release
1. Auction Program       Announcement of Government program to issue          Implementation of full auction
for GOP debt.        three to twelve months securities at                 program incl.
auction.  Preparations underway to uppoint            - setting up primary dealer network
primary dealers and to set up proper                 with obligation to provide two-way
institutions/procedures at the State                 quotations to ensure full secondary
Bank of Pakistan and the Ministry of                market.
Finance.                                              - ensuring that yield on all
Government paper on tap for relevant
maturities is linked to the returns
obtained at auction to avoid
arbitrary floor for rates on
Government paper.
- adjusting rediscount policies
to enable full secondary market to
develop
- allowing repurchase agreements to
develop liquid secondary markets.
- setting up appropriate departments
at the SBP (incl. training) and
adequate
coordination and planning mechanism
for issuance of debt.
- mechanism to ensure that government
issues paper to SBP at market rates.
while allowing direct ad-hoc
financing of GOP from S8P in the
short-term to meet liquidity
short-falls.
- eligibility of auctioned T-bills
for Liquid Asset Requirement and
closing of tap for other T-bills.
2. Management of           Terms of Reference for Study of GOP                  Completion of Study.
GOP contingent         contingent liabilities agreed.  Government
liabilities.           working group appointed.



ANNEX V
Page 3 of 6
PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR AOJUSTMENT LOAN
MatriJx f ProDosed Aareement and Action
B. MONETARY MANAGEMENT
Schedule of Proposed Agreements/Actions
Area of Reform             Actions Taken Before Board Presentation         Conditions of Second Tranche Release
1. Concessional Credits   Rate of Return for Small Agriculture scheme          Raise rates of return on all
(Export Finance, LMM, raised to 8%; rate of return for locally             concessional schemes to positive
Agriculture,           manufactured machinery raised to 6X.                real rates.  (expected inflation
Mousing).                                                                  defined as agreed under SAF
program).
2. Credit Allocation       Mandatory credit targets limited as percentage    Adherence to agreed policy
Programs.              of total private sector credit (incl. Fixed
Investment, Small Industry and Business Credit,
Agricultural Credit, Tobacco Marketing) but
excluding special credit programs such as
World Bank, IDA, AOS, etc. loans/credits.
(Base Year FY89).
Performance incl. incidence of non-performing
assets under schemes subject to credit
targets and/or concessional rates is being
monitored.
3. Limit automatic         Credit lines to PICIC, BEL, IOBP, ICP being         Adherence to agreed policy;
refinancing and        phased out.  SBP credit lines for financial         issuance of time-bound action
credit lines by S8P   institutions limited as percentage of total          plan and completion of
to special credit      private sector credit (Base Y.aar rYa9).            portfolio audit for HBFC.
schemes and
institutions (e.g.
ADBP. HOFC, FBC).



AHNEX
Page 4 of 6
PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Matrix of Propose Aareement And Actions
C.  HEALTH OF THE BANKING SYSTEM
(Supervision/Regulation)
Schedule of Proposed Agreements/Actions
Area of Reform             Actions Taken Before Board Presentation          Conditions of Second Tranche Release
1. Improvement of          Full set of tightened prudential regulations
prudential             issued by SBP (Annex VI).
regulations (loan
classification,
provisioning,
accrual policy,
capital adequacy).
2. Strengthening of SSP:
i) Unify supervision of                                                         Authorization of SBP to supervise
financial institu-                                                          modarabas. leasing companies and
tions under SBP                                                             investment banks and establishment
of requisite capability in SBP.
ii) Increased              SBP initiated review of its organization             Review completed and
autonomy.             under TOR agreed with the Bank.                      recommendations made.
3. Credit Bureau           Art.25(a) of Banking Companies Ordinance             Establishment of Credit Bureau
allows SBP to operate Credit Bureau.                as separate unit/department at
Consultants from Bank of France advising SBP.        SeP.



Page 5 of 6
PAKISTAN
FINANClAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Matrix of Proposed Aareements and Actions
0. HfALTH Of BANKING SYSTEM
Schedule of Proposed Agreement/actions
AreL of RlefoD             Actions Taken Before Board Presentation        Conditigns of Second Tranche Release
1. Recapitalization/      First test portfolio audit under new                Concrete program for capital
Restructuring of      regulations and preliminary assessment              build-up and operational
NCBs.                 of additional capital requirement completed.        restructuring and progress in
accordance with programs. First
regular ageing report based on new
prudential regulations.
2.  lmproving system for  Draft propoasls to streamline legal                 submission of required legal
debt recovery:        procedures and strengthen court system.             awendments to parliament to improve
i) Improvements of                                                            legal procedures.  Establishment of
procedures.                                                               new courts.
organizations
(e.g. special
court, liquidation
departments in
NCSS. etc.)
ii) Program to recover    Proposal to settle Government guaranteed            Settlement of Government guaranteed
arrears of publicly   debt agreed between Government and banks.           debt (condition of effectivenessl.
guaranteed debt
and arrears of
private debtors.



Page 6 of 6
PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
E. EFSCSIICXY OF TNE BANGTN- SYST,EM
Schedule of Proposed Agreement/Action
Area of Rgfom              Actions Taken Bgfore Board PreSentation          Conditions of Second Tranche Release
1. Private financial       Legislation authori2ing private domestic
Institutions           investment banks passed.  I private
investment bank authorized to apply for
license. Disinvestment of NCBs up to 20%
announced.
2. Autonomy and
Accountability of
NCBs.
i) Structure of PBC and   New law passed and notifications issued
Board of NCBs.         providing greater autonomy to NCBs and
restricting role of PBC.
ii) Credit Policies/
Processes             Guidelines issued concerning denial of credit to
defaulters (incl. parastatals). abolition of
obligatory consortium financing and other
matters.



ANNEX VI
Page I of 3
PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Guidelines for Classification of Workina Capital Advances
(Multitransaction Accounts & Trade Bills)
L     FICATI                  DETIRIINAMI                    TREATMENT OF INCOME                PROVISIONS TO BE MADE
1.  OAEM (Other Assets     Where mark-up/interest or           Unrealised mark-up/interest to      Provision of 2% of the differ-
Especially              principal is overdue (past due)   be put in Suspense Account and       ence resulting from the out-
Mentioned)              by 90 days from the due date.      not to be credited to Income        standing balance of principal
Account.                            less the amount of liquid
assets realisable without
recourse to a court of law.*
2.  Substandard            Where mark-up/interest or                                               Provision of 25% of the differ-
principal is overdue by 180            As Above                        ence resulting from the out-
days or more from the due date.                                        standing balance of principal
less the amount of liquid
assets realisable without
recourse to a court of law.*
3.  Doubtful                Whe"e mark-up/interest or                                              Provision of 50% of the differ-
principal is overdue by one            As Above                        ence resulting from the out-
year or more from the due                                              standing balance of principal
date.                                                                  less the amount of liquid
assets realisable without
recourse to a court of law.*
4.  Loss                    (a)  Where mark-up/interest or                                         Provision of 100% of the
principal is overdue beyond            As Above                        outstanding balance of
two years from the due date.                                           principal.
(b)  Where Trade Bills (import,        As Above
export or inland bills) are                                               As Above
not paid/adJusted within
180 days of the due date
* Liquid asset means realisable amount of bank deposits, certifica es of deposit, government securities, shares of listed
companies, NIT units, certificates of Mutual funds inventories pleW3ed to the Bank with possession with 'perfected lien'
duly supported with flawless documentation.



Page 2 of 3
FIUAUA  SCIW ADJUSnIG   LOA
Suiddelin  for -lassification of Mvaen
CLASSIZECWA                    iiinia                      T3IAT  OF nIUE                     PIVXSIIS T BE IOME
1. OAD                    there installment of                 nrealize  interestArk-u  to       Provision of 21 of tl# differ-
(Other assets        prtncipal or tnterestfrk-up       be put in Suspese Account           enee resulting fr& tie out-
especially          is owerdue (past due) by 180     a&X not to be credited               standing balance of principal
mentioned           days or more from the due date    to Income Account                   less the asmmt of liquid
assets realisable without
recourse to a court of la".*
2. Substandard             Where installment of                                                  Provision of 25S of the differ-
principal or interest/mark-up                                        ence resulting from the out-
is overdue by one year or more           As Above                    standing balance of principal
less the amount of liquid
assets realisable without
recourse to a court of law.'
3.  Doubtful              W%here installment of                                                  Provision of 50S of the differ-
principal or interest/mark-up                                        ence resulting from tlhe out-
Is overdue by two years or               As Above                    standing balance of principal
more                                                                  less the amount of liquid
assets realisable without
recourse to a court of law.*
4.  Loss                   Where installment of                                                  Provision of 100m of the
principal or interest/mark-up                                        outstanding balance of
is overdue by 3 years or more            As Above                    principal.
* Liquid asset means realisable amount of bank deposits, certificates of deposit, governsent securities, shares of listed
companies, NIT units, certificates of Mutual funds inventories pledged to the Bank wilth possession with 'perfected lien'
duly supported with flawless documentation.



ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3
PAKISTAN
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Guidelines for Classification of Seasonal Advances
CLASSIlFICATION               DETERICI                        TREATMfNT OF INCOME                  PROVISION TO BE MAOE
Seasonal Advances          (0)  - Where mark-up/interest        (i)  -  Unrealised mark-up/         (0)  -  Provision of 50  of the
(Allowed to Cotton          or priicipal is over due (past    interest to be put in Suspense         difference resulting from the
ginners. Sugar Mills.       due) by 90 days from the due        Account and not to be credited       outstanding balance of princi-
Rice husking Mills.         date                                to Income Account                    pal less the amount of liquid
Tobacco Companies                                                                                    assets realisable without
recourse to a court of law.'
Aaricultural Production    (1i)  - Where mark-up/interest                                           (0i)  -  Provision of 100t of
Loan$                   or principal is overdue (past           As Above                         tne outstanding balance of
Suaar Cane                  due) by 180 days from the                                                principal.
Kahrif Crnn.                due date
(Repayment 12 months
from the date of
disbursement.)
Rab Cron:~
(Repayment of 18 months
from the date of
disbursement)
Other CrOpS
tl) Mark-un Free basis
(Period of repayment
12 months from the
date of disbursement
and if loan is not
received within the
stipulated period it
becomes mark-up/
interest bearing.)
(ii) Mark-uo/Interest Basis
(Period of repayment
2 months from the
harvesting of the
crop).
* Liquid asset means realisable amount of bank deposits, certificates of deposit, government securities, shares of listed
companies, NIT units, certificates of Mutual funds inventories pledged to the Bank with posbcssion with 'perfected lien'
duly supported with flawless documentation.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 16248R1
64-                                                         h!           U. S.
CHINA
PAKISTAN
3    NATIONAL CAPITAL
CITIES AND TOWNS
NATIONAL ROADS
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY ROADS
RAILWAYS
+    AIRPORTS                                                                          U \  Cel *I
-  -   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                     Choe
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                       \ S5 A AB0
RIVERS                                                                           t 0  r I
-32-                                                                                                                 /
J AFGHANISTAN                                                  )    P UJB
;                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INDIA
-28             t                          \ t   +       }      ,       /                 /                              28'
ISLAMIC      j                          )                   y                      .
REPUBLIC OF                                        / .
IRAN          .                   /                  XK"^oro    !                  o,    l100    200      300    400
>-N| z  l t tq  D   <                  KILOMETERS
O    50   100   150   200   250
s.i( ^_   t   ,Sof  tlo   Nowobthoh  i           I        MILES
,l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _                              Ht  yde~bGd  \ x _I_Wo
We~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T ou, a&*- SW owbw
*bIt.0 s of The WOWSdSw*
W$ end 5* bow-n.I*-1a
-24                                              -n 5* *do dO not- f14. on Sefnellw*^do                                 24
Pon0 Ofe no w" o* &nd N".
Arobton   Sea                 >           w                                        - "'-
*om*V. oc dot*2'  ot
MARCH 1967



