Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3029 PAK
                (Financial Sector Adjustment Loan)
                              between
                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated April 14, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3029 PAK
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April 14,  1989, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN acting by its  President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated February 22,
1989,  from  the  Borrower   describing   a  program  of  actions,
objectives and policies designed  to achieve structural adjustment
of the financial  sector  of  the  Borrower's economy (hereinafter
called the Program),  declaring  the  Borrower's commitment to the
execution of the Program, and  requesting assistance from the Bank
in the financing of  urgently  needed imports required during such
execution; and
     (B)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of  the  Program  to provide such assistance to
the Borrower by making  the  Loan  in  two tranches as hereinafter
provided;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof  set  forth  below  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project' means the  imports  and other activities that
     may be financed out of  the  proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
     the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c)  Not later than  six  months after the Closing Date
     or such later date as may  be agreed for this purpose between
     the Borrower and  the  Bank,  the  Borrower shall prepare and
     furnish to the  Bank  a  report,  of  such  scope and in such
     detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution
     of the  program  referred  to  in  the  Preamble  to the Loan
     Agreement, the performance by  the  Borrower  and the Bank of
     their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
     accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and
     (c)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means the  Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986);
     (b)  "Rs" and "rupees" mean the currency of the Borrower;
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "FY" or "fiscal year"  means the Borrower's fiscal year,
covering the period July 1 through June 30;
     (e)  "GDP" means the gross domestic product;
     (f)  "HBFC"  means  the  Borrower's  House  Building  Finance
Corporation;
     (g)  "FBC" means the Borrower's Federal Bank of Cooperatives;
     (h)  "SBP" means the State Bank of Pakistan;
     (i)  "NCBs"  mean  collectively  the  Nationalized Commercial
Banks; and
     (j)  "PBC" means the Pakistan Banking Council.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or  referred to in the Loan  Agree-
ment, an amount in  various  currencies  equivalent to one hundred
Page  3
fifty million dollars ($150,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Program,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in SBP on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the  Bank.  Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account  shall  be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 30, 1990 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the  Bank  shall  notify  the   Borrower  the  Cost  of  Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. (a) SBP is  designated as representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  taking  any  action  required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction  to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby entrusts SBP  with responsibility for the prepara-
tion of withdrawal applications under the Loan and for the collec-
tion of the documents and  other  evidence  to be furnished to the
Bank in support of such applications.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower  and  the Bank shall from time
to time, at the  request  of  either  party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in  carrying  out  the  Program  and the actions
Page  4
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for  its  review  and  comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out  the  Program, in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed  by  the  provisions  of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the expen-
ditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal  year audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, a  certified  copy of the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records and accounts and the audit thereof
               as the  Bank  shall  from  time  to time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
        (i)    maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and  that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
Page  5
that a situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  5.01.  The  following   event  is  specified  as  an
additional condition to  the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Borrower  has  furnished  to the Bank evidence of
the settlement, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, of debt owed
to the NCBs and guaranteed by the Borrower.
     Section 5.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided  in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the Secretary to  the  Government of Pakistan, Economic
Affairs Division, or  any  Additional  Secretary, Joint Secretary,
Deputy Secretary,  or  Section  Officer  in  that  Division of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Economic Affairs Division
          Islamabad
          Pakistan
          Cable address:                      Telex:
          ECONOMIC                              ECDIV-05-634
          Islamabad
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                        By /s/ M. Afzal
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  6
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ H. E. Kûpp
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   Subject to the provisions  set  forth  or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan  may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if  the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in  respect  of  the  reasonable  cost  of goods required
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such
proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any  successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as  designated by the Bank by notice
to the Borrower:
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
      112                    -              Alcoholic beverages
      121                    -              Tobacco,    unmanufac-
                                            tured, tobacco refuse
      122                    -              Tobacco,  manufactured
                                            (whether  or  not con-
                                            taining  tobacco  sub-
                                            stitutes)
      525                    -              Radioactive  and asso-
                                            ciated materials
      667                    -              Pearls,  precious  and
                                            semi-precious  stones,
                                            unworked or worked
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
      718                    718.7          Nuclear  reactors, and
                                            parts   thereof,  fuel
                                            elements (cartridges),
                                            non-irradiated     for
                                            nuclear reactors
      897                    897.3          Jewelry    of    gold,
                                            silver   or   platinum
                                            group  metals  (except
                                            watches    and   watch
                                            cases) and goldsmiths'
                                            or silversmiths' wares
                                            (including set gems)
       971                      -           Gold,     non-monetary
                                            (excluding  gold  ores
                                            and concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in  the  currency  of  the  Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
Page  7
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than $50,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.   No withdrawal  shall  be  made  and  no  commitment  shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or  on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed  out of the proceeds of the
Loan after the aggregate  of  the  proceeds  of the Loan withdrawn
from the Loan Account  and  the  total  amount of such commitments
shall have reached the equivalent  of $75,000,000, unless the Bank
shall be satisfied, after  an  exchange  of  views as described in
Section 3.01 of this  Agreement  based on evidence satisfactory to
the Bank: (a) with the  progress  achieved  by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program, and (b) that the actions described in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken.
4.   If, after the  exchange  of  views  described  in paragraph 3
above, the Bank shall have  given  notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved  and  actions  taken  are  not satisfactory and,
within 90 days  after  such  notice,  the  Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then
the Bank may, by  notice  to  the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal*
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)
September 15, 1994                                2,755,000
March 15, 1995                                    2,860,000
September 15, 1995                                2,970,000
March 15, 1996                                    3,080,000
September 15, 1996                                3,200,000
March 15, 1997                                    3,320,000
September 15, 1997                                3,450,000
March 15, 1998                                    3,580,000
September 15, 1998                                3,720,000
March 15, 1999                                    3,860,000
September 15, 1999                                4,010,000
March 15, 2000                                    4,160,000
September 15, 2000                                4,320,000
March 15, 2001                                    4,485,000
September 15, 2001                                4,655,000
March 15, 2002                                    4,835,000
September 15, 2002                                5,020,000
March 15, 2003                                    5,210,000
September 15, 2003                                5,410,000
March 15, 2004                                    5,620,000
September 15, 2004                                5,835,000
March 15, 2005                                    6,055,000
September 15, 2005                                6,290,000
March 15, 2006                                    6,530,000
September 15, 2006                                6,780,000
March 15, 2007                                    7,040,000
September 15, 2007                                7,305,000
March 15, 2008                                    7,585,000
September 15, 2008                                7,875,000
Page  8
March 15, 2009                                    8,185,000
________________________
*   The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar  equivalents
    determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withddrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
   Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                    0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before                    1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of  goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $10,000,000 or  more  each  shall be awarded through
international competitive  bidding  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such advertisements should be  placed  in  at least one news-
     paper of general circulation  in  the Borrower's country and,
Page  9
     in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a  notice  in   the   United  Nations  publication,
               Development Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical journal  of  wide  international circula-
               tion; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56  of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to  cost the equivalent of less
than $10,000,000 each shall be awarded  on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
3.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan  Account  in  respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such  contract,  together with the analysis of
the respective bids and  recommendations  for award, a description
of the  advertising  and  tendering  procedures  followed and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
4.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in paragraph 2 of
this Schedule, the Borrower  shall  furnish  to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documenta-
tion and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs  3 and 4 of this
Schedule, where payments under a  contract  are  to be made out of
the proceeds of the Special  Account,  the copies of such contract
or the documentation and  the  information  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to the provisions  of  paragraph 3 or paragraph 4 of
this Schedule, as the case may  be, shall be furnished to the Bank
as part of the evidence  required  under paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
6.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs  3, 4 and 5 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan  Account  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure.
                            SCHEDULE 4
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   Reduction of the  fiscal  deficit  to  6.5%  of  GDP in FY89;
achievement  of  progress,  satisfactory   to  the  Bank,  towards
reducing the fiscal deficit to  5.5%  of GDP in FY90; and adoption
of monetary policy measures, satisfactory to the Bank, with a view
to reducing the rate of inflation to 6% by FY91.
2.   Adoption  of  measures,   satisfactory   to   the  Bank,  for
Page  10
establishing an auction system for, and for developing a secondary
market in, government securities.
3.   Completion of a study to  develop  a strategy for the prudent
management of the government's contingent liabilities.
4.   Achievement of positive real  lending  rates under all of the
government's concessional credit schemes.
5.   Adherence to the limits  on  the government's directed credit
schemes as specified in the Program.
6.   Adherence to limits, satisfactory to  the Bank, on the credit
lines provided by SBP to  the financial institutions, issuance for
HBFC of a policy  statement  and  action  plan satisfactory to the
Bank and completion, in  accordance  with criteria satisfactory to
the Bank, of a portfolio audit for HBFC.
7.   Completion of a study to recommend measures for strengthening
SBP's organization and  personnel  policies,  the authorization of
SBP to regulate  and  supervise  leasing  companies, mudarabas and
investment  banks,  and  the   establishment  within  SBP  of  the
inspection capability required therefor.
8.   Establishment of a credit bureau in SBP, to serve as a source
of credit checks for  financial  institutions while reviewing loan
applications.
9.   Commencement of a phased  program,  satisfactory to the Bank,
for the recapitalization of NCBs.
10.  Adoption  of  measures,   satisfactory   to   the  Bank,  for
increasing the numbers  of  special  banking courts and tribunals;
and submission to the  legislature of proposed legislation, satis-
factory to the Bank, to streamline the jurisdiction and procedures
of such courts and tribunals.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Program and to be financed out  of the proceeds of the Loan in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (b)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $25,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
Page  11
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits into the  Special  Account at such inter-
                vals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to para-
                graph 4 of this  Schedule  for the payment or pay-
                ments  in  respect   of   which  replenishment  is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have
                requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the Loan
Account in the respective  equivalent  amounts  as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan, less the
amount of any outstanding  special  commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General Conditions with
respect to the Project, shall  equal the equivalent of $50,000,000
twice  the  amount  of   the  Authorized  Allocation.  Thereafter,
withdrawal from  the  Loan  Account  of  the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan shall follow  such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account:  (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified  by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly  upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as  the  Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Page  12
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant  provisions of  this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
