Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6839-ES
TECHNICAL ANNEX
EL SALVADOR
PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN (PSM-TAL)
August 5, 1996
Sector Leadership Group
Central America Country Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



Currency Equivalents
(As of July, 1996)
Currency Unit = Colon (¢)
US$ 1.0 = ¢8.72
LIST OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ANDA          A dministraci6n Nacional de A cueductos y A lcantarillados
ANTEL         A dministraci6n Nacional de Telecomunicaciones
BCR            Banco Central de Reserva (Central Bank)
CEL            Comisi6n Ejecutiva Hidroelectrica del Rio Liempa
CEPA           Comisi6n Ejecutiva Portuaria A ut6noma
COM            Comite de A,odernizaci6n (Committee for Modernization)
CPMSP          Comrisionado Presidencial para la 1lodernizaci6n del Sector Pubhlico / Comisi6n Presidencial para la
.Afodernizaci6n del Sector Puiblico
FUSADES        Fundaci6n Salvadoreha para el Desarrollo Economico y Social (Salvadoran Foundation for Economic
and Social Development)
GTZ            Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (Gerrnan Technical Assistance Agency)
HRIS/SIRH      Human Resources Information System / Sistema de Informaci6n de Recursos Humanos
HRM            Human Resources Management
EBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
[FM/AFI        Integrated Financial Management / Admninistraci6n Financiera Integrada
INCAFE         Instituto Nacional del Cafi (National Coffee Institute)
INPEP         Instituto Nacional de Pensiones para Empleados Ptublicos (National Pensions Institute for Public
Employees)
IRP            Institutional Restructuring Plans
ISSS          Instituto Salvadorenio del Seguro Social (Salvadoran Social Securitv Institute)
MICDES         .Ifinisterio de Coordinaci6n v Desarrollo Econ6inico y Social (Ministry for Economic and Social
Coordination and Development)
MINEC          A<finisterio de Economia (Ministry of Economy)
MINHAC         A-finisterio de Hacienda (Ministry of Finance)
MIPRE         Itfinisterio de la Presidencia (Ministry of the Presidency)
MITRA          ifinisterio de Trabajo (Ministry of Labor)
MOP           ,finisterio de Obras Puiblicas (Ministry of Public Works)
MRI           Mv6dulo de Recolecci6n Institucional
MRREE          Afinisterio de Relaciones Exteriores (Ministry of Foreign Relations)
NFPS           Non-Financial Public Sector
NPC            National Project Coordinator
PCU            Project Coordination Unit
PNC            Policia Nacional Civil (National Civic Police)
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
PSM            Public Sector Modernization
PSM-TAL        Public Sector Modernization-Technical Assistance Loan
PSMP           Public Sector Modernization Program
PSP            Private Sector Participation
SAFI           Sistema de Ad,ninistraci6n Financiera Integrada (Integrated Financial Management System)
SAL            Structural Adjustment Loan
SAP            Structural Adjustment Program
SCL            Single Currency Loan
TAL            Technical Assistance Loan
UNDP           United Nations Development Programme
USAID          United States Agency for International Development



TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION A: PROJECT DESCRIPTION ......................................................                                                          I
Background ......................................................................I
Ongoing Public Sector Reform ......................................................................3
Project Objectives ......................................................................4
Project Description ......................................................................4
Institutional Restructuring and Debureaucratization ......................................................................................5
Human Resources Management ...                                                                             .. ....... 10
Financial Resource Management .13.......................................................... ............ 13
Privatization and Private Sector Participation in the Provision of Public Services ................................................... 18
Project Coordination .2...............................................                                                         .....  24
Project Costs and Financing .25
SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION ................................ 27
Organization and Implementation ......................................................................                                    27
Training Plan ......................................................................                                                      28
Procurement ......................................................................                                                        28
Disbursements and Financing ......................................................................                                        30
Accounts and Audits ......................................................................                                                30
ANNEXES
Annex A: Draft Matrix of Key Project Activities
Annex B: Estimated Cost and Financing Plan
Annex C: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex D: Organizational Chart of the Executive Organ of the Government
Annex E: Preliminary Training Plan
Annex F: Central Government: Employment Data
Annex G: Modernization of Infrastructure
Annex H: PSM-TAL Field Supervision Plan
This report and the accompanying Memorandum of the President are based on the findings of preparation, preappraisal, and appraisal
missions that visited El Salvador from December 1994 to February 1996. Main contributors to the reports and mission participants were
Harald Fuhr (Task Manager), M6nica Fidel, Kai Hertz (Consultant), LASLG; Aldo Baietti and Charles Thomas (PSDPS); Monika
Queisser (FSD); Raimundo Arroio (Consultant). Other contributors to the project were Ellis Juan (PSD), Carlos Gabuardi, Marta Molares-
Halberg (LEGLA), Rosita Estrada (RIM, Costa Rica), and Mauricio Mathov (OBPIE). Peer reviewers are Gary Reid (LA3PS) and Michael
Stevens (PSP). Robert M. Lacey and Donna Dowsett-Coirolo are the Sector Leader and Country Director (LADCN) respectively, for this
operation. Preparation and appraisal missions were undertaken jointly with the IDB. IDB participants were Fernando Costa (Project Team
Leader), Hugo Betancor (RE2/OD3), Mario Sangines (INT/FIS), Cerstin Sanders (Consultant). Managers for the IDB operation are Jorge
Sapoznikow, Division Chief (RE2/OD3), and Miguel Martinez, Regional Department Manager.






EL SALVADOR
PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN (PSM-TAL)
TECHNICAL ANNEX
SECTION A: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Background
1. El Salvador's recent history has been characterized by civil war, economic and political instability
and cumulative problems in the social sectors. Since the 1992 Peace Accord the overall situation of the
country is improving. The Government of El Salvador has managed stabilization and transition effectively
and economic growth has been reactivated. Consolidation of peace and democratic decision making, as
well as fostering private sector-led growth, will now require continuous deepening of the reform process.
It will also require attacking the economic and political roots of the conflict in an orderly, participatory
and consensus-based manner.
2. Such pressing needs for consolidating reforms and building up new confidence, however, will impose
a heavy burden on traditional public sector institutions which are presently unprepared to manage such
change (see Box I for an overview of the public sector). Despite considerable political and economic
progress in the past years, El Salvador's public sector still suffers from major structural weaknesses and
deficiencies: (i) high functional inefficiencies caused by overdimension and centralization of the state; (ii)
low economy and efficiency caused by its current organizational structure, its extremely weak financial
and human resources management, and the low professionalization of its civil service; (iii) poor service
delivery; and (iv) outdated and inadequate administrative infrastructure and equipment.
3. These weak inherited structures which resulted from the non-market interactions and oligopolistic
competition that dominated the economy in the past decades, are obstacles to fostering a more competi-
tive export oriented economy led by the private sector and attractive to foreign investment, and reducing
widespread poverty. As currently structured, public sector institutions are likely to hinder these goals:
directly, through overregulation and protection of monopolistic public enterprises, the public sector
generates prohibitively high costs for market entry and crowds out private, innovative competitors; and
indirectly, through bureaucratic inefficiency and overly complex administrative procedures. The sector's
inability to deliver adequate services, notably in the social sectors, increases political insecurity and
instability. In short, the public sector's institutional deficiencies pose the risk of major setbacks in both
policy making and implementation of public sector reforms before broader private sector participation in
development can gain sufficient momentum.



2
Reforms are needed to
Box I. The Public Sector in El Salvador is divided into the non-
*  tailor the structure of Government to   financial public sector (NFPS) and nine financial institutions. The
the evolving fanctions of the State;     NFPS encompasses: (a) the Central Government including the
strengthen                               Eathe financial management   Legislative, the Judiciary, the Electoral Organism; as well as the
*  stregthenthe fnancla  manaement Executive with the Presidency (Presidencia), its S secretariats, a
and accountability  of public sector   Ministerial Council, and 14 ministries; (b) a group of institutions
agencies;                                consisting of 35 autonomous entities, the public hospitals, and the
.  realign   public   sector   incentive    municipalities in 14 administrative departments;  and (c)  6
structures;                              public enterprises. The autonomous entities and public enterprises
. avoid  overap o misiare within ministerial portfolios of responsibility. Three of the
*  avoid  overlap   of  missions  and    autonomous institutions and one public enterprise (ANTEL, the
functions of Government entities;        telecommunications company) fall under the authority of the
*  reduce redundant staff and increase    Presidency (see organization chart of the Executive in Annex D).
the ratio of professional/technical to        Public expenditures related to GDP are within the average
support staff,                           for low- and middle-income countries. Together with Guatemala
*  strengthen  and  provide  alternative   they are the lowest in Central America.  In 1994, public
expenditures including net lending amounted to 14.2% of GDP
means of delivering public services.     for the Central Government and 17.5% for the NFPS, compared
with 16.2% and 20.1% in 1992. The projections for 1995 are
4.  The new  Government, which took    13.8% and 17.7%, respectively. 1996 Budget plans are 14.1% and
office on June  1, 1994, has therefore    18.2% respectively.
declared  public  sector  modernization          Of the public expenditures, current expenditures on wages
(PSM) to be one of its key development   and salaries and goods and services account for more than half of
policy objectives. Several public speeches    NFPS spending (55% in 1994, a projected 53.2 % for 1995, and a
of the President of the Republic reaf-   budgeted 56.5 % for 1996). Outlays on wages in the NFPS
amounted to 7.1% of GDP in 1994 (projected 7.0% for 1995 and
firmed the need to accelerate PSM during    1996). Central Government wages accounts for 5.3% and 5.6% of
1996 in key areas like privatization, de-   GDP (projected for 1995 and 1996, respectively).
and re-regulation, institutional reform and      Despite the fact that, at first sight, El Salvador's NFPS does
human and financial resources develop-   not appear particularly oversized, there are some worrying
ment.                                       features related to its performance. The Government anticipates
that the complex structure of its public sector will not allow it to
5.  Under  the  Government's  Public   respond in an adequate and timely manner to the country's
economic and social priorities.  Distortions, overlaps, and
Sector Modermization Program, the State   inefficiencies exist in the definition of responsibilities; the
will withdraw  from  intervention in and    functions and size of the entities; and the quantity and
direct production of goods and services   Tcomposition of staff needed to deliver public services. A number
which can be produced more efficiently   of activities undertaken by the Government are now obsolete or
by the private sector. Of necessity, it will   better served by the private sector. Others could be carried out
bmore efficiently by decentralized levels of Government.
be much leaner, yet stronger In ItS
Some 140,000 people work in the public sector (some 10%
capacity  to  formulate, Implement and   C0of total non-agricultural employment): 90,000 in the Central
oversee  economic  policies, and  much    Government, 51,000 in the Autonomous Institutions (see Annex
more efficient and effective in delivering    F). The composition of employment indicates a combination of
services.  Above  all  the  State  will   overstaffimg - particularly in the lower ranks - and understaffing
concentrate on facilitating private sector   at the same time, particularly at professional level. With the sharp
led  development. Central Government   drop in real wages (1993 real monthly wages had dropped to
about 34% of their 1980 level), public sector incomes have
functions will be pared down to a set of   deteriorated. Yet, paradoxically, public wages at the lower end are
strategic economic and social manage-   still competitive compared to those in the private sector, while
ment tasks, including: (a) managing the    professional salariesare not.
country's financial and human resources



3
more effectively and efficiently, achieving greater transparency and responsiveness, and strengthening
capacities to formulate and implement public policies, with specific focus on poverty reduction and
environmental protection; (b) designing, implementing, and overseeing a legal and regulatory framework
that assures free and open competition and efficiency in markets, and the rule of law in civil society; (c)
leading and fostering the country's integration with the world economy; and (d) delivering or contracting
for delivery of only those services with "public good" attributes that the private sector cannot alone
provide in sufficient quantity and with sufficient quality and access.
6. Most of the ministries participating in the PSMP have set up Reform Groups responsible for
implementing ministry-wide modernization policies. These Reform Groups are closely coordinated with
the PSMP in the CPMSP. Strengthening these groups will allow for carrying out gradually and ade-
quately modernization efforts in each ministry.
Ongoing Public Sector Reform
7. In November 1995, the President appointed a minister-ranked 'Comisionado Presidencial para la
Modernizaci6n del Sector PuTblico' to lead and coordinate the Governments' public sector modernization
activities in different Government entities. Politically, inter-ministerial cooperation and coordination are
achieved by the Commissioner through the 'Comisi6n Presidencial para la Modernizaci6n del Sector
Publico (CPMSP), which includes the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy. Technically,
modernization activities are coordinated and guided by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Each
ministry, in turn, has its own reform groups ('Grupos de Reforma') that are responsible for implementing
and micro-managing modernization activities (see also Section B, Project Administration and Implemen-
tation).
8. There is evidence of broad support both in the private sector as in the National Assembly for such
reforms. Although still fragmented and with different connotations, most parties agree on the need to
carry out PSM in order to sustain and broaden achieved progress, and implement sound policies that
reduce poverty. The CPMSP will play a key role in providing a coherent framework for PSM and
enabling consensus building on essential features of the reform process.
9. PSM efforts can build upon previous and in-debt discussions with the Government particularly in the
context of 1995 Country Economic Memorandum ('El Salvador: Meeting the Challenge of Globaliza-
tion', Report No.: 14109-ES) and the Bank's newly approved Competitiveness Enhancement Technical
Assistance Project (Ln. 3946-ES). PSM and PSD efforts are thus well coordinated and most likely to lead
to synergy during implementation.
10. The Government has expressed strong interest in advancing rapidly with the implementation of a
Public Sector Modernization Program (PSMP) to be supported by the proposed Public Sector Moderni-
zation Technical Assistance Loan (PSM-TAL), and provide the necessary institutional setting and staff to
carry out reforms in Central Government agencies. Prepared under an ongoing Bank supported TAL (Ln.
3648-ES), a Government approved Modernization Plan would guide implementation. The proposed
PSM-TAL is scheduled to be fully co-financed with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB). The
IDB would, additionally, provide special contributions to hire professional staff, and an additional quick
disbursing loan that would allow to cover short-term financial needs during project implementation.



4
11. The Government's new vision of the State is reflected in a detailed Modernization Plan (Programa
de Modernizaci6n del Sector Puiblico, May 1996). The Plan includes (a) the institutional structure of the
executive branch of the public sector for the next five years, (b) a redefinition of the role of the State and
its functions, (c) the role and functions of each sectoral ministry, (d) macro-institutional and micro-
institutional restructuring priorities, including definition of restructuring goals (with efficiency-enhancing
measures), and identification of those areas that will be decentralized or privatized, (e) general require-
ments of human and financial resources, and fiscal impact, and (f) a timetable for developing and
implementing institutional restructuring plans at the entity level.
Project Objectives
12. The objective of the PSM-TAL is to strengthen the Government's capacities to implement its Public
Sector Modernization Program (PSMP), i.e. defining a more subsidiary role for the public sector;
gradually improving its performance, accountability and transparency; and enhancing private sector
development. For this purpose, the proposed project seeks to assist the Government in three interrelated
areas: (a) define the new roles of the public sector; (b) strengthen operations for those entities that remain
in the public sector; and (c) involve the private sector in the provision of public services. A PPF advance
of US$1.9 million (P279-ES) is supporting start-up activities.'
Project Description
13. The proposed PSM-TAL has the following four components: Institutional Restructuring and
Debureaucratization; Human Resource Management; Financial Resource Management; and Privatization
and Private Sector Participation in the Provision of Public Services.
14. The project would complement: (i) other Bank projects that support sectoral organizational and
institutional strengthening (e.g. in the Ministries of Education and Health where it would provide some of
the necessary administrative/normative frameworks), as well as ongoing efforts to improving private
sector development (e.g. through the Competitiveness Enhancement Technical Assistance Project, Ln.
3946-ES, FY96); (ii) USAID and IDB support in the areas of integrated financial management and
tax/customs administration; and (iii) efforts by other donors, e.g. GTZ, UNDP and USAID, in related
areas of modernization, particularly in decentralization and municipal strengthening.
The IDB is processing in parallel an adjustment operation for public sector modernization in support of the Govern-
ment's PSMP.



5
Institutional Restructuring and Debureaucratization
(estimated US$ 5.3 million, 11% of project costs)2
Issues
15. The present structure of the public sector is outdated and a major obstacle to the effective
implementation of economic and social policies. The public sector continues to monopolize the delivery
of the bulk of the country's infrastructure services as well as a large number of functions that could be
performed more efficiently by the private sector. Ministries and their dependent agencies do not have a
clear definition of mission, and have yet to shed unnecessary functions, and to reorganize others, to
deliver high-priority services more efficiently. Some functions are overstaffed while others are under-
resourced and bereft of essential skills. There are no established norms to govern the organizational
structure of the different areas within ministries, and no single entity is responsible for rationalizing
structures. It is a common practice in some ministries to modify their internal organization ad hoc and
assign new functions that, eventually, overlap with those of other public sector entities. Managers are not
held accountable for the allocation of human and financial resources, nor for the results obtained with
these resources. The current civil service legislation has distorted the labor market by making staff
mobility difficult and facilitating bad workers to remain in the public sector. As a result of all these weak-
nesses, the public sector is excessively bureaucratic, and this constitutes a barrier to private sector develop-
ment.
The Government's Reform Program
16. With assistance from consultants financed by the TAL and UNDP, the Government prepared a draft
Public Sector Modernization Program (PSMP), in which institutional restructuring is given prime
importance. In addition, institutional restructuring studies for pilot ministries (Public Works, Agriculture,
and Finance) were carried out. With the exception of the Public Works study (see Box 1I), however, the
recommendations of the studies were not clear nor detailed enough in the new objectives and functional
roles of the entities to be able to draw from them the next steps needed to implement the program. The
Government made explicit its commitment to a subsidiary role of the State in its draft 1994-1999
Economic and Social Plan which sets the stage for decentralizing or privatizing certain activities that are
now being carried out by central ministries. With assistance from the Bank, the Government prepared
institutional restructuring guidelines and terms of reference for consultancies that will (a) develop an
overall assessment and 'fiapping" of the public sector, (b) propose a new macroinstitutional structure
that will eliminate functional inconsistencies and overlaps, and (c) formulate proposals for the restructur-
ing and modernization of selected Ministries and decentralized institutions. It is envisaged that activities
(a) and (b) will be completed within the next month and a half, with assistance from consultants to be
financed with remaining funds of the TAL.
2 Figures in parentheses represent the estimated base cost of the component, including IBRD and IDB-financed
assistance, and government contribution.



6
17. In dialogue with different Ministers, the   Box I: A  Case for Institutional Restructuring: the
CPMSP, and, eventually, the President have   Minist  of Public Works. A  good example for the
selected the followig . e fr il   institutional restructuring exercises currently needed in El
selected the following Ministries for institutional   Salvador's PSM is the Ministry of Public Works (Ministerio
restructuring: Presidency, Economy, External   de Obras Publicas, MOP). At present, MOP, which consists
Affairs, Public Works, Transport and Housing,   of three Vice-ministries (Public Works, Housing and Urban
Education, Health, Agriculture, and Finance.   Development, and Transport), is heavily involved in
Moreover, the  Government foresees institu-   executing road construction and maintenance, including
rural roads. Previous studies indicate that the missions and
fimctions within MOP are vaguely defined and that overlap
three decentralized institutions to be identified.   between the different units has increased considerably. MOP
Each  of the  selected  entities  selected  for   employs some 13,700 staff, out of which 3,000 are
institutional   restructuring    will   produce   administrative  and  professional  staff.  Some  10,100
institutional restructuring  plans (IRPs) with   employees are daily wage laborers (Jornaleros) with
specific actions and timetables for increasing the   temporary  contracts, yet with  de facto  permanent
entities' efficiency, reducing their size and fiscal   employment status despite irregular work load. Some 2-3
percent of the Jornaleros are beyond the maximum age
burden, rationalizing their organizational and   allowed by law to remain in the public sector (70 years).
functional structure, focusing their activities,        The Government blames traditional MOP structures -
and strengthening their institutional capabilities   i.e. its monopoly position - for ineffective and inefficient
and service delivery.                               provision of infrastructure services. Anticipating increasing
infrastructure needs for private sector development in the
18. The Ministry of Finance, for example, has   future, the Govermnent is now demanding alternatives. It
indicated strog cn to iintends to restructure MOP and focus on new options for
indicated strong comrmtment to improve service   involving the private sector in road construction and
delivery by making explicit its intention to move   maintenance, as well as in other areas of infrastructure.
towards  clear-cut standards  of professional   According to the Government, institutional restructuring of
performance and overall quality management.   MOP would lead to a new set of functions largely directed to
Such  standards  would  involve  a  strategic   planning, supervision and regulation of infrastructure
services, while de-facto provision of these services would,
c.ontinuous   feedback   from    the   public   serv
incrementally, be contracted out and provided by, or in
(particularly, tax payers) and the private sector,   cooperation with, private sector firms.
and would be accompanied by massive training            In order to cariy out such new tasks, a 'smaller' MOP
programs.  Since  the  Government  expects   with  redefined  missions and  functions, would  need
overall quality orientation and management to   considerable strengthening and more professional staff,0 yet
be  increasingly  met within  its  competetive   less staff for actual construction and maintenance. Recently
passed legislation would enable MOP to 'rightsiz-e'
enhancement program for the private sector, the pasdlgltinwudebeMO tonhsie
employment and allow for early retirement of staff, with
ministry intents to serve as a pilot institution for   some 4,400 employees being involved in such exercise.
this  endeavor.  It would  help  signal such   Moreover, contracting  out of road  construction  and
commitment clearly to both the private sector   maintenance will enable MOP to reduce its staff even
and  other public  entities  and  enhance  the   further. Yet, efforts are needed to improve staff qualilica-
introduction of such standards gradually in both   tions and  professional salaries, and  ensure  effective
contracting out of services. New incentives - and rules - for
sectors.                                           ppnvate  sector participation  in  infrastructure need  to
complement the reform of MOP.
19. Measures to  reduce  overstaffing  began
under the previous Government with voluntary retirement programs in 1991-93 (at the national level) and
in 1993 (in the Ministry of Agriculture and through the law that created the National Agricultural
Technology Center). However, these early measures did not discriminate between essential and non-
essential positions, and the Government lacked the technical and political capacity to control recruitment
and the creation of new posts. Moreover, the employment reductions did not proceed from an overall
vision of the role of the State and a clear definition of its functions. In a new effort to reduce overstaffing



7
the Government established a new law on October 12, 1995, 'Decreto 471" (see Box III) that had a
much broader impact.
20. With assistance from the Bank, the Government prepared institutional restructuring guidelines and
terms of reference for consultancies that (a) developed an overall assessment and 'inapping" of the public
sector, (b) proposed a new macroinstitutional structure that will eliminate functional inconsistencies and
overlaps, and (c) formulated proposals for the restructuring and modernization of selected Ministries and
decentralized institutions. Activities were completed in May 1996 with assistance from consultants
financed with remaining funds of the TAL. A presentation of these proposals was given to the President
of the Republic.
21. The institutional restructuring plans at the entity level will be carried out with assistance from a
consulting firm to be financed under the proposed project. The starting point of the institutional
restructuring plans will be the approved Modernization Plan of the PSMP and the outlines for institu-
tional modernization prepared by each ministry. The institutional restructuring plans for Education,
Health, and Agriculture will be financed by the respective sectoral project but will be coordinated with
the PSMP to ensure consistency. It was agreed with the Government that until the institutional restructur-
ing plans of ministries are approved by the Interministerial Commission, no modification of the internal
institutional structures will be made until instructed by the Commission. The Government intends to
embark on modernization in a sequential manner: It would start with a first set of ministries (MINHAC,
MINEC, MRREE) in late CY 1996, and then set the stage for another group of ministries (MOP,
MIPRES and three decentralized institutions)3 that would join in early CY 1997.
22. As a result of institutional restructuring at the macro and microinstitutional levels, the Government
expects that further, more targeted, employment cuts will be required to enhance overall institutional
performance. These cuts would result from qualitative 'tight-sizing;" i.e., eliminating or transferring
functions to the private sector, and avoiding overlaps. It is expected that the contracting out of road
construction and maintenance services in the Ministry of Public Works alone, would reduce employment
in that ministry by about 5,000. Moreover, further private sector participation in the provision of public
services is expected to lead to reductions in employment by another about 2,000 staff. Such further
institutional restructuring would require an adequate incentive package to ensure acceptance by displaced
workers. Elements of this package would include:
* fair and transparent selection process for staff reduction and cancelation of non-essential vacancies;
* adequate compensation packages;
additional safeguards to assure that displaced workers would be able to regain their standards of
living, such as training and/or availability of micro-enterprise credits for displaced workers;
* open communication channels with interest groups;
monitoring mechanisms in place to make sure workers who have received severance packages are not
rehired.
3 Institutional restructuring plans for MINED. MISAL, and MAG wii be financed under the respective sectorial projects.



8
Proposed Assistance under the PSM-TAL                                                            g"x III: Downsizing and futher "Right-Sizing" of
Publi !Employment.: In October 1995 El Salvador's
23. In institutional restructuring, the PSM-TAL   Legslative Assembly.approved a law (Ley-Decreto No.
will finance the following activities: (a) prepara-  4714 Tempora de Compe:ari6n EconOmica por
Servcios PrestadJos:en.:el :Sector PNblico) :to compensate
tion of Institutional Restructuring Plans (IRPs)  Sen'ic em taos  en   by thIifo)st  compensate
for selected entities; (b) implementation support  pp                aftbyh ishfprse o  them
and institutional strengthening at the entity level;     Under this law, employees occupying redundant
(c) updating of legal instruments as needed; (d)  poss to be: suppressed in the FY 96 Budget, and those
development and implementation support for a  having  met mnimum   age  ad  years-of-sdic
debureaucratization strategy; and (e) introduction   requirementfora public pension, were oered a choice
between two packages:-
of  information  technology  government-wide.           o  m         s    
*o nef month's salary for each year of  service: sith: Ia
Moreover,  the  PSM-TAL   will  finance  TA             maximum monthly amount of 4,620 colones (SS
support to the PSM  Institutional Restructuring   :529)-,or
Reform  Group. A  plan for the phasing in of  .  one month's salary for every year of service up:to a
different institutions will be developed and will be    maximumof 12years of service.
attached to the Modernization Plan.                      All three categories of personnel -- Xregular staft
contractual employees, and daily wagei laborers -- were
*  Support to the JR Reform  Group. The PSM-  coveredbythe law.
TAL  will finance  short-term  international         A circular issued bytthe Ministry of Finance to all
.Central Governinent mlinistries,:. dece taize&d00.aad
experts and long-term local support to the IR   Ceutralmovenmntintustnes,  decentalze  and
autonomous institutions, called for decisions on the
Component Coordinator within the Project  identification of superfluous posts to be: basedl  on  (i)
Coordination Unit (PCU). This activity  is  institutional restructuring  exercises :involving  the
being initiated under the PPF.                   redefinition of the objectives. roles and finctions of work
units; (ii) duplication of functions; (iii) legal chages
*  Preparation  of Institutional Restructuring  that eliminated fuAnctions; l(iv) procedural changes-to
Plans (IRPs). The PSM-TAL  will finance  increase efficiency and productivity in service delivery;
consulting services to help prepare IRPs for    d () transfer of services to the private sector or other
ministries and decentralized institutions. The  parts of thepublic sector for reasons of efficiency or
effectiveness. Am high-evel inter-mifnisteril commission
Government identified the ministries of Fi-  chaired .by the. Mnister of Justice. was :set up to review
nance, Economy, External Affairs, Public  complaints.ofiglarities in the.pess..
Works, Transport, Housing and Urban De-              By May 1996,: some .12,000 posts in Central.
velopment, and Presidency, as well as three  Government (including vacant ones), plus some  fl0)00
decentralized  institutions still to  be nomi-  posts in the Autonomous Entities,i.e. 13%, and 3% of
nated, to carry out the restructuring process  theirapprovdpts respecively were suppressed; the
high-level inter-ministerial commission had& complted
(the IRPs for the ministries of Educat iof mos,outstding complaintsalreadyini
Health, and  Agriculture, will be financed  J iy. Th Gonmle ad issuedshortten notesAto
under the  respective  sector Bank-assisted  0cover the cost of the severance packages toaing 9some
projects). Discussions are taking place within  .668 milionwcolones ($ 77i.   millio.  
the Government to carry out lRPs for other    T            fistphase ofretr mamountto a fir
ministries (Interior, Justice, and Labor). ThisUnavoidably it
was: lagely offset by the approval of tsome1,0002 new
activity will be initiated with PPF financing.   potsin   public     tand socialscn.y preiousy
*  TA for Implementation of JR Recommenda-  .agtounderthe Acuerdosde.Paz. 
..1. Th   nt.haseo  adjuistmients  in  Central
tions. The PSM-TAL will finance consulting  Goverent empXoyment willbe imade through  ith
services and training to help entities undergo-   i ews of miissions and :functions of all :pb    ect
ing IRPs to implement the reforms, monitor  enities.



9
and evaluate progress against previously set targets, and strengthen their capacity to design and
implement priority programs.
*  Development of Legal Framework. This activity will finance consulting services to help update
existing legal instruments or develop new ones, as needed. This activity will be initiated with PPF
financing.
* Introduction of Information Technology Government-wide. The PSM-TAL will finance computers
and office equipment (fax and photocopy machines) for ministries and selected decentralized institu-
tions.
24. Incentives built into the project for agencies to   Bx IV: A Case in Debureaucrafization: In early
undergo reform  are pay and grading reform  for   1996, the Govemment bas launched a pilot project in
those that rationalize their structure, and assistance   the country's second largest municipality, Sonsonante,
for increased productivity in the areas of human   to speed up the registration of births. Previously parents
resource and financial management.                    were responsible for taking documents issued by
hospitals to the civil registry. Not only did this
25. While many of the structural and capacity-   contribute to errors and even tbrgery, it imposed quite a
2mry-   burden on parents, particularly on those in rural areas
building reforms supported by the project will take   who would have to pay their own way back to town just
years to yield their full benefits, there is one area of   to complete the birth registration process. Starting with
intervention,  debureaucratization,   where  the   interviews with parents, doctors, nurses, municipal
Government seeks to demonstrate results quickly.   officials, the pilot project has led to the redesign of
The PSM-TAL will finance some of the start-up    more user-friendly forms, which hospitals forward
directly to the civil registry.  A communications
costs and support initiatives to identify and redesign   campaign is underway with posters and announcements
(or excise) bureaucratic procedures and processes   proclaiming 'Ahora nacer en El Salvador es mis
that cause dissatisfaction among public service users   fAcil" (To Be Born in El Salvador is Easier Now). and
and other government '"ustomers." (see Box IV). It  the debureaucratization team is working to replicate the
will also support workshops to bring reformers up   project in other major municipalities.
to speed on lessons learned from similar efforts to cut red-tape in countries such as Sweden, the UK,
New Zealand and (in part) the U.S.. At the technical level the group is supported by an overall coordina-
tor in the PSMP's Technical and Coordination Unit, staff in the Chamber of Commerce, and short-term
process redesign consultancies. This subcomponent takes into account citizen participation. As a
strategy of citizen participation - within the Debureaucratization Component - the Project 'El Salvador
Eficiente" has been developed. It is a joint effort between the public and private sector which hopes to
identify and simplify, from the users point of view, transactions that affect the development of the private
firm and of the civil society in general, in order to facilitate the insertion of the country in the globaliza-
tion process. To facilitate the coordination of the project, the 'Comision El Salvador Eficiente" has been
formed, made up of high level representatives of the public and private sector, in which the Comisio-
nado Presidencial will preside. The debureaucratization group has developed a work program and plans
to undertake rapid diagnostic surveys to pinpoint the nature and magnitude of the problems detected,
prioritize actions to be taken, and develop implementation plans. In the diagnostic and implementation
phases, the group will work closely with members of the reform groups in the ministries to ensure strong
ownership.



10
Institutional Arrangements
26. Most of the ministries participating in the PSMP have set up Reform Groups responsible for
implementing ministry-wide modernization policies. Each entity under the program will develop an IRP
with the help of the consultants, and present it to the CPMSP for approval. The specific technical
assistance that will be required for implementing each IRP will be determined by the Reform Groups in
each entity, assisted by the IR Component Coordinator. The Institutional Restructuring Component
Coordinator, assisted by short-term international advisers and long-term local consultants, guide the
process and regularly discuss progress with the Coordinator of the PCU. The 1R Component Coordinator
will also coordinate closely with the Privatization Coordinator.
Human Resources Management
(estimated US$6.3 million, or 13% of total project costs)
Issues
27. Achieving the Government's objective of creating an efficient and productive public sector will
depend greatly on how it selects, manages, develops and deploys its human resources. Yet after more
than a decade of neglect during the civil war, human resource management in the public sector is in
disarray. At the present time, central management of the civil service is a part-time occupation, entrusted
to an understaffed office in the MINHAC, headed by a director whose primary task is the administration
of the ministry's own personnel. Low-priority functions and sectors are seriously overstaffed, especially at
lower levels, while high-priority ones are short of skilled staff. Antiquated regulations prevent managers
from efficiently redeploying labor. Career development, including plans for upgrading staff skills simply
do not exist. The pay and grading system - marked by ad-hoc decisions on pay awards, wage
compression, and large disparities in pay across ministries for posts of very similar content - lowers
morale and undermines the state's ability to compete with the private sector for skilled people.
28. Productivity is also low due to uncontrolled growth in the wage bill, which has been crowding out
spending on essential operations and maintenance inputs - at present, expenditures for wages and salaries
are consuming close to 70% of recurrent expenditure. Procedures for creating and eliminating posts are
not well-defined, and the annual budget exercise is not buttressed by a central register of approved posts
and a system of monthly reporting by ministries of staff in post. As a sign of the magnitude of these
problems, MINHAC could not until very recently determine with any degree of accuracy how many
employees were on the payroll, where they were working and what functions they were carrying out.
TAL assistance provided first assessments in this area (cf para. 33, and Box V).



11
The Government's Reform Program
29. Recognizing that isolated actions cannot turn around a collapsed civil service system, there is now
widespread agreement within the Government and outside of it on the need for a comprehensive civil
service reform program. With the support of the TAL, the Government prepared a plan for such a
program which has been incorporated into the PSMP. Specifically, that plan focuses on (a) creating the
Central Government's institutional capacity for administering, monitoring and controlling human
resources, (b) gradually developing a public service that is adequate in terms of size and quality, and (c)
establishing the conditions for staff motivation, incentive, and development.
30. Specifically, the plan calls for (a) implementing an integrated human resource management informa-
tion system in all central ministries and those 'decentralized institutions' that receive transfers from the
Central Government, (b) creating a central human resource management entity for the Executive, (c)
strengthening the human resource management capabilities in operational units within ministries and
decentralized institutions, (d) reducing public employment to eliminate redundant staff, defining the
adequate benefits packages needed to retire staff, and developing support programs for affected staff, and
(e) developing a new legal framework for the civil service.
31. Human Resources Information System    Box V. The Human Resources hiformaion Sys*em (UM): This
(HRIS).  To  lay  the  foundation  for   system, developed by the Ministry of Finance, under the assistance
comprehensive reform of the public sector,  by the ongoing TAL, ains at establishing an efficient and
a priority has been to build up the Ministry   transparent human resources database about all the Government'
of Finance's  capacity  to  monitor and   employees.
enforce manpower controls.  Significant  in  With the TAL's assistance, a central HRS was implemented
in the Ministry of Finance, as well as personnel infornation
progress has been made. With financing   systems in the pilot ministries of Finance and Agriculture.
from the TAL, a central office in MINHAC    Furthermore, a transfer of existing (manual or computerized)
was established and equipped to collect and   personnel information from all ministries onto the central database
maintain pay and employment data for the   was and in part still is being carried out. Due tD some difficulties
civil service. A  basic  set of existing   in retrieving the required data, the existing database is still lacking
partial information.
personnel data from payrolls and personnel      The PSM-TAL thus seeks to expand the HRIS throughout the
files  in  the  13  Central  Government   Government's entities, enabling and ensuring a goyenment-wide
ministries and 48 dependent institutions   computerized HRIS, that proides the Government with an
was collected, converted  into machine-  important and indispensable tool for an efficient human resource
readable  format  via  the  M6dulo  de   management and policy. The PSM-TAL will assist the Governent
by providing the necessary equipment and consulting services for
Recoleccion  Institucional  (M)  and   the implementation of the HRIS throughout the Government's
loaded onto the HRIS, installed in the   entities.
central office. Budgetary data on approved
posts has also been loaded onto the system. At the same time, to begin the process of restoring a
functioning system of manpower controls, HRISs linked to the central system were installed in two pilot
ministries, Finance and Agriculture.
32. Nonetheless, the HIRIS still needs to be integrated in permanent fashion with the large number of
dispersed payroll systems, some of which are still maintained manually. Despite its importance as a critical
tool for planning and implementing the reform of the State, the HRIS remains in a precarious position,
and functions of the HRIS office have not been formalized or given legal standing within the structure of
Government. Senior managers in the ministries, as well as finance and personnel chiefs, are not yet



12
familiar with the potential of the system as a management tool. At less senior levels, further development
of norms and procedures, together with training, is required to integrate the ERIS into the everyday
business of personnel offices, and thus in the process ensuring the integrity of data transferred to the
central system.
Proposed Assistance under the PSM-TAL
33. To support the Government's reform program, the human resources management component of the
PSM-TAL will finance the following activities: (a) completion and implementation of the HRIS; (b)
design and development of a grading and remuneration system; (c) design and development of a modem
human resource policy; (d) support for the establishment of a central human resource management unit;
(e) institutional strengthening of the ministries' capabilities for human resource management; (f)
development of a new legal framework for the civil service; and (g) training. Moreover, the PSM-TAL
will finance TA support to the PSMP Human Resources Management Reform Group. These issues will
be addressed and financed as follows:
*  TA Supportfor the Establishment/Improvement of a Central HRM Unit. The PSM-TAL will finance
high-caliber international experts to help set up a central human resources management modernization
unit and provide it with expert advice.
*  Support to the HRM Reform Group. The PSM-TAL will finance long-term expert advice and short-
term local experts to support the HRM Reform Group Coordinator. Local experts are being financed
under the PPF.
*  Human Resources Management Information System. The PSM-TAL will finance consulting services,
equipment and training to complete the work started under the TAL. The HRIS will be implemented
in all ministries and decentralized institutions, and the system will be permanently linked with payroll
and integrated with SAFI. With financing under the PPF, the HRIS currently used by the ministries of
Finance and Agriculture will be extended to additional ministries, and additional human resource
management modules will be designed.
*  Human Resources Management Policy System. This subcomponent would: (i) design and develop a
grading and remuneration system. This activity will provide consulting services and training to de-
velop a unified grading and remuneration system for the civil service. A study of salary scale criteria
for administrative staff is underway, and it is envisaged that under the PPF a diagnostic review of the
remuneration systems currently in place would be carried out; and (ii) design and develop a modern
human resource policy. The PSM-TAL will finance consulting services to develop a transparent,
consistent, and equitable personnel system, consisting of procedures for recruitment, selection, pro-
motion and dismissal.
*  Institutional Strengthening of the Ministries' Capabilities in Human Resource Management.
Institutional strengthening support will be provided to personnel management units in the core minis-
tries. These units have to be set up and staffed adequately to, eventually, manage human resources at
ministry level.
*  Development of a new Legal Frameworkfor the Civil Service. Consultant services for the completion
of the legal framework (Ley de la Funci6n Publica) is being financed with PPF funds. Since new



13
legislation in this area will need to be based on broad political support, special emphasis will be given
to consensus building measures throughout revision and drafting of the law.
Training.4 The PSM-TAL will finance extensive training programs to upgrade staff qualifications and
capabilities during implementation and establish such programs as part of career development within
the civil service. Initially, special focus in training will be given for (a) human resource management
staff of ministries and decentralized institutions, on the HRIS to enable them to take full advantage of
the system, (b) middle-level office staff, to learn basic office technology, (c) high-level managers, to
acquire change management techniques, (c) key ministry staff, to be trained in specialized topics and
become trainers to other staff, and (d) middle-level managers/technicians to receive management
development and technical training. Activities envisaged under the PPF would include carrying out a
training needs assessment within the scope of the project, and providing training to human resource
management staff of ministries to enable them to take full advantage of the HRIS being extended to
them. Given the overall importance of upgrading the quality of human resources for achieving sus-
tainability of PSM efforts, the Bank and the IDB would assist the Government to receive substantial
bilateral and multilateral grants for staff training and instruction (see section B, and Annex E (1 and
2)). The German Foundation for International Development (DSE) has indicated interest already to
broaden training assistance for the Government's public sector modernization program, particularly in
the areas of financial management, public procurement and auditing techniques.
Institutional Arrangements
34. The Human Resources Component Coordinator, assisted by long-term international advisers and
short-term local consultants, will provide guidance and will monitor the work of the human resource
management groups in each ministry, and will receive from them feedback on the operational application
requirements of each sector. The coordinator will work closely with the Institutional Restructuring
Component Coordinator.
Financial Resource Management
(estimated USS 16.9 million, or 34% of total project costs)
Issues
35. Financial resources management in the public sector comprises four different systems: (a) budget, (b)
accounting, (c) treasury, and (d) public debt. These systems are centrally operated but are independent of
each other. This leads to obstacles in the management of financial resources, which in turn results in a
disarray and negative impact on social and economic development strategies and policies.
36. In November 1995, the Government approved a new law (Ley de Administraci6n Financiera
Integrada, AFI) (see Box VI), establishing the basic norms and procedures for an integrated financial
4 Refers only to training for staff remaining in the public sector. It is proposed to provide additional funds for safeguards
to assure that displaced workers would be able to regain their standards of living, such as training and/or development of
a micro-enterprise credits scheme.



14
resources management. Under the principle of centralized regulation and decentralized operation, the
Government plans to establish accounting standards and procedures, as well as implement one single
integrated financial system to be used throughout the administration. Financial responsibility and
accountability, including the related data processing functions, will be transferred to the ministries and
other decentralized agencies. For this purpose, Financial Administration Units following the new
integrated financial resources management guidelines established by the law, have been created in each
ministry/agency.
37. To improve tax administration and strengthen compliance, since 1989 the Government has advanced
in the implementation of a tax and customs admninistration reform program (see also Box VII for achieved
progress in tax reform policies), including: (a) enactment of a new law (Ley del Delito Fiscal) prescribing
stiffer penalties for tax evasion, including imprisonment; (b) creation of a Large Taxpayers' Unit now
covering the largest 1,000 taxpayers accounting for over 80% of tax obligations; and (c) increase in the
efficiency of collection, administration, and control of taxes through the restructuring of audit units in the
internal revenue service, a new integrated tax reporting system, and a vehicle registration system.
The Governments Reform Program
38. The Ministry of Finance will function as the "lead" institution, regulating and guiding the whole
administration and consolidating the information flowing from the Financial Administration Units. The
integrated financial management system will include the following modules:
* Budget. Improve both the preparation of the yearly estimates of Government revenues (by source),
and investments and expenditures (by program) and the comparison of actual revenues/expenditures
against the budget during the year. In addition, physical targets such as number and types of employ-
ees per unit (to be compared against the Human Resources Information System, HRIS, database),
service delivery indicators (number and type of students in the Education programs, number of pa-
tients served by hospitals in the Health sector, etc.) will also be forecasted and controlled;
* Procurement of Goods and Services. To keep track of all Government purchases and related
statistical information;
* Human Resources Information System (HRIS). To know the number and type of employees working
in each governmental unit, payroll calculations and associated costs for salaries, benefits, etc. The
current HRIS would be used as the starting point for this module;
* Public Debt. To provide information of Government obligations from both external and internal
sources and their due dates, exchange rates and interest fluctuations, etc.;
•  Treasury Cashflow. To provide information about the determination of the Government's daily
position in terms of funds availability, and the allocation of funds to ministries/agencies for the pay-
ment of their obligations. This entails receiving data from the banking system, the tax/customs sys-
tems, the public debt module, the SECOBYS, etc.;
* Government Accounting. Establish essentially the consolidation of all the Government accounting
transactions; and
* Auditing tools. To facilitate the supervision of the decentralized operation of ministries/agencies.



15
Proposed Assistance under the   Box VI: The Integrated Financial Management Law The Organic Law of
PSM-TAL                              Government Financial Management, known by its Spanish acronym as the
SAFI Law, harmonizes public sector financial management within one
39. This  component  has  four   framework, the integrated financial management system.
objectives:   (i)   establish   an       Articles I and 2 of the law refer to the object and breadth of
integrated  financial management   application of the law: Articles 3 and 4 set for the govermment's responsi-
(IFM) system; (ii) strengthen the   bility to manage its funds: and Articles 5 and 6 detail monetary and
custom     administration;    (iii)  financial programminng, Article 7 establishes the SAFI system: it also
relates SAFI to the National System of Audit and ControL SAFI, according
increase    the     effectiveness,  to Article 9, will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance and, according
performance,  and  geographical   to Article 13, is given the legal responsibility to dictate general policies to
coverage of the tax administra-   guide the design, implementation, function, and coordination of SAFI's
tion;  and   (iv)  increase  the   subsystems, including: budgeting, treasury, public credit, and government
performance of ex-ante and ex-   accounting,
The budgeting subsystem is the responsibility of the budgeting office,
post    Government    spending   which is established by Articles 20 through 59 of the SAFI Law. It
control.                            forecasts internal and external revenues and liabilities, and assigns
resources to finance the operations of all public entities. The Budgeting
40. To support the Government's   Office is also responsible for maintaining a balanced budget.
reform   program,  the  financial        The Treasury Office, in charge of the treasury subsystem, is
responsible for the recognition, deposit, distribution, presentation, and
recording of government financial resources- resources that are put at the
component  will  finance   the   disposal of public sector entities to pay obligations in the execution of their
following    activities    outlined   budgets.  The office, established by Articles 60 through 81, is also
bellow:                              responsible for the custody and safekeeping of all govermment titles and
documents.
4 1. In Financial Administration.        The subsystem of public credit (Articles 82 through 97), under the
Office of Public Credit, monitors the public debt, which is primarily accrued
With support from  USAID, the   through projects to improve El Salvador's economic and social well-being.
Government has achieved some             The accounting subsystem (Articles 98 through IIl), under the
progress in different subsystems of   direction of the Office of Government Accounting, is the integrating
financial resources management,   component providing a unitary, shared, secure, and timely database for the
but   an   integrated   financial  transactions and operations of the public sector.  This subsystem
consolidates the set of technical standards, procedures, and principles for
the compilation recording, processing, and control of the governments'
to be developed (see Box VI.)  financial infornation, for use in the audit and control of financial and
The  project  will  support  the   budgetary decisions.
Government in the design  and    The Revised Court of Accounts Law The Court of Accounts is now
implementation   of   normative   independent, and its jurisdiction reaches all public sector entities. However,
pfinciples   regulating   financial  the Court of Accounts no longer engages in pre-control: this is now the
responsibility of each implementing agency. Instead, it performs external
resources   management  in   a   posterior audits, and is rector of the National System of Control and Audit.
comprehensive  and  transparent   The Court of Accounts is charged with the task of preventing financial
manner, and establish and imple-   management irregularities and ensuring that government resources are well
ment  effective   and   efficient   utilized. The Court of Accounts may also apply legal sanctions if it
operative  procedures, necessary   determines that there has been wrongdoing.
The Court of Accounts has the foregoing authorities-however, its task
is more that that of finding fault and punishing the guilty. The Court of
ces management. This includes   Accounts is also a management tool, providing information to govemrnment
financing of consultancies, equip-   officials so that they may evaluate their own performance. It will not only
ment, and training for all Central   evaluate financial accounts, but will also look at operative, administrative,
Government ministries.               and other results. The new law also allows the Court of Accounts to
contract private firms to perform audits of public entities (R.H. C.
/Acc.]I/9/96).



16
Budget: In 1995 and as a transition year, the Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de Hacienda,
MINHAC) has been working with a new budget system called "Budget by Management Areas",
which reflects priority areas identified by the present administration (social development, administra-
tion management, justice and security, economic development, public debt, general Government
commitments, decentralized institutions). The new budget will be fully implemented in 1996.
Concerns about the system are that it does not appear to constitute a fundamental budgetary reform:
resources are still allocated the traditional way (i.e.originating, in general, from previous budget
allocations and programs), and the budget process does not promote improvements in performance,
nor does it create performance incentives.
Although a conceptual design for the integration of sub-systems has been developed, there is still a
lack of integration of the budget with the accounting and treasury/cash management systems. Finally,
although there seems to be delegation of authority in budget preparation to individual ministries, pro-
vided they stay within established quarterly ceilings, an alternative control model at the detailed level
has not been developed. In the absence of clear policy goals and commitments on output, a single
delegation of input controls may have negative fiscal and broader policy consequences. In order to
improve the quality of the budget document and provide elements to meaningfully analyze budgetary
data, the project will assist in: (i) the revision of the tools developed for budgetary preparation,
approval, and execution by previous efforts; (ii) improving the techniques for programming budgetary
execution in coordination with the Treasury area, ensuring operational decentralization without the
loss of overall financial control; and (iii) providing tools to do substantive budgetary evaluations
based on real output data.
* Treasury/Cash Management: Progress has been achieved in this area as well. Treasury currently has
a single account at the Central Reserve Bank (BCR) to better control revenues and expenses at the
central level. Payment authorization procedures, as well as revenues receipt procedures, have been
streamlined, thus increasing efficiency and cutting administrative costs. Nevertheless, some areas need
to be strengthened and improved. Decentralization of payment and banking systems needs to be
integrated with the reforms of the budgetary and accounting systems to ensure adequate control
mechanisms are in place. Similarly, a link between cash management and debt management should be
established. Furthermore, there is a need to ensure that idle cash in departmental bank accounts is
effectively eliminated. The project will assist the Government in: (i) the definition of procedures with
the 'Direcci6n de Presupuesto' in budget execution and resource management; (ii) the design and
implementation of the expenditure decentralization process; (iii) the establishment of a unified account
for expenditures from which agency transfers are managed; and (iv) promote efficient information
exchange with the revenue-generating agencies.
* Debt Management: An effective and efficient computerized and integrated debt management system
should be developed. This is a prerequisite for efficient debt management. Furthermore, a link with
the IFM database and with financial simulation modules should be established. Likewise, because
ministries (other than MINHAC) account for approximately 20% of public debt, the debt manage-
ment system must be able to account for alternative sources of financing. Debt raising should be
centralized at MINHAC. The project will support the Government in: (i) the review of the existing
database and its development in accordance to IFM requirements; (ii) provide training and technical
assistance to establish guidelines for accessing capital markets and develop skills in debt negotiation
and contracting.



17
Accounting System: Although  accounting has a   Box VII: Progress in Tax Reform: In the period
relatively modern 'Ley Orgdnica', improvements  from 1989-95 te Government introduced major tax
reelati bel  made in the way information is regis-  reform policies. Revisions were made in income
need to be made In the way information IS regis-  taxes in 1990. Rates were reduced at the same time
tered and managed by the system. One of the most  that generous exemptions were eliminated.  The
important methodological issues relates to  the   exempt minimum of the personal income tax was
sequence of financial data production, which in an   raised from 12,000 to 18,000 colones, the number of
IFM  framework needs to feed off the budgetary   brackets was reduced to 7, and the top marginal rate
execution register to automatically produce tradi-   was cut down to 50%. The exempt minimum of the
corporate tax remained at 25,000 colones, but the
tional accounting (double-entry) reports. Actually,   number of brackets was reduced to 3 with rates of
the accounting system  feeds from  the accounting    10%, 20%, and 30%. Tax credits were granted for
codes themselves and produce budgetary reports,   up to 50% of the cost of investrnent in plant and
causing a break in the information flow. Thus, the   equipment, and an estimated withholding tax of 1%
project will support the following activities: (i)   was introduced on corporate revenues.
makject accountingrmethods ollompngactib ithes 1M    w El Salvador's most comprehensive tax reform
make accounting methods compatible with IFM    went into effect in 1992, including steps to: (a)
requirements; and (ii) design MIS  outputs that   substitute a broad-based and non-distortionary 10%
allow meaningful analysis.                            VAT for the cascading turnover tax; (b) simplify the
income tax and reduce disincentives; and (c) reduce
42. Public Procurement: Existing guidelines for public   effective protection  by  reducing  import duty
procurement (Comprasy Contrataciones) are outdated   schedules. Income taxation was further simplified
and need redefinition and further adjustments in order   and rationalized: the number of personal income tax
to  gradualy  aw  fr  mbrackets was reduced from  7 to 4, and the
to  gradually  allow  for more  flexibility  in  public   progression of the rates in higher brackets was
procurement at the sector ministry level. The project  limnited by lowering the top marginal rate from 50%
will assist the Government in the design and implemen-   to 30%, with the proviso that the effective rate not
tation  of new  public procurement guidelines, and   exceed 25%. The corporate tax rate schedule was
monitoring of procurement costs by a informatics   also simplified further by replacing the 6 tax
brackets with a flat rate of 25%  -- the highest
system.                                                  effective rate of the personal income tax -- and the
initial exemption level was raised to 75,000 colones.
43. Customs Administration: Customs administration   The tax credit on reinvested profits and certain
seems to be the more troublesome area in terms of   exemptions from the income and property taxes were
governmental control, procedures, information systems   repealed.  The double taxation of dividends was
and human resources. In effect, the administration has   eliminated.
been unable to deal appropriately with the illeg              Further fine-tunings in 1993 led to the repeal of
the coffee export tax and subjected coffee producers
introduction of merchandise Into the country; to adopt   to the income tax (a withholding tax of 2%,o
effective control mechanisms; to streamline, modernize   subsequently reduced to 1%). The inheritance tax
and train its personnel; and to efficiently use regular   was also repealed because of its high collection cost
information to control ensure proper compliance with   and insignificant yield. The schedule of the tax on
customs rules and regulations.                           real property transactions was amended. VAT
sanctions were modified, its exemptions were
44. Some examples of customs administration's major   tightened, and the base was redefined to include
import duties. This eliminated VAT's implicit
problems are: (i) lack of appropniate coverage of the   discrimination against domestic suppliers. Motor
country' borders, not only in geographical (land and   vehicle  registration  fees  were  doubled  and
sea) coverage, but also in terms of procedures; (ii) the   exemptions limited. Finally, the net wealth tax,
CEPA  (Comisi6n Ejecutiva Portuaria Aut6noma) is   which despite its base inadequacies yielded 2.5% of
characterized by excessive bureaucracy, which adds   Central Government revenue and 0.2% of GDP, was
unnecessary amirrepealed in April 1994, In 1995 the VAT was
unnecessary administrative costs to the operation; and   increased to 13%/o.
(iii) lack  of appropriate  controls internally, once   I



18
merchandise is introduced to the country. The project will support the Government in activities leading
to an institutional strengthening of customs, through (i) revising of normative guidelines, as well as the
design and adoption of new norms and procedures, and (ii) establishing an informatics system integrated
in SAFI.
45. Tax Administration: The Government has been working in this sector for a number of years with
USAID and IDB support. Progress has been made, resulting in an increase of revenue and tax collection.
Nevertheless, some areas need improvement or expansion: (i) tax evasion needs to be minimized; (ii)
geographical coverage of tax administration needs to be widened; (iii) fiscalization procedures and
methods have to be strengthened through the use of sectoral econometric studies to measure tax evasion,
which could then be used as guides for fiscalization programs; and through the development and support
of new techniques and procedures for tax compliance control of informal sector institutions and for those
performing activities in the capital markets; and (iv) the tax administration direction (DGII) should be
trained and a plan developed to (a) revise its structure and develop a proposal to establish the Orient and
Occident Regional Subdivisions; (b) implement the Auditing and Systems Unit and the Programming and
Tax Evaluation Unit; and (c) develop a proposal to consolidate the organizational structure of the DGII's
Management Information System Unit.
Institutional Arrangements
46. The Financial Resources Component Coordinator, assisted by long-term international advisers and
short-term local consultants, will provide guidance and monitor activities of the financial resources
management reform groups in each ministry.
Privatization and Private Sector Participation in the Provision of Public Services
(estimated US$12.1 million; 25% of total project costs)
Issues
47. The privatization process, and the introduction of private sector participation (PSP) into the
provision of public sector services in El Salvador began in 1991 as part of the Government's efforts to
free markets and promote private sector growth. The 1992-1994 Plan for Economic Development called
for a restructuring of the public finances, the reduction in nonproductive public spending and the
elimination of the parastatal sector through the sale of state enterprises and through the transfer of certain
public services to the private sector. Since the announcement of the Plan, the Government achieved a
number of successes in an effort to reduce the parastatal sector. Among these, has been the privatization
of most of the financial sector, inclusive of five commercial banks and four savings and loans agencies. In
addition, other enterprises have now been privatized such as, the free zone in San Bartolo, the Industrial
Fishing Complex, the President Hotel, Cemento Maya, INCAFE and several other enterprises, as well as
assets and land.
48. In 1993, the Government engaged consultants to assist in reviewing the status of the reforms and to
recommend a strategy and action plan for the reform of the public sector. An important component of



19
this work was the development of a strategy and institutional framework for advancing privatization and
PSP of the remaining enterprises, including some in key sectors such as the 'Administraci6n Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones' (ANTEL) and the 'Comisi6n Ejecutiva Hidroelkctrica del Rio Lempa' (CEL), the
telecommunication and power monopolies, ANDA, the water authority, and most of the transport sector,
including the Acajutla port and national railroad (see Annex G for background information). Since 1991
this work was also complemented by efforts to reform the country's obsolete and low-performing public
pension system. Financed by the IDB, USAID, and supported by the Central Bank, a team with
representatives from different governmental entities had started with diagnostic work, and outlined first
proposals for a comprehensive modernization of the system.
49. The Government incorporated previous work in its 'Plan de Acci6n de Modernizaci6n del Sector
Publico'. The plan seeks, inter alia, renewed momentum in:
* privatization and private sector participation in public service provision by staging a centralized and
coordinated program for divesting most of the remaining enterprises under Government's control; and
* thoroughly reforming the country's pension system
The Government's Reform Program
Privatization/Private Sector Participation in Public Service Provision
50. During preparation of the PSM-TAL, the Government has taken first steps towards implementing its
new privatization strategy that shifts the fundamental purpose of the program from relieving budgetary
pressures to privatization as a policy instrument for sustained growth. Priority has therefore been given to
key infrastructure sectors. The program seeks to: (i) promote competitive markets for the provision of
infrastructure services; (ii) minimize the role of regulatory agencies through legislation to facilitate entry
and access to existing networks; and (iii) enhance capital market development and widen ownership by
staging transactions through public offerings. A clear indication of the Government's strong committment
towards improving overall competion in the economy is its recently launched Competitiveness Enhance-
ment Program supported by the Bank (Ln. 3946-ES, FY96). This aims to reduce impediments to private
sector investment, improve competition and enhance the efficiency of the country's productive enter-
prises.
51. During 1995, the Government established technical working groups for each sector to direct reform
efforts and prepare enterprises for privatization. The Government also took action to establish a more
appropriate regulatory and business environment for private sector investment in key infrastructure
sectors. Late in the year, the program accelerated after the appointment of the Comisionado for the
Modernization of the Public Sector and other Cabinet changes. New legislation is under preparation for
the electricity sector which places greater emphasis on creating a competitive environment, and similar
laws for telecommunications and other infrastructure sectors are also being drafted.
52. Further specific achievements since December 1995 include: (i) empowerment of the Modernization
Commission to lead the privatization effort; (ii) recruitment of regulatory specialists to design the legal
and regulatory frameworks for both the electricity and telecommunications sectors; (iii) executive
approval for restructuring the state-owned electricity entity into four autonomous enterprises; (iv)



20
commencement of the transfer of assets to these enterprises and of the preparatory work for their
privatization; (v) executive approval of the privatization schedule for the first of the four enterprises to be
privatized and of the appointment of financial advisors; and (vi) executive approval to begin the
privatization of the state telephone company, ANTEL, plus the appointment of financial advisers and the
beginning of preparatory work in the enterprise. Advance funding under a Project Preparation Facility
PPF has been allocated to support the orderly continuation of these early achievements.
Reform of the Pension System
53. Since 1991, a 'Grupo de Reforma' - consisting of ex-MICDES, Central Bank, and Ministry of
Finance staff that ensured continuity - has been working on the reform under guidance of the INPEP
president in a very focused manner. During the preparation of the PSM-TAL, steady progress was made
in the design of the new private social security system, inclusive of the design of the required laws and
regulatory changes. The drafts are prepared with the support of Chilean consultants which have also
assisted the Government and the Grupo de Reforma in the overall design of the reform strategy.
54. The pension reform plan of GOES envisages the transition to a new pension system which is similar
to the Chilean pension system. Draft legislation has been prepared for a system with the following
features: The new system will consist of fully funded individual accounts managed by competing private
pension funds. Participation in the new system will be mandatory for all new labor market entrants and
optional for workers who are affiliates of the current institutions, the Instituto Salvadoreno de Seguridad
Social, ISSS (for private sector employees) and the Insitituto Nacional de Pensiones para Empleados del
Sector Puiblico, INPEP (for public sector employees). In order to rationalize the existing system, it is
planned to increase retirement ages, unify and gradually increase contribution rates, and adjust the benefit
formulae. The draft legislation for the pension reform has been presented to the Bank for comments and
is currently in the process of revision.
55. Based on these advances, the Government would like continued assistance in both the technical
aspects of privatization, private sector participation in service delivery, and pension reform as well the
management aspects of the program. The PPF would assist the Government in revising and further
finetuning initial proposals, and in implementing first key steps in the areas mentioned.
Proposed Assistance under the PSM-TAL
56. This component seeks to support the Government in privatizing the remaining enterprises and
selected public services that are constraining private sector growth and development. The component
will focus on
* key sectors and public services including telecommunications, power generation and distribution, port
activities, customs administration, and water and sewerage;
* the reform of the pension system, that will provide new options for private sector participation.
Despite the focus on key sectors, assistance will also be included for privatizing the remaining smaller
enterprises as well as assets and land in order to reduce substantially Government's holdings of commer-
cial activities.



21
57. The component will also build on regulatory work that is being initiated by other Bank and IDB
projects in these key sectors and public services. The Energy Sector Modernization Loan and the
Competitiveness Enhancement Project will provide assistance in establishing regulatory frameworks and
regulatory agencies in the telecommunication and energy sectors, while IDB's Multilateral Investment
Fund will provide assistance for similar work in the telecommunications sector as well as additional
resources for the power sector. This component will primarily focus on areas which have not been
adequately covered, such as the water/ sewage, ports, and road maintenace services, but nevertheless
need an adequate framework for regulation in order to promote competition.
Privatization and Private Sector Participation in Public Service Provision
58. This subcomponent will finance technical assistance, consulting and advisory services and equipment
subdivided in the following categories: (i) strengthening the privatization group for managing and
coordinating the program; (ii) TA and equipment for the establishment of the regulatory agencies for the
water/ sewage and transport sectors; (iii) direct transaction assistance to selected public enterprises in
power and telecommunications as well as technical assistance for increasing public sector participation in
ports, water/sewage, and road maintenance services; and (iv) other studies for improving private sector
participation in service delivery.
• Strengthen the Privatization Group to Coordinate and Manage the Component. While it is the intent
of Government to delegate a significant number of tasks to private consultants and advisers for the
implementation of the program, the privatization group within the PCU will still be required to coor-
dinate many of the activities crossing various entities of the Government apparatus and oversee the
work of consultants and enterprises involves and report on progress. For these functions the privati-
zation group is severely understaffed. Accordingly, the component will finance two specialists in
transactions and regulatory mechanisms.
*  Strengthen Regulatory Environment in the Transport and Water Sectors. This sub-component will
complete work that has been already started through the assistance of the other sectoral loans of the
World Bank and the IDB in establishing a pro-private sector regulatory environment and for establish-
ing and strengthen regulatory mechanisms and agencies that will be entrusted to oversee activity in
each sector. Specifically focus of this program will be given to establishing the proper regulatory
framework for private participation in the water and sewage sector as well as the transport sector. In
the context of implementing privatization activities, and based on a study of the exiting legal and
institutional framework for environmental protection, this subcomponent will, furthermore, finance
environmental studies identifying potential weaknesses and recommending institutional and legal
corrective measures to ensure environmentally sound privatization policies and actions.
*  Direct Transaction Assistance to Selected Enterprises andfor Private Sector Participation in Public
Services. This major subcomponent will finance the services of accountants, lawyers, investment
bankers and other financial advisors, environmental specialists and other technical and management
specialists for preparing, marketing and selling the enterprises slated for privatization, including
ANTEL, CEL distribution and possibly thermal power generation. In addition, the sub-component
will also finance similar services for preparing and bidding concessions in the water, ports and road
maintenance sectors. The activities will involve such tasks as due diligence and audits by financial
accountants, preparations of sales or concession memoranda's, investor search and promotion activi-
ties, marketing assistance, preparation of legal documents, advisory assistance to the Government in



22
deal structure, staging of transaction, negotiations and closing and post-closing activities. For enter-
prises or services that will be contracted out but not necessarily sold to private investors, this sub-
component will finance technical specialists for identifying and packaging concessionary contracts and
for drawing up the legal agreements, for soliciting operators and for making awards.
Special Studies to Support Privatization Program. While most of the privatization options and
strategies in each key infrastructure sector will be funded under separate projects, this component will
include funds for studies and privatization plans for road and highway maintenance and for facilitating
the issuance of shares of privatized enterprises in the capital markets.
Reform of Pension System
59. In order to ensure successful implementation of the proposed pension reformn, the circumstances of
pension reform in a small country like El Salvador will have to be taken into account, especially since the
proposed model has so far only been tested in larger countries. In the design of the new system, particular
consideration must therefore be given to issues such as i) institutional capacity, ii) economies of scale and
scope in the provision of member services, iii) the availability of adequate instruments for the investment
of pension funds as well as iv) the risks of concentration and the resulting regulatory and supervisory
difficulties. The institutional capacity of supervising the private pension funds is crucial. To ensure proper
functioning of the new system, extensive training is required for the staff that will regulate and supervise
the new private pension system.
60. In the organization of member services, the options and advantages of unbundling the services
provided by the pension fund management companies should be studied in more detail with the objective
of maximizing competition between fund managers. Further, the legislation for the new scheme should
allow for pension fund investment abroad as well as for foreign investment in the pension fund manage-
ment companies
61. In addition, substantial rationalization and improvement in the efficiency of administration of the
existing institutions is necessary. The contribution records of members switching over to the new system
will have to be systematized to calculate the transfer certificates in recognition of members' past
contributions. Further, it will be necessary to modernize the existing system, since it will continue to
collect contributions (supplemented by budgetary transfers) and pay out benefits to members who remain
as affiliates.
62. To support the Government's pension reform program, this subcomponent would, more specifically,
finance the following activities:
*  compilation, verification and registration of individual contribution records in INPEP and ISSS;
*  design of methodology and operational procedures for calculating and issuing the certificate of
transfer;
*  design of an social security identification number integrated into the personal identification system;
•  financial assessment of the public pension system with the objective of separating the health and
pension programs of ISSS and the pension and loan programs of INPEP;



23
*  elaboration and implementation of financial and organizational plan for the public system during the
transitional phase;
*  study of the market for private pension fund management companies with respect to the special
conditions of pension reform in a small country;
*  study of options for organizing the collection of contributions;
*  data processing and office equipment as well as staff training for the agency supervising private
pension fund management companies;
*  communication and dissemination of pension reform activities, including study tours for members of
the Assembly, opinion leaders and managers of the public pension system.
Institutional Arrangements
63. The component will be implemented by the privatization group within the PCU. The group will be
staffed by several high caliber professionals in the area of financial transactions, legal, public information
and legislative and regulatory frameworks. The privatization group will direct and supervise work that
will be carried out by a number of enterprise teams (consisting of sector ministries, enterprises and the
staff of the privatization group) for the privatization of the specific enterprises. In addition, the group will
report to the 'ComiW de Modernizaci6n' and act as its adviser for approving specific strategies and
transactions.
64. In the area of Pension Reform, project assistance would be provided through the 'Grupo de
Reforma' (see para. 54). Given the scope and importance of the reform, the Government has given
particular attention to consensus building and participation of key stakeholders, as well as to public
information prior to implementation. This component intends to support such efforts strongly during
implementation and supervision, and provide ample opportunities for exchanging ('best practice')
experiences from implementing pension reform in other countries, with focus on similar efforts in Central
America.
Environmental Protection during Privatization
65. In April 1996, a study on the institutional and legal aspects of environmental protection was carried
out. In the absence of clear-cut environmental policies and responsible institutions, the study recom-
mended the project to assist the Government in initial key steps towards environmental protection, and,
incrementally, contribute to respective environmental policy formulation. Furthermore, the study
recommended more targeted environmental audits of selected entities, particularly in power generation,
water/sewage and ports sectors.
66. The project will ensure that privatizations and private sector participation in service delivery financed
under this component will be carried out in a manner that adequately protects the environment. While
broader environmental issues are outside the project's scope, this component will make resources
available in case the Government decides to extend its privatization efforts to environmentally sensitive



24
sectors. In this case, the project provides funds up to US$500,000 to: (i) define the environmental
requirements and issue guidelines satisfactory to the Bank for each sector concerned (i.e. in power
generation, water/sewage, ports); (ii) strengthen the capacities of the environmental units within these
sectors until such time that one single entity is established and given the full authority to handle the
monitoring enforcement for the entire country; (iii) carry out environmental audits of the enterprises
being privatized fully or through concessions as part of their standard work program required to prepare
them for bid. The findings of such audits would be summarized and disclosed in the information
prospectus and bidding documents provided to prospective bidders.
Project Coordination
(estimated US$8.6 million, or 18% of total project costs)
Proposed Assistance under the PSM-TAL
67. The PSM-TAL will finance a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) within the Presidential Commission
for the Modernization of the Public Sector (CPMSP) that is responsible for coordinating the project and
providing support and orientation to all entities involved in the reform. The project will also support the
carrying out of Government activities associated with the incremental operating costs of the PSM-TAL.
The PCU was set up in 1995 during project preparation. It is headed by a National Director -
'Comisionado Presidencial para la Modernizacion del Sector Pziblico' - and is staffed with a Technical
Coordinator and six Component/Sub-Component Coordinators in charge of the different areas covered
under the project. Moreover, the PSM-TAL will support the existing project administrative unit,
established in 1991 under the Bank's ongoing Social Sector Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 3348-ES), in
carrying out the procurement of goods and services under the project. This unit will report to the PCU
for the purposes of the PSM-TAL. The PCU will have a budget to finance long- and short-term
consultant services, training and office technology equipment (see Figure 1: Organization Chart).
68. To facilitate overall project coordination and implementation, special emphasis would be given to
starting with effective public relations policies and launching public information campaigns on PSM. The
PPF is providing initial financing for the PCU, as well as for selected modernization efforts and the
launching of the PR campaign. Before effectiveness of the PSM-TAL, IDB would provide ample
cofinancing for this unit under specific TA under its loan.
69. The project will also assist the Government to coordinate effectively different sources of funds
provided by the donor community to carry out PSM efforts in different areas5. Joint seminars and
workshops would ensure exchange of information and complementarity between different project
approaches, and contribute to better synergy of project objectives. Coordination with the Bank's ongoing
modernization efforts in sector ministries (in health, education and agriculture) and with the Competitive-
5 While one specific area of PSM - decentralization of state institutions - is outside the scope of this project, a local
coordinator for decentralization (within the PCU) will be financed under the IDB loan to contribute to coherent policy
making in this area. Such arrangement would help ensure effective communication between PSM activities at central
government level and efforts towards modernization in municipalities (cf. example in Box IV). Decentralization and
municipal development policies are currently being assisted by GTZ.



25
ness Enhancement Loan would be given particular importance. The same holds for IDB assistance
projects in related areas.
Project Costs and Financing
70. Total base cost of the project is estimated at US$49.2 million equivalent. Overall project costs
(including contingencies and IDB's inspection and supervision fees) is estimated at US$51.5 million (see
Box VIII). The IBRD loan will finance US$24.0 million, and the IDB will finance US$19.7 million. Of
the IDB portion, US$15.9 million will be used to finance the Financial Resource Management Compo-
nent and US$3.8 million will finance professional staff of the PCU. The Government contribution will be
US$7.8 million equivalent, primarily to finance counterpart staff, training support costs, office space,
supplies, secretarial services, and vehicle operation. A PPF (P279-ES) advance of US$1.9 million will be
refinanced under the loan. Retroactive financing will be allowed for expenditures not exceeding US$2.4
million (10% of the loan amount) after 1 September, 1996. Given the country's focus in international
financial transactions, and its positive experiences with floating interest rates for its international loans,
the Government has chosen a LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loan (SCL). The IDB intends, at a
later stage, to provide an additional quick-disbursing loan (estimated at US$50 million) to assist the
Government's overall public sector modernization program.
Box VIII: Public Sector Modernization TAL - Overall Cost Estimates (USS'000)
Areas / Components                                IBRD          IDB             GOES    TIMI  of which   % of Base
PSM-TAL  PSM-TAL        TC                            PPF     Costs
A. Institutional Restr.d Debureaucratization      4,289        -        -        1,054   -543         255   10.9%
Institutional Restructuring                     3,435                          1,032 --467                 9.1%
Debureaucratization                               854                            22       876.             1.8%
B. Human and Financial Res. Management/           6,182     14,342      -        2,650       ?15     828   47.1%
Tax and Customs Administration
Human Resource Management                       5,749                           515      6,264      395   12.7%
Financial Res. M. /Tax and CustomsAdm.            433     14,342               2,135    16.91.1.    433   34.4%
C. Privatization PSP                             10,170                          1,900    12,07       460   24.5%
D. Project Coordinatlon                           2,658       -       3,774     2,150  - - -          300    17.5%
Subtotal (Base Costs)  23,299    14,342     3,774     7,754           -          100.0"/
Contingenaes       701      1,434                 59         - .1  57
IDB Loan Inspection & Supervision Fee             159                           1S9
Totl Xroec Cas-t                        - -      24,00      15,3      3*174 -  7813 -   1,Z         1 tO0



Figure 1: Project Organization Chart
Presidental Commission for Public Sector Modernizabon
Min. Fin.   Presid. Commissioner I  Min. Econ.
Presidential Commissioner                         Advisers
(National Project Director)              * Legal
* Economic
Political Coordination                                                                                                                                   Political Coordination
Of PSM                                                                                                                                                             Of PSM
|   ~oo~General Coordinator
I   (PC U)                                        P
IProject Administrtio    |                                                             Communication/ PR
Legal Advisor
* nformatics
Procurement       Accountng/ Financ                                                                                                   t')
| Fiencil Roe. ||     Human       ||        Social Security    |I| littional                           Prmv arion              Debureaucratization       Decentraizatbon
management || Reore                  :    :::EE: Ieom                     Rstuung                         :: ]P$P:N                                                     |
Technircal Coordination \ \ \ / / TrTchnicral Coordination
of PSM                                                                              \                                                                                \ \ / / of PSM
Selected Ministries
and Public Institutons
Reform Goups                  Institutional Restructuring
Financial Resource Management
Human Resource Management
Debureaucratzabon
Privatization and PSP
Pensions
Implementation of                                                                                                         Decentralizabon                  Implementation of
PSM                                                                                                                                                                 PSM



27
SECTION B: PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Organization and Implementation
71. The Borrower will be the Republic of El Salvador. Overall project coordination of the PSM-TAL is
the responsibility of the Presidential Commission for the Modernization of the Public Sector (CPMSP).
The CPMSP is composed of a minister-ranked President-appointed Presidential Commissioner for the
Modernization of the Public Sector (the Commissioner) who is the CPMSP coordinator and head of the
PSMP, and the Ministers of Finance and Economy.6
72. Success of the project will depend crucially on sustained political backing at the highest level and on
appropriate organizational mechanisms within government. The political direction of the reform is
provided by the Commissioner who is, for the purpose of the PSM-TAL, the National Director of the
Project. Political coordination of reform efforts is achieved through interministerial coordination via the
CPMSP. Privatization efforts are accompanied and monitored by a politically independent, highly
respected and experienced 'Comisi6n de Notables." The Comisi6n de Notables, which is made up of
well-respected citizens from different sectors of society, oversees the privatization processes to ensure
that they are carried out in a transparent manner within the law.
73. The technical direction of the PSMP is carried out by the Commissioner with the support of a
technical coordinating unit. This unit is the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) for the purpose of the PSM-
TAL. The PCU provides technical leadership and is responsible for project execution in the respective
areas. The PCU has been building a track record by successfully managing activities under the PPF and
the TAL (Ln. 3648-ES). It depends directly from the National Director of the Project and is supported by
a Project Coordinator, seven component coordinators, and staff in charge of procurement and account-
ing/financial administration. The component coordinators and the administrative staff report to the
Project Coordinator.
74. Beneficiary entities are responsible for project implementation, while the PCU maintains the technical
and administrative coordination functions for all components. In the case of the Human and Financial
Resource Management Components, the Ministry of Finance as the normative entity in charge for
implementing the macro-systems of human and financial management, will ensure that activities are
executed in accordance with the overall plan agreed with the PCU.
75. Each of the main beneficiary ministries and decentralized institutions have either set up or are setting
up reform groups responsible for promoting, planning, coordinating and monitoring their agency's efforts
in institutional restructuring and human resource and financial management. Each reform group is headed
by a coordinator appointed by the minister or head of institution involved. The agency coordinators
maintain permanent communication with the component coordinators of the PCU, and report to the
National Director. To facilitate overall project coordination and implementation, special emphasis would
6 As part of the Government's institutional restructuring, the ex Ministry of Coordination (MICDES) that had previously
coordinated PSM efforts was dissolved on December 31, 1995. Now, PSM efforts are being fully coordinated by the
COM.



28
be given to starting with effective public relations policies and launching public information campaigns on
PSM.
76. In order to ensure coordination with the Reform Groups within individual sector ministries special
working groups would be established. They would be related to specific PSM issues, and being guided
and supervised by the PCU.
77. The project has been designed flexibly in order to respond to changing needs during implementation
and potential outcomes resulting out of the participatory approach of the project. Due to the nature of a
public sector modernization project, initial and ongoing participation of the major stakeholders within the
project design and its main activities was encouraged and will be ensured during project implementation
through special built-in participatory-mechanisms such as consultation, reform groups, workshops, and
joint committees. Further, targeted service delivery surveys would allow for selective participation of
user groups and citizens in PSM efforts and accompany implementation. Such surveys would also sustain
effective monitoring. Some of these activities will be financed under the PPF. Additional periodic reviews
would be carried out (initially on a quarterly basis) and disbursements would be synchronized with
progress achieved.
Training Plan
78. Given current levels of qualifications of public servants, the introduction of new management tools as
well as new human resources and information-systems through PSM will require major training efforts.
The project would provide training according to groups of staff and education levels. As a condition for
Board presentation, the Government proposed a training needs assessment that will serve as a basis for a
detailed plan of training activities under the project. This would allow for assessing the overall funds
needed, and to seek bilateral and multilateral donor contributions to assist the Government's efforts. A
preliminary training estimate and a diagnosis of training needs in its original Spanish version appears in
Annex E (I and 2).
79. Given the overall importance of upgrading the quality of human resources for achieving sustainability
of PSM, the Bank and the IDB would assist the Government to receive substantial multilateral and
bilateral grants for staff training and instruction.
Procurement
80. Procurement will consist primarily of consultants' services for training, including transportation and
per diem, technical assistance, and studies. It would also include computing and communications
equipment and software, five vehicles, and some office refurbishing and furniture.
81. All project components to be financed under the proposed Loan would be procured in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement of January 1995. Procurement would be conducted by
administrative staff of the PCU. This staff has acquired substantial experience in handling national and
international public procedures during the implementation of the Social Sector Rehabilitation Project (Ln.
3348-ES) and the TAL (Ln. 3648-ES). In addition, specific technical assistance would be provided under



29
the project to strengthen the PCU to provide additional training to enable staff to handle a substantial
number of consultants' contracts that would be required in the project. Detailed procurement and
disbursement procedures to manage procurement and ensure acceptable procedures would be included in
a comprehensive Project Implementation Plan (PIP) that will be used by all relevant project executing
entities. The Government has selected a consulting firm satisfactory to the Bank that will, inter alia, help
prepare the PIP. During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government on a first draft of
the PIP. The PIP will define (i) for each component: objectives, key project activities, outputs, institu-
tional arrangements, performance indicators and timing targets (Annex A of Technical Annex); (ii) for
each component: work program, budget, and procurement plans for the first year of implementation; (iii)
responsibilities of the Government's agencies associated with project implementation; (iv) monitoring and
evaluation indicators and targets; and (v) an informatics strategy for information and communication
systems to be applied by the agencies involved in the project. Completition, and adoption by presidential
resolution (acuerdo ejecutivo), of the Project Implementation Plan was agreed to be a condition for loan
effectiveness.
82. Procurement arrangements under the project are summarized in Annex C. Although not foreseen,
contracts for goods valued at US$250,000 equivalent or more, would be procured through ICB
procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts for systems development, computing
equipment and software for the Human Resource Information System (HRIS), valued at US$100,000
equivalent or more per contract, would be procured through ICB two-stage procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Contracts for other goods valued at US$100,000 or more but less than US$250,000 equivalent per
contract, would be purchased through LIB, among suppliers with maintenance and service facilities in El
Salvador, up to an aggregate of US$1.5 million equivalent. For ICB and LIB procedures, the PCU would
use the standard bidding documents (SBDs) issued by the Bank, with such modifications as agreed by the
Bank to be necessary for the purpose of the project. For negotiations, the PCU submitted satisfactory
drafts of the SBDs and agreed to put them into effect by loan effectiveness. Contracts for goods valued at
less than US$100,000 but more than or equal to US$50,000 will be procured through international
shopping, up to an aggregate amount of US$400,000. When estimated to cost less than US$50,000 per
package, goods would be procured under national shopping procedures, up to an aggregate amount of
US$300,000. Both international and national shopping will require quotations from at least three eligible
suppliers.
83. Individual consultants and consultant firms for training, including transportation and per diems,
technical assistance, including auditing services, and studies, would be contracted following the Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency (August 1981). For complex consulting assignments, Bank-issued standard forms of contract
would be used. For other assignments, standard forms of contract, issued by the Borrower and acceptable
to the Bank will be employed. Standard letter of invitation (LOI) agreed with Bank would be used
whenever appropriate.
84. During appraisal, technical assistance required to support the components and the PCU were
reviewed and agreed with the CPMSP. During negotiations, the Government presented evidence of
procurement plans for the first year of activities. Finetuning and further programming will be done within
the PIP.



30
85. Prior Review by the Bank. Prior review by the Bank would be required for procurement proce-
dures and documentation for all tender packages and contracts for ICB and LIB, regardless of its value.
It is expected that these procurement arrangements would result in about 85 percent of Bank-financed
contracts by value. All terms of reference for training, technical assistance and studies, all contracting
documents, including short lists, of technical assistance and studies of critical nature, and single source
contracting would be subject to prior review. Documentation for contracts with consultant firms, valued
above US$100,000 and for individual consultants, valued above US$50,000, would also be subject to
prior review. The thresholds for prior review are justified, based on a careful review of estimated costs
and nature of consultants services which would be required under the project. All other documentation
would be subject to ex-post review during auditing and by Bank supervision missions on a random basis.
86. No recent Country Procurement Assessment on El Salvador is available. However, El Salvador's
procurement regulations clearly authorize, as a special provision, application of procurement procedures
of international financial institutions in the procurement of goods and services, where financing of such
procurement comes from an international financial institution.
Disbursements and Financing
87. The proposed loan would be disbursed over a four-year period, with a completion date of February
28, 2001. The project closing date will be August 31, 2001. Disbursements would be made on the basis
of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) for contracts valued below US$100,000 for goods, below
US$50,000 for individual consultants, and below US$100,000 for consultant firms. For every contract
equal to or above these amounts, disbursements would be fully documented. For disbursements made
through SOEs, detailed documentation providing evidence of expenditures would be retained by the
PCU, and made available for the required audit and also for supervision by IBRD. A special account in
U.S. Dollars with an authorized allocation of US$2.1 million would be established in the Central Reserve
Bank of El Salvador to facilitate Government's execution of the project. The first advance to the special
account, however, will be limited to US$0.7 million to avoid overfunding or having an inactive account
during the first few months of the project. The special account would be replenished on a monthly basis.
Accounts and Audits
88. The project administration unit will maintain records and accounts of all transactions related to the
PSM-TAL. The PCU would hire independent auditing services satisfactory to IBRD to prepare annual
audits at the end of each government fiscal year. The audit reports would include separate opinions on the
use of SOEs and the special account. The PCU would submit the audit reports to IBRD within six
months of the close of each fiscal year.



El Salvador: Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Loan
Key Project Activities and Performance Indicators
Objectives                  Inputs                 Activitics/Processcs                    Outputs/Impact                     Institutional        |            Indicators (*)                   Timing
I                     I                                      I                                   I     Arrangements
A. INSTITUTIONAL RESTRUCTURING AND DEBUREAUCRATIZATION (estimated US$5.3million)
A. 1. Institutional Restructuring (estimated US4.5 million)
Eliminate functional         *  Consultant          *  Mapping of the public sector anid    Output                            Institutional restnmcturing       A Agreedfuture macroinstlutional    Jan 96-Dec. 99
inconsistencies and overlaps     services for          review of alternatives for the new   *  Proposals developed for the    agrcements between heads          structure of the public sector by
in public sector institutions    institutional          macroinstitutional structire of the     new macroinstitutional        of ministries/decentralized       the CPM.SP
and improve the levels of        restructuring          public sector.                          structure of the public sector    institutions and the      *  3 senminars held with minister staff.
efficiency of public sector      proposals of       *  Detection of functions that are         ior the restructuring of the    Comisi6n Presidencial para    *  8 institutional restrulcturing
institutions.                    selected entities,    obsolete and should be eliminated,       institutions(s).              la Modemizaci6n del Sector        programs completed
and for               are duplicated and should be         *  Institutional restructuring    Pfiblico (CPMSP) in the       e  12 programns eliminated.
implementation        merged, are weak or non-existent        programs completed.            case ofreformns within        *  4 institutions transferred to the
of institutional      and should be strengthencd or       *   Restructured public enitities.    institutions. CPMSP in the    pnvate sector.
restruuring           created, are currently under the                                       case of merging or               p 9 rnstitutions relocrted
progrars.             responsibility of a ministry btit                                      extemalization of
should be transferred to the private                                  institutions.
sedor or other agents and could be
decentralized to regional or        Impact                             Ministries and decentrali7ed
municipal levels.                   Increased erniciency in provision    institutions to be determined
*  Evaluation of the services that the  of public services.               by CPMSP.
institution(s) provide to the public
or to other public sector enitities,
and their means of delivery. and
proposals for adequate staffing
levels and profiles, new processes
needed for service delivery, and an
estimated new budget for the
institution(s).
*  Assistance to entities for
implementation of their
institutional restructuring
programs.
*   Development of adequate incentive
package for staffthat will be
displaced by institutional
restructuring.
()Key indicators are shown in italics.                                                                                                                                             Annex  A   (Page I of II)



El Salvador: Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Loan
Key Project Activities and Performance Indicators
O)bjectives               Inputs                 Activities/Processcs                   Outputs/mpact                    Institutional                   Indicators (*)                   Tiniing
_, I  I                            I     Arrangements
Improve legal framework   ] *    Consultancies    *  Review of main legal instriments   Output                            Ministries and decentralized   *  New, legal instruments developed.   Jun 96 - Dec 99
for the public sector.           for updating         related to the institution(s) and  *    legal framnework           institutions to be detemined     or evisting ones updated. in all
existing legal      detection of omissions                  developed (excludes         by CPMSP.                       restructured entities.
instruments,        contradictions or obsoleteness of       development of civil service
and for             the legal framework in relation to      law and regulations covered
developing          the new mission ofthe institution(s)    under the Hluman Resouirce
new ones.           undergoing institutional                Management component).
restructuring.
TA to develop legal framework     Impact
consistent with reform.           *    Public institutions with
clear and updated legal
framework enabling them to
carry out utictions with
transparency and
accountability.
Strengthen information      *    Information      *    Provision of infomiation         Output                            Ministries and deceintralized   *  70% of saff in restructured entities   Jun 96 - Dec 99
technology skills oftministry    technology            technology equipment to selected    *    Information teclmology    institutions to be detemnined   are routinely using analylical tools
staff                            (i.e., comiiputer     entities undergoing institutionial     equipmeint in place in      by CPMSP.                       and methods developed under the
hardware and         restructuring.                         selected institutions, with                                  project
software, fax   *    Training in use of technology to       staff trained to operate and                             *  70% of staffed trained in oniEce
machines             manage/implement                       maintain technology.                                        technology.
photocopy            programs/tasks.
machines) and                                          Impact
training.                                              *    Selected institutions able to
process in timely manner
priority programns.
A. 2. Debureaucratization (estimated US$0.9 million)
Simplify and redesign       *  Consultant        *  Appoint coordinator, prepare TORs   *  Completion of effective, well-   Debureaucratizaiion Unit in    *  3 to 4 projects lauinched and  Jan 96 - Dec 96
bureaucratic processes to       services,           and recruit consultants.               publicized                    PCU, "Comision El                yielding imnprovements in 1996.
increase efficiency and         computer         *  Review and analyze existing studies    debureaucratization projects    Salvador Eticiente".       *  12 to l6 additional projects        Jan 97 - Dec
responsiveness in service       equipment and       and survey data to identify and        such as the effort begun in                                   launched andyielding                2000
delivery,                      training for         prioritize sub-projects for year I     February 1996 to simplify the                                  improvements.
process             and years 2-5.                         birth registration process.                                *  Number of press conferences &       Jan 97 - Dec
Achieve visible                redesign,        *  Form high-level steering group, led   *  "Grupos de reforma" trained    Debureaucratization Unit.     other media events held each year.    2000 (annual)
improvements in selected       service              by the Comisionado and made up of      in Debureaucratization                                     *  Number of references made each      Jan 96 - Dec
service areas in first year to  delivery &          five private and public sector         method.s.                                                     month to debureaucratization        2000 (monthly)
help establish credibility of   customer            representatives, to approve work   *  Additional administrative     CGrupos de reforma and            projects in written and broadcast
modernization program.          satisfaction.       program and communication              streamlining projects         Debureaucratization Unit.       media.
Workshop to         strategy for Camara de Coniercio's     launched by "grupos de                                     *  Award ceremonies held to            Jan 96 - Dec
share               "El Salvador Eficiente" initiative,    reforma" and other inspired                                   recognize achievements of civil     2000 (annual)
intemational        and to ensure CC's work                public servants without                                       servants that have led or contributed
experience          complements that of UTC's              prompting (but with technical                                 to succcssful debureaucratization
(*)Key indicators are shown in italics.                                                                                                                                        Alnnex  A  (Page 2 of H1)



El Salvador: Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Loan
Key Project Activities and Performance Indicators
Objectives                Inputs                 Activities/Processes                   Outputs/Impact                   Institutional                    Indicators (*)                  Timing
I               I                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                           I                                 I     Arrangements          lll
from similar        Debureaucratization unit               support if requested) from                                    projects.
debureaucratiz   *  Carry out service delivery customer    component coordinator's                                    *  Significant increase in % of        By Feb 96
ation projects.     satisfaction surveys, as well as       office.                                                       Salvadorans that associate          (thereafter
focus group interviews.            *  Service delivery baseline and    Debureaucratization Unit.     modernization of the state with    measured
*  Work closely with "grupos de           progress indicators                                            effort to simplify procedures,     annually or
reforma" and front-line workers to    established in selected high-                                  reduce paperwork and provide       biannually)
map and redesign bureaucratic         priority service areas.                                        more user-friendly service [to be
processes, test and replicate new                                                                    measured through newspaper polls,
approaches, and train civil servants                                                                 random opinion sampling, focus
in application of new processes.                                                                     group interviewsl (30/70-70/301.
*  Disseminate results to opinion                                                                    *  3 or more 'grupos de reforma"
leaders and service users,                                                                           have initiated their own projects.
l  Surveys of efficiency and user
satisfaction levels carried out
periodically in 3-5 high-priority
service areas, with results made
available to users.
Impact                                                        *  Significant increase in % of adult  Feb 98 - Dec
*  More efficient, ctistomer-                                     citizens and firm leaders of all sizes   2000
oriented service delivery.                                    that view civil servants as more   Feb 98 - Dec
*  A corps of civil servants that                                 efficient and responsive to thei   2000
seeks continuous process                                      needs.
improvements.                                             *  Selected partnerships with private
and not-for-profit sectors to identify
and continuously improve services.I
B. HUMAN AND FINANCIAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (Estimated US$23.2 million)
B. 1. Hluman Resource Mana emnt (HRM) (Estimatcd at US$6.3 million)
Strengthen central          *  Consultant         *  Support implementation of l)ecree    *  IIRIS is used by all ministries    M.inistrv of Finance (lIRNt  *  Number of ministries (11 in 1996.    1996-97
govenmment's capacity to        services.             471                                    to nin their payrolls, prepare  Coordin.Mor and Central        13 iii 1997 ajid numsbef uf        (monthly)
implement and monitor civil     computer          *  Install basic 1HRIS modules             staffing budgets, and record   HRIS Office).                   decentralized institutions (16 in
service pay and enrploi nent    equipnment and        (personnellposts. payroll, and         movements of persornel.                                        1996; 28 in 1997) with HRIS
policies by completing the      softw are, arid       budget) in all remaiiing ministries    *  [IRIS data on posts, pay, and  Ministry of linance (IIRNI   completely installed and
installation of the I iRIS     training               and decentralized institutions        occujpants of posts is no more  Coordinator and Central        Junctioning.
which integrates essential                            receiving govemment transfers for     than one month old in all       HRIS Office).
data on personnel, posts and                          salaries                              niinistries.                                                *  Number of ministries (6 in 1996.    1996-98
oigani7ational stiuctures                         *  Integrate 11RIS with SAI1.          *  Institltional HIRISes          NMinistrv of Finance (liRM       10 in 1997, x in 199S) and         (monthly)
vwith the paT701l in all                                                                    pernanently and continuously    Coordiiator. SAFI              nuimber of decentralized
ministries and selected                                                                     liniked to Ministry of Finance's   Coordinator, arid Central    institutions (12 in 1996. 21 in
decentralhzed institutions                                                                  central HRIS and to SAFI.      IIRIS Office).                   1997: x in 1998) producing
payrolls with HRIS.
(*)Key indicators are shown in italics.                                                                                                                                         Annex  A  (Pagc3of 11)



El Salvador: Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Loan
Key Project Activities and Performance Indicators
Objcctivcs                 Inputs                  Activities/Processes                    Outputs/Impact                    InstituLional                     Indicators (*)                    Timing
Strengthen legal and institutional  *  Central HRIS Office              Ministry of Finance and      *  Number of ministries (3 in 1996;      1996-98
mechanisms (including buidgetary       incorporated into new central    HRM Coordinator.                 13 in 1997) and number of            (annual)
sanctions) that compel ministries to    personnel management unit                                        decentralized institutions (2 in
maintain, regularly update, and         which has legal authority to                                      1996; 7 in 1997) preparing
traisfer essential data on personnel,  force compliance of ministries                                    personnel budgets with HRIS.
pay, posts, and organiizational         and decentralized institutions
stnmctures to thc Ccitital IIRIS        with central government's data
Oltrice.                                requirements.
Proide up-1o-date                                   *  Facilitate regular transfcer (at least    *  Central BHRIS Office monitors    Ministry of Finance (IIRM  *  Out of total number of approved    9/96-2000
inforomation nceded to                                  monthly) of required data to            movements of personnel (entry,   Coordinator, Central HRIS       posts (ley dc salario and            (quarterly)
dci elo, arid St[IPpo1t T-itiCAl                       NMinistry of Finance's Central IIRIS     exit, transfers, rehiring of    Of fice, and Budget              contratados) in central govemment
hiunian rerouirce niet                                  Office.                                 retrenchees, etc. ) and togcther   Directorate).                 ministries, % of posts for which
Sitchiteilli indliding                              *   1 stattlisit computerized conitrols on  with Budget Directorate takes                                    Central SIRH Office has data (i)
cl,isrtficAt1n and esaluationi                          rchiring of beneficiaries of Decree     necessary actions to enforce                                     no older than 60 days and (ii) no
of posts. recnitlnment.                                 471 anid those affected by future       infoirnation requirements.                                        older than 30 days, on pay,
htienies of ccr, ice,                                   institutional rcstructuring exercises.   *  With inputs from Central                                      geographic and administrative
prontivin. staffappcaisal,                          *  Train technicians in operation and       IIRIS office, and in                                             location, function, unique i.d.
arnd training                                           maintenance of HRIS                     collaboration with Budget       Ministry of Finance (HIRM        number of occupant if not vacant,
*  Train huimsan resource and finanicial    Directorate, new central        Coordinator and Central          full name, date of entry into
analysts/managers in use of IIRIS       personnel management unit       IIRIS Office).                   service, and date of birth.
as management tool (e.g.,               oversees implementation of                                   *  Mid-year and annual reports           1997-2000
preparation of staff budgets, job       government-wide pay and                                          summarizing facts and figures on
evaluation and reclassification,        employment policy.                                               civil service employment and pay
traiitig planis, etc..).            *  Central IIRIS Office prepares                                     produced by Central IIRIS Office
*   D)evelop and implement additional       annual report containing basic                                   for Minister of Finance.
IIRIS moduiles including (a)            data on pay and employment in   Ministry of Finance (I IR1   *  Number of technicians trained in    1996-1998
adisititistration & evaluation of       the civil service for Minister of   Coordinator and Central      operation and maintenance of         (annual)
posts, (b) trainitig, (c) career        Finance to approve and make     HRIS Office).                    HRIS, and number of ministries
management, and (d) staff               available to Legislative                                         and number oadecentralized
appraisal.                              Assembly, the press, and                                         institutions with enough
taxpayers who request it.                                        odequately trained technicians to
a Central IHRIS 0111ice provides    Miir  fFnne(  M                ensure su.stainability.              1996-1998
data support for developmeint   Ministry of Finance (ItRM    *  Number ofhuman resource and
of govenmuent-wide              Coordinator and Central          finance specialists/managers        (annual)
classification and pay norms,   HRIS Office).                    trained to oversee payroll runs,
carcai   development and                                         prepare staff budgets, and use
trainitig, and staff appraisal                                   HRIS as a management tool, and
systems.                                                         number of ministries and number
oadecentralized institutions with
sufficiently trained personnel to
ensure sustainability.              1996-2000
*  Savings from elimination of          (annual)
payrolls irregularities and
retirement of staff exceeding
mandatory retirement age.           1996-2000
(')Key irdicators are shown in italics.                                                                                                                                               Annex  A  (Page 4 of I )



El Salvador: Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Loan
Key Project Activities and Performance Indicators
Objectives                Inputs                 Activities/Processes                   Outputs/lmpact                   Institutional                   Indicalors (*)                   Timing
I  I   |  l                      |     Arrangements          l                                      l       nl
* Turnover rates for technical and
professional staff in Central HRIS
Ofrice & in mninistries' personnel
units.                             1996-2000
* Degree of coordination between
Central HRIS Office and Budget
Directorate.                       1996-2000
* Central HRIS Office's legal
authority and budgetary provision.
lmpact
*  Pay and employment                                         *  Opinion surveys of public service
policymaking (based on solid                                   users and taxpayers on efFiciency
iniformation) that contribtites to                            and effectiveness of government
the efficiency and effectiveness                               institutions.
of government operations.                                  *  Correspondence between budgeted
*  Stronger control over wage                                     and actual wages
expenditures and better balance                            *  Incidence of payroll irregularities.
between outlays on wages and                                   Personal emoluments as % of
outlays on O&M that civil                                     current expenditures.
servanits need to be productive                            *  Wage bill as % of GDP.
on the job.
Lstablish new legal         *  Consuilting        *  Review, discussion, and revision of   *  Passage by legislative       High -level ministerial     *  Technical agreement on draft law    May 96
framework for the efficient     services and         proposed law led by interministerial   Assembly of Civil Service Law   commission composed of         by representatives of Presidency,
and flexible management of      training.            commission with technical support      (to be followed by             representatives from            Justice, Labor, and Finance
human resources in the                                fronm the UTC and coordinator of      development of enabling        Presidency and ministers of     ministries.
central government                                   the human resource nmanagement         regulations and technical      Justice, Labor, and Finance,   *  Political agreement on draft law by    May 96
component                             instruments -- see outputs     with technical support from     Presidency, and nministers of
*  Prior review of draft law by World     undcr other HRM subsystems).   UTC and HRM component           Justice, Labor, and Finance.
Bank legal counsel and staff to                                      coordinator in Ministry of    *  Political agreement on draft law by    May 96
ensure that it would not prevent                                     Finanice.                       Council of Ministers.
effective implementation of other                                                                *  Presentation and approval of new    May 96 - Dec
II RFM subcomponents.                                                                                law in Legislative Assembly.       96
*  Presentation of agreed draft to
members of the Council of
Ministers.
*  Final revision of draft law.       linpa                                                          *  Increased civil service productivity
*  Orientation/training sessions for  *  Efficient, flexible management                                  [tbdl
members of Ministry of Finance's      of human resources in central                                  [ Central government's capacity to
"grupo de reforma "                   government.                                                    recruit and retain personnel in
*  Presentation of draft law to                                                                          essential skill areas; and to adapt
Legislative Assembly.                                                                                skill mix to changing role and
*  Intervention of "grupo de reforma"                                                                    functions of state Itbdl.
members in Assembly committee
discussions to provide technical and
legal "defense" of law's provisions.                                                                                           .
(')Key indicators are shown in italics.                                                                                                                                        Annex  A  (Page 5 of I11)



El Salvador: Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Loan
Key Project Activities and Performance Indicators
Objectives                Inputs                 Activities/Processes                   Outputs/Impact                   Inslitutional                   Indicators (*)                   Timing        l
I                   I                                       I                                I |   Arrangements
Develop capacity of central    *  Consulting   *  Prepare terms of reference, recruit,  *  Establishment of central      Ministry of Finance.         *  New "Reglamento Interno del         Dec 96
unit to design. supporl, and    services and       and select consultants/advisors.        management unit with de jure                                   Organo Ejecutivo " specifying
oversee implementation of       training.      *  Assign at least two permanent staff to   and de facto authority to                                      location andfunctions of central
human resource                                     unit during year 1.                     oversee implementation of                                      management unit.
management policies and                        *  Prepare and put into effect legal        personnel management                                       *  At least 2 permnanent staff recruited
norms in central government                        instruments including changes in        norms.                                                         for new central unit in year one.  Dec 96
ministries.                                        "Reglamento Interno del Organo       *  Four-year staffing and budgct   Central management unit    *  Progress against central
Ejecutivo" to establish functions of    plan for central management    initially in Minisry of        management unit 'sfour.year        Jan 97 - Jan 2000
unit and its location within new        unit.                         Finance [final location to be   sraffing plan.                     (annually)
organizational structure of central  *  Central management unit       established at outset of     e  Personnel managers in all
government.                             with sufficiently trained staff   proJectl-                   ministries trained in essential    Jan 97 - Jan 2000
*  Design of unit's organizational         and adequate resources to                                      human resource management          (annually)
structure including profiles of         carry out normative and       Ministry of Finance.            huans reasourc  rainaeesta
essential posts.                        monitoring functions.                                         tasra  (at unit  40 2000
*  Develop mediumn-term budget and      *Ministerial personnel units     Central managemnent unit         year 2000).
staffing plan.                          with sufficiently trained staff   initially in Ministry of  *  Progress of ministries against    Jan 98 - Jan 2000
*  Recruit qualified staff gradually to    and resources to carry out     Inance                          stafing plans.                     (annually)
fill posts in accordance with priorities  essential HRM tasks.                                        s Nomns and guidelines issued by   Jan 97 - Jan 2000
of other HRM sub-components.                                                                          central management unit, and
*  Train central management unit staff.                                                                   degree of compliance with thehm by
*  Develop model structure, resource                                                                      ministries.
framework, and post descriptions for                                                              *  Gradual increase in status of       Jan 98 - Jan 2000
personnel management units in                                                                         personnel management function Ito
ministries, in close consultation with                                                                be measured informally in
govemment-wide "HRM grupo de                                                                          interviews).
reforma" made up of representatives
firom central government ministries'
management teams.
*  Oversee gradual recruitment of           I-pact                                                       . Skill profile of civil service.
qualified staff to fill personnelImat*Slprfe  cvlsrte
manaieme  pstsain minisies.   *         Implementation of human                                   *  Turnover rates in key skill areas.
management posts in ministries.        resource policies that attract                             *  Client satisfaction with service
m Train personnel managers in              and retain personnel in                                        delivery.
ministries.                             essential skill areas at an                               *  Service delivery cost, quality, and
affordable cost.                                              coverage of demand in selected
*  Gradual improvement in fit                                     areas.
between functions of
government and level of skills
required to carry them out.
* Higher productivity in the
delivery of services.
(')Key indicators are shown in italics.                                                                                                                                         Annex  A  (Page 6 Of 1l)



El Salvador: Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Loan
Key Project Activities and Performance Indicators
Objectives            Inputs                 ActiviliesfProcesses                  Outputs/mpact             |      Institutional                    Indicators (*)                   Timing       l
ObjIctives  Inputs           Activities/Processes                   O pIaArrangements                                     |_l_l
Streamline, rationalize and    *  Consulting   *  Prepare terms of reference, recruit  *  Unified classification system  Ministry of Finance (HRM    *  Convergence/divergence of new       Jan 98 - Jan 2000
unify pay and grading of       services,           and select consultants.                 with limited number ofpay     unit).                          pay and grading norms to/from best
civil servants in central       training,      *  Collect infonmation on and analyze       bands (10-15) for central                                     practice in industrialized countries.
government ministries.          computer           the large number of existing pay and    goverrment posts.                                          *  At least 4 professionals in central  Jan 98 - Jan 2000
equipment          grading systems operating in public  *  Personnel managers in every    Ministry of Finance (HRM       management unit and 40 in line     (annually)
and soflware.      sector, as well as private sector       ministry and in central       unit).                          ministries trained in application of
comparators.                            management unit trained in                                    new pay and grading system; and
I In consultation with "IIRM grupo de      applying new classification                                    number of ministries with
reforma" prepare norms for unified     system.                                                        sufficiently trained staff to evaluate
pay and grading system, and present    *  Operational manuals.        Ministry of Finance (HRM        jobs and reclassify them.
implementation options with         *  Posts evaluated and            unit).                      *  Number of ministries (all by' year    Jan 98 - Jan 2000
corresponding costs to Minister of      reclassified in all ministries  line ministries with          2000) that have reclassified posts.   (annually)
Finance.                               implementing restructuring    technical support and        *  Number of ministries (all by year    Jan 98 - Jan 2000
*  Minister of Finance obtains Council     plans.                        oversight from Ministry of       2000) submitting salary            (annually)
of Ministers approval for pay and   *  Ministries present plans for   Finance (HRM unit).             restructuring proposals that meet
grading model, to be implemented        salary rationalization        line ministries.
gradiially in ministries that have  *  Ministry o    z Finance and line  Minister of Finance with     centrally-determined norms.
presented satisfactory institutional    ministries negotiate schedules   support from Budget
restruuring plans.                      of implementing salary        Directorate and HRM unit.
*  train personnel managers in central     rationalization.
management unit and ministries in
application of new pay and grading
notms.
Impact                                                    *  Creater decompression of salary
*  Competitive civil service pay                                 structure (from x:y to 14:1).
structure capable of                                      *  Gap (in percent) between salaries of
attracting, retaining and                                     managementtprofessionaV technical
motivating skilled personnel                                  personnel in civil service and
Devclop and oversee  Consulting   .   Rcview andmotvatin skilledtmersonndls                                    private sector comparators.
Develop and oversee         *  Consulting      *  Review and assess slternative models   *  Recruitment systenm(s).      Ministry of Finance (iRM        Degree to which line ministries     Jan 98 - Dec
implementation orpersonnel      services and       (including cost implications) for    *  performance appraisal         unit).                           comply with centrally-determined    2000
management nomis and           training.           recruitment, performance appraisal,     system(s).                                                     norms in areas of recruitment,     (annually by area)
guidelines in the areas of                         promotion and career development,    *  Promotion and career                                           performance appraisal, promotion
recruitment, performance                           and discipline, in consultation with    development system(s)                                          and career development, and
appraisal, promotion and                           interministerial *IIRM grupo de         including schemes of scrvice                                   discipline.
career development, and                            reforma."                               for management, professional                               *  Number of management,               Jan 98 - Dec
discipline,                                                                                and technical staf.                                           professional and technical staff    2000
*  Assess desirability of creating elite  *  Discipline and appeals                                       receiving training and average     (annually by type
maaemelpnnt, pofesina,corps of civil service managers and                                  process (es).nubroraighus                                                                          fW
management, professional,             technical staff ("key post systenm"/  *  Regulations and operational    Ministry of Finance (HRMreeed
and technical training                             senior executive servicc).              manuals in suppon ofthe       unit and personnel                reasedu                           Jan 98 - Dec
programs,                                                                                   bv ssem                      management units in line                                    . nrae  s opronnea  2000
*  Select models and tailor as ncedcd to    r         nabove systems.    minist,ies                       opposed to seniority in promotion  (annually)
El Select o modlandtailor asnee  o    * faigr                            iitis,of civilI servants.
El Salvador contest.                *  Stafftrained in central                                    *  Number of civil servants disciplined
(')Key indicators are shown in italics.                                                                                                                                         Annex  A  (Page 7 of 11)



El Salvador: Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Loan
Key Project Activities and Performance Indicators
Objectives                 Inputs                 Activities/Processes            |       Outputs/Impact                   Institutional                     Indicators (*)                   Timing
I  I   I  I                       I     Arrangements           I                                                         I
management unit anid in InHle    M inistry of Finance (11RkM   by type of itlf-acti on.
*  Prepare, enact and disseminate           ministries to implement        ullit).
enabling regulations and guidclines.    systems.
*  Train central management unit and    *  Staff in all ministries trained
line ministry staff in application of   in human resource and
new IIRbf sub-systeins.                 program management, as well
*  Implement sub-systems gradually.         as selected areas of essential
*  Monitor compliance of line ministries    professional and technical
with personnel management               skillsiareas.
guidelines, carry out selective audits,
and adopt sanctions as necessary.
* Assess training needs of staff in key
posts.
*  Develop and deliver management,
professional and technical training  ImPAct                                                         *  Lower cost, higher quality, and
programs for essential PSM activities   *  Higher civil service                                         greater coverage in se-vice delivery
(excludes training on office            productivity.                                                   (specific indicators in selected
technology under the Institutional   *  'Iighter linkc between                                         services to be established in
Restructuring component).-              performance and rewards.                                        baseline service delivery surveys
*  Better fit between jobs and                                     and nmeasured in follow-up
skills of civil servants.                                      surveys).
*  Increased morale, especially                                *  'Fumover rates in skilled positions.
among nianagers, professional                              *  Average education and trainiiig
and technical staff.                                           levels of civil servants in
management, professional and
technical streams.
*  "Attitude surveys" within civil
service.
B. 2. Financial Resource Management (estimated US$16.9 million): (see separate s.atrix provided by I1))
- Financial hfanagement (est. USS10.5 million)
- Public Procurement (est. USXO.S5 million)
- Tax Administration (est. US$3. 0million)
- Customs Administration (est, USX2. 8 million)
(')K;e% indicators are sho%Nii in italics.                                                                                                                                         Arnnex  A   (I'agegXoti 11 )



El Salvador: Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Loan
Key Project Activities and Performance Indicators
Objectives                Inputs                Activities/Processes                   Outputs/limpact                 Institutional                    Indicators (*)                  Timing
lIl                 I                                                                       I |   -Arrangements
C. PRIVATIZATION AND PRIVATE SECTOR PARTICIPATION (Estimated US$12.1 million)
Increase efficiency and     Consulting services   *  Provision of TA for establishing and    Privatization Group & National    Project Coordination Unit/    Output Indicators (1):
improve quality of services    by (national and     strengthening a privatization group  Framework                      Privatization Group
through private participation   international)      and for establishing a national    *  Technical privatization unit                               *  Effective privatization unit       May-July 96
in infrastructure           consulting firms        privatization regulatory framework.    established and fully staffed.   and                         established
*    telecommunications     and individual                                             *  Program monitoring systems                                 *  Program monitoring systems
*    power                  consultants         *  Provision of TA and equipment for       operating.                   Task groups for                 operating.
*    water                                          establishing regulatory frameworks    *  National Privatization Law  privatization within       *  National Privatization Law
*    transport sectors                              and organization for water and         prepared for National        respective public
and                                                transport sectors.                      Assembly.                    enterprises/ ministries      u  Regulatoryframeworksfor            May/Dec 96
*    social security.                                                                                                                                   telecomm and power sectors         (for teleconur)
and                 a ~~~~~~Enterprises restursctured for  June 96/ July 97
*  Provision of direct transaction     Power & Telecommunications                                      competitive markets.               (for power, and
Enhance capital markets                             assistance for private participation in   *  Regulatory frameworks  Project Coordination Unit!      S co   f maritsh                  ftrst set of electr.
through greater mobilization                        infrastructure.                        established for telecomm and   Pension reform Group          Sales ofemacouty shares (51ted)    companies)
of long-term domestic                                                                      power sectors.
resources and through                           *  Provision of TA and equipment for    *  Contracts for advisors       and
placement of shares of                              establishing a national private        awarded
privatized enterprises                              pension system as well as for       *  Bids prepared for a minimum    Environmental Units within    *  Regulatorypframeworksfor water    Aug 96-July 97
through the stock exchange                          rationalizing the system that will     of 51% offering to private   CEL, CEPA and ANDA              ports and airport sectors.
remaia in the public sector.   *  Tariffs rebalanced                   * ~~Enterprises restructured for
remain in the public sector.           investors and workers,                                       competitive markets.
*Tariffs rebalanced.                                       *  First concessions e-xecuted.
Widen ownership of                              *  Provision of TA for strengthening    *  Worker redundancy
productive onterprses                               capital markets and special            programs developed
individuals and workers                             privatization studies.              *  First stage sales executed.                               *  Privatization options studies for  Oct 96 - Oct 97
*  Enterprises restructured for                                 highway maintenance and other
*  Targeted provision of TA and            competitive markets.                                         services
Ensure environmental                                equipment for strengthening the                                                                 *  Maintenance operations
protection during                                   sectoral environmental units within                                                                 restructured and prepared for
privatizations and PSP in                          the power, water and ports/airports  Water, Ports and Airport Services                               private sector participation.
three areas ofcritical                              sectors to (i) assess and address   *  Regulatory frameworks                                     *  Transfer offuist maintenance
concern:                                            adequately potential environmental     established for water, ports                                 operations to private sector.
*    Power (electricity):                          implications of increasing private      and airport sectors.
CEL                                            sector participation in these sectors;    *  Contracts for advisors
*    Water: ANDA                                    (ii) establish cumulatively legal      awarded.                                                 *  Legislative frameworkfor Social    May 96 -May 97
*    Ports/ Airports: CEPA                          standards for sound environmental  *  Bids prepared for concessions                                 Security Reform
policies in these areas, and (iii) carry  to private investors.                                 *  min. of 3 private pensionfunds.
out environmental audits and       *  First concessions executed.                               *  ISSS and INPEP processes merged
monitor possible environmental     *  Enterprises restructured for                                  in one institution.
action where needed,                   competitive markets.
* Worker redundancy program
developed and tariffs                                    *  Capital markets strengthening      Jan 97/ July98
adjusted.                                                    studiesJa97Juy8
*  Effective supervision and trading   I
(*)Key indicators are shown in italics.                                                                                                                                      Annex  A  (Page 9 of 11)



El Salvador: Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Loan
Key Project Activities and Performance Indicators
Objectives                Inputs               Activities/Processes                  Outputs/Impact                  Institutional                   Indicators ()|    Timing
I     Arrangements         I 
rules of stock exchange
Highway Maintenance and Other                              *  Recognition bonds traded in
Sectors                                                        secondary narkets by pension
*  Privatization studies of                                    funds.
highway maiaance nd                                     *  Shares of privatized entrprise
other evic  conpited.                                      traded
*  Mainenance operatiom
restuured nd prepared for
private sector paticipatioL                             *  Environmental audit reports for
*  Transfer of fist mairtance                                  privatization and PSP in the power,
operations to private sector.                              water, porls/ airport sectors;
*  Environmntal requirements for the
power, water, ports/ airport sectors;
Social Security Reform                                     *  Effective environmental units
*  Legislative framework                                       within the power, water/sewage,
developed and introduced to                                ports sectors;
the National Assembly.
* Private pension funds
established.                                            Output Indkcators (2):               B           ofthe
*  Recognition bonds isued for                             (tb.d.)                               Byt
beneficiaries in existing
system                                                  Number of infrastructure sedors
*  Existing social security                                restructured under a competitive
sysdem orpizaionally and                                environnent
fiancially rationalized into
one institution.                                        Number of sepate independent
entities privatized in power and
teleconmisuicati sectors in toal and
QAgital Market Development                                 as percent of total assets
* Capital markets
strengheing stuadies                                    Number of new private sector entrants
completed.                                              in power and teleconan sector since
*  Supervision and trading rules                           opening to compdition.
of stock e hange                                        Number of concessions transacted with
*  R ecognition bond s trade.  in                          private sector for managernent in total
secondary markes byde m                                  nd as percentage of total assets.
seodary markets by
pension fsunds.                                         Reduction of emnployees from payroll of
*Issus ofsharcs ofprivatized                            Government as a results of privatization
eneraprises conimenced.                                 prograrm.
Environmnental Protection Durng                            Increase in coverage under new pension
Privatizations (power.
water/sewage, ports sectors):                              Number of small shareholders in
*  Environmental requirements                              privatized companies.
for privatization/PSP in the
(*)Key indicators are shown in italics.                                                                                                                                   Annex  A  (Page lOof 11)



El Salvador: Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Loan
Key Project Activities and Performance Indicators
Objectives                Inputs                Activities/Processes                 Outputs/impact                  Institutional                   Indicators (*)                 Timing
I Arranigernents 
power, water/sewage, ports                              Increase in volume of trading in stock
sectors established,                                    exchange.
*  Environmental audits
completed prior to privati-                             Increase in long term domestic funds.
zation/ concessioning of
public utilities;
*  Action plans for environ-                               Impact Indkators:
mental mitigation in these
sectors completed;                                      Increase in private sector investment  By the end of the
*  Upgrading of institutional                              and increase in total employment in   project
capacities in the power,                                each key sector (see below, and t.b.d.).
water/sewage, ports sectors
(- CEL, ANDA, CEPA)                                     Based on existing base-line data on  By the end of the
compided to (i) carry out                               service quality and prices, for each  project
environmental audits; (ii)                              entity privatized:
monitor environmental action                            *  Reduction (min. 20%) of user
; and (iii) improve the                                    prices after initial rebalancing.
legislative framework for                               *  Improvements in quality measured
environmental protection in                                in standard indicators.
these sectors.                                          *  Increase in employnmet after initial
resrUucturing.
t  Incrase in productivity, profits and
revenue (mim. 15%l)
*  Expansion of outpuVcoverage of
existing services overall and in
rural reas (mim. 40%)
*  Increase in new services.
Impact of infrastructure sector on   By the end of the
private sector performance.          proje
Improvemets in private sector
productivity (5% p.a.).
p Grodwth in private sector total
output, investment and employment
(lO%p.a.)
* Increase in foreign direct
investment. (15% p.t.)
Econoy-wide imp-a                    By the end of the
*  Increase in long-terms fminacing  project
through domestic sources (5% p.a.)
*  Total reduction of annual flows
from Goveanent to public sector
enterprises (30% total)
* Reduction of public sector
enterpre debt. (30% total)
(*)Key indicators are shown in italics.                                                                                                                                   Annex  A  (Page 11 of i i)



ANNEXI
Page I of 10
EL SALVADOR
FINANCING OF THE CTU AND MODERNIZATION OF THE FISCAL ADMINISTRATION
(ES.005)
MATRIX OF ACTIVMTIES AND OUTPUTS
AREAlACTIViTY                     ASSIGNED CONSULTANT                        ANTICIPATED RESULT                          EXPECTED IMPACT
A. SJAF.I.
1. GENERAL SAFI FRAMEWORK
a. Diagnostic study of the        Computer systems consulant              Evaluation of the existing computer systems and    Have in place  strategic vision for developing
development of computer systems                                        strategic analysis to ensure an integrated  the SAFI databases that will make the best
platform.                                  possible use of the existing systems.
b. Development of rules and       Senior area experts and legal counsel   Vertically and horizornally consistent regulations    Clear, modem and consistent standads
regulations for subsystems                                             for application of integrated financial     developed for implementing the SAFI.
management law.
c. Design of institutional financial  Senior technical consultant, UFI consultant  Organizational structure, personnel requirements,   Have in place a homogenous structure
units (UFls)                                                           job descriptions and equipment for UFls     compatible with the central system for
determined.                                development of the SAFI.
2. BUDGET SUBSYSTEM
a. Adjust the apparatus devised for    Senior budget expert, legal counsel  Manuals, instructions, procedures and other  Consistency in budget preparation and
preparing, approving and                                               instruments revised and improved for        approval and eficiency and effectiveness in
executing the budget.                                                   tandardized application of budgeting       budget execution and evaluation.
methodology.
b. Develop and apply the method for  Senior budget expert                  Standards and routines established for     Efficient and transparent procedures to guide
programming execution of the                                           procedures Involved in programming budget   execution of the govemment budget in both
budget (PEP).                                                          execution.                                  the UFbs and in the SAFI's lead agencies.
c. Develop techniques for concurrent  Senior budget expert                A general methodology established for       Mechanisms to analyze budget execution and
monitoring of the budget                                               monitoring and evaluating budget execution.  shft its direction when necessary.
d. Strengthen instruments for global   Senior budget expert and macroeconomic  Strengthening of the DGP's technical capacity to    A consolidated national budget that is both
analysis and consolidation of the    analysis expert                   produce consolidated budgets consisent with the  hntemally consistent and consistent with the
budget                                                                 govemment's macroeconomic program.          macroeconomic ermironmenLt
e. Complete the budget subsystem  Computer systems expert and senior budget   A complete and up-to-date budgetary data  Management and use of the SAFI database,
database.                      expert                                  subsystem Integrated with the SAFI.         with all necessary budgetary data for
Integrated financial management
f. Design and implement a system  Senior budget expert and budget evaluation    A system in operation that produces   More effient and rational allocation of
for a material-financial budget  expert                                comprehensive material-financial budget     resources thanks to the availability of
evaluation.                                                            evaluation reports for the govemment's main  information on costs, pace of execution, etc.
programs.                                 I



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 10
AREA/ACTIVITY                      ASSIGNED CONSULTANT                          ANTICIPATED RESULT                           EXPECTED IMPACT
3 TREASURY SUBSYSTEM
a. Establish the pertinert        Senior treasury expert                    Programming of Treasury single fund harmonized   Prompt paymert of the govemnmernts financial
mechanisms wifh the DGP to                                               with payments at UFl.                        obligatons with as lite financial opportunity
synchronize budget execution                                                                                          cost as possible.
wlth the transfer of funds to UF1s.
b. Decentralize and deconcentrate  Senior treasury expert and financial     Operating system that transacts payments     Each primary unit able to expedite and take full
payments from the Treasury     programming expert                        through the UFls by effecting transfers from the  responsibility for paying its obligations, with
Service to the central                                                   Treasury single fund to insitutional subsidiary  the DOT focusing on financial management.
govemment's agencies.                                                    accounts.
c. Put the single fund into operation.  Senior treasury expert              Unification of the central govemment's fund for  Financial control over the central govemment's
expenditures and hs management with modern    resources within DGT.
programming and management Indruments.
d. Establish linkage with the revenue   Senior treasury expert and collections expert    Revenue data Input into the SAFI database at the   Integrated financial analysis of revenue,
systems.                                                                 various stages of the process.               expenditures and borrowing.
e. Apply financial management     Senior expert and expert in securities markets   Technical and legal Instruments developed to  The DGT acting as the government's financial
instruments,                                                             enable Treasury to manage Hi securites portfolio   manager.
and make shon-term financial investments.
f. Complete development of data    Senior treasury expert, computer systems  Definitlon and implementation into IFM computer   The SAFI database with all treasury data
processing at the DGT.         expert                                    system of records and internal checks for    included to ensure integrated financial
Treasury management.                         management
4. ACCOUNTING SUBSYSTEM
a. Make technical instruments for  Senior experts and senior accounting expert   Integrated accounting, based on the records  Prompt and computerized govemment
classification and records SAFI-                                         administered by IFM at the central level and UFls.  bookkeeping to meet demands for accounting
compatible.                                                                                                           and management information.
b. Develop a model for analytical  Senior accounting expert                 Create a method of economic-financial analysis.    Availability of technical Information on financial
management reporting.                                                                                                 management for purposes of decision-making.
5. PUBLIC DEBT SUBSYSTEM
a. Review and strengthen the debt    Computer systems expert                Debt-management and analysis systems tested  Efficient management of public debt, and its
management computer system.                                              and introduced.                             full inclusion In the SAFI.
b. Strengthen the process by which    Debt management expert and management    Changes needed for better debt management  Greater borrowing capacity on capital markets,
debt-related policy is made and  and negotiation expert                  proposed and their introduction planned.     under the best possible terms and conditions.
provide training in techniques of
debt negotiation, renegotiation
and borrowing.                I_I                                                                                   I



Pae3do 10
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~NE I 
AMNACTIVfl                         ASSGED CONULTANT                            ANTICPATED RESULT                            EXPECTED IS ACT
6. TRAINING
a. Develop and implement a        PMSP training coordinar, senior experts,  A crtical mass of personnel taind in Inegrted    Guarantee lit the rtnno Introduced in tie
comprehensive training plan In  short-term eprts an a senior technical  financl management                                   t  fina l n ngent we
Integrated financbl management,   advisor                                                                            appd wid susaied.
for the Ministry of the Treasury
end the UFls.
7. COMPUTER SYSTEMS
a. Analyze, review and document a    Computer systems expert                A fully operational debt management system  Public debt managoment integrated with
public debt program and inter-                                          interconnected with the SAFI budget execution  financial management system.
connect it with the integrated                                           system for debt repayment and service.
financial management computer
system.
b. Design, implement and document   Computer systems expert, programming and    Start up of computer system, including the central  Operation of integrated financial management
the SAFI computer system.      communications experts                    database, UFI databases, local networks and  using a modem, operating pladorm to ensure
interconnections,                           secure, accurate and efficient information
management
c. Assist in the selection and    Computer systems expert                   Selection and purchase of equipment and     Operation of the data processing system with
purchase of hardware and                                                 software to put the new SAFI operating platform  suitable equipment and program.
software.                                                               into operation.
B. INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
1 RULES AND REGULATIONS
a. Support issuance of the tax code    CIAT                                 Tax code analyzed internally and with       Have in place an appropriate regulatory
professional associations and submitted to the  framework.
b. Prepare and issue the legal                                              Legislative Assembly during 1996. Regulations
regulations.                                                             Issued by no lter than 1997.
2. REGIONALIZATION
a. Design the structure of the    CIAT                                      Have both offices In operation by the end of  Have expanded ths DGUl', coverage to
westem and eastern regional                                              1996, each staffed with about 100 people    incrase tax revenues.
offices.                                                                 performing taxpayer  sistnce and auditng
functlons.
b. Selet and outfit the office
premises.                                                                Have all DOGII functons performed at two regional
offkes by the end of 1997.
c. Slect and train new auditors.
d. Assign and train administrative
personnel.
e. Design and carry out
disemination plan.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 10
AREAIACTIVflY                     ASSIGNED CONSULTANT                        ANTICIPATED RESULT                         EXPECTED IMPACT
3. AUDMNG
a. Carry out studies to measure tax    CIAT                               Have added over 3,000 new taxpayers by late  Tax revenues increased by adding taxpayers
evasion.                                                                S96 and over 8,000 by late 1997 torom informal   from the informal sectof and reducing tax
sectors and oversights in the formal secto.  evasion to a minimum.
b. Introduce computer-assisted                                            Econometric studies measuring VAT and income-
auditing techniques,                                                  tax evasion completed by the end of 1997; tax
revenues as a pereentage of GDP up more
c. Develop and introduce programs                                        than 2%.
for sectors that are difficuit to
monitor.
d. Assis with new auditing
techniques.
4. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
1. ORGANiZATlONAL DEVELOPMENT    CLAT                                       Planning, management control and systems   An institutionally stronger DOII, with an
audifing unib up and operating by late 1996.  improved intemal structure and more efficient
a. Establish management planning                                                                                     planning and management control.
and control units.                                                     Economic4ax study techniques and programs in
use by th first hall of 1997.              A new service-oriented mentality at the DOGN as
b. Estabish systems auditing unit                                                                                    a mens of encouraging volintary tax
Organkatonal dtuctr adjusted In accordanc  compliance.
c. Consolidate tax programming and                                        wlh the tax code, th tax care servc and the
evaluation unit.                                                       new functions by the end of 1997.
d. Improve organizational structure.                                      Permanent, institutional insruments for tax
Information and taxpayer siance In place and
11. TAXPAYER ASSISTANCE                                                     the legal service for taxpayers and staff operating
by program's end.
a. Design and Introduce a taxpayer
assistance and disseminaion                                           Taxpayer asistance ystem, functioning
plan.                                                                  Inentives system and a disciplinary system in
use at the DGII by the end of the program.
b. Design and introduce a legal
advisory service.
Ill. HUMAN RESOURCES
a. Design personnel policy and
Introduce tax career service.
b. Design and Implement an
Incentives system and a
disciplinary sydem.



ANNEX I
PaPe 5 of 10
AREA/ACTMTY                        ASSIGNED CONSULTANT                         ANTICIPATED RESULT                           EXPECTED IMPACT
5. COMPUTER SYSTEMS
a. Consolidate environment.       CIAT                                      DGII s main support systems in place, including    The DGII's computer system standudized;
current account and electronic filing, operating  FOX4PRO gradually replacing SYBASE for
b. Consolidate and adjust computer                                          with databases (SYBASE) by the program's end.   greater efficiency, control and security in
systems development plan.                                                                                            computer systems.
A consolidated computer systems office,
c. Develop and introduce current                                            equipped with an applications development plan,
account and electronic filing.                                           by the end of 1996.
d. Computerize DGII offices.
e. Strengthen technical support area.
6. TRAINING
a. Provide training for           CIAT                                      Training provided before the end of each activity.   A permanent training system instituted to make
implementation of the program's                                          Three international seminars on major topics  DGII staff more efficient and more productive.
components.                                                             relating to the tax code and symposia held with
economic, professional, legal, political and other
b. Provide training to introduce and                                        sectors in 1996. DGII training unit in operation by
explain the tax code.                                                   the end of 1997.
c. Help establish the DGII training
unit.
C. CUSTOMS REVENUE SERVICE
1. RULES AND REGULATIONS
a. Review customs rules and       Technical advisor                         Have put forward draft general customs law and    Have those involved in foreign trade equipped
regulations to put together a                                            the respective implementing legislation.    with a legal framework that provides simple,
systematic legal text that will                                                                                      fixed, intelligent rules to facilitate foreign trade.
facilitate understanding of and
compliance with the current tax
laws.
b. Study and prepare draft        Harmonized system expert
regulafions that harmonize the
systems for duty-free zones,
bonded warehouses, temporary
imports and other inward
processing arrangements
compatible with the Central
American Agreement.
c. Unify regulations so that all  Organization and methods experts
pertinent public agencies are able
to apply these systems in
coordinated fashion.



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 10
AREA/ACTIVITY                      ASSIGNED CONSULTANT                          ANTICIPATED RESULT                           EXPECTED IMPACT
d. Review and adapt the charter and
operating rules and regulations in
accordance with the new customs
organization.
e. Develop regulations for the PNC's
finance division.
2. ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION
a. Review the existing organization  Technical advisor                       An organizational structure that is compatible with   A new structure for the customs service,
of the customs system and                                                 the customs revenue service's new roles in   eliminating redundant functions, creating units
propose ways to make it more                                             facilitating foreign trade, and an efficient  suited to its new roles and eliminating those
efficient, bearing in mind the                                           inspection and auditing system.               that have become extraneous, all to facilitate
changes in other areas of the                                                                                          foreign trade.
system.
b. Establish an instiutional structure   Organization and methods expert     Manual of functions suited to the new        Stronger internal auditing to ensure correct
that provides the new                                                     organizational arrangement                   procedures and practice.
organization with adequate
support, which includes giving
each customs service the proper
authority and means.
c. Transfer functions to the private  Merchandise origin expert              Establishment of a computerized system for
sector and regulate them (storage,                                        monitoring functions and areas transferred to the
custody, handling and shipping of                                         private sector under concessions.
merchandise).
d. Award concessions to the private   Inspection expert
sector for storage, custody,
handling and delivery of
merchandise and determine the
customs revenue service's
responsibilities and functions vis-
a-via concession holders.
e. Make the PNC's finance division
part of the customs service's
organizational structure and
coordinate its activities.
f. Strengthen intemal auditing, one
of whose main purposes should
be to monitor the modemization
and automation of the customs
revenue service.



ANNE51 I
Page 7 of 10
AREA/ACTIVITY                      ASSIGNED CONSULTANT                         ANTICIPATED RESULT                           EXPECTED IMPACT
3. OPERATING PROCEDURES
1. Facilitation
a. Review the current procedures  Technical advisor                         Effective control of merchandise entering and  Acceptable levels of satisfaction on the par of
used in foreign trade operations                                        leaving the country.                         foreign trade agents.
and propose adjustments to     Organization and methods expert
streamline them.                                                         More rapid dispatch of merchandise.         Lower costs for the above agerns and
increased competitiveness.
b. Introduce automated payment of                                           Efficient and timely customs Inspection.
customs duties and taxes and                                                                                        Improvement in the corporate image of the
selective merchandise                                                    Swift and impartial documents processing.   Customs Revenues Office.
identification based on rational
and random criteria; identify the                                        Establishment of a database on merchandise  Reliable and current foreign trade statistics.
criteria that can be used for the                                        value, origin and classification.
selection mechanisms.
c. Require that Customs carry out
the general procedures tor
dispatching Import and export
merchandise wihin no more than
24 hours.
d. Support and introduce more
expedibous procedures for
immediate processing of
predetermined cases of justified
urgency.
11. Primary Fiscal Control
a. Establish the customs services  Audit expert
effecive control over cargo
manifests and equivalent
documents, requiring that
shipping companies submit them
to customs using automated data
systems.
b. Prepare and Introduce a
procedure for domestic and
intemational transit operations,
that is in keeping with Central
American rules and regulations
and that safeguards fiscal
interests and keeps traffic flowing.



ANNEX I
Page 8 of 10
AREA/ACTMTI1Y                      ASSIGNED CONSULTANT                         ANTICIPATED RESULT                           EXPECTED IMPACT
c. Review the procedure whereby
revenues are collcted through
banks, determining whathe
latter's responsiblitIe are and
ensure that they are electronically
connected to the computer
system at the Customs cashier
office.
d. Regulate and introduce a
procedure for controlling and
administering special systems.
I11. Merchandise valuation
a. Restructure the administrative unit  Merchandise valuation expert
in charge of merchandise
valuation and properly train the
staff selected for that unit.
b. Develop the database of
Intemational prices and establish
rules to ensure that it is properly
used, maintained and constantly
updated.
N. Ex post inspectfon (auditing)
a. Prepare permanent plans for ex  Customs inspection expert
post review ot customs
declarations.
b. Define, approve and introduce ex
post inspection procedures in
coordinafion with the DGII.
c. Prepare a manual on deferred
inspection.
d. Prepare and carry out semiannual
selective auditing of Import and/or
export businesse and ceriba by
which to evaluate performance of
th plans.



ANNEY I
Page 9 of I0
AREA/ACTIVITY                      ASSIGNED CONSULTANT                          ANTICIPATED RESULT                            EXPECTED IMPACT
4. HUMAN RESOURCE TRAINING
a. Develop the job descriptions for  Technical advisor                          Draft of a manual of funcions and job        Better command of the organizational structure,
employees of the Customs Service.                                            descriptions.                                thereby increasing staff efficiency.
b. Evaluate current Customs personnel    Organization and methods expert        Nationwide distribution of staff according to  Promotion of interest In self-improvement.
to determine what their training needs                                       workload.
are and how qualified they are for
their positions.
c. Prepare and introduce a proposal for                                         Establishment of a pay scale for customs     Employee security and improved mechanisms
establishing a customs revenue                                               personnel.                                  for employee mobility, making knowledge and
career service.                                                                                                           performance the primary considerations for
promotion.
d. Create a training model and the                                              Proposal for a training academy or agreement
agency in charge of applying it.                                             with a training institute.
e. Establish a management control
program.
f. Develop a training plan in the
technical areas of valuation, origin,
procedures and classification.
5. COMPUTER SYSTEMS
a. Determine the users' data needs.   Technical advisor                      All procedures computerized.                 Swifter procedures and better controls.
b. Introduce the modifications     Computer systems expert                   All units connected to the customs office, and the   Timely and reliable data.
necessitated by the review and                                           latter connected to other public and private
changes in operating procedures.                                         institutions.
c. Develop and introduce the       Systems security expert                   Creation and maintenance of an 'intelligenf  Better measures by other state agencies.
following modules:                                                       information system.
(I international and domestic
transit control; (ii) selectivity in
determining the extent to which
export and Import declarations
will be checked; (ii) control of
guaranteee and bonds;
(iv) pending documents;
(v) managing administrative
appeals and claims;
(vi) inspection; (vii management
and fiscal satistics to supplement
the SIDUNEA statistics.
d. Test the various modules and the   Systems analysts and programmers                                                    A positive contribution to the decision-making
system as a whole.                                                                                                     process.



ANNEX I
Page 10 of 10
AREA/ACTIVITY                      ASSIGNED CONSULTANT                         ANTICIPATED RESULT                           EXPECTED IMPACT
e. Acquire and install a
communications system for
prompt relay of information within
customs and to other MINHAC
agencies.
t. Prepare technical and user
documentation.
g. Advise on the purchase of the
equipment needed to develop
and run the systems.
h. Establish mechanisms that protect
the physical safety and security of
the computer system.
D. PROCUREMENT AND CONTRACTING
a. Analyze legislation currently in  International consultant; local consultants  A streamlined and more transparent sector.  A simplified procurement process. Clear
effect and prepare a preliminary                                         Laws, rules and regulations now in force that  procedures will benefit private sector
draft standardized procurement                                           complicate the procurement process in public  organizations that provide goods and services
law for the entire public sector.                                       sector institutions eliminated.             to public insttutions and enhance the
credibility of public insttutions.
b. Develop a plan of action and the
corresponding altemative for
standadizing the bidding
documents used in public sector
bidding; the new documents are
to be patterned after IDB and
IBRD models.
c. Develop an ongoing training
program for the appropriate
(public sector) employees,
conerming the new law, bidding
documents, and procurement In
genwe.



Annex B
El Salvador
PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
Estimated Costs and Financing Plan
(USS'000)
Local      Foreign       Total
Estimated Project Costs
Institutional Restructuring l
Debureaucratization                        2,069       3,274        5,343
Institutional Restructuring              1,876       2,591        4,467
Debureaucratization                       193          683          876
Human and Financial Resources
Management                                 8,857      14,318       23,175
Human Resource Management                3,445       2,819        6,264
Financial Resource Management            5,411      11,499       16,911
Privatization / PSP                        3,983       8,087       12,070
Project Coordination                       6,093       2,489        8,582
Total Base Costs                          21,001      28,168       49,169
Contingencies                               812         1,382       2,194
IDB Loan Inspection & Supervision a/         159                      159
Total Project Cost                        21,972      29,550       51,522
Financing Plan
IBRD                                       7,655       16,345      24,000
IDB                                        6,504      13,205       19,710
Government                                 7,813                    7,813
Total                                    21,972       29,550       51,522
a/ Inspection and supervision fee charged by the IDB on its loans.



Annex C
EL SALVADOR
PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN
A. Procurement Arrangements
(USS million)
Procurement Methods                       NBF
Category                                         ICB a/        NCB         Other             IDB       GOES       TOTAL
Goods                                               14                        2.2             6.0                       9.6
(1.4)                    (2.2) b/                                   (3.6)
Training, Technical Assistance and Studies                                   20.4            13.5                      33.9
(20.4)                                    (20A)
Operating Expenditures                                                                                     7.8          7.8
1DB Loan Inspection and Supervision                                                           0.2                       0.2
TOTAL                                               1.4          0.0         22.6            19.7          7.8         51.5
(1.4)       (0.0)       (22.6)                             1       (24.0)
Figures in parentheses are the Bank-financed amounts
(a) ICB 2-stage for procurement of computing equipment and software for Human Resources Management Information System.
(b) Includes about US$1.5 million equivalent to be purchased through LIB, about USSO.4 million equivalent to be procured under intefnational shopping.
and about US$0.3 million equivalent to be procured under national shopping.
NBF = Non-Bank financing
B. Disbursement Arrangements
Category                                           Amount
(USS millon)
Goods                                               3.2              100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 87% of
local expenditures for other items procured locally.
Training, TechnicalAssistance and Studies          18.2              100%
Refunding of PPF                                    1.9              Amount due
Unallocated                                         0.7
Total                                              24.0
Estimated Disbursements
(USS million)
Bank FY                                           1997         1998         1999            2000         2001
Annual                                              3.5          7.0          7.5             4.0         2.0
Cumulative                                          3.5         10.5         18.0            22.0         24.0



ESTRUCTURA ORGANIZATIVA ACTUAL DEL ORGANO EJECUTIVO DEL GOES
Presidendca                                                                                                                               Canseojo
* Administraci6n Nadonal de Telecornitincacones                                  Miritros
__=__ __                                      Irslltuto Lbertad yProgreso
*inslAuto Nacionaide losDeportes
a di iiea [                  i?iidi ReoorisrcNaoi6i                       Insltiuto Salvadorei6o de Prdteoci6n al Menor                                              CoMo  i Social
IZ Z  ~              (Organismo de Inteligencia de Estado)'                                                                                                        Comle Poll tIlco
i     ___  eta naPrivacta        (Conselode Seguridad Nacional)M^il Comle rlnanoero
_stado Mayor Presidencial)*                                                                                                              L   Conrselo Naconal del
[  Secretan  iBlhFular  j                                                                                                      l     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Medlo Arnolernle
.lsExportndones
f_Se_rtiria Niao7 d Iia FmiaJ
b iMinlsleria,F Mindierdo                  d     e      7      Mnil ,rl                                    Ministerio                            Miri-~-Mnislerio    l    l     ll Mae d o I  B llMHanco  Central
de la                Coordinac. del Orra                        de                                          do                                de Tr,abjo y                     de Reserva
Mesidenda               Enoml;o VSoial                          Haa  da                                     Econamla                            Prvisl6n Socal                  de El Salvador
-  Vicerniniserio dn             VIcernonistero de                 Vicemministedo de       Vlceministedo              Viomrinisero|               SLupedrntendencia del
y Good. delt7   Hadienda                                           ComerdC o a                de dGo                                            Sislema Financiero"')
De. Ewan. ySac.                  _                                _ Iduslrla                 Ecanomia                    Trabap a                  Bancao Mullisedorial
de Inversiones
* IstitLuo Salvadore5o de          * Loteria Nacional                 * Cons. Nac. de C. y T. * Com. Salv. del Cafe  * INSAFOCOOP                      Federad6n de Coles de
Desarrollo Municipal (ISDEM)       de Beneficencia                     CORSAIN            * Cons. Vig. de la C.Pub.   * ISSS                        de Credito y de Bancnode los
Fondo de Inversion Social (FIS)   *INPEP                             *INAZUCAR              FIGAPE                  * IsiuLoSalvedore(ode       |   Trajaladores Llmiada
Fonto Salvadore6o para                                               * ISTU                 Com. Eje. Feda           Formacd6n Proteslonal
E studios de Prelrverslon (FOSEP)                                   * CEL                   Internadonal
* Fondo de Amblrintal de El                                                                 * EANAFI
Salvador (FONAES)
* Secretaria del Medio
Amblente (SE MA)
I|L)sierial                              Ministerlo                              MI  elrio                            Mi|=is ter                             M.inis-ri
do              dv                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~del Interior        dela                                   do
Lt_endo  sEerlarvs              LL      Justiia                       U.           _______                      nDoensa Nacional                       Seouridad Ptbllca
L Vireminidrte        p          VicersinideriI Vicorninisaria                                                 Vloeminislria                         Vioerminiterlo
r do Reladonrf e              |      do        |                     r      del                                   de I                                  de
|   Exterlores              |    Justidnia                         l    Interior                           Detensa Nacional |Segtidad Pb Ilcea
Centro Nacional de                 (Correos) *IPSFA
Regisiros                        * Tearos Nadoonales
ir  MFrmSIe;o  ,j            r         iniserlo                                             M aniloria do a                                  n1 er a
de Salud Publica                [     de Educad6n,                                            PbrPlcas                                      de Agricuilura
vAsisoncia Social                                                                          TranportesyVlvlenda                                    w i  vGanaderia
VlceminisWeio                        Viceminislerio                     VioemLie        niderio Vceminiderl |      tVceminidoria           Vloeminisedrlo  |
5 do Snritd Pulicn |                $      do        l                l      deo       l           de                      de               de AgrictAura
Iy Asistenda Social                       Educadn                            Vlvlerda           Cbras PAlicas            Traasportes          yanaderla
Cruz Roja Salvadoreira            Universidad de El Salvador                                ^ Fondo Nadonal de Viviorda               * Escuela Naclonal de Agricuilura
Conselo Supelor de Salud        * Cala Mutual                                                 Popular                                 * CENTA
^Hosplales                        Instiulo C.A. de Telecomunicaclones                        Fondo Social para La Vivierda           ^ Banro de Fomerto Agropecuario
nsitiuto Salvadore6ode            EDUCREDITO                                                  Administrad6n Nacinal de Acue-          ^ Baroode Tioerrs a
Rehabillaci6n d o Irividas        Federac. Saiv. de Futbol                                   ductos y Alcartarillalos                'InsilutaoSalv deTranslormacl6nAgrarla  (2)
Hogar de Andanost                (CONCULTUAPA)                                              ^ Comisam Portuarla                       ^ Flrderla Nadonal do Tierras Agrlcolas (2)
Auionoma (CEPA)                                                                                         I'D
- De--                                    -7- -                      --      --Ibb1 -                                                                                          e  p t- O.
[oDpto. [Gb  030         o.Dpo        o.Ppto. [Gob. bepto.   Gob. Deplo. ~Gob. De-pto.  Gob. Pcepto.  F Gob. Ijepio. FGob Depto.  Go. epo. Ga. bepto.f -Gab. Depl. Gl.Ppo
L S8mia Anna[ LAhuachapanI LSansnarreJ LLa LbedaJ LP-halonan. [| _San Salv.         La Paz      |  `aobanas   L_GuscatLan    San Vicente  |Usuin                 I Son MigM         La Unl6n
(No son juridicamenre aut6nomos)-   Instllud6n Irtegrada al Banco Central de reserva de El Salvador,
que cuenta con auLtonomia on lo admrinisralivo. presupuestario
y en el ejerciciode atribuciones que le contiere su ley
orginira ( 1)
(2) En liqukdaci6n.
OnRACTrvjfMrd/0srr   01.r5



Annex E (1)
Preliminary Training Plan
Objective                 Target Recipients           Amount
(USS)
Training needs assessment and                                   40,000
design of training programs
Training high level managers    High level managers             500,000
in change management         (S00 people)                   ($10OO pperson)
techniques
Training of trainers in      Key staff                          100,000
specialized
topics                       (100 people)                   ($1OO p/person)
Management development and   Middle level managers/technicians  600,000
technical training          (f 000 people)                  ($600 p/person)
Basic office technology training  Middle-level office staff    1,200,000
(about 4000 people)
($300 p/person)
Total                                                          2,440,000



Annex E (2)
Diagn6stico Profesiografico del Perfil Actual de los Empleados Puiblicos
Para la realizaci6n del diagn6stico de la demanda de capacitaci6n requerida para poder
ejecutar con exito el Programa de Modernizaci6n del Sector Puiblico, se ha estimado
conveniente hacer primero un estudio de la situaci6n actual de los funcionarios y
empleados puiblicos, con el fin de pronosticar el grado de aprovechamiento o de dificultad
que tendran estas personas para asimilar los contenidos planteados en el plan de
capacitaci6n resultante; en segundo lugar se realizara el levantatniento de necesidades de
capacitaci6n con representantes de los diferentes componentes del Programa de
Modernizaci6n.
Comprendi6 el anAlisis de la situaci6n actual de los Empleados y Funcionarios del Sector
Publico, para lo cual se han revisado las siguientes variables:
*  Nivel academico
*  PirAmide de edades
*  Tiempo de servicio
*  Sexo
Se utiliz6 este metodo ya que en la actualidad no se cuenta con un Sistema de
Clasificaci6n y Valoraci6n de puestos central para todo el Sector PuIblico, por lo tanto no
existen perfiles de contrataci6n para los ocupantes de los cargos en el Gobierno, tampoco
se cuenta con un Sistema de Evaluaci6n del Desempefio estandar para el mismo grupo de
Empleados que permita evaluar si las deficiencias en el rendimiento son producto de un
perfil inadecuado de las personas en cada puesto de trabajo, o a otro tipo de problemas,
como falta de capacitaci6n o ausencia de motivaci6n.
Para la realizaci6n de este estudio se utiliz6 la base de datos del Sistema de Informaci6n
de Recursos Humanos SIRH, el cual recopila informaci6n de mas de ciento treinta mil
empleados del Sector Puiblico (no se encuentran registrados en esta base los miembros de
la defensa nacional, ni de la Conision Ejecutiva del Rio Lempa).
La informaci6n fue segmentada de la siguiente manera:
* Nivel Gerencial
* Nivel Tecnico Administrativo
* Personal de la Unidades de recursos Humanos



Annex E (2)
Presentaci6n y Analisis de Resultados
1. Nivel gerencial
1.1 Nivel Academico
Para este analisis y el de todos los que se haran dentro del nivel Gerencial, se tomaron en
cuenta todas las personas que ocupan cargos de direcci6n dentro de las Instituciones en
estudio, desde Directores Simples hasta Jefes de Secci6n, totalizando 1153
Al realizar la separaci6n por niveles educativos se encuentra que el 6% de los
Funcionarios han alcanzado unicamente el nivel basico (hasta noveno grado); el 22% ha
alcanzado el Bachillerato, mientras que un 9%  posee niveles tecnicos;  el 1%  se
encuentran cursando carreras universitarias; el 61% corresponde a profesionales
universitarios y menos del 1% han completado estudios de post-grado.
Dos datos llaman poderosamente la atenci6n: el primero es que al sumar los niveles basico
y bachillerato (28%) nos encontramos con una cantidad grande de personas que en la
actualidad ostentan cargos de direcci6n con niveles educativos bajos (307 Funcionarios);
el segundo es que solo se encontr6 a siete personas con post-grado, lo que, como se
mencion6 en el pArrafo anterior representa menos del uno por ciento de los funcionarios;
ambos datos plantean una debilidad educativa para el Estado.
Dentro de este segmento es alentador encontrar una 'franja ancha" de profesionales
universitarios (61%) que equivalen a 664 Funcionarios, lo que se convierte en una
forlaleza educativa para el Estado.
1.2 Pircmide de edades
La pirramide de edades para el nivel gerencial se comporta de la siguiente manera: en la
clase de 20-30 afios se encuentra el 9% de los Funcionarios; de 31-40 anos, el 38%; en la
clase de 41-50 anios, se encuentra el 35%; arriba de 61 anios se encuentra el 4% de los
Empleados.
Para fines estrictamente de capacitaci6n, pueden ser considerados todos los Funcionarios,
sin importar su edad, particularmente en lo que se relaciona a cambio Actitudinal y en el
conocimiento del los nuevos sistemas de trabajo; sin embargo, para fines de desarrollo y
formaci6n de Cartas de Reemplazo, se debe pensar principalmente en las dos primeras
clases, que van de los 20 a los 40 a-nos, ya que cualquier inversi6n que se realice en este
segmento, le proporcionara al Estado una plusvalia laboral de 15 a 30 afios de vida iutil,
principalmente si se piensa en un programa de becas para estudios de Post-grado.
En relaci6n con las dos clases ultimas, que van de 61 a mas de 70 afios, y que representa el
4%, se podria pensar en dos tipos de acci6n para e futuro inmediato de estas personas:



Annex E (2)
*  Seleccionar un banco de candidatos elegibles para formnaci6n de Asesores para las
distintas Instituciones del Estado, ya que se pueden encontrar personas con un historial
laboral 'Vico" en experiencias, las cuales pueden ser aprovechadas en diferentes
situaciones.
*  Aprovechar los programas que poseen las instituciones de seguridad social en acciones
preparatorias para el retiro.
1.3 Tiempo de servicio
Los resultados de esta clasificaci6n se encuentran de la siguiente manera: de 0 a 5 afios de
antiguedad, se encuentra el 40%; de 6 a 10 afios, el 19%; de 11 a 15, el 12%, de 16 a
20%, el 14%; el restante 15% se encuentra oscilando en tiempos de servicio que van de
los 21 a mas de 41 afios.
Resulta interesante observar la concentraci6n existente en las tres primeras clases, es decir
de 0 a 15 anios de tiempo de servicio, las cuales agrupan al 71% de los Empleados; si se
cruzan estos datos con las edades de los Funcionarios en cuesti6n y su nivel educativo, se
tendra mayores argumentos para iniciar un plan 'Vida-Carrera" a largo plazo orientado
hacia el rumbo que el Gobiemo necesite marcar de acuerdo a sus planes estrategicos.
1. 4 Sexo
Para esta variable se ha analizado la diferencia que existe entre sexos y por niveles
educativos, encontrando datos curiosos como el hecho de que al comparar el nivel de
educaci6n basica, no se encontr6 a ninguna mujer, es decir las 62 personas que ocupan
cargos de direcci6n son hombres. En ese mismo orden, al relacionar los niveles educativos
de las mujeres comparadas con ellas mismas, podemos observar que porcentualmente
hablando se encuentran mejor preparadas que los hombres.
2. Nivel Thcnico
2.1 Nivel academico
Para el analisis de esta variable como para las demas del nivel tecnico, se ha tomado a la
totalidad de las Personas que han sido clasificados de acuerdo a su ocupaci6n, en
posiciones de caracter estrictamente tecnicas (arriba de actividades administrativas
rutinarias y abajo de cargos de direcci6n), ascendiendo a 6655 personas.
En este apartado encontramos que, en el nivel basico se ubica al 8% de los Empleados; en
el nivel de Bachillerato, el 37%; nivel Tecnico, el 12%; estudiantes universitarios, el 5%;
Profesionales Universitarios graduados, el 38% y finalmente se encontraron uinicamente 3
personas con estudios de Post-grado.



Annex E (2)
El enfasis en este nivel ocupacional deberia estar orientado a disminuir los niveles basico y
de Bachillerato y aumentar los niveles de Tecnico y de Profesionales Universitarios, de tal
manera que tambien pueda ser considerado este personal dentro de los planes de
desarrollo y formaci6n de Cartas de Reemplazo.
Por otra parte, este grupo de Empleados es el que ejecuta operativamente los planes de
trabajo del Estado, por lo tanto mientras mas elevado sea el nivel academico, se esperaria
una mayor capacidad de ejecuci6n, y una mayor flexibilidad en la introducci6n de procesos
de modernizaci6n.
2.2 Piramide de edades
El comportamiento de las edades en el segmento del Personal Tecnico se encuentra de la
siguiente manera; en la clase de 20 a 30 ainos, se encuentra el 27%; en la clase de 31 a 40
anios, el 38%; en la de 41 a 50, el 27% y en el segmento de 51 a mas de 70, encontramos
el 8% de los Empleados.
Llama la atenci6n en el analisis de esta variable, la franja ancha que resulta al unir las dos
primeras clases, ya que arroja un resultado del 65% de los empleados en edades que van
de los 20 a los 40 anios, por lo que se puede considerar a la mayor cantidad en este
segmento como una poblaci6n 'joven" y con la posibilidad de una Plusvalia Laboral alta
para el estado.
2.3 Tiempo de servicio
La distribuci6n de datos en esta variable se encuentra de la siguiente manera; en el rango
de 0 a 5 anios, se encuentra el 49%; en el rango de 6 a 10, se encuentra el 17%; en el rango
de 11 a 15 afios se ubica el 11%; en el de 16 a 20 anios encontramos al 13%; el restante
10% agrupa a personas que tienen entre 21 a mas de 41 afios de servicio.
En esta variable, impresiona el alto porcentaje de Empleados en las dos primera clases, es
decir, en el rango de 0 a 10 afios se encuentra el 66% de los Empleados considerados en
este estudio.
Si el dato anterior es congruente con la piramide de edades, tendriamos una situaci6n ideal
para un programa de desarrollo a largo plazo; de no ser asi, se tendria que revisar las
politicas actuales de selecci6n y contrataci6n de los Empleados del Sector Puiblico, de tal
manera que a la hora de la escogitaci6n de nuevos Servidores del Estado, se prevea el
tiempo de vida uitil (laboralmente hablando) de estas personas.
2.4 Sexo
Para esta variable se ha analizado la diferencia que existe entre sexos y por niveles
educativos, encontrando una tendencia similar a la del nivel Gerencial, pero con el dato
curioso de que al comparar las Personas graduadas universitarias, existe una mayor
cantidad de mujeres que de hombres.



Annex E (2)
3. Unidades de Recursos Humanos
Al efectuar un analisis de la posici6n que actualmente ocupan las unidades de de Recursos
Humanos en la Instituciones incluidas en el presente estudio, se puede observar que menos
del 30% de dichas unidades se encuentran en niveles de Direcci6n, ni reportando a la
maxima autoridad de la Instituci6n, es decir la mayor cantidad de unidades se encuentran
subordinadas a divisiones administrativas, en el mejor de los casos con niveles
organizativos de departamentos y en peor a nivel de secciones.
Los niveles educativos del Personal que integra las unidades de recursos humanos, se
podria decir que es adecuado al rol que en la actualidad se les ha asignado en la mayoria
de las Instituciones: 'idministradores de expedientes y tramitadores de acuerdos"
De acuerdo a este tipo de actividad, definitivamente las unidades de recursos humanos no
podran tener un papel protag6nico en la investigaci6n y modificaci6n de la cultura
organizacional, en el desarrollo de los cuadros gerencialaes, tecnicos y administrativo, ni
mucho menos, en la planeaci6n estrategica de los recursos humanos.
Por otra parte, pensar en una nivelaci6n de la jerarquia de las unidades, implica la
escogitaci6n de las Personas adecuadas a un nuevo perfil del Gerente de Recursos
Humanos, que responda al avance cientifico y tecnol6gico en esta rama del saver
adminsitrativo, y por otra parte a un entrenamiento intensivo para el personal tecnico y
administrativo que conforme las unidades, de cara a las nuevas exigencias de los usuarios
de los servicios publicos.
Finalmente, al analizar las plazas que actualmente conforman las unidadaes de recursos
humanos, se observa que en algunas Instituciones, existen personas asignadas, cuyas
actividades no tienen ninguna relaci6n con el rol principal de la Administraci6n de
Recursos Humanos.



Annex F
El Salvador: Employment in the Executive and Decentralized Institutions
Regular Staff                                    -    -                  of total Posts
('Ley de   Contracted  Daily-wage             -             of which  in the Cenbt
Mlnistry           Salarlosi     Staff    Labourers    Others al       Tot       vacant   Govemment
Presidency                         647        151          -             27          825.:   200           0.9%
Coordination                        61        464                         5           3        53           0.6%
Finance                           3,313       774          -            180   -:':'4,         240           4.7%
Foreign Relations                  512         65          -            -           5,' .      99           0.6%
Interior                          2,654       158          512           15        3,3,'.     -             3.7%
Justice                           1,325       472           50          -          1       .847 '  -        2.0%
Educafton b/                     38.677       140          -            193       39010       807          43.0%
PubileHeaithc/                   19,386        90           12        1.967       Z',,- ,   2.623          23.7%
Labour                             365          1          -             24            0       40           0.4%
Economy                            576        442           27           68        1,113      452           1.2%
Agrlcufure                         629        708         1,201          34  .     5'          42           2.8%
Pubric Works                      3,216       626        10,108          36      '13986       100          15.4%
Viceministry of Transport           156        80           60            -29, -                            0.3%
Viceministry of Housing            280         83          107            1          471       28           0.5%
Total         7179  ' 4,4            12,0  '      ,8': '0,67 S4''8'   ,  :%
-% of total Posts
Regular Staff                                                          within the Auton.
Autonomous and         ('Ley de   Contracted  Daily-wage                      ......  of which    e& ec.
Decentralized Institutions di   Salarlosl  Staff    Labourers    Others a!  'Ttal         vacant    Instituons
of which:
ANTEL                             5,155       404          960          -          6,519      -            12.6%
CEL                                 -          -                             .   ..0.0%
ANDA                              1,311        26         1,921           1 ' .259            169           6.3%
CEPA                               598          4           14          -  .--.,.,.6:6 .        7           12%
lSSS                                                                                                        0.0%
INPEP                              417        254          -              6         67         40           1.3%
Procuradura General                342        259          -              5          606        8           1.2%
Banco Central de Reserva             3          3          -            736          742.:    97            1.4%
Corte de Cuentas                  1,141         6          -             80        1,227 .     80           2.4%
Fiscalia General                   291        149          -              1          441        4           0.9%
Fondo de Inversion Social           -         284          -              6      .  290        34           0.6%
Totai"      9,.258    1,389 .       2,9 .- .,.. ,9 .                    4             2:   ;
a/ Posts not further specified.
b/ Of which 32,570 are teachers.
c/ Of which 6,244 are doctors and paramedics.
d/ According to official reports the total number of employees is 51,644.



Annex G
Modernization of Infrastructure'
Overview
1.     Mounting problem.  El Salvador entered the 1990s with under-developed and under-
maintained infrastructure, poorly adapted to the demands of a dynamic, export-led market
economy.   Telecommunications, power, transport, water and waste services deteriorated
during the civil war. Security expenditures crowded out spending on basic maintenance and
investment, and acts of war heavily damaged the power and transport networks. The wartime
economy was also marked by strong state intervention in the pricing and delivery of services.
Energy, telecommunications and water were merged into vertically-integrated, state-owned
monopolies. Regulatory and executive functions were not clearly separated, and worse, the
companies performed both but were not responsible for either.  Rate-setting, investment
decisions, procurement, financial oversight, and other key responsibilities were diffused across
many institutions. Large numbers of surplus employees were hired. Competition in service
provision was minimal, with little private participation. Prices were not adjusted for two
decades, and then only for inflation or devaluation.  With the exception of the lucrative
telecommunications monopoly, the utility companies became dependent on ever larger
government bail-outs. By the war's end, the Government was saddled with a daunting backlog
of maintenance and investment, which translated into large unmet demand and frequent
interruptions of service (Table 111. 1).
2.     The view from  the private sector.   Deficiencies in the quality and quantity  of
infrastructure continue to hamper private sector growth, according to the survey, particularly
the relative severity of telecommunications, highway and power problems. Not only did they
top the list of infrastructure-related concerns for the sample as a whole, but they were the
uppermost infrastructure concerns of important groups of firms: industrial and commerce,
large and medium-sized, export-oriented and non-exporting, and those in San Salvador where
one quarter of the country's population resides. Exporting firms are bothered most by the
poor condition of the highways. Moreover, developers of Free Trade Zones reported serious
delays in obtaining sites, telephone, power and water services.
¶demnncumi ,R, Radad1Pr lifrasfiure in Catral AnEca, 1992
Tdqiemuin lines | Ni road       lititwaan caity    nec*icity lrduwal  |
imwbil pe 00 pM.   kmp_ 1000 p(X     kA   per .00 pp  kH(m)  kAHper 100 p
Ceirl Arrica
CcsaRia       364,1a    1 1.>  5,60D   2.00  1,09,0         3    4,109       132,60D
El Salvadr    204,0OO    3.  1,936     0.37   697,9(       13  2,382          44,970
GilamEa       231,100    2.3  3,485    0.38   769,00(            Z2           28,090
1-dA          117,10D    2   2,400     0.4   540,500        1    2315        44,090
Ncaragu       66,80E    2.1                   427,0X        1    1,616        49,840
Paru         265,50D    11.1  2360     0.    956,200 4W            3,030     126,220
Mmdco        6,753,700  7_ 5 R_f2       095  29,274ODO          12Z42         142,09.
Noos: Pia Edas figuresare ftun 1992 fr El Salvar, nd 1990 f all ctbr  fnes.
Elricityga&x aid (nptIx± figwes are fm 1990 for the US. and lexico.
S9.r Wirid eloprmnt Repxt 1994, ANrET CE, AmLnao Clras Pu-icas El Salvador.
m Excerpts from El Salvador. The Challenge of Globalization. Country Economic Memorandum and Private



Annex G
Infrastructure Provision: Approaches And Lessons Of Experience
3.    The Government recognizes that poor performance of state-owned enterprises is largely
responsible for infrastructure bottlenecks, lagging investment and unmet demand, and the lack
of access of the poor; that technological change and advances in applied economics have
stripped some infrastructure monopolies of their "naturalness," lowering barriers to entry and
subjecting sectors to competition, if not in the market, then for the market; and that good
economic regulation of natural monopolies can promote economic welfare and afford investors
and consumers sufficient protection against potential abuses. The Government also recognizes
practical constraints. The scale of investment required to satisfy pent-up demand, let alone
support an export-led growth strategy, is far beyond its financial capacity. Significant private
investment, foreign and domestic, will have to be mobilized to close the infrastructure gap.
The success of the export-led growth strategy will hinge partly on closing this gap. Surveys of
multinationals often cite infrastructure quality as one of the most critical factors in influencing
decisions on the location of investments in manufacturing and high-technology sectors.
4.    As the Government reassesses its role in each infrastructure sector, it is useful to frame
the analysis with four broad considerations:
whether a service is publicly or privately owned and managed, it should be run on a
commercial basis with prices covering costs, and any subsidies, provided directly and
transparently;
* creating a market structure that maximizes opportunities for competition is critical;
* as non-competitive elements are unbundled from competitive or potentially-competitive
ones, as a rule, the former will require continuing oversight or regulation to protect
investors and consumers from abuses. While the form of regulation will depend on a
country's institutional endowment, it should ideally be organized at arm's length from the
Government, and operate under rules that are clear, expeditious, credible, and stable; and
* a growing body of research and recent Latin American experience suggest that private
ownership and management are most effective in locking in gains from commercialization
and competition.
Seizing Opportunities: General Recommendations
5.    The legacy of the 1980s has been highly negative for infrastructure. The Government
must overcome the huge backlog of maintenance and investment in order to improve the
quantity and quality of infrastructure while, at the same time, transforming the role of the state
and inviting the private sector to become a new partner in these activities. This change in the
relationship between the state and the private sector is, indeed, the only way to address the
needs for increased management skills and finance. The foundation for this transformation has
been established and some steps, e.g., in power, have been taken. The agenda of policy and
institutional change in each infrastructure sector involves:
revising the basic legal framework of governance, to separate the policy-making and
regulatory functions of government (national, subnational, or municipal) from the
operational functions, and clearly define responsibilities for all public and private entities
involved in the sector;
Sector Assessment. Executive Summary and Main Text (The World Bank/ LA2CO) October 1995; Chapter III.



Annex G
*  reforming market structures within sectors (breaking down the vertically integrated
entities), to unbundle truly natural monopoly components from competitive or potentially
competitive activities-thereby permitting competition both in and for market segments;
* articulating in detail the new government role in regulation, which involves: (i) for
natural monopolies defining regulatory policies to protect investors and the public interest,
stipulated in statutes or contracts between public and private entities; and (ii) creating
institutional mechanisms and implementation capacity to carry out this regulatory function.
A key will be to ensure a politically independent approach for tariff policy based on sound
economic and financial criteria;
*  specifying the financial role of government: (i) the subsidy policy, if any, that is justified
to compensate operators for non-remunerative but essential services; any subsidies
transferred directly to target groups need to be identified and financed; (ii) in activities
where the State will retain a significant role, (e.g., non-toll roads) a secure institutional
framework is needed to ensure financing of maintenance and accountability to users (e.g.,
a road board funded by road user charges);
*  promoting private sector participation in the reformed system, which may require
proactive support for at least a transitional period. At a minimum, there is a need to create
a transparent, streamlined process of contract design, competitive bidding, and
screening/approval of transactions; ensuring that new entrants compete fairly with
incumbent operators; and removing constraints to competition, such as limited access to
market information.
D  in those activities which remain, transitionally or for the longer term, under public
ownership and operation - such as (in most countries) the transmission of power and the
main road network - restructuring of the responsible entity is needed to create incentives
for efficient, commercial operation and to permit even limited private sector involvement,
such as through contracting-out services or management. This restructuring may require
corporatization, downsizing, decentralization, and improvement of financial and
management information systems.
6.    These six broad categories of policy and institutional reforms are not a chronological
sequence, although most countries begin with the first and the last; each step is mutually
reinforcing and needs to progress in concert.  However, the full agenda is enormously
demanding to countries with limited institutional capacity and each country has to find its own
pace and sequence.   Moreover, there is a range of choices regarding strategies and
organizations to meet reform objectives. International experience suggests two clear lessons,
with special significance for countries with limited institutional capacity such as El Salvador:
(i) choices which allow greater scope for competition provide stronger incentives for good
performance, while reducing regulatory requirements; and (ii) allowing extensive private
participation (in management, financing, and ownership) - in ways that permit it to absorb
risks as well as the rewards of good performance - improve the prospects for successful
outcomes.
Telecommunications
7.    Structure.   Since 1963, the state-owned company, Administraci6n Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones (ANTEL), has been the sole provider of basic telephone service, with the
power to license or grant concessions for value-added services. In recent years, ANTEL has



Annex G
allowed private operators to offer value-added services, although competition remains weak.
A cellular operator was granted a five-year concession and by 1994 had 1,500 subscribers. Its
charges are high by international standards: firms paid US$1,000 for a connection and 35 cents
a minute in 1993, compared, for example, with only US$100 and 16 cents a minute in Sri
Lanka, where there are four licensed operators. Data transmission facilities have been leased
to a private operator, with three to four more leases to be negotiated soon. A paging service
has also been licensed.
8.    Performnance. El Salvador's telecommunications sector has been among the weakest in
Latin America. In 1989 there were just 2.9 lines per 100 inhabitants, which compared
favorably only with the poorer neighboring countries of Nicaragua (1.2), Honduras (1.9) and
Guatemala (2.2). Network expansion, though, lagged even these neighbors. In 1981-91, the
network grew 5.9 percent annually compared with 11.4 percent in Honduras and 7.5 percent
in Guatemala. As a result, El Salvador had by 1992 the longest waiting list for telephone lines
in Central America. Many of the sector's weaknesses are due to the inefficiency of ANTEL.
In 1989, it operated with fewer lines per employee (22) than all Central American carriers,
except Nicaragua (16). Unrelated activities have yet to be contracted out or sold off, including
a hospital, and furniture and construction companies. About 10 percent of ANTEL's 7,052
employees in 1992 were employed in health and security, and over 17 percent were working in
non-economic rural offices, some of which generate only 20 colones (US$2.3) a month in
revenue.
9.    Like many monopoly carriers, ANTEL generates large revenues for the general budget.
It posted earnings of 500 million colones (US$57.8 million) in 1993. But 87 percent of its
revenues come from expensive international calls, which in 1991 were 22 to 34 percent more
expensive than in other countries in the region. Were the company subjected to greater
competition, its sterling financial record would tarnish quickly. Basic telephone rates were not
increased for 20 years, and adjustments are made ad hoc to meet cash needs and political
objectives.  The under-investment that has plagued the sector owes much to recurring
government interference. On the strength of its profits the company could have borrowed on
capital markets, but it was not permitted to do so. Since 1989, the company has managed with
donor support, to upgrade and expand the network. The number of lines doubled to 302,492,
or 5.5 lines per 100 inhabitants. About two-thirds of the lines are now digital, and San
Salvador has a fiber optic network. But demand for services is racing ahead of supply: the
waiting list for lines increased from 162,000 in 1992 to 200,000. ANTEL estimates that by
the year 2000 the number of lines would have to rise by 90 percent to catch up on the backlog
of orders and accommodate private sector needs.
10.   Reform. Besides stepping up investment, ANTEL's management and the Government
have introduced measures since 1989 to increase efficiency. One-time improvements in
productivity were achieved partly by cutting staff by about 14 percent over the past three
years. Repair response time similarly improved: 90 percent of down lines are now repaired
within four days.  In addition, ANTEL recently developed a restructuring plan that would
divest many non-core activities and public works contracts are increasingly bid out to the
private sector. The implementation of turn-key projects by the private sector has helped
reduce the project cycle. Time needed for feasibility studies has fallen from 36 to 18 months,



Annex G
and construction from 24 to 18 months. Finally, with IDB support, a review of the legal and
institutional framework was completed in February 1994, and with World Bank technical
assistance, an action plan was completed in July 1994 for the reform of key public enterprises
including ANTEL.
11.   Deepening reform. Modernizing the communications system is critical to the country's
export-led growth strategy.  It will require large investments in expansion of the basic
network; sufficient supply of high-quality fax, data transfer, packet switching, cellular, and
other services essential to modern commerce; competition in service delivery to keep prices
down; and a regulatory function - clearly separated from telecommunications operations - with
responsibility for protecting investors and consumers. These investment requirements can only
be met by attracting significant private participation which will require that a clear and credible
regulatory regime for entry and prices be established.
Power
12.   Structure. All planning, regulatory and executive functions are vested in the Comisi6n
Ejecutiva del Rio Lempa (CEL), a state monopoly. Almost all electric power for public
services is generated by CEL (there is a very small amount of self generation), which sells the
bulk of its electricity to distribution companies and the remainder to large end-users. In the
past, the distribution of electricity (except for rural areas) was in the hands of the private
sector through concessions. These expired in 1986, however, and since then four of the seven
distribution companies have been under the administration of CEL.  The Electric Power
Company of El Salvador, formerly one of the private distributors but now controlled by CEL,
distributes electricity in the capital area.
13.   Performance. The degree of electrification in El Salvador is low compared to that of
other Latin American countries, although access to electricity has increased from 33 percent in
1980 to 61 percent in 1993. Power interruption and voltage irregularities were among the
most severe constraints cited in the survey. Although outages have subsided in the past two
years, one-third of the survey firms had their own generating capacity, most likely in response
to the uncertain power supply. Among large enterprises, 55 percent had their own capacity.
During the 1980s CEL entered into a period of prolonged decline. During the civil war there
were over 2,000 attacks on substations and 3,800 on the transmission system costing CEL
about US$200 million. Moreover, during the last decade there was significant government
intervention in setting tariffs. Rates were not based on economic criteria, and CEL was not
allowed to make automatic adjustments for inflation, devaluation or other cost increases. By
the end of the decade the average tariff was 33 percent of long run marginal cost (LRMC). In
the early 1990s a prolonged drought required CEL to purchase energy from Guatemala and to
increase fuel purchases to substitute for hydro power.  These events strained the already
weakened capacity of CEL, and as a consequence power interruptions and voltage fluctuations
became frequent. Although, the situation is improving, the capacity of CEL to meet demand
is inadequate. Demand grew by about 10 percent p.a. during 1991-93 immediately following
the peace accord, and is expected to grow at 9 percent p. a. through the end of the decade. The
power sector now faces an enormous backlog of investment.



Annex G
14.   Reform.  The power sector has been a high Government priority and significant
progress has been achieved. In May 1991 the Government adopted an Energy Sector Policy
consistent with an open, market-based economy. It set four objectives: (i) an appropriate legal
and institutional framework; (ii) adoption of pricing policies based on economic costs; (iii)
significant private sector participation; and (iv) establishment of an institutional and policy
framework to address environmental issues. A package of energy legislation establishing
planning and regulatory agencies, a framework for power tariffs and a corporatized CEL has
been submitted to the Assembly. The first independent power generation project (80 MW)
was announced in October 1993. The Government has also decided to re-privatize power
distribution.  CEL's efficiency has been high in spite of the events of the last decade.
Compared to other Central American countries, CEL has the highest number of customers per
employee and ranks second in energy sales per employee. A tariff increase of 32 percent was
applied in late 1992, and the Government has further committed to reach 85 percent of LRMC
by 1996 and 100 percent by 1999.
15.   Deepening reform.   The critical next step is to establish a track record of
implementation of the necessary policy and institutional reforms. Significant additional tariff
increases are required to reach the 85 percent of LRMC goal in 1996. New concessions need
to be granted for private power distributors.  Additional independent power projects are
planned for 1995 (80 MW) and 1997 (50 MW). Implicit in the new structure of the sector is a
re-shaped role for CEL, partitioned between generation and transmission, with each organized
as an independent commercial enterprise.  In the future CEL-Generation would generate
power, buy it from independent power producers through power purchase arrangements, or
compete directly with them to supply energy to large consumers or distribution companies.
CEL-Transmission would retain its central role in power transmission but would be established
as an independent company and guarantee open access to generators. CEL's current activities
in urban power distribution would effectively cease with the sale of its current franchises to
private operators.
Roads
16.   Structure.  The Ministry of Public Works (MOP) is responsible for the transport
sector.  The Vice Ministry of Public Works is responsible for highway maintenance,
rehabilitation and construction, through the Direcci6n General de Caminos (national roads) and
Direcci6n de Urbanismo y Arquitectura (urban roads). Municipalities have responsibility for
portions of the urban road network.
17.   Performance. El Salvador has approximately 12,400 kms of roads: (i) 1,936 kms
paved with 38 percent in bad condition, 30 percent in fair condition, and 32 percent in good
conditions; (ii) 7,890 kms unpaved with 57 percent in bad condition, 31 percent in fair
condition, 12 percent in good condition (iii) 112 kms in San Salvador (fair to good condition);
and (iv) other municipalities, 2,474 kms in generally bad condition. The primary road
network consists of two East-West axes, the Panamerican Highway and the Coastal Highway,
and four North-South axes. Supply of roads and highways is sufficient, except for rural
penetration roads in the ex-conflict areas. However, deficiencies in the transport sector were
the most severe infrastructure constraint noted in the survey. Maintenance suffers from under-



Annex G
execution and inefficiencies and salaries and benefits comprise about 80 percent of the road
maintenance budget.
18.   Reformn. A Vice Ministry of Transport has recently been established to direct and
coordinate policy. It will assume functions that were previously handled by other ministries
(transport regulation, user fees and tolls), eventually becoming the transport regulatory
authority. In parallel a number of regulatory actions have been taken (establishing weight
limits and facilitating border crossings), and a number of institutional changes in MOP have
been initiated. Staff levels in the MOP have been reduced significantly, particularly in the
Direcci6n General de Caminos.
19.   Deepening reform.  Improving the quality of existing roads through increased
maintenance, rehabilitation and modernization is the principal challenge. MOP has prepared a
five year rehabilitation and maintenance plan but it must secure budget allocations for road
maintenance over the long term.  Funds are assigned to MOP as part of the central
government's budget process, based on last year's level of expenditures with no analysis or
evaluation of programs. Moreover, there is a bias toward external funds which, however, are
for discrete programs with defined time frames. Ideally they can supplement but not substitute
for long term road maintenance funds.
Ports and Rail
20.   Structure. The Comisi6n Ejecutiva Portuaria Aut6noma (CEPA) has responsibility for
the ports of Acajutla and Cutuco, the state owned railroad and the airport. CEPA was created
in 1952 to manage Acajutla, and added responsibilities during the 1970s. Planning, regulatory
and executive functions are vested in CEPA, although with significant intervention from line
ministries.
21.   Performance.  Acajutla is an open access port on the Pacific Coast about 85 kms
southwest of San Salvador. It has capacity for about 1,500 million metric tons, and is close to
reaching that level, with total traffic of about 1,300 million metric tons in 1993. Cutuco, also
on the Pacific coast about 185 kms from San Salvador, handled 50,00 tons in 1991, one-fifth
of its 1978 traffic level. The railroad is severely deteriorated with 50 percent of its sleepers
damaged. Rolling stock is in a similarly deteriorated state. CEPA estimates that only 2
percent of the nation's cargo traffic moves by rail. The airport dates from 1978, has a small
role in exporting (about 1 percent of all exports), but is increasingly important in non-
traditional exports. CEPA is relatively stable financially. It earns a modest profit due to
airport operations, while the railroad loses money and the ports break even. Acajutla suffers
from labor and operational problems, which leads to a lack of competitiveness with some other
Central American ports. Labor concessions in the 1980s have led to a salary structure and
work rules that are increasingly constraining CEPA's competitiveness. The most important
competition is from Puerto Queztal in Guatemala. Additionally the lack of maintenance and
investment during the 1980s created a backlog at Acajutla that is slowly being addressed by
CEPA. Cutuco has limited installations, is only accessible by railroad, and must compete with
the nearby privately owned port of Punta Gorda.



Annex G
22.   Reform. The Government has initiated a number of changes and is actively exploring
privatization options, including granting operating concessions, divesting storage facilities and
contracting out maintenance.  CEPA  has improved its financial situation through tariff
increases and has taken steps to reduce personnel at Acajutla by about half (650 out of 1,400
workers).
23.   Deepening reform. Although CEPA has achieved financial stability and is improving
efficiency, it faces a number of strategic issues. It must recover traffic lost during the civil
war and compete, in price and services, with Central American ports. This will require greater
private sector participation, and the transformation of CEPA into a regulatory authority.
Water and Sanitation
24.   Structure. The Administraci6n Nacional de Acueductos y Alcantarillados (ANDA) is
the principal water and sanitation institution, but responsibilities are spread across many
institutions. Water/sanitation production and distribution is split between ANDA for most
urban systems, some municipalities, and the Ministry of Health for rural systems. The Social
Investment Fund (FIS) also participates in the construction of rural systems.
25.   Performnance. All water produced in El Salvador is sub-surface. For the most part
rivers and lakes are too contaminated for use. Water coverage was 55 percent in 1992, of
which 78 percent was urban and 16 percent rural. Sanitation coverage was 69 percent, of
which 87 percent was urban and 52 percent latrines. There are ten waste water treatment
plants but these handle only 3 percent of production. Demand is projected to grow at 4
percent p.a. through the end of the decade.  To reach 100 percent coverage in the
municipalities covered by ANDA, investments on the order of US$150 million p.a. would be
needed over the next five years. Losses are estimated at 40 percent and service is intermittent.
In San Salvador it was estimated in 1993 that users received water about 16-18 hours per day.
Of the 350,000 connections, about two-thirds have working meters.  ANDA's financial
problems are largely the result of the tariff structure, as well as weaknesses in its billing and
collection systems.
26.   Reforn. Some initial steps have been taken toward sectoral reform. A draft diagnostic
study of the water/sanitation sector has been prepared and new draft legislation is currently
under review. In the last five years ANDA has been able to improve its financial situation.
Operating losses have been reduced by about two-thirds, and the overall deficit by about one-
third. Tariff increases in 1990 and 1992 contributed to the improved financial performance.
27.   Deepening reform.  The Government must implement tariff reform, and address
simultaneously the rehabilitation and expansion of production and distribution systems.
Establishment of planning and regulatory agencies is essential. The Government lacks a water
resources strategy and policies for conservation and usage. Too little attention is given to
environmental issues, especially in view of the decline in aquifers and the low coverage of
waste water.  The institutional framework is disjointed, and there is a multiplicity of
institutions operating in an uncoordinated and ineffective fashion.



Annex H
EL SALVADOR
PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FIELD SUPERVISION PLAN
FY1997:
Initial Supervision Mission/Project Launch
Task Manager
Privatization/Regulatory Specialist
Institutional Reform Specialist
Human Resource Specialist
Information Systems Specialist
Procurement Specialist
Training Specialist
Environment Specialist
FY1997-99
Regular Supervision Missions - scheduled twice yearly, one of them comprising specialists
in all project areas:
Task Manager
Representatives of the following specialties, depending upon need:
Privatization/Regulatory Specialist
Institutional Reform Specialist
Human Resource Specialist
Information Systems
Procurement
Training and Institutional Development
Monitoring, Evaluation and Costing
Environment Specialist
FY1998:
Mid-term Review
Task Manager
Representatives of the specialties listed above
FY2000
Project Completion Report Preparation Mission
Task Manager
Monitoring, Evaluation and Costing Specialist



Annex H
The supervision requirements by IBRD fiscal year are:
1997   1998   1999   2000
General Portfolio Management            8      8       5      5
Operations
Informatics System                      2      2       2      2
Mid-Term Review                      _                 8   1      1
Supervision Missions                   10      8       8      8
Total SWKs                             20      18     23      15









IMAGING
Report No:         6839 ES
Type: 0
TrA J



