Page  1
September 12, 1997
His Excellency 
Mr. Manuel G. Hinds 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Edificio Tres Torres 
Av. Alvarado, diagonal Centro América 
Urbanización Buenos Aires 
San Salvador, El Salvador
Re:
Loan No. 4082-ES
(Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Project)
 Amendment
Excellency:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (Public Sector Modernization Technical 
Assistance project) dated December 11, 1996 between the Republic of El Salvador (the 
Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank).
Pursuant to the request in letter dated June 17, 1997, from Ms. Lourdes de 
Sandoval, the Bank agrees to amend Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
Table in paragraph 1:  the percentage of financing for Category (1) in the third 
column is deleted and replaced by “100%”.
2.
Paragraph 2: 
(a)
the colon in the opening sentence is deleted and replaced by a comma;
(b)
subparagraphs “(a)” and “(b)” are deleted; and
(c)
the designation of subparagraph “(c)” is deleted and the paragraph is now 
to follow the opening sentence after “Schedule,”.
3.
Paragraph 4:
(a)
In the second line after the words “for expenditures under” the following 
is added: “: (a) training; and (b) ”; and
(b)
the existing denominations of subparagraphs “(a)”, “(b)” and “(c)” in the 
third and fourth lines are redesignated “(i)”, “(ii)”, and “(iii)”, respectively.
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing this 
letter in the space provided below and returning it to us.  This amendment shall be 
executed in two counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original.  The 
amendment shall become effective upon receipt by the Bank of one fully executed 
original of this letter.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
 AND DEVELOPMENT
/s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo 
    Director 
    Central America Department 
    Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Page  2
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
/s/ Manuel Hinds
   (Authorized Representative)
Date:
September 19, 1997
