                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR0000725




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD-40820)




                                     ON A

                                     LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 24 MILLION


                                    TO THE

                         REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR

                                     FOR A

   PUBLIC SECTOR MODERNIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                February 28, 2008




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Department
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   The US Dollar is the current currency in El Salvador

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANDA      National Aqueduct and Sewage                 INPEP    National Pensions Institute for Public
          Administration Administración Nacional de             Employees Instituto Nacional de Pensiones
          Acueductos y Alcantarillados                          para Empleados Públicos
ANTEL     Nacional Telecommunications Administration   ISSS     Salvadoran Social Security Institute Instituto
          Administración Nacional de                            Salvadoreño del Seguro Social
          Telecomunicaciones
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy                  LACAP    Procurement Law Ley de Contrataciones y
                                                                Adquisiciones Públicas
CCIS      Chamber of Commerce and Industry of El       MIF      Multilateral Investment Fund
          Salvador Cámara de Comercio e Industria de
          El Salvador
CEL       Hydroelectric Executive Comisión for Rio     MOP      Ministry of Public Works
          Lempa Comisión Ejecutiva Hidroeléctrica del
          Río Lempa
CEM       Country Economic Memorandum                  NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
CEPA      Autonomous Executive Ports Commission        PCU      Project Coordination Unit
          Comisión Ejecutiva Portuaria Autónoma
CLAD      Latin American Center for Development        PDO      Project Development Objective
          Administration Centro Latinoamericano de
          Administración para el Desarrollo
CPMSP     Presidencial Commission for Public Sector    PP       Procurement Plan
          Modernization Comisión Presidencial para la
          Modernización del Sector Público
DGPC      General Direction for the Protection of      PPF      Project Preparation Facility
          Consumers Dirección General de Protección
          al Consumidor
FTA       Free Trade Agreement                         PSM      Public Sector Modernization
FUSADES   Salvadoran Foundation for Economic and       PSMTAL   Public Sector Modernization-Technical
          Social Development Fundación Salvadoreña              Assistance Loan
          para el Desarrollo Económico y Social
GDP       Gross Domestic Product                       PSMP     Public Sector Modernization Program
GNP       Gross National Product                       REDI-SR  Recent Econmic Developments in
                                                                Infrastructure ­ Strategy Report
GOES      Government of El Salvador                    SAFI     Integrated Financial Management System
                                                                Sistema de Administración Financiera
                                                                Integrada
GTZ       German Technical Assistance Agency           SAL II   Structural Adjustment Loan II
HRIS/SIRH Human Resources Information System           SOE      State-Owned Enterprise
HRM       Human Resources Management                   SME      Small and Medium Enterprise
IADB      Inter-American Development Bank              STP      Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
                                                                Secretaría Técnica de la Presidencia
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and    UACI     Institucional Procurement Unit Unidad de
          Development                                           Adquisiciones y Contrataciones Institucional
ICAP      Central American Institute of Public         UNAC     National Procurement Norms Unit Unidad
          Administration Instituto Centroamericano de           Normativa de Adquisiciones y Contrataciones
          Administración Pública
ICT       Information and Communications Technology    UNDP     United Nations Development Program
IFM       Integrated Financial Management              USAID    United Status Agency for International
                                                                Development
                                                       WBI      World Bank Institute


                                    Vice President: Pamela Cox
                                 Country Director: Laura Frigenti
                                   Sector Manager: Nicholas Manning
                            Project Team Leader: Alberto Leyton
                                ICR Team Leader: Alberto Leyton

                                          EL SALVADOR
             Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Project *




                                              CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 19
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 22
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 34
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 36
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 38
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 38
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (November 14th, 2007)............. 39
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 42
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 60
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 61
  MAP




(*)  This report was prepared by consultants Amalia Prado and Maria Jose Redini under
     the supervision of the project TTL.

A. Basic Information

                                                                       SV PUBLIC SECTOR
Country:                El Salvador             Project Name:
                                                                       MODERN
Project ID:             P007164                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-40820
ICR Date:               03/03/2008              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       REPUBLIC OF EL
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:
                                                                       SALVADOR
Original Total
                        USD 24.0M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 22.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Secretaria Tecnica de la Presidencia
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/28/1994    Effectiveness:          03/11/1997         03/11/1997
Appraisal:             12/04/1995    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              09/03/1996    Mid-term Review:                           09/10/1999
                                     Closing:                08/31/2001         08/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:        Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:            Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry     None


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           No                                        Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               98                 100
Law and justice                                                   2


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                        Primary           Primary
Legal institutions for a market economy                       Secondary          Secondary
Other accountability/anti-corruption                          Secondary          Secondary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization          Primary           Primary
Tax policy and administration                                 Secondary          Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:          Laura Frigenti                    D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:            Nicholas Paul Manning             Robert Mark Lacey
Project Team Leader:       Alberto Leyton                    Harald L. Fuhr
ICR Team Leader:           Alberto Leyton
ICR Primary Author:        Amalia Prado Meza
                           Maria Redini



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the project is to strengthen the capacity of the Government to
implement its Public Sector Modernization Program (PSMP) by defining a more
subsidiary role of the public sector and its entities; gradually improving their
performance,     accountability     and    transparency;    and   enhancing     private-sector
development. The project provides assistance to the Government in (a) defining the new
roles of the public sector and its most important entities; (b) strengthening operations for




                                                ii

those entities that remain in the public sector; and (c) involving the private sector in the
provision of public services.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally          Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Effective registration and transparency in the use of public sector resources

                                           Full                                100% of public

                                           implementation of                   budget and public

Value           Weak and non disclosed     modern financial,                   contracts are

quantitative or management of financial    HR and                              managed through

Qualitative)    and human resources and                                        modern and
                public procurement.        procurement
                                           management                          transparent

                                           systems.                            management
                                                                               systems.
Date achieved 01/01/1997                   08/01/2006                          08/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Public sector effectiveness has been improved and services provided has been
                streamlined in major areas of the public sector.
                                                                               El Salvador
                                                                               significantly
                                                                               improved in key of
                                                                               the #Doing

                                           Government                          Business#
Value                                                                          indicators: the
quantitative or None                       effectiveness                       number of days to
Qualitative)                               indicators have
                                           been improved.                      start a business was
                                                                               reduced from 115
                                                                               to 26 and the costs
                                                                               from 127 to 73
                                                                               percent of per
                                                                               capita income.
Date achieved 01/01/1997                   08/31/2007                          08/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Quality and coverage of basic public services has been enhanced as a result of
                institutional reforms and private sector participation.
Value                                      Significant                         (i) Privatization of
quantitative or None                       improvements                        telecom increased


                                                iii

Qualitative)                               have been                          wire-line coverage
                                           observed in critical               by 251% from 1998
                                           services like                      to 2005; (ii) power
                                           telecommunication                  coverage increased
                                           s, energy,                         by from 30% to
                                           transport, and                     88% in 2005; (iii)
                                           pensions                           fiscal deficit
                                           administration.                    derived from
                                                                              pension outlays was
                                                                              controlled.
Date achieved 01/01/1997                   08/31/2007                         08/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised       Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Development and modernization of core public management systems
                                                               Modern
                                                               integrated
                                                               finanacial
                                                               management

                                           (i) integrated      system SAFI

                                           financial           and public

                                           management          procurement

Value                                      system (SAFI); (ii) system
(quantitative  None                        public              COMPRASA

or Qualitative)                            procurement; (iii)  L fully

                                           human resource      operational

                                           management          facilitating

                                           system (SIRH).      access to
                                                               information
                                                               and financial
                                                               transactions in
                                                               the public
                                                               sector.
Date achieved 01/01/1997                   08/31/2006          08/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       80% achievement of original goal. Chganges in HR systems still pending.
achievement)

Indicator 2 :  Institutional restructuring approved and initiated in major public sector agencies
               (Ministries and/or agencies).
Value                                      13 major entities                  16 major entities or
(quantitative  None                        or programs                        programs reformed
or Qualitative)                            reformed or                        or restructured.



                                                 iv

                                          restructured.
Date achieved 01/01/1997                  08/31/2007                           08/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Result exceeded expectations
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Private sector participation has been facilitated in key public services.
                                                                               Effective

                                          At least three                       privatization or
                                                                               private sector
Value                                     major public                         participation was
(quantitative  None                       services reformed                    achieved in
or Qualitative)                           with direct private
                                          investment                           telecommunications

                                          participation.                       , power generation
                                                                               and pension system
                                                                               administration.
Date achieved 01/01/1997                  08/31/2007                           08/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Fully accomplished.
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                            IP                Disbursements
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     06/28/1997          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        1.83
  2     07/08/1997          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        1.83
  3     10/24/1997          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        2.45
  4     02/27/1998          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        3.57
  5     01/04/1999          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        7.12
  6     06/30/1999          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        8.16
  7     07/02/1999          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        8.16
  8     12/30/1999          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        9.47
  9     06/28/2000          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        9.72
  10    12/22/2000          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       10.35
  11    06/28/2001          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       10.64
  12    12/16/2001          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       10.86
  13    06/27/2002          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       12.11
  14    12/20/2002          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       13.24
  15    04/30/2003          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       14.54
  16    12/09/2003          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       15.82
  17    06/08/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       16.38
  18    12/09/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       17.43
  19    05/04/2005          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       18.06
  20    11/04/2005          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       18.82
  21    03/04/2006          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       19.40
  22    07/12/2006          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                       20.16


                                                v

  23  12/28/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    21.19
  24  06/13/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory    22.14



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

At the onset of this project, El Salvador was at a turning point. Following the 1992 Peace
Accord and the implementation of a comprehensive structural reform program aimed at
reorienting the economy toward private sector- and export-led growth, the country was
undergoing a remarkable economic recovery. Reforms involved elimination of price
controls, removal of trade barriers, financial system privatization, exchange-rate
liberalization and simplification of the tax system. Between 1992 and 1995, GDP grew at
an average rate of 6.8 percent. This rate slowed down, however, in 1996 to 2.5 percent.
In addition to external shocks, this was partly due to the fact that a number of interrelated
challenges still remained in terms of export competitiveness, fiscal policies and savings.
Major weaknesses still plagued public sector institutions, directly (through overregulation
and protection of monopolistic public enterprises) and indirectly (through bureaucratic
inefficiency) hindering efforts to further the social and competitiveness agendas.
Furthermore, cumulative problems in the social sectors were exacerbated by poor social
service delivery, increasing political insecurity and instability. In short, public sector
institutional deficiencies posed the risk of major setbacks and a modernization agenda of
considerable breadth and complexity was required.

At the time of approval, public sector strengthening and modernization ­as a means to
achieving sustainable peace through high economic growth, poverty reduction, and
improvement of living standards- constituted top priorities within the Government of El
Salvador's Public Sector Modernization Program and the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy. Accordingly, the Public Sector Modernization Technical Assistance Project
(PSMTAL) addressed the major public sector structural weaknesses and deficiencies
identified in the 1997 CAS, namely: (i) high functional inefficiencies caused by
overextension and centralization of the state; (ii) low economy and efficiency caused by
its organizational structure and extremely weak financial and human resources
management, and the low professionalization of its civil service; (iii) poor service
delivery; (iv) outdated and inadequate administrative infrastructure and equipment. To
this end, the project directly built upon the Bank's El Salvador Technical Assistance
Loan (Ln. 3648-ES) that accompanied the El Salvador Structural Adjustment Loan II
(Ln.3646-ES), which established the analytical bases underlying the public sector reform
agenda encompassing: (i) institutional restructuring; (ii) improvements in public
expenditure management; (iii) tax policy; (iv) public administration; and (v) Human
Resources Management (HRM) by supporting the development of a Human Resources
Information System (HRIS) and its implementation in two ministries. Although progress
under some of the preceding TAL's components was partial, it successfully secured the
Government's ability to comply with conditions necessary for the Second Tranche release
of the SAL II. It also complemented other Bank efforts in the area of competitiveness and
a sectoral loan in energy, as well as support by other international and bilateral




                                              1

organizations, which were likewise aimed at supporting El Salvador's Public Sector
Reform Program.1

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The PSMTAL's development objective was to strengthen the Government's capacity to
implement its Public Sector Modernization Program (PSMP) by defining a more
subsidiary role for the public sector and its entities; gradually improving their
performance, accountability and transparency; and enhancing private-sector development.
To this end, the project provided assistance to the Government aimed at: (a) defining the
new roles of the public sector and its most important entities; (b) strengthening operations
for those entities that remained within the public sector; and (c) involving the private
sector in the provision of public services.

Appraisal documents did not define key PDO indicators. As stated in the Technical
Annex, performance and impact indicators were to be defined jointly between the Bank
and the GOES during implementation. PDO indicators defined subsequently were: (i) the
development and modernization of three public management systems; (ii) institutional
restructurings approved and initiated in at least five central agencies; and (iii)
implementation of a procurement system through legal reform of public sector
procurement. An intermediate outcome indicator was also established: four institutions or
services transferred to the private sector and corresponding regulatory frameworks
developed and implemented.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The Project Development Objective was not revised. The key indicators that were
defined during implementation were also not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The PDO clearly lays out government agencies (ministries, decentralized institutions,
regulatory entities, and state-owned enterprises) as the main beneficiaries of the
PSMTAL. The project aimed to strengthen the Executive Branch's capacity to implement
its modernization program by initially focusing on key institutions and then extending its
reach to others. Moreover, as specified in the Technical Annex, the main beneficiaries
primarily included the Ministries of the Presidency, Finance, Economy, Foreign Affairs,
and Public Works; and three decentralized institutions that would be identified during
implementation.

Additionally, a large number of public institutions benefited from specific restructuring
and debureaucratization efforts, as well as the cross-cutting implementation of the
financial, human resources, and procurement reforms and systems that were implemented



1IBRD: Competitiveness Enhancement Technical Assistance Project (Ln. 3946-ES) and Energy Sector
Modernization Project (Ln. 3920-ES). UNDP: Support to the Coordination of the Programme of
Modernization of the Public Sector (ELS//92/508). IADB: Fiscal Modernization Loan (Ln. 980/SF and Ln.
941/OC, Project Number ES0105). Donors were USAID, GTZ, and ICAP with several projects.


                                                   2

with the support of the PSMTAL. Likewise, private sector agencies and associations also
benefited from more efficient delivery of administrative services and a more business-
friendly environment. Ultimately, reforms benefited the Salvadoran population as citizens
of a more streamlined and transparent state and as users of more efficient public services.

1.5 Original Components

Four main components and a project coordination component were contemplated in the
original project design as follows:

Institutional Restructuring and Debureaucratization: This component was aimed at
supporting the design and implementation of macro- and micro- institutional restructuring
and simplification of bureaucratic procedures, enhancing government's overall
institutional performance. To this end, the component would support: (i) the redefinition
of the mission, functions, and processes of El Salvador's public administration, including
the reorganization of agencies and units with newly specified resource needs; and (ii)
both the identification and tackling of critical issues to simplify procedures and processes
involving the provision of administrative services that caused dissatisfaction among users
or stifled the development of private firms or civil society.

Human Resources Management: This component was geared to strengthen the central
government's capacity to monitor efforts to rationalize, enhance, and professionalize
HRM under the PSMP. Support under this component also aimed to underpin necessary
adjustments to the public sector's size and quality and the redefinition of incentives to
motivate and develop staff. To these ends, this component would support: (i) the
implementation of an integrated HRM information system in all central ministries and
those decentralized institutions that received central government transfers; (ii) the
creation of a central HRM entity for the Executive; (iii) the strengthening of HRM
capacity in operational units within both the ministries and decentralized institutions; (iv)
the reduction of redundant staff together with the definition of adequate benefits packages
and the development of support programs for those affected; and (v) the development of
a new civil service legal framework.

Financial Resource Management: This component was designed to develop and
implement an integrated financial management system for the public administration. It
also sought to strengthen the units responsible for financial resource management in the
central government and major decentralized institutions and their internal audit systems,
as well as to identify, diagnose, and implement priority actions to strengthen the Court of
Accounts' capacity to undertake external and ex-post control obligations in accordance
with applicable laws. It was furthermore designed to modernize public procurement
procedures and to consolidate reforms that had been undertaken in the tax and custom
administration agencies prior to project approval. Finally, technical assistance provided
under this component would seek to assess options for further private sector participation
in the delivery of services provided by these agencies.

Privatization and Private Sector Participation in the Provision of Public Services: This
component was designed to strengthen GOES' institutional capacity to carry out the
privatization of its telecommunication and power distribution companies under the PSMP,
including the establishment of corresponding regulatory agency/agencies. It furthermore



                                              3

was intended to support the reform of the pension system, establishing a private-
administered system, adjusting and harmonizing the existing pension programs (The
Social Security Institute ISSS and the Public Owned Enterprise Previsions System
INPEP), and establishing a corresponding regulatory agency. To these ends, it would
develop economic, financial, technical, and environmental feasibility studies for private
sector participation in the provision of public services such as power generation, ports,
water, and sewage ­though these were not prioritized sectors, loan agreement allowed for
support for reform of these sector were the GOES to pursue it. It would furthermore
support the preparation of guidelines governing soil, air, and water pollution control and
the carrying out of environmental audits for the entities providing such services, as
warranted. Its design also foresaw the strengthening of the Government's institutional
capacity to monitor compliance with the above-mentioned guidelines.

Project Coordination: This component aimed to support the Presidential Commission for
Public Sector Modernization (the Project Coordination Unit) to carry out the overall
coordination, administration, monitoring, evaluation, and auditing of both this project's
and the PSMP's implementation. It was also geared to support the development of
communication channels among different agencies and between agencies and civil
society regarding public sector modernization issues, as well as the dissemination of
experience in and education on relevant international experiences.

1.6 Revised Components

Project components were not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

Schedule Changes and Extensions. Four main factors played into adjustments to the
project implementation schedule: (i) natural disasters redirected GOES priorities; (ii) a
ceiling for multilaterally-financed public expenditures was set in 1998; (iii) new reforms
were introduced only as the necessary political conditions developed; and (iv) some of
the reforms required additional implementation time. The project disbursement rate was
further affected by the fact that the GOES combined PSMTAL funds with other sources
of funding for its PMSP, including grants from bilateral donors.

Four closing-date extensions were approved. In January 2001, on the basis of an action
plan, a one-year extension was granted as an interim measure, while the new GOES
administration reoriented the project to better match its emerging priorities and the
country's reconstruction needs.      Later that same year, a Bank supervision mission
evaluated project performance and concluded that the additional two-year extension
request was merited. Corresponding project documents attest to the crucial need for
continued Bank support in modernization given progress toward second-generation
reforms. In mid-2004, an additional extension was granted based on three criteria: project
objectives continued to be achievable; borrower and implementing agency performance
was satisfactory; and a specific action plan for project completion had been prepared by
the Government. Moreover, a new administration had just taken office, with public sector
reform high on its agenda and it was considered that continuity would ensure the
sustainability of the results that had been achieved to date. The final one-year extension
introduced a new consideration - which stemmed from the growing difficulty in obtaining


                                             4

legislative authorization for a new technical assistance loan which had been envisioned in
the CAS 2005.

Changes in Scope. Following changes in administration, the scope of two components
was broadened ­without altering the project's objectives or the components' descriptions.

    Component 1: Two subcomponents, Decentralization and Connectivity, were added
    in 2001 and 2004, correspondingly. At project outset, it had been agreed that the
    PSMTAL would provide complementary support to ongoing decentralization reform
    efforts mainly supported by the GTZ. Formal creation of a decentralization
    subcomponent responded directly to the new administration's renewed prioritization
    of: (i) harmonization of decentralization principles and policies; (ii) further
    decentralization of public service provision; (iii) support to capacity-building among
    local development organizations; and (iv) technical assistance for municipal deficit
    reduction. Connectivity was a logical accompaniment to the debureaucratization
    efforts and aimed at both harmonizing Information and Communication Technology
    (ICT) policies in different Ministries and increasing the use of ICTs in the provision
    of public services.

    Component 4: Once privatization of the three priority sectors was achieved, this
    component also supported the development of new regulatory frameworks governing
    other sectors, namely: ports, road maintenance, airports, and water distribution ­all of
    which were passed, except for the latter.

Institutional Arrangements. In 1999, the Presidential Commission for Public Sector
Modernization (CPMSP) was turned into the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency
(STP), strengthening its political leverage to overcome internal resistance to reforms. The
Secretariat worked from within the presidential office and the Technical Secretary also
functioned as the Cabinet's Chief of Staff. In parallel, because the HRM Component was
not progressing as expected, it was transferred from the Ministry of Finance to the STP so
as to create synergies with the Institutional Restructuring Component. Given that a host
entity for this component was not originally established, no amendment to the loan
agreement was required.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry2

This ICR finds that overall quality at entry was moderately satisfactory because project
objectives were found to be fully aligned with and responsive to client needs as embodied
in its PSMP, which focused on economic growth, poverty reduction, and improvements
in living standards as the cornerstones of sustainable peace. These objectives were
furthermore found to be consistent with the 1997 Country Assistance Strategy that
emphasized the pivotal importance of public sector modernization to removing barriers to




2Since the project predates QAG reviews, there is no official assessment of its quality at entry.




                                                   5

private sector development and access to global markets, goals that remained top
priorities within the Government's agenda throughout project implementation.

The PSMTAL was based on sound background analyses and incorporated lessons learned
in previous projects. Starting in 1993, the Ministry of Planning led the preparation of the
Modernization Program with the support of UNDP, USAID, World Bank, European
Institute of Public Administration, Central American Institute of Public Administration
(ICAP) and Latin American Center for Development Administration (CLAD), all of
which had supported the GOES in developing studies and proposals on institutional
restructuring and simplification of procedures, decentralization, privatization and
deregulation, human resources management and civil service, and integrated financial
management. Additionally, the Bank produced relevant country-specific work,
particularly the Country Economic Memorandum (CEM), with crucial findings related to
Integrated Financial Management (IFM) and Human Resources Management (HRM).
With TAL support, the GOES designed an integral PSMP implementation plan.

Government officials participated in the identification and design of this project, which
was initially intended to support the Calderón Sol administration in its modernization
agenda. Due to the political continuity which prevailed despite changes in administration,
government officials remained highly committed to the reform program throughout
project implementation. Other donors were involved in project formulation to harmonize
support provided to the Government of El Salvador, main partner being IADB in the
fields of financial management, tax, and customs reform. Teams from both institutions
undertook joint identification missions, and likewise coordinated their supervision
missions. The project also incorporated mechanisms for participation by private sector
organizations, such as the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of El Salvador (CCIS)
and the Salvadoran Foundation for Social and Economic Development (FUSADES), so
as to better target and monitor activities in support of private sector development.

Major risks identified at the outset included: (i) resistance to leadership by the National
Project Coordinator (CPMSP); (ii) lack of support for the Economic Cabinet's
coordination role in PSM efforts; (iii) difficulties in maintaining a clear-cut separation of
political and technical issues during implementation; (iv) ineffective Reform Groups
within government entities; and (v) resistance to change in different branches of
government. These risks were considered to have been minimized by GOES' strong
commitment, clear lines of accountability, and consensus-based decision-making and
implementation. Additionally, new incentives for professional staff were expected to
facilitate implementation. There was no risk rating at the outset.

In response to the GOES' vision at the time ­aiming for peace sustainability through
economic growth, poverty reduction, and improvement of living standards- and new
Bank procedures for assistance strategies, the 1997 CAS stressed the need for flexibility
and responsiveness in Bank-client relationships, with an increasing focus on process
rather than specific products. The PSMTAL's design reflects this emphasis, laying out a
comprehensive support framework for a broad modernization agenda, with clear
indications of priorities. Though broadly defined, project documents clearly envisaged
key components underlying the Government's public sector modernization agenda, which
later allowed for incremental needs-based adjustments and expansions over time.



                                               6

Project design, however, also presented moderate shortcomings, attributable at least in
part to the standard design of earlier Bank technical assistance operations. Moreover, in
line with standard Project Appraisal Documents of the time, the project's design: (i)
lacked a strategic framework linking project objectives with expected results, and these to
proposed activities; (ii) the indicators were focused on activities; and (iii) the complex set
of reforms proposed would turn out to be very demanding on the GOES, rendering timely
implementation and disbursement extremely difficult, particularly within the first four-
year timeframe.

The operation was highly complex, involving several ministries and requiring that the
Legislative Assembly pass legal reforms on HRM, procurement, and regulatory
frameworks. Considering how politically and technically demanding the project was and,
consequently, the number of internal and external opposition fronts that the GOES and
the STP faced in their reform efforts, the initial assessment would appear to have
underestimated risks. Nonetheless, other than "resistance to change," risk factors were
addressed successfully throughout implementation.

2.2 Implementation

As discussed briefly in section 1.7, implementation was extended four times based on
continued commitment by the GOES and the project's potential for achieving the PDO.
A more detailed discussion of the factors affecting implementation follows.

Factors outside the control of government or implementing agencies

Natural Disasters: Major natural events also slowed down overall project implementation
­ Hurricane Mitch in 1998, two earthquakes in 2001, and Hurricane Stan in 2005.
Notably, however, rather than diverting its attention to reconstruction priorities as
divorced from the modernization agenda, GOES responded to the 2001 earthquakes by
focusing component efforts on restructuring and debureaucratizing the Ministry of Public
Works (MOP), the government agency assigned primary responsibility over
reconstruction efforts, and pushing for rapid implementation of the new Financial
Management System and Procurement Law. The effects on decentralization and Water
reforms,   however,     were    wholly   adverse,   irreversibly   diverting    funding  and
implementation mechanisms to underpin emergency responses.

High level of polarization and social conflict: Since the project was initiated within the
context of a post-civil war scenario characterized by high levels of social conflict, it was
difficult to sustain a constructive dialogue among different political forces to build
consensus in support of sensitive reforms. Political polarization and gridlock particularly
affected the PSM agenda resulting in longer-than-expected negotiation processes
associated with the passage of legal reforms and the implementation of institutional
changes.

International Indicators: International studies that measure the overall success of reforms
such as the World Bank-sponsored `Doing Business Report' provided the
Debureaucratization subcomponent with clear guidance for the design of new reforms
(such as the implementation of one-stop shops) and diffusion of improvements in El
Salvador's ranking helped generate much-needed political support for their
implementation.


                                              7

Factors generally subject to government control

Positive macroeconomic environment: El Salvador maintained macro and financial
stability, with a balanced external sector, increasing levels of consumption, controlled
inflation, and a stable exchange rate throughout project implementation.

Limits to Multilaterally-financed Public Expenditures: In an attempt to reduce external
debt and further control public sector expenditures, the Ministry of Finance set a ceiling
on the total amount of multilaterally-financed public expenditures in 1998. This resulted
in fiscal space reductions for the project, a delay in the disbursement schedule, and
closing date extensions.

Factors generally subject to implementing agency control

PCU personnel met training and experience requirements for project administration and
attended the Bank-sponsored specialized workshops on procurement, disbursements, and
financial reporting and audits. Procedures to process consultancy requests were agreed
upon during the first months of implementation and succeeded in avoiding administrative
delays. The PCU successfully combined project resources with other funds to maximize
project impact. Moreover, the STP was effective in phasing the pace of reform,
maintaining its leadership throughout.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M & E Design: As discussed in preceding sections, monitoring and evaluation
instruments were not defined in the PSMTAL Technical Annex; consequently, indicators
were focused on activities. Additionally, some components only comprised output
indicators, while outcome indicators that were made explicit, proved hard to measure and
did not specify information sources. Even though each component's contribution to the
PDO was not tracked during implementation, project activities, and outputs were aligned
with the PDO, mainly because the latter was clearly defined and understood by each
component coordinator. At project appraisal, and mainly due to the pressing situation that
the country was undergoing, the design of a solid M&E system did not seem to be a
priority and officials focused mainly on the definition of the PDO and the creation of
political momentum to further the reform program.

Following loan approval, the GOES prepared an associated action plan that further
detailed specific component objectives, output indicators, milestones, and budgets. Each
component coordinator was responsible for monitoring internal progress; tracking of each
component's expenditures ­again, based on activities- was regularly reported to the
project manager. This information was analyzed with the Bank supervision team and
corrective actions for components that were underperforming were agreed on after each
visit.

M & E Implementation: Bank supervision was carried out in a timely fashion, producing
eighteen PSRs and six ISRs throughout implementation. Additionally, a mid-term review
was executed on schedule in 1999. Although monitoring of outcome indicators and their
contribution to overall project objectives was under-documented, negotiation and
approval of opportune adjustments suggest adequate Bank awareness of progress towards
achieving the PDO.



                                            8

In early 2006, a stock-taking exercise evaluated the status of CAS intermediate indicators
supported through this loan and concluded that the project had substantially contributed
to CAS outcomes. There is, however, no evidence that these indicators were tracked
periodically prior to this effort. Consequently, ICR work had to identify outcome
indicators based on output indicators, objectives, activities implemented, and interviews
carried out during the ICR mission. Data on the performance of these indicators was also
collected as part of the ICR exercise.

On the GOES side, an M & E unit was created within the implementing agency from the
very beginning. However, after 1999, transformation of the CPMSP into the STP, with its
broader commitment to overall government modernization efforts, resulted in a gradual
shift in the unit's main responsibility from monitoring of PSMTAL implementation to the
monitoring of GOES' overall performance. An initial review of results published in 1999
showed tolerable monitoring standards that could have been perfected over time.
Thereafter, however, the focus shifted to strategic performance analyses, including, for
example, evaluations of budgetary execution or investment needs.

M & E Utilization: Information regarding outcome indicators was dispersed as it was
tracked by the respective implementing offices, i.e., Superintendence for Electricity and
Telecommunications (SIGET), Ministry of Public Works, and Superintendence of
Pensions, among others. Systematic data collection would have enhanced STP's capacity
to make informed decisions at a low cost and helped it to communicate project impact to
the public, beneficiaries, and other stakeholders. Similar benefits would have been
accrued by supervision missions.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Safeguard compliance: The PSMTAL Technical Annex required that: (i) privatization of
environmentally-sensitive sectors (ports, water/sewage, and power generation) be
preceded by the necessary environmental studies to ensure reform did not harm the
environment; and (ii) technical capacity in environmental units in these sectors be
strengthened until a single entity was established and given full authority to handle
monitoring enforcement. Water/sewage privatization did not progress. Only power
distribution was fully privatized prior to the 1997 creation of the Ministry for the
Environment and Natural Resources ­with PSMTAL support, among others, which then
took over as the lead agency. The attempt to concession Port Acajutla was preceded by an
environmental audit in 2003 approved by said Ministry. Likewise, the development of
Port Cutuco was preceded by an Environmental Strategic Assessment considered
exemplary. ISRs and PSRs consistently rated environmental compliance as satisfactory.

Auditing, Financial Management and Reporting Compliance: The project maintained
satisfactory    financial   management      arrangements    throughout   implementation.
Expenditure and disbursement requests, and clean audit reports were submitted to the
Bank on a regular and timely basis. According to audit reports and findings of the FM
team during its last supervision mission on November 20, 2006, the project maintained
adequate internal controls and FM and administrative staffing were also found to be
adequate. The official government information system (SAFI) and a complementary
system to monitor contracts were used for the project and were found to be reliable.



                                             9

Procurement Plans: During project implementation, the PCU was responsible for all
planning and the coordination of procurement under the components. To this end, the
PCU developed an administrative-financial manual for project implementation and
competent staff was appointed to ensure prompt compliance with procedures. For
implementation, technical staff reviewed the relevance of proposed activities to
component objectives, while administrative staff reviewed its procurement plan. Once
both plans were approved, the PCU consolidated and forwarded them to the Bank for
review and no objection. No major issues were identified by Bank procurement
specialists throughout project implementation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Upon project close, the implementing agency staff was hired by the GOES, and as a
result, the STP continues to be fully functional and influential in continuing
modernization efforts and corresponding fund mobilization. Management systems that
were implemented are fully functional, and corresponding units have been integrated in
each entity's organizational structure with an M&E mechanism in place. Likewise,
component achievements discussed below, are sustained by beneficiaries as part of their
routine work.

During ICR evaluation, upon review of overall program outcomes, the need for further
support in five areas stood out: (i) GOES authorities appear to have gained a new
awareness of the importance of civil service reform to consolidating gains in other areas;
(ii) the expansion of procurement reform, specifically as regards the development and
implementation of new online modules; (iii) implementation support for the connectivity
agenda to expand impact of e-government advances; (iv) with regards to decentralization,
GOES is launching a proposal to regionalize the country based on geo-economic criteria,
seemingly without a comprehensive evaluation of technical alternatives and political
feasibility and costs; and (v) enhancement of fiscal management aimed at increasing
transparency and accountability. Challenges regarding fiscal management involve
strengthening institutional capacity to formulate, monitor, and evaluate central
government budget, and ensuring access to reliable fiscal information both for Legislative
Representatives and citizens. Arguably, failure to address these challenges may have
undermined El Salvador's performance on transparency indicators.

As regard follow-up operations aimed at supporting the Government's public sector
modernization agenda, a new governance and institutional development related project as
well as an IDF Grant to Strengthen Fiscal Management and Public Sector Transparency
are currently under preparation.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The PDO was highly aligned to country needs and progress towards its achievement
constitutes a foundation for current country assistance priorities. At project design, GOES
summarized its major weaknesses as follows: (i) structural inconsistencies; (ii)
inefficiencies in human and financial resources management; and (iii) excessive public
sector participation in the provision of public services. All of these diminished country


                                            10

competitiveness and slowed down economic growth. This project tackled those problems
by: (i) defining new roles for the public sector and its most important entities; (ii)
involving the private sector in the provision of public services; and (iii) strengthening the
operations of those entities that remained in the public sector.

Relevance for GOES: Project objectives remained relevant and were incorporated in the
Government plans of successive administrations. Most recently, the Government Strategy
"Safe Country 2004-2009" identified public administration and service modernization
among the top priorities of the administration.

Relevance to CAS: The PDO is consistent with the most recent Country Assistance
Strategy that was approved in April, 2004, as well as with those of 1997 and 2001. As
seen in the 2005 CAS, continuing PSM is expected to strengthen performance,
accountability, and transparency for those entities that remain in the public sector and to
involve the private sector in the provision of public services. This in turn, is expected to
result in enhanced investor and citizen security and reduced economic and social
vulnerability.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project strengthened GOES' capacity to implement its Public Sector Modernization
Program fulfilling most of its specific objectives.

Definition of a more subsidiary role for the public sector and enhancing private-sector
participation in the provision of public services were, as a 1999 CPMSP publication
reports, the main objectives during the first phase. Institutional restructuring focused on
paring down the state to a normative and policy-making role, allowing for increased
private sector participation in the provision of public services. As per the Loan
Agreement, GOES was to privatize power distribution, telecommunications, and the
pension system. It could additionally reform transportation (road maintenance, ports and
airport), which it did to varying degrees.

Preparation for the first privatization of a state-owned entity, that of the
telecommunications company (ANTEL), involved the appointment of a new president of
the company specifically charged with the task of overseeing the company's restructuring
prior to sale, and preparation of the corresponding legal framework ­including provision
for sale of shares to former employees at promotional rates. Market entry was open to
both foreign and local investors and a significant percentage of shares was sold through
the local stock market. Outcomes were, on the whole, positive. Privatization of
telecommunications increased wire-line coverage by 251 percent from 1998 to 2005,
resulting in a 14 per 100 phone density in 2005, among the highest in Central America.
Gains in mobile telephony access were much greater. With regard to price for wire lines,
lower international charges were offset by higher local charges; while prices for wireless
telephony decreased by approximately 75 percent. A 2006 Recent Economic
Developments in Infrastructure ­ Strategy Report (REDI-SR) rates telecommunications
quality as reasonable. Nonetheless, the same study notes market distortions that ought to
be addressed ­particularly as regards to internet provision, while pointing out that
correcting them does not lie within the faculties corresponding to the regulatory entity.




                                             11

Privatization of power distribution also strengthened private sector participation and
network coverage increased substantially, by over 30 percentage points to 88 percent in
2005; in rural areas, coverage went from 56 percent in 1999 to 72 percent in 2005.
Improvements in quality and efficiency, however, were more restricted. Due to
constitutional restrictions, power generation was only partially privatized (geothermal
and thermal). An overriding concern among all stakeholders was that the effects of small-
market size on investment attraction and, consequently, competitiveness were not
foreseen, nor were they detected early on, in time to prevent major market distortions. On
the other hand, it might be argued that the Hydroelectric Executive Commission for Rio
Lempa's (CEL) triple role as privatizing, privatized, and competing entity could have
(further) distorted the market. According to the REDI-SR, the main challenges in the
electricity sector are: (i) insufficient investment to meet future demand and extremely low
current reserve margins; and (ii) high price volatility due to unpredictability of supply
and inadequacy of relevant regulation, reform of which requires amending the General
Electricity Law.

A joint regulatory authority was created for electricity and telecommunications, with
strictly technical faculties, leaving market regulation to an impending Competitiveness
Law, which was delayed until the 2006 creation of the Superintendence for
Competitiveness.

Reform of the pension system sought to ensure fiscal sustainability ­the old scheme was
bound to generate deficits by 1997 and to deplete its reserves between 2000 and 2002--
by foreshortening pension outlays through implementation of a privately-managed
system with individual accounts. At the time, the fiscal cost of the reform was estimated
at 56 percent of the 1997 GDP, while the cost of not implementing the reform was
estimated at 142 percent of GDP. Additionally, estimates resulting from an actuary study
specifically commissioned by the STP, calculated that the fiscal cost of the reform
(considering 75 percent of members transferred to the new system at a real rate of 4
percent) was at 40 percent of the fiscal cost of the old system. Pension coverage has
nearly doubled since 1998, with the proportion of old and new system affiliates to
economically active population at 50 percent by late 2006. Advantages of the new system
include higher pensions ­by an average 90 percent since 1998- and an increasing rate of
incorporation of independent workers. Fund managers consider this evidence of an
attitude change in the population, which now sees pension contributions as personal
savings, no longer as taxes ­which would also explain the growing numbers of
Salvadorans who maintain contributions from abroad.

Passage of the pension law in the National Assembly introduced several significant
changes in its technical design. Workers were allowed to retire on the basis of either
number of years of service or age, which generated escalating costs that had to be
corrected later on. Not having implemented pension reform before privatization seriously
limited pension fund managers' investment alternatives. Other, more administrative
problems at the outset had to do with valuation of rights accrued in the old scheme. There




                                               12

are also growing concerns about market concentration in a country where only two
pension fund operators compete in a system mandatory for all formal sector workers.3.

As per initial agreements, other than prioritized sectors, GOES could count on project
support to pursue private sector participation in other areas, such as ports operations.
With a view to substantially improving the country's regional importance for cargo
transit, beginning in 2002 relevant legal and institutional frameworks were developed and
implemented. Although the public bid for the concession of the country's main port was
declared vacant in 2004 ­and is currently being modified for early 2008, GOES launched
a major restructuring of its main port. Procedures were simplified in a participatory
process with Customs, the Autonomous Executive Ports Commission (CEPA), the Navy,
Police, Migration, and shipping companies. All shipping services (storage, docking,
loading, and unloading), as well as port maintenance, were outsourced to private
operators. As a result, shipping services fees decreased by 25 percent while annual port
operating costs decreased by 40 percent. Efficiency improved greatly on all indicators:
shipment handling increased from 8 to 24 containers per hour; general cargo unloading
from 81.5 to 130 metric tons per hour; and average docking time decreased by 30 percent.
Ultimately, while service delivery ran an average annual deficit of US$4.6 million prior
to reform, it now generates US$18 million in yearly profits.

Creation of conditions to enhance private sector development: By providing technical
assistance and engaging civil society, the Debureaucratization Subcomponent,
streamlined public sector bureaucracy, improving its capacity to respond to citizen
demand. As the following outcome indicators show, the average time required to deliver
administrative services was decreased by 75 percent, while average costs were halved;
opinion polls in 1998 and 1999 showed, among other things, that 83 percent of
interviewees acknowledged an enhanced efficiency in government institutions and 52
percent identified a reduction in service delivery time. Reflective of all these substantial
gains and their impact on competitiveness, El Salvador has been recognized as a lead
reformer by "Doing Business" and its indicators capture this progress: the number of
days to start a business was reduced from 115 to 26 and the costs from 127 to 73 percent
of income per capita in the 2003-2007 period (see Annex 2 for more details).

The use of ICTs to serve citizens (e-government) will complement these outcomes.
Under the Connectivity Subcomponent, new laws governing commerce, data protection,
amendments to the penal code, electronic signature and electronic communications were
drafted and are expected to be submitted to consideration of the Legislative Assembly
shortly.

Improving       public      sector    performance:     The      Institutional     Restructuring     and
Debureaucratization Component removed functional inconsistencies in the Executive
branch by eliminating overlapping and redundant functions, redefining the role of central
and decentralized agencies, and simplifying internal procedures. This operation increased
the Executive branch's productivity and reduced its costs (see Annex 3 for further details).



3 Fund management started out with five companies, but a fusion abroad of three parent companies and the
liquidation of one left only two in operation.




                                                 13

The starting point for all of this work was the unification of guidelines underlying the
institutional restructuring of Executive branch entities, to which were added technical
assistance, training, and the provision of equipment. The sum of these activities
succeeded in enhancing efficiency by increasing agencies' capacity to provide services
and by improving the quality of their services. As benefits are institution-specific they
are presented in a disaggregated manner in what follows. The most relevant outcomes of
the reform are seen in the restructuring of the ministries of Public Works, Foreign Affairs,
and Labor, and in the creation of the Superintendence for Competitiveness and the
Consumer's Defense Office.

The 2001 reform of the Ministry of Public Works (MOP) produced impressive results on
its performance. In one year (2001 to 2002), the number of employees was reduced to
nearly one tenth of its original size; the operating costs/ total costs ratio was reduced from
32 percent in 2000 to 5 percent in 2002, and average oversight costs were reduced from
28 to 5 percent. MOP's capacity to complete processes promptly was also enhanced.
Moreover, the time required to process a contract was reduced from 10 to 2.5 months,
and the time to process payments from 30 to 15 days. Ultimately, these changes impacted
on visible improvements: the percentage of roads considered to be in good conditions
increased from 40 percent in 1999 to 66 percent in 2007; the number of kilometers of
roads built in one year increased from 6 in 1999 to 378 in 2001.

In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, average passport processing time was reduced from 25
to 3 days. A new information system implemented at the Office of Humanitarian
Management and Migrant Attention allowed for localization of over 700 people,
verification of the legal status of over 500 detainees, processing of nearly 700 migration
permits, and attention to nearly 4,000 families of deported Salvadoran citizens. The
number of people served by mobile consulates increased by 50 percent from 2004 to
2006; for example, the number of passport requests per day that the Consulate in
Washington DC processes was increased from 50 to 75.

At the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, a new information system was developed
and implemented; the Labor Inspection Unit was reorganized; standardized inspection
protocols designed; and a new model for customer service was put in place. These
reforms created the conditions necessary to upscale the Labor Inspection Unit's
operations (the number of inspectors was more than tripled) and to comply with Free
Trade Agreement requirements. The average response time was reduced from 7 to 3 days.
Additionally, the system that tracks demands reduced risk of information loss and
enhanced quality of customer attention.

A new Consumer Protection Law was passed and the Consumer Defense Office was
created in 2005, improving GOES' capacity to protect consumer rights by more than
tripling the monthly number of claims attended by its predecessor. With regard to money
recovered, the amount issuing from collective demands (transportation, housing, finance,
and telecommunications) over the last two years is 17.5 million dollars, and it has
imposed fines for 1.3 million dollars in the same period. The Superintendence of
Competitiveness created in 2006 with technical capacity to investigate anti-competitive
practices in priority economic sectors, has processed 18 cases and imposed 8 fines
totaling over 2 million dollars.



                                              14

Finally, the Decentralization sub-component functioned throughout as the GOES' lead
agency for the discussion and development of decentralization policies and local
development strategies, along with specific interventions aimed at strengthening local
(municipal) governance.

Improving the management of public resources, accountability, and transparency. The
first cross-cutting reform to be implemented in the Executive branch and its decentralized
entities was the integration of the financial management of the four subsystems (budget,
accounting, treasury, and public credit) through the passage of a law and implementation
of a technological system. This component was mostly covered by IADB, as per initial
agreements, but Bank support was crucial in providing startup technical assistance and
equipment. The integration of financial management fully achieved its specific objectives,
ensuring improvements in performance and accountability in 89 government entities. The
most notable results were inter alia: greater efficiency in the allocation and use of public
resources; standardization of norms and procedures; real-time availability of reliable
financial information for improved decision-making and greater transparency; and
operative decentralization increasing public sector accountability. The Office of the
Comptroller General uses information generated by the IFM system as its most important
tool to perform the control function. Additionally, the creation and training of Integrated
Financial Units in each entity ensured professionalization and technological
modernization across the board. Once IADB project support ended, a lead agency was
established within the Ministry of Finance to oversee subsystem coordination and the
continuity of reforms.

Work in Public Procurement was also mainly supported by IADB, as per initial
collaboration agreements. Once IADB funding finalized, as of 2004, Bank support took
over to further strengthen procurement reform by underpinning effective implementation
of standardized procedures, through intensive training of public procurement staff and
electronic dissemination of public procurement needs. This reform improved conditions
for private sector participation in public procurement. Online access to public
procurement needs and procedures levels ground for private sector agents, while access
to the public sector's yearly purchase plans allows for improved private sector resource
allocation and planning. Ultimately, the reform allowed for increased transparency in that
public access to procurement needs and procedures resulted in an extremely low
percentage of contested procurement awards. Notably, as a result of adroit political
negotiation, this reform was mandatory for all public sector entities, including the
Legislative and Judicial branches.

Enhancing human resources performance: The design and implementation of the HRIS
to run payrolls, prepare staffing budgets, and record movements of personnel in 85
agencies strengthened the government's capacity to implement and monitor civil service
pay and employment policies. It also developed the basis for the development of critical
HRM subsystems by producing the necessary up-to-date information and creating, in
each of the 85 agencies, an Institutional Human Resource Management Unit with
sufficient competencies and technical capacity to both operate the system and potentially
implement HRM subsystems. While HRM subsystems were developed, they have yet to
be implemented in all ministries. However, expected results in this field were severely
undermined because the draft Civil Service Law was not submitted to the Legislative



                                             15

Assembly and the central unit that would design, support, and oversee implementation of
HRM policies and norms in central government ministries was therefore not created.

3.3 Efficiency

Appraisal documents did not include a cost-benefit or a cost-efficiency analysis.
Consequently, it is not possible to assess if project outcomes were produced in
accordance with efficiency benchmarks set at appraisal. However, considering that the
project produced its expected results ­exceeding some of them- using fewer resources
than originally planned, we can conclude that the objective was achieved at a reasonable
cost, even though obtaining comparative data to sustain this conclusion is very difficult
due to the nature of the implemented activities and results obtained. A more detailed
analysis of this evaluation is presented in Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The PSMTAL tackled the main weaknesses observed in the public sector and, as
explained earlier, the project produced its expected outcomes in terms of: (i) efficiency
and sustainability in the provision of public services with increased private sector
participation; (ii) a reduction in costs and time required to complete procedures; (iii)
increased efficiency, technical capacity and use of ICTs by government agencies; (iv)
strengthened legal framework and institutions for the protection of consumer rights; (v)
strengthened control of competitiveness in markets; (vi) improved management of public
resources. As a result, the PSMTAL strengthened the performance, accountability and
transparency of those entities that remain in the public sector and furthered economic
competitiveness and enhanced social services delivery as expected. Though the project
did not accomplish its objective in the area of human resource management in the
absence of a new Civil Service Law, this shortcoming did not prevent other components
from achieving their specific objectives, nor did it affect fulfillment of the project's
general objective as stated in the PDO.

A decade after project start-up, GOES' fiscal policy has maintained public debt at around
40 percent of GDP since 2002, despite heavy reconstruction investments for
infrastructure damages caused by the 2001 earthquakes and transitional costs deriving
from the pensions reform. The latter will continue to affect the fiscal deficit, but its
impact has been considerably foreshortened. Government efficiency was dramatically
increased in terms of cost and time reductions, as well as improved population access to
basic infrastructure and public services. According to World Bank governance indicators,
El Salvador's percentile rank on "control of corruption" improved significantly from 22
in 1996 to 53 in 2006. El Salvador ranks fourth out of eighteen Latin American countries
on this variable.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Indirect project contributions on poverty reduction and social development can be
claimed through increased coverage of the socio-economic infrastructure, and increased


                                             16

budgetary allocations for social sectors that resulted from more efficient use of public
resources. Between 1991 and 2002, poverty declined by over 27 percentage points, while
extreme poverty was halved. El Salvador has also made notable progress towards
meeting Millennium Development Growth targets. Nonetheless, this project did not lay
out specific objectives in these areas, nor did it establish data gathering to this end that
would allow for more rigorous and detailed assertions.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Project support strengthened GOES' long-term capacity and institutional development by
means of three major cross-cutting reforms: (i) financial management; (ii) human
resources information system; and (iii) procurement management and transparency.
These reforms required institutional reorganizations and intensive training, upping
performance standards, and institutional hierarchy. Increases in private sector
participation were accompanied, in all cases, by the creation of regulatory authorities,
which have since fine-tuned their attributions and procedures.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

As mentioned earlier, an important unintended intermediate outcome during project
implementation was that the GOES was able to leverage other funding for its
modernization efforts, allowing for scope expansions and, ultimately, full achievement of
objectives.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The ICR mission included a Beneficiary Workshop that discussed main mission findings
and provided feedback. Other than the information included above, both beneficiaries and
implementers highlighted the crucial importance of project support along three main
lines: (i) timely provision of funding and technical assistance; (ii) continuity throughout
changes in administration; and (iii) the coordinator role of the implementing agency.
Staff members of the implementing agency also pointed out the need for a "big picture"
perspective that goes beyond evaluation of indicators, outputs, and outcomes to a
visualization of project impact over time.

Other than the workshop, the implementing agency's final report begins by laying out
three main project objectives: (i) opening up the country to free competition by
eliminating barriers to market entry and promoting private sector participation; (ii)
improving government effectiveness via a redefinition of its role and functions; and (iii)
improving the provision of public services. These objectives defined specific goals by
component, all of which were considered to have been achieved in full, with the sole
exception of the human resources component, which did so only partially.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

Despite the fact that most progress to date, with the exception of civil service, has been
locked in by legal reform, maintaining the benefits from the modernization initiatives
requires further fine-tuning. The pension system needs adjustments to improve its fiscal
sustainability, regulatory frameworks for private sector participation in the provision of



                                            17

public services require ongoing adjustments, procurement reform requires funding to
implement its e-modules, and fiscal transparency must be improved. Impending elections
pose challenges for this consolidation process. Consequently, the risk to development
outcome is considered to be moderate.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

This project was relevant, responsive to Government priorities, in line with the
government modernization agenda, and its approach was accurate. The team worked
collaboratively with other donors to ensure consistency in their contributions and avoid
overlaps, namely with IADB in financial management, UNDP in state modernization
issues, and GTZ regarding the decentralization agenda. Project preparation was well
organized and the team successfully supported the Government in its definition of reform
program priorities, and preparation of individual project components. However, as
previously discussed in 2.1., the project presented design shortcomings with regards to
timeframe, monitoring and evaluation arrangements, and risk assessment.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

There were twenty supervision missions throughout project implementation, two per year
on average. The teams included experts in modernization, private sector participation,
HRM, gender affairs, decentralization, and procurement, all of which provided the
Borrower with quality expert advice. Bank teams also supported the government in
addressing shortcomings in project administration, such as coordination issues between
the CPMSP and some ministries, and recommended strategies to address them. They also
supported the government in designing efficient administrative procedures and criteria for
efficient fund allocation. As a follow-up to these supervision missions, the team prepared
Aide-Memoires that helped the Government identify problems and actions to be taken in
order to avoid implementation delays. Project performance ratings both in PSRs and ISRs
were realistic and reflected implementation achievements and shortcomings by
component. Though Bank supervision was constrained by shortcomings in M&E design,
it was ultimately effective in supporting GOES' achievement of the project objectives.
Team flexibility in granting closing-date extensions allowed GOES to further the reform
program successfully.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Moderate shortcomings in both project design and supervision were related to monitoring
and evaluation. These shortcomings, however, did not adversely affect achievement of
project objectives.




                                             18

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The GOES' commitment to the PDO was sustained over time and changes in
administrations introduced only slight modifications to the reform program. GOES'
commitment is best illustrated by how it structured the CPMSP, later STP, for
implementation. It was allowed wide latitude for operation, coordinating implementation
and building consensus amongst ministries, beneficiaries, and stakeholders, involving
eighteen professional associations, chambers of commerce, and NGOs in the processes.
Additionally, its expertise in the management of funds ensured full compliance with
administrative and financial management arrangements (see Section2.4.).

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The implementing agency successfully addressed risk factors identified at project outset.
National Project Coordinators gradually positioned themselves and the PSMP, first as
minister-ranked "Presidential Commissioners" and later as Chiefs of Cabinet and
"Technical Secretaries." According to a 1998 survey within the Executive, the CPMSP
was perceived as the facilitator of the reform process, contributing with substantial
political clout, and as a source of technical assistance. Regarding risks posed by
ineffective counterparts within government entities, the implementing agency at first took
on a more operative role, and once reform took hold, it stepped back and allowed
modernizing entities to manage ­and publicize- their processes themselves. Difficulties in
maintaining a clear-cut separation between political and technical issues during
implementation were trickier to handle, its transformation from CPMSP to STP,
functioning within Presidency itself and coordinating the Cabinet, gave it the necessary
power to push through politically costly reforms and to ensure continuity despite changes
in administrations. Conversely, altering its strictly technical character meant the unit
would be expected to contribute on other relevant matters. Nevertheless, considering that
strengthening GOES' capacity to implement its PSMP was this project's objective, costs
could be considered minimal.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

In light of the aforementioned comments, Overall Borrower Performance is considered to
be Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

On design: Considering project breadth, complexity, and simultaneity, inclusion of
change management technical assistance and monitoring would have been highly
recommendable. Full and partial infrastructure privatization schemes, wholesale reform
of human resources and financial management, and institutional restructuring each
required political, strategic, and organizational adroitness, much more so implementation
of the whole reform process. As could have been expected, reform implementers met



                                             19

with opposition not only from contending political forces, but also from sources internal
to the government and to the political party in power. Preparation of a negotiation
strategy for legal reforms must also include a clear layout of implications of technical
changes, so that negotiators have all the necessary information and do not concede on
points that will later result in high fiscal and/or political costs ­which is what happened
as a result of crucial though seemingly minor changes in the pension reform law.

On monitoring and communicating results: The creation and maintenance of well-staffed
M & E units is crucial to (i) data-gathering, given that other implementing agency staff
are overwhelmed with "getting things done;" and to (ii) effective communication of
results throughout implementation. Bank supervision, likewise, should include rigorous
reviews of instruments, results, and their relation to project objectives.

Although project documents mention planned public relations initiatives as innovative of
the reform proposal, these were carried out only for some reforms ­and strictly as media
campaigns. Despite the fact that most coordinators felt the lack of a communications
strategy, they tended to justify it because (i) a first media campaign promoting
privatization failed, and (ii) the opposition would have objected to wasteful use of
resources for media time; but there were alternatives to media campaigns for getting their
message out ­once convincing data had been gathered.

On substantive issues: Given that goals on all other counts were fulfilled, including
implementation of the Human Resources Information system, the difficulty in achieving
legal reform towards establishment of a civil service points to a need for its prioritization
early on, an identification of main foreseeable obstacles, and elaboration of an
accompanying political strategy. Initial project documents, including pre-appraisal, noted
worrisome delays in the definition of institutional arrangements for this component,
something that should, in the future, raise a red flag. In discussing the failure to achieve
this legal reform, GOES staff built a convincing case for human resource reform having
achieved its objective by other means, a cross-cutting attitude change in public sector
employees with regards to their functions, institution-building, and modernization.
Absence of a civil service law was not clearly perceived as a major sustainability threat to
this process.

On institutional arrangements: Components should be located within agencies that
consider them to be a strategic priority, otherwise progress will be compromised. The
HRM Component was implemented by the Ministry of Finance during the initial phase of
implementation. However, the component's objective that involved human resources
development did not fully match the Ministry of Finance's take on it, which focused on
payroll management. Consequently, there was a major shift in perspective for this
component, which came to be understood as control of expenditures, with resistance by
other public agencies and employee associations, undermining the component's capacity
to produce the expected results.




                                              20

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Implementing Agency reviewed the ICR and raised two substantive issues, the rating
of the risk to development outcome in section 4 and the rating of the HRM component in
Annex 2. Other comments were limited to precision of dates and the like.

The Implementing Agency considers the risk to development outcome to be lower than
moderate given progress to date. Were this the only consideration, this ICR would agree,
however, it also takes into account current context and likely developments in the future,
which are the determinant factors for a "moderate" rating. With regards to the HRM
component, this ICR found, on the basis of available relevant information, that the project
did not achieve its objectives on 7 out of 17 indicators, including passage of a Civil
Service Law ­though on others, it even exceeded original goals. On the basis of its work
experience and its perception of its impact, the Implementing Agency considers that
some of these same objectives were fulfilled. However, no further supporting evidence
was offered.

(b) Co-financiers

Not available.




                                            21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                               Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest
          Components                                                  Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)       Appraisal

1. INSTITUTIONAL                               6.7               6.27             93%
RESTRUCTURING AND
DEBUREAUCRATIZATION
2. HUMAN RESOURCE                             4.44               4.44            100%
MANAGEMENT
3. FINANCIAL RESOURCE                         2.03               1.55             77%
MANAGEMENT
4. PRIVATIZATION AND                          5.15               5.15            100%
PRIVATE SECTOR
PARTICIPATION IN THE
PROVISION OF PUBLIC
SERVICES
5. PROJECT COORDINATION                       4.86               4.83             99%


            Total Baseline Cost              23.23              22.25            96%
Physical Contingencies                        0.77              0.00              0%
Price Contingencies                           0.00              0.00
     Total Financing Required                24.00              22.25            90%




                                          22

(b) Financing
Source of           Type of Financing      Appraisal Actual/Late   Percentage
  Funds                                               st Estimate     of
                                           Estimate      (US$      Appraisal
                                                       million)
                                            (US$
                                           million)
            GOES (SUBTOTAL)                 $10.99       $12.28      112%

GOES        Counterpart: 4082-ES-IBRD           $7.81        $8.40      108%
GOES        Counterpart: 1173/ OC-IADB          $1.10        $1.48      134%
GOES        Counterpart: ATN/MT-6400-IADB       $1.87        $2.23      119%
GOES        Counterpart: ATN/SF-8161-IADB       $0.03        $0.03      100%
            Counterpart: IDF GRANT- TF-
GOES*       051694                              $0.09        $0.09       98%
GOES        Counterpart: ATN/SF-8459-IADB       $0.02        $0.02      100%
GOES        Counterpart: ATN/SF-8561-IADB       $0.02        $0.02      100%
GOES        Counterpart: ATN/SF-8774-IADB       $0.01        $0.01      100%
GOES*       Counterpart: ATN/SF-8821-IADB       $0.02        $0.00        0%
GOES*       Counterpart: ATN/SF-9366-IADB       $0.02        $0.01       25%
GOES        Counterpart: BCIE                   $0.01        $0.01      100%
  IBRD               4082-ES-IBRD           $24.00       $22.25      93%
  IBRD          WB Administered TF: IDF     $0.50        $0.48       97%
                   GRANT- TF-051694

 IADB &             Parallel Financing      $28.08       $24.00      85%
  BCIE
(Subtotal))
IADB*       1173/ OC-IADB                       $3.77        $1.65       44%
IADB        980/SF                              $3.77        $3.77      100%
IADB        941/OC                             $15.94       $15.41       97%
IADB*       ATN/MT-6400-IADB**                  $2.71        $1.77       66%
IADB        ATN/SF-8161-IADB**                  $0.30        $0.30       99%
IADB        ATN/SF-8459-IADB**                  $0.11        $0.11       99%
IADB        ATN/SF-8561-IADB**                  $0.15        $0.13       92%
IADB        ATN/SF-8774-IADB**                  $0.15        $0.14      100%
IADB*       ATN/SF-8821-IADB**                  $0.10        $0.00        0%
IADB*       ATN/SF-9366-IADB**                  $0.15        $0.11       73%
IADB*       ATN/SF-9835-IADB**                  $0.15        $0.13       86%
IADB*       ATN/SF-9849-IADB**                  $0.13        $0.08       64%
IADB*       ATN/SF-9852-IADB**                  $0.40        $0.26       65%
IADB*       ATN/SF-9947-IADB**                  $0.13        $0.09       70%
IADB*       ATN/SF-10002-IADB**                 $0.11        $0.01        5%
BCIE        Assistance to GOES: MCA**           $0.03        $0.03      100%
* Not closed
** Non reimbursable




                                        23

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Institutional Restructuring and Debureaucratization Component
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Table 1: Institutional Restructuring and Debureaucratization Component:
Summary of Performance Indicators, Milestones and Actual Value

Institutional Restructuring and De-bureaucratization
Institutional Restructuring Subcomponent
Indicator                                                                     Expected          Actual Value
                                                                                Value
Developed, agreed and implemented macro institutional structure of                                Achieved
the public sector.
Number of institutional departments restructured                                   8                12
Number of institutional programs eliminated                                       12                11
Number of institutions transferred to the private sector                           4                 6
Number of institutions relocated                                                   9                 9
New legal instrument developed or existing one updated in all                                     Achieved
restructured entities.
Selected institutions with equipment in place and staff trained to                                Achieved
operate and maintain technology.
De-bureaucratization Sub-component
Number of procedures simplified                                                                     130
Number of projects launched and yielding improvements (before                     15                14
2000)
Number of services improved (before August 2004)                                  19                19
Number of services targeted to private sector and citizens (September             15                100
2005 to August 2007)
Number of "grupos de reforma" that initiated new reform projects                   3                 4
Number of surveys of efficiency and user satisfaction carried out                                   16
periodically in 3-5 high-priority service areas, results made available
to users.
Number of private sector and non-for-profit organizations                                           18
participating in identification and improvement of services.
Outputs Description
The Institutional Restructuring and Debureaucratization Component met all of its milestones ­exceeding
some, produced expected outcomes, and fulfilled its objective.
The Institutional Restructuring Subcomponent prepared unified institutional restructuring guidelines and
provided technical assistance and technical oversight. Main outputs involved restructuring departments,
eliminating programs, reallocating or transferring institutions to the private sector. It also developed new
legislation when needed in collaboration with the Privatization Component. This unified set of guidelines
and technical support from STP ensured consistency among reforms that produced tangible outcomes in
restructured institutions, enhancing efficiency, increasing their capacity to provide quality services (see
Section 3.2. for further discussion on outcomes). The most relevant outcomes of the reform were identified
in the MOP and are presented in table 2 below.
The Debureaucratization Subcomponent provided technical assistance for the simplification of priority
procedures. It developed a methodology that guided simplification of procedures to achieve improvements
in customer service and quality. Civil society organizations participated in the identification and monitoring
of the debureaucratization initiatives, an effective mechanism that ensured targeted administrative services
responded to citizen demand. It adopted a participatory approach and the groups formed effectively
followed up on PSMTAL initiatives. This sub-component improved public sector efficiency and its
capacity to respond to citizen demand (see Section 3.2 for further details). It also contributed to create a



                                                       24

business-friendly legal environment, described by the Doing Business Indicators summarized in Table 3.
The Connectivity Subcomponent created a basis for country initiation in the knowledge-based economy by
designing the e-government strategy validated with all relevant actors and by drafting four laws for the use
of ICTs (electronic commerce, data protection, electronic signature and communications, and necessary
amendments to the penal code). Moreover, the pilot project P@GOES (electronic payment of taxes and
GOES services) was successfully implemented and currently processes around 50 percent of Customs
transactions and 6 percent of domestic taxes. Five financial institutions operate in this system and the
number of payments increased by 6 and 7 percent in 2005 and 2006.
The Decentralization Subcomponent, formally created in 2001, led the central government's policy-making
and support to local government by coordinating central agencies, municipal associations, and donors in
development and review of proposed legal reforms, decentralization strategies, and pilot projects for
decentralization of services in water, health, and road maintenance. It also provided technical assistance to
central government agencies in decentralization matters, and promoted information diffusion of
decentralization principles and successful decentralization experiences.




Table 2: Impact of the Institutional Restructuring on the Ministry of Public Works
      Variable            1999        2000      2001        2002        2003       2004     2005  2006   2007
 Number of
 employees                 7981        7638      7290        1068        1017        1043    1045 1008    1013
 Operating costs/
 total costs ratio                    32.81     30.34          5.23        8.46       4.76  12.75 16.47  11.22
 Time required to
 process a
 payment (internal
 funds)                                                         30          25          15     15   15      15
 Time required to
 process a
 payment
 (external funds)                                               15          10          10     10    8       8
 Number of                    40          36        49          45          50          34     24   37      22
 projects
 implemented
 Annual                     111           77       177         158         194          65     45   88      33
 investment
 (million USD)
 Km of roads built         6.64     115.91     378.24      353.56      319.36        237.6  32.03 50.88  65.06
 Percentage of             40%                                                    71.65%   63.15%       66.46%
 roads considered
 to be in very
 good or good
 condition
Source: Information provided by the Planning Department of the Ministry of Public Works.




                                                               25

Table 3: Ease of Doing Business in El Salvador (2003-2007)
                                                                                             Trading
                                                  Starting a Business                         Across

             Ease of                                                                         Borders
                                                                                   Min.
 Year         Doing                                                    Cost (%
            Business                                                     of       capital    Time for
              Rank            Rank         Procedures           Time               (% of
                                            (number)            (days) income                 import
                                                                        per       income       (days)
                                                                       capita)      per
                                                                                  capita)
  2003          ..             ..               12               115    127.4      133.2         ..
  2004          ..             ..               12               115    128        132.5         ..
  2005          ..             ..               12               40     118        124.4         30
  2006         72             125               10               26     75.6       119.7         30
  2007         69             130                9               26     73.1       112.5         18
Source: Doing Business Report.


Component 2: Human Resources Management
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Table 4: HRM Component: Summary of Performance Indicators, Milestones and
Actual Value
Human Resource Management
Indicator                                                               Expected         Actual Value
                                                                        Value
Law drafted, agreed upon by Council of Ministries, presented and                         Not achieved
approved by National Assembly.
Civil service productivity.                                                              Not achieved
Increased professionalization of public servants                                         Not achieved
Number of ministries and number of decentralized institutions with      13 ministries    13 ministries, 7
HRIS installed and functioning.                                         and 28           central govt.
                                                                        decentralized    institutions and
                                                                        institutions     65
                                                                                         decentralized
                                                                                         institutions
Number of ministries and number of decentralized institutions           10 ministries    Same as above
producing payrolls with HRIS.                                           and 21
                                                                        decentralized
                                                                        institutions
Number of ministries and number of decentralized institutions           13 ministries    Same as above
preparing personnel budgets with HRIS.                                  and 7
                                                                        decentralized
                                                                        institutions
Number of technicians trained in operation and maintenance of HRIS,                      4,411
in ministries and decentralized institutions to ensure sustainability
Human resource and finance specialists/ managers trained to oversee                      Achieved
payroll runs, prepare staff budgets, and use HRIS as a management
tool
Ministries and decentralized institutions with sufficiently trained                      Achieved
personnel to ensure sustainability
New "Internal Norms for the Executive Branch" specifying location                        Not Achieved
and functions of central management unit
Progress against central management unit's four-year staffing plan                       Not Achieved
Personnel managers in all ministries trained in essential human                          Achieved



                                                      26

resource management tools
Progress of ministries against their personnel management staffing                         Not Achieved
plans
All ministries have completed new position descriptions                                    Achieved
All ministries submit salary restructuring proposals that meet                             Not Achieved
centrally-determined norms
Degree to which line ministries comply with centrally-determined                           3 ministries
norms in areas of recruitment, performance appraisal, promotion, and                       apply
career development and discipline                                                          recruitment
                                                                                           system and 2
                                                                                           apply training
                                                                                           system.
Number of management professionals and technical staff members                             552 directors
trained and average number of training hours received                                      and managers
                                                                                           received 12
                                                                                           hrs.,
                                                                                           60 of which
                                                                                           received an
                                                                                           extra 48-72 hrs.
Outputs Description
Progress on this component was partial. HRIS implementation exceeded its milestones, as it was developed
and put in place in 85 institutions and produces reliable and timely information that is used to produce
payroll, register and control personnel. Time required to process HR payroll was reduced from 3 weeks to 4
hours and there are controls in place to guarantee reliability of the data in the system. Moreover, an
Institutional Unit for Human Resources Management was created in each of the institutions operating
HRIS. A series of capacity-building programs were implemented to improve officers' skills to develop and
implement human resources management programs for recruitment, evaluation, and training. This system
was applied partially in three ministries. As the Civil Service Law was not submitted to the Legislative
Assembly, there was no progress regarding civil service productivity and professionalization, nor
concerning the design of a competitive civil service pay structure capable of attracting, retaining and
motivating skilled personnel, as Table 5 shows. A central Human Resource Management Unit was not
created either.



Table 5: Gap between salaries of management, professional, technical personnel in
civil service and private sector comparators.


SEGMENT                                               Grade     Salary Ranges    Average GAP (on this
                                                                                        range)
SAE Assistants and supporting staff                   1 ­ 5       N.1 - N.4             15.8 %
STE Technical Services in the Executive
Branch                                                6 ­ 10      N.1 - N.5            57.18 %

SGE (CGE) Middle Managers in the
Executive Branch                                      11 ­ 14     N.1 - N.4              103 %

PDE Managers                                          15 ­ 19     N.1 - N.3            128.3 %
Source: Human Resources Coordination, STP El Salvador.


Component 3: Financial Management and Procurement
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

This component would (a) develop and implement an integrated financial management
system for the public administration; (b) strengthen the units responsible for financial
resource management in the central government and major decentralized institutions and



                                                             27

their internal audit systems; (c) identify, diagnose, and implement priority actions to
strengthen the capacity of the Court of Accounts for exercising external and ex-post
control under the applicable laws; and (d) modernize public procurement procedures and
consolidate reforms that had been made in the tax and custom administration agencies
prior to project approval.

Table 6: Summary of Financial Management and Procurement Indicators and
Status
Financial Management Indicators                                                               Status
Procedures redesigned and standardized for efficiency                                       Achieved
Durable technological platform developed and implemented                                    Achieved
Technical staff trained and retained                                                        Achieved
Executive branch-dependent entities operate on SAFI                                         Achieved
Executive branch-dependent entities create and maintain Integrated Financial Units          Achieved
SAFI-generated information furthers accountability and transparency                         Achieved
Description
Integration of the four subsystems (budget, accounting, treasury, and public credit) of financial
management was ensured by passage of a law prior to project outset. Development and implementation of
procedures and a technological system were the remaining challenges. This component was mostly covered
by IADB, as per initial agreements, but Bank support was crucial for startup technical assistance and
equipment. Integration of financial management fully achieved its specific objectives, ensuring
improvements in performance and accountability in 89 government entities. Among others, most notable
results were: greater efficiency in allocation and use of public resources; standardization of norms and
procedures; real-time availability of reliable financial information for improved decision-making and
greater transparency; and operative decentralization increased public servant accountability ­SAFI-
generated information is used by the Court of Accounts for ex-post control. Additionally, creation and
training of Integrated Financial Units in each entity ensured professionalization and technological
modernization across the board. Once IADB project support ended, a lead agency was established within
the Ministry of Finance to oversee subsystem coordination and continuity of reform.

Procurement Indicators                                                                        Status
Development and implementation of four e-procurement modules (3 funded under            Partially achieved
Japanese grant)
Improved GOES procurement technical capacity                                                Achieved
Improved GOES procurement technological capacity                                            Achieved
Increased levels of knowledge by private sector agents of public procurement                Achieved
procedures and needs
Inquiries into procurement results pursued by companies affected                            Achieved
Description
Work in Public Procurement was also mainly supported by IADB, as per initial collaboration agreements ­
thus, Procurement Law and regulations were passed and a central Procurement Unit was fully functional
before Bank support started. Once IADB funding finalized, as of 2004, PSMTAL took up to further
strengthen procurement reform by effective implementation of standardized procedures through intensive
training of public procurement staff and electronic dissemination of public procurement needs. As for
capacity-building, 383 procurement units and their approximately 2,700 staff members, were trained over
the course of three years. With regards to e-procurement, the only module that was fully operational by
project closing was the information dissemination one, with 200 public sector entities using it to publicize
their procurement needs. The remaining three, funded under the Japanese grant, have been developed, but
require additional funding for implementation.
This reform improved conditions for private sector participation in public procurement: online access to
public procurement needs and procedures levels ground for private sector agents, while access to public
sector's yearly purchase plans allows for improved private sector resource allocation and planning. Over
the course of two years since the e-procurement information module is operational, over 28,000
procurement requirements have been posted and over 2,200 private sector agents effectively accessed it.


                                                   28

Ultimately, the reform allowed for increased transparency in that public access to procurement needs and
procedures resulted in an extremely low percentage (3 percent) of contested procurement awards. Notably,
this reform, as a result of adroit political negotiation was mandatory for all public sector entities, including
the Legislative and Judicial branches.

As for consolidation of tax and customs reforms, according to the PSMTAL Technical
Annex, IADB was also to be the main partner in charge. However, later project
documents establish that these two subcomponents were wholly transferred to IADB
responsibility at the very beginning.

Component 4: Privatization and Private Sector Participation in the Provision of
Public Services
Rating: Satisfactory

This component was to assist the GOES in establishing new rules and institutional
arrangements for the provision of public services, either through full or partial
privatization, or through new forms of private sector participation in the delivery of these
services. Key areas defined initially were telecommunications, power distribution, and
pensions. Additionally, the GOES could pursue promotion of private sector participation
in transport (ports, airports, and roads) and water/sewage. Indicators for this component
were defined in broad terms: passage of legal reforms, creation of regulatory bodies,
enhanced efficiency and quality in provision of services.
Increased private sector participation in all these sectors ­other than water/sewage- was
achieved, accompanied by creation of the corresponding regulatory authorities. Ultimate
impact on tangible improvements for users in terms of efficiency, quality, and costs are
mostly positive. Enterprises were restructured for efficiency prior to private sector entry.
Severance packages were prepared in consultation with employees, and sales of shares
included provision for promotional fees for former employees. With regards to the
pension system, the law passed in 1998 replaced the publicly-managed, defined-benefit
and unfunded pension schemes for formal sector workers by a privately-managed scheme
with individual accounts that could also incorporate self-employed workers.

Table 7: Summary of PSP Indicators and Status
PSP in Infrastructure Indicators                                                                 Status
Technical privatization unit established and fully staffed                                     Achieved
Program monitoring systems operating                                                      Partially achieved
Regulatory frameworks passed and regulatory entities created                                   Achieved
Telecommunications privatized                                                                  Achieved
Power distribution privatized                                                                  Achieved
Pension system reformed and privatized                                                         Achieved
Increased PSP in ports                                                                         Achieved
Increased PSP in airport                                                                       Achieved
Increased PSP in road construction and maintenance                                             Achieved
Increased PSP in water/sewage                                                                Not achieved
Increased PSP in power generation (not originally foreseen)                                    Achieved
Description
As for institutional arrangements, a privatization unit staffed by three technicians was established within the
implementing agency. Throughout program implementation, this technical unit has maintained active



                                                       29

involvement in all privatization processes, including those not directly funded by the Loan. Additionally, a
monitoring unit was set up jointly for all PMSP components; however, after 1999, this unit's role was
expanded from project monitoring to government performance monitoring, losing focus on output and
outcome data collection.
Legislative reform to allow institutional changes in sectors listed above was successfully passed ­except for
water/sewage, where progress was made only in pilot decentralization projects. The said laws also created
pertinent regulatory entities: Superintendence for Electricity and Telecommunications, Superintendence for
Pensions, Maritime and Ports Authority (pre-existing port authority was restructured and gradually divested
of regulatory functions), and a Civil Aviation Authority. The whole of road construction and maintenance
was outsourced, which did not require a regulatory body.

Power sector
Power distribution was fully privatized, with 75 percent of shares sold to private companies, 20 percent to
former employees, and the remaining 5 percent through the stock market. The state company CEL was fully
in charge of this process. Five independent private companies started out upon privatization; four of them
are currently owned by one company and cover approximately 75 percent of users. Only very recently, two
new entrants' fee proposals were approved.
Power generation was partially privatized due to Constitutional limitations inherent in land tenure by
foreigners (as related to dams for hydroelectric generation): CEL controls 31 percent of the market and,
together with an Italian company, another 22 percent. Two other foreign companies control 20 and 24
percent of the market, and two still smaller private companies' control 2 and 1 percent. Power
commercialization is partially privatized: CEL owns one of the seven companies.
El Salvador increased its electricity network coverage from 70 percent in 1998 to 88 percent in 2005; in the
rural area, coverage went from 56 to 72 percent from 1999 to 2005. It is the second highest coverage in the
Central American region. As noted by REDI, user growth rate slowed down starting 2001. Prior to reform
(1977 to 1998), energy use growth rate increased by an average 6.6 percent a year, after reform (1999 to
2006), this decreased to 3.9 percent, as easier-to-reach areas were covered. This slow-down is exacerbated
by a long-term decrease in public investment in infrastructure that, other than a spike in 1998, has not been
even partially compensated by a growth in private investment.
As for prices, 10 percent of total energy sales are government-subsidized at a yearly cost of approximately
30 million USD. REDI-SR 2006 notes that 58 percent of GOES electricity subsidy benefits non-poor
homes, funds that could be more efficiently relocated to supporting rural-area network expansion. Again
according to REDI, energy prices in El Salvador in 2004 were the highest in the Central American region.
Additionally, prices vary significantly between companies ­in 2006 by as much as 30 percent. Yearly
private sector rate of return in power distribution ranges from 14 to 20 percent, with the average fluctuating
at 17 percent.
Based on data up to 2004, a CEPAL study concludes that service delivery quality, as measured by length
and frequency of power outages and voltage disruptions did not fulfill performance standards ­also, outages
and disruptions were above the regional average. After 2005, however, Quality Norms were adjusted and
companies became increasingly more accountable ­and had to fulfill goals set in investment plans presented
to the Superintendence so as to ensure quality improvements. REDI points that the said norms and
implementation of quality controls by the Superintendence seem to have had an impact on quality
improvement.
Based on preceding growth rates, installed capacity and planned investments, in 2005 the Ministry of
Economy projected a demand-supply equilibrium growth scenario with an average yearly increase in energy
demand of 6% for the period 2006-2021. Baseline 1999-2004 calculations had the average GDP growth rate
at 2%, thus, any significant production improvements would throw this scenario off, highlighting the future
importance of the regional power market.
Major challenges noted by REDI-SR are a) insufficient investment to meet future demand and extremely
low current reserve margins; and b) high price volatility due to unpredictability of supply and corresponding
inadequate regulation, reform of which requires amending the General Electricity Law. An overriding
concern among interviewees was that effects of small-market size on investment attraction and,
consequently, competitiveness were not foreseen, nor were they detected early on, in time to prevent major
market distortions. On the other hand, it might be argued, as some do, that CEL's triple role as privatizing,
privatized, and competing entity could have (further) distorted the market.




                                                      30

Telecommunications
At outset, the state-owned wire-line company retained 25 percent of shares, sold 51 percent to a private
company, and the remaining shares were sold to former employees and to users. Currently, there are ten
wire-line providers, one of which controls 90 percent of the market, with the second largest company
controlling 5 and the third 2 percent. Majority share (51 percent) of the state-owned wireless company was
sold to a Spanish company, and the remaining 49 percent through the stock market. Currently, there are five
mobile phone providers, three of which control 90 percent of the market.
Wire-line coverage increased by 251 percent from 1998 to 2005, resulting in 14.13 per 100 phone density in
2005, among the highest in Central America; over the same period, mobile phone lines increased from
137,000 to 2,411,753. Internet provision has not fared as well, with a reduced number of providers
accounting for a user rate of 8.9 per 100 in 2004, lower in than comparable Central American countries.
Broadband internet access cost ranges from 15 USD monthly for 128 kbps to 60 USD for 1024 kbps. Dial-
up cost was reduced in recent years to the cost of a local call.
Wire-line prices are higher than the regional average, with lower international charges offset by higher local
ones. Since privatization, prices for wireless telephony decreased from approximately 1 USD per minute to
a range between 0.15 to 0.35 USD per minute. Variations in promotional fees make regional comparisons
difficult with wireless telephony.
Other than REDI describing telecommunication quality in El Salvador as "reasonable," there was no further
information available.
Noteworthy market distortions are: a) local-to-mobile connections that, at 0.27 USD per minute, are
considerably higher than the regional average; b) termination charges, which distort the proportion in cost of
entry to exit to 10:1; and c) provider agreements on internet prices, which eliminate competition. These
practices are not regulated by the Electricity and Telecommunication Law, nor can the Superintendence act
by own motion of office. Given recent creation of the Superintendence for Competitiveness, study of fit and
necessary adjustments in both regulatory authorities will allow for better sector management ­given earlier
limitations to SIGET functions.
Absence of a GOES lead agency for telecommunications policy-making is also noted as a major
shortcoming.
Ports
Though the public bid for the Acajutla Port Concession was declared vacant, it was fully restructured for
efficiency. Procedures were simplified in a participatory process with Customs, CEPA, Navy, Police,
Migration, and shipping companies. All shipping services (storage, docking, loading and unloading) were
outsourced, as well as port maintenance work, to private operators. Outsourcing of shipping services started
out with 5 companies and increased to 7 a year later. Outsourcing of all port maintenance work is done,
from the beginning, by 4 companies.
Service delivery efficiency and quality were significantly improved. Prior to reform, service delivery ran an
average annual deficit of 4.6 million USD, it now generates 18 million USD yearly profits. Shipment
handling increased from 8 to 24 containers per hour; 20,000 to 150,000 yearly TEUS (twenty-foot cargo
containers); general cargo unloading from 81.5 to 130 metric tons per hour; and average docking time
decreased by 30 percent. Service fees decreased by 25 percent; annual port operating costs decreased by 40
percent.
PSMTAL did not directly provide funding support for service and maintenance outsourcing, both of which
were funded by CEPA. The Maritime Authority also benefited from IADB support for institutional
strengthening.
Airports
Outsourcing of services at the San Salvador International Airport AIES cargo terminal ran from 2006 to
mid-2007. Because the facilities were being improved, CEPA took over services again, until a new public
bid can be put out. As a result of reform, the San Salvador International Airport recovers Category 1 status;
merchandise rotation in warehouse reduced from 10 to 8 days; and daily weight entered and removed both
increased by 10 percent. Despite a 10 percent increase in yearly cargo weight, income increased by only 4
percent due to an GOES-issued exemption for incoming cargo for charities.
Water
Water sector privatization was put on hold given prevailing opposition to privatization efforts in general
once prioritized enterprises had been sold. Additionally, the 2001 earthquakes threw off modernization
plans for this sector, forcing reallocation of funds for reconstruction efforts. As noted in the 2006 REDI,



                                                      31

while electricity and telecommunications access have increased notably since reform, only 58 percent of
households have a water connection, 40 percent a sewage connection, making substantial reform of the
water/sewage sector a priority.
Modernization agenda supporting partner IADB was to be in charge of this sector with the National
Aqueduct and Sewage Administration ANDA, as per initial project documents and 1999 Mid-term Review
mission report. Efforts since have centered on decentralization, in coordination with the national association
of municipalities. A program aimed at connecting 43 urban and 12 rural water networks was launched in
2003. Thus far, 16 pilot local administration services have been set up in 22 municipalities with PSMTAL
support.

Roads
MOP results can best be seen in Table 2 above, as outsourcing of road construction and maintenance was
the result of a collaborative effort between components.
Overall, in retrospect, it would appear market size considerations were not appropriately weighted in
privatization design and, consequently, in design of the pertinent regulatory frameworks.
Pension System Indicators                                                                       Status
Decrease and foreshorten fiscal cost of pensions system through reform                         Achieved
New legal framework passed and regulatory body created                                         Achieved
Minimum of 3 private pension fund management companies                                     Partially achieved
The main goal of this subcomponent was to ensure the sustainability of the pension system via private
sector participation in fund management and the provision of benefits. The law passed in 1998 replaced the
publicly-managed, defined-benefit and unfunded pension schemes for formal sector workers by a privately-
managed scheme with individual accounts. Individual-account fund management started out with 5
companies, and was later reduced to 2, on account of a merger abroad of 3 parent companies, and the
liquidation of 1.
The old pensions system ­comprehending both public sector and private sector workers- created in 1975
was bound to generate deficits by 1997 and to deplete its reserves by 2009. Reform foreshortened pension
outlays through implementation of a privately-managed system with individual accounts. At the time, fiscal
cost of the reform was estimated to be at 56 percent of the 1997 GNP.
Pension coverage has nearly doubled since 1998, with the proportion of old and new system affiliates to
economically active population at 50 percent by late 2006. Likely hypotheses for the latter ­noted in a
Bank-sponsored study (Acuña, 2005)- range from a stagnant per capita GDP growth rate and an increase in
contributions that could have led to higher evasion rates, to growth of the informal sector.
Advantages of the new system include higher pensions, an average 90 percent higher since 1998, and an
increasing rate of incorporation of independent workers. Fund managers consider this an evidence of an
attitude change in the population in that pension contributions are now seen as personal savings, no longer
as taxes. This would also explain the growing numbers of non-resident Salvadorans who maintain
contributions from abroad ­something that cannot be appropriately registered, as these contributors
maintain a local family address.
Given project extensions, pension reform has benefited from close follow-up by STP technical staff, with
support for incremental adjustments through time. An example of this continuing technical assistance is the
"emission and redemption" mechanism changed to delay redemption of life-long contributions for public
pension scheme members from a one-withdrawal scheme to 15 yearly sums.
Since 1991, prior to privatization, a Reform Group ­made up of Central Bank, Ministry of Finance, and
Pension Fund staff- streamlined existing pension institutes. Though market size and implications for
privatization were among main design concerns, the merger abroad was unforeseen and caught local
decision-makers unaware. In retrospect, some interviewees reflect that local fusion should have been
delayed for further consideration.
Passage of the pension law in the National Assembly introduced several significant changes in the technical
design. Workers were allowed to retire on the basis of either number of years of service or age, which
generated escalating costs that had to be corrected later on. Political negotiation also eliminated a provision
that allowed private fund managers to invest 10 percent of their portfolios abroad ­given local capital
market restrictions, something that still has not been corrected. Not having implemented pension reform
before privatization of other sector seriously limited pension fund managers' investment alternatives.




                                                      32

This component had two additional mandates. The first was ensuring environmental
protection during privatization of environmentally-sensitive sectors until a relevant
supervisory entity could take charge. Water/sewage privatization did not progress. Only
power distribution was fully privatized prior to the 1997 creation of the Ministry for the
Environment and Natural Resources ­with PSMTAL support, among others- which then
took over as the lead agency. The attempt to concession Port Acajutla was preceded by an
environmental audit in 2003 approved by the said Ministry. Likewise, development of
Cutuco Port was preceded by an Environmental Strategic Assessment considered
exemplary. Both ISRs and PSRs consistently rate environmental compliance as
satisfactory.

The second additional mandate was to enhance capital markets through greater
mobilization of long-term domestic resources and through placement of shares of
privatized enterprises through the stock exchange. As noted above by sector, a significant
portion of privatized companies' shares were sold in the stock market. However, ICR
information collection could not track other progress with regards to this outcome. Not
even the Privatization Component coordinator in charge at the very beginning could
remember that this was a separate outcome. The only comments forthcoming on this
matter were related to privatization of the pension system, for which this absence was
sorely felt.




                                            33

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

As mentioned in 3.3, cost-benefit and cost-efficiency analyses were not included in
appraisal documents; nonetheless, it can be argued that the project has accomplished its
objective in an efficient manner. The table in this annex shows that all components
produced their expected outcomes and two of them exceeded their objectives using fewer
resources than planned; the only exception being that despite the fact that Civil Service
legislation was not passed, the real costs of the HRM Component equal the estimated
costs. In absence of a legal mandate, this Component had to further HRM reforms within
each ministry separately, though it would appear a more comprehensive approach could
have been more efficient.

Components    Expected Outcomes      Estimated Real Outcomes                   Real Costs % Real
/ Sub-                               Cost (USD                                 (WB,       Costs /
components                           Million)                                  GOES,      Estimate
                                                                               other      d Costs
                                                                               sources)
Institutional Enhanced legal         6.74      The legal framework for the     6.27       93%
Restructuri   framework and                    operation of public sector was
ng and        improved consistency             enhanced as new legal
Debureaucr    and efficiency of                instruments for target
atization     public sector                    institutions were developed.
              institutions.                    Public sector institutions were
              Simplified provision             reformed, their services
              of administrative                streamlined and new
              services, producing              institutions created so as to
              visible                          enhance public sector's
              improvements.                    regulatory capacity. Time and
                                               costs for the provision of
                                               administrative services were
                                               reduced and propitious
                                               conditions for business
                                               development created (see
                                               Table 3). Studies and
                                               strategies were produced to
                                               decentralize public services
                                               provision and to increase the
                                               use of ICTs in the provision of
                                               administrative services.
Human         Strengthen central     4.44      The HRIS is completely          4.44       100%
Resource      government's                     installed and functioning in 13
Manageme      capacity to                      ministries, 7 central
nt            implement and                    government institutions and 65
              monitor civil service            decentralized institutions and
              pay and employment               is used to produce personnel
              policies                         budget, payroll, register and
                                               control personnel (payroll,
              Pay and employment               budget planning).
              policymaking, with a             The system produces timely,
              competitive civil                reliable, accessible and secure
              service pay structure,           information. The
              based on updated and             implementation of the system
              accurate information,            fostered the creation of the
              which attracts and               Institutional HR Management



                                               34

Components   Expected Outcomes      Estimated Real Outcomes                   Real Costs % Real
/ Sub-                              Cost (USD                                 (WB,       Costs /
components                          Million)                                  GOES,      Estimate
                                                                              other      d Costs
                                                                              sources)
             retains qualified                Unit in each Ministry
             personnel.                       reporting directly to the top
             Increased civil                  authority of each organization.
             service productivity             Time required to process HR
             and morale.                      payroll was reduced: from 3
                                              weeks (without verification) to
                                              4 hours and time lag was
                                              reduced from months to 4
                                              hours.
                                              There was no or negligible
                                              progress regarding pay
                                              structure competitiveness,
                                              recruitment of qualified
                                              personnel or civil service
                                              productivity and morale.
Financial    Develop and            2.03      SAFI fully developed and        1.5        77%
Resource     implement an                     operating in 89 govt. entities,
Manageme     integrated financial             integrating the 4 subsystems
nt           management system
             for the public                   89 Financial Units operating,
             administration.                  with professional and trained
             Strengthen the units             staff
             responsible for
             financial resource               Information generated by
             management in the                SAFI used for ex-post controls
             central government               by the Court of Accounts
             and major
             decentralized                    Public procurement
             institutions and their           procedures standardized and
             internal audit                   increasingly technological,
             systems.                         operating across the public
             Modernize public                 sector
             procurement
             procedures

Privatizatio Key areas privatized   5.15      Power distribution fully        5.15       100%
n and        (power distribution,             privatized; power generation
Private      telecoms, pensions)              and commercialization
Sector                                        partially privatized
Participatio PSP in ports, airport,           Telecoms fully privatized.
n in the     roads, water/sewage              Pension reform accomplished,
Provision                                     ongoing adjustments made, as
of Public                                     necessary. Coverage
Services                                      increased, benefits superior to
                                              old system.
                                              PSP in transport achieved. Not
                                              achieved in water/sewage.
                                              Overall positive results in
                                              terms of coverage, quality, and
                                              costs.




                                              35

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


    (a) Task Team members

           Names                          Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Harald Fuhr               Task Manager                       LASLG           TTL
Miguel Mercado Diaz       Sr. Public Sector Specialist        LCSPS
Antonio Martin del Campo  Sr. Public Sector Specialist       LASLG
Supervision/ICR
Ana Bellver Vazquez-DoderoPublic Sector Mgmt. Spec.           LCSPS
Javier Burgos             Consultant                          LCSPS
Enzo De Laurentiis        Manager                             LCSPT
Henry Forero Ramirez      Senior Information Officer          ISGEG
Jonas Manuel Frank        Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.           LCSPS
Vladimir T. Jadrijevic    Consultant                          LCSPT
Fernando Lecaros          Sr Energy Spec.                    LCSEG
Alberto Leyton            Sr. Public Sector Specialist        LCCPS          TTL
Luis R. Prada Villalobos  Sr Procurement Spec.                LCSPT
Jeffrey James Rinne       Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.           LCSPS
Keisgner Alfaro           Sr. Procurement Specialist          LCSPT
Jordan Z. Schwartz        Senior Infrastructure Speciali      LCSTR
Manuel Sevilla            Sector Leader                       LCSFP
Mercedes Del Carmen Souza
Weich                     Consultant                          LCSPS

Manuel Vargas             Sr Financial Management Specia     LCSFM       FM Specialist



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                      No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY95                                                                  170.66
  FY96                                                                  224.92
  FY97                                                                   35.70
  FY98                                                                    0.00
  FY99                                                                    0.00
  FY00                                                                   -0.12
  FY01                                                                    0.00
  FY02                                                                    0.00
  FY03                                                                    0.00
  FY04                                                                    0.00
  FY05                                                                    0.00
  FY06                                                                    0.00


                                           36

 FY07                                 0.00
 FY08                                 0.00
                   Total:           431.16
Supervision/ICR
 FY95                                 0.00
 FY96                                 0.00
 FY97                               139.80
 FY98                               102.53
 FY99                               110.07
 FY00                         20    103.10
 FY01                         13     67.27
 FY02                         11     42.48
 FY03                         14     75.96
 FY04                         12     61.81
 FY05                         22    103.33
 FY06                         15     71.60
 FY07                         21     92.62
 FY08                          3     18.56
                   Total:    131    989.13




                            37

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

(No beneficiary survey was conducted)




                                      38

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (November 14th, 2007)

The ICR mission wrapped up work with a Stakeholder Workshop focused on validation
and discussion of project results, lessons learned, and future challenges. Twenty-two
current and former members of the implementing agency and beneficiary government
entities attended. Both implementer and beneficiaries highlighted the crucial importance
of project support on three main lines: timely provision of funding and technical
assistance; continuity throughout changes in administration; and coordinator role of the
implementing agency. The implementing agency staff members also pointed out the need
for a "big picture" perspective that goes beyond evaluation of indicators, outputs, and
outcomes to a visualization of project impact over time, which they feel, far surpasses the
goals originally envisioned.

The workshop was organized into three sessions of small-group discussions on: project
outputs and outcomes, based on ICR findings; factors affecting implementation; and
lessons learned and pending modernization challenges. From the Borrower's perspective,
the GOES faced three main problems at outset: the state was riddled by deficit and poor
resource allocation, it was inefficient and centralized, and it was not perceived as
transparent. As a result, El Salvador was not competitive and public service provision
was of poor quality. With project support, the role of the state was changed, public
services were improved, and accountability was strengthened ­via reforms in financial
management      and    procurement,    increased    private  sector   participation,   and
debreaucratization efforts. Despite the fact that civil service legal reform was not
achieved, a wholesale attitude change among public servants occurred. The project was
considered to have been successful, but there is awareness that modernization is an
ongoing process.

Main project results highlighted by the different groups were: improved fiscal
sustainability and resource allocation; increased efficiency resulting from private sector
participation in public service provision; improved public sector financial management;
enhanced accountability and transparency through legal reform and implementation of
standardized systems in financial management and procurement and, more recently, via
the Superintendence for Competitiveness. Project impact was seen in a more competitive
country ­with improved "Doing Business" ratings, citizens being better served,
development of the state's capacity to regulate markets, and public procurement
following principles of free competition, equal opportunities, and timeliness. Nonetheless,
the project could have been even more successful, had the original design been better and
had there been no deviations due to political and economic pressures. More proactive
political and communications strategies could have contributed, perhaps, to this end.

The project additionally contributed to the creation of a professional corps in different
government entities that are better prepared to implement reforms and to give them the
necessary continuity. Technological modernization effects also went beyond what had
been originally planned: as tangible benefits of the new systems were felt, they made way
for further modernization. Public procurement reform increased economic activity,
opening up public sector acquisitions and contracts to private agents heretofore excluded,



                                            39

and it has contributed to improved resource allocation and decreased unnecessary public
expenditures. There were also some unexpected negative results: "modernization" came
to be associated with layoffs; some reforms, like payroll right-sizing, were eventually
reverted in some cases; some fees for public services were increased ­though technically,
it was not to be expected that they would all decrease.

With regard to factors affecting project implementation, the most important were
considered to be the high levels of political polarization ­congruent with high social
conflict, coming out the civil war, natural disasters, and yearly legal limits to public
expenditures. GOES economic policies, project coordinator's key role, continuity of
reform priorities despite changes in administration were the most important factors
affecting implementation that were subject to government control. On the negative side,
project implementation was delayed by repeated electoral cycles, lack of a political
strategy to build consensus on reform efforts, and by disjuncture between closely related
reforms ­for example, pension system reform went ahead despite lack of progress on
capital markets reform. Closing-date extensions were viewed as very positive in that they
allowed for continuity.

As for lessons learned, five were considered the most significant:

a) GOES embarked on the modernization processes with a clear vision of what the
country needed and how to achieve that. This vision was the basis for a modernization
manual that was used across the board by all government entities, which prevented each
of them using a different approach based on particular understanding of what
modernization implied. Additionally, the implementing agency (CPMSP, later STP) led
the modernization process, ensuring continuity between administrations.

b) Reform efforts/components must be assigned to the appropriate entities, which will
consider them strategic priorities, correspondingly assign competent staff, and ensure
continuity. Lack of progress in the Human Resources component was attributed to its
host entity's (Ministry of Finance) lack of an adequate understanding of its objective,
limiting HR reform to decreasing staff-associated expenditures. The same host entity, on
the other hand, fully visualized financial management reform and ensured its full
implementation.

c) Throughout implementation, there was no systematic information collection on project
results, nor were successful experiences documented. This impacted both on decision-
making and external communication strategies.

d) Gradual implementation of complex reform initiatives (by topic, by institution) makes
them feasible. SAFI, for example, started out with one module in key entities only, and
built up other modules gradually, also increasing coverage of other entities.

e) Political negotiation of public procurement reform was an illustrative case for
involving all stakeholders from the very beginning, before problems start and vested
interests come to play: chambers of commerce and industry, small producer's association,



                                            40

government staff, opposition congress members, municipal authorities, comptroller's
office, among others, participated actively.

Pending challenges identified were mostly restricted to specific topics by component. Of
these, the most significant were: build the necessary linkage between the financial
information system (budgetary allocations) and public sector management result
indicators; develop and implement of remaining electronic modules for the procurement
system; increase internet use so a greater percentage of citizens can benefit from
governmental technological advances; and advance necessary adjustments to the pension
system so as to improve fiscal sustainability and improve the existing register of labor
histories. Three other challenges were perceived as significant across groups: the need for
further strengthening of regulatory authorities, completing civil service reform, and
exploration of alternatives in decentralization




                                             41

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Summary

The PSMTAL fulfilled its general and specific objectives. Main outcomes and outputs
produced by each component are summarized below.

1. Component I: Institutional Restructuring and De-bureaucratization

1.1. Subcomponent 1: Institutional Restructuring: Objectives were achieved as it
furthered institutional modernization processes and reforms in fifteen institutions, most
notably in: Presidency, Ministry of Economics, Ministry of Governance, MOP, Ministry
of Labor, Ministry of Tourism, and more recently Superintendence of Competitiveness.
WB resources were combined with other sources of financing to produce these outcomes.

Institutional Arrangements: The team worked within STP in coordination with teams in
each beneficiary institution. Each ministry and autonomous entity was responsible for the
implementation of the reform, in accordance with CPMSP/STP guidelines.

1.2. Subcomponent 2: Debureaucratization: This component exceeded its objectives as
130 bureaucratic processes were simplified, reducing the time required to provide
administrative services reformed in 75% and cutting costs in half. According to Doing
Business Indicators, it enhanced El Salvador's competitiveness, as the country scaled 6
positions and El Salvador has been recognized in 2006 and 2007 as a lead reformer.

Institutional Arrangements: The team operating in STP led the reform process and collaborated
closely with civil society organizations, which helped identify problems and reforms, and
supported implementation. Reform Groups were formed for each initiative, with representatives
of each stakeholder.

1.3. Subcomponent 3: Decentralization: This subcomponent coordinated sectors and
actors, providing technical assistance and expert advice to local development entities
(FISDL and CONADEL) in order to produce decentralization strategies. It also supported
the development of studies, proposals and pilots (water and sewage decentralization) that
guided service decentralization. Moreover, the Municipal Code was amended to define
competencies, citizen participation, transparency, municipal indebtedness regulation, and
access to information.

Institutional Arrangements: The team organized a network with other donors (GTZ,
USAID, UNDP, IADB) and with local development organizations (CONADEL).

1.4. Subcomponent 4: Connectivity: This subcomponent created the basis for an
increased use of ICTs in the provision of public services. The e-Pais Strategy and the
Electronic Governance Platform were created and some pilots with visible impacts
implemented. Legislation on digital signature and communication, e-commerce, data
protection and amendments to the Penal Code to include electronic crimes were
developed, and are to be submitted to the Legislative Assembly shortly.



                                             42

2. Component 2: Human Resources Management

This component partially achieved its objective as the HRIS was installed and is fully
operational in 85 institutions. Moreover, applications have been designed to support the
Human Resources Management system. This HRM system presents guidelines and norms
for post classification and evaluation, recruitment and selection of personnel,
performance management, compensation, and training. Civil Service Legislation,
however, was not submitted to the Legislative Assembly, and the component failed to
create a central HRM unit.

3. Component 3: Financial Resources Management

3.1. Subcomponent 1: Financial Resources Management: It achieved and exceeded its
objectives, and WB funds were combined with IADB funds, which provided most
financial resources for the implementation of this subcomponent starting in 1998. SAFI
was designed and implemented, increasing transparency and efficiency in public
expenditure management.

3.2. Subcomponent 2: Procurement: The objective was achieved as the Procurement
System was modernized. A new procurement law (LACAP) was passed to unify the
procurement legal framework. Benefits associated with this new law are efficiency,
transparency, and improved quality. A central procurement unit (UNAC) and institutional
procurement units (UACI) were established and a procurement system developed. A
training program for UACIs disseminated principles and its application criteria for the
evaluation of proposals, conflict resolution, SME participation, Chapter 9 application,
and FTAs. Moreover, UACIs have formed a network to share good practices and engage
in technical collaboration.

A module (MODDIV) of the electronic system COMPRAS@L has been developed and
implemented, three modules are being implemented (Help Desk, Guarantees, and
Conflicts Registry), and one module (`Plan de Licitaciones') has been developed but
funding is pending for its implementation.

4. Component 4: Privatization and Private Sector Participation in the Provision of
Public Services

4.1. Private sector participation in priority services:
Power: Distribution was fully privatized, with five companies operating in non-exclusive
provision areas. Power generation was partially privatized, with private sector
participation in three thermal plants. Prices are subsidized (US$ 30 million per year, 10%
of total sales).
Telecommunications: Both the legal framework and regulatory entity were created to
allow for private sector participation in this sector. Consequently, 9 providers of land
telecommunications operate in the country and 5 mobile phones companies. The number
of internet providers is more reduced. Service density was increased.




                                               43

Transportation: The Vice Ministry of Public Works was restructured, and more than
1,466 km of roads were constructed or repaired. Operations of the Acajutla Port were
streamlined, enhancing operational and financial efficiency. La Union Port is expected to
be ready late in 2008. The National Airport has received a 4E qualification.

4.2. Pension System Reform: This subcomponent produced its expected outcomes. A new
social security legal and technical framework was developed and the corresponding
regulatory agency created. The new capitalization pension system is based on individual
savings and subsidized only marginally by the State. The Superintendence of Pensions
was created and staffed with specialized personnel. Finally, a unique database of labor
history of all affiliates (public and new system) was created, used to recognize affiliates'
rights.




                                             44

        SECRETARIA TECNICA/ COMISION PRESIDENCIAL PARA LA
                                  MODERNIZACION
                  INFORME DE CIERRE- 31 DE OCTUBRE DE 2007
 PROYECTO DE ASISTENCIA TECNICA PARA LA MODERNIZACION DEL
                   SECTOR PUBLICO- PRESTAMO BIRF-4082-ES

Antecedentes
El Gobierno de El Salvador, en la búsqueda de una administración pública eficiente y
eficaz, estableció como área estratégica de su Gobierno el facilitar y orientar el proceso
de modernización del Sector Público, para tal efecto se crea la Comisión Presidencial
para la Modernización del Sector Público-CPMSP, por medio de Decreto Ejecutivo No
49 del 29 de mayo de 1996. La principal atribución de la Comisión fue definir políticas,
instrumentos y orientaciones para el diseño y ejecución de los planes y/o proyectos de
modernización del sector público en armonía con del Programa de Modernización.

Para llevar a cabo este Programa se autorizó la firma del Convenio de Préstamo 4082-ES
por un monto de US $24 millones. Dicho convenio fue suscrito el 11 de diciembre de
1996 por el Banco Mundial y el Gobierno de El Salvador para fortalecer la capacidad de
implementación del Proyecto de Asistencia Técnica para la Modernización del Sector
Público, mediante Decreto Legislativo No. 882 del 7 de noviembre de 1996, publicado en
el Diario Oficial No. 216, Tomo 333 de fecha 15 de noviembre de 1996.

Mediante Decreto Legislativo No. 938 del 15 de enero de 1997, publicado en el Diario
Oficial No. 33, Tomo No. 334 del 19 de febrero del mismo año, la Asamblea Legislativa
lo ratificó en todas sus partes y entró en vigencia el 11 de marzo de 1997. La
incorporación de los fondos al presupuesto de la Comisión fue en agosto de 1997.

El organismo ejecutor por el Gobierno de El Salvador es la Comisión Presidencial para la
Modernización del Sector Público, a través de la Unidad Técnica Coordinadora,
responsable de velar por el logro de los objetivos del Proyecto y que desde 1997 ha
apoyado las acciones de diferentes instituciones del Sector Público para modernizarlas y
fortalecerlas a fin de lograr mayores niveles de eficiencia.

El 1° de junio de 1999 se creó la Secretaria Técnica de la Presidencia, según Decreto
Ejecutivo N° 1 del Consejo de Ministros. La CPMSP pasa a formar parte de la Secretaria
Técnica, por Decreto Ejecutivo Nº 5 de fecha 1° de junio de 1999. A partir de ese
momento, todas las funciones y atribuciones que en las normas jurídicas vigentes
hubieren sido conferidas al Comisionado Presidencial se entenderán asumidas por el
Secretario Técnico de la Presidencia.

De acuerdo a lo establecido en el Convenio, la vigencia finalizaba en agosto de 2001, y
ha sido ampliada con la aprobación del BIRF, la primera emitida el 1 de marzo de 2001
mediante la cual se establece como fecha de cierre el 31 de agosto de 2002 y la segunda
que extiende dicha vigencia hasta el 31 agosto de 2004. Posteriormente, el 26 de mayo de
2004, el Banco Mundial extendió la vigencia de del Proyecto hasta el 31 de agosto de
2006 y el 01 de diciembre de 2005, el Banco Mundial concedió una última prórroga al 31



                                            45

de agosto de 2007 y la fecha de justificación de desembolsos finaliza el 31 de diciembre
de 2007.

OBJETIVO GENERAL
Convertir la administración pública en una organización eficiente y eficaz en su gestión,
reorientando el rol del Estado hacia aquellas actividades que le corresponden en una
economía de mercado, generando condiciones para insertar al país en un mundo
altamente competitivo y creando las condiciones necesarias para promover un
crecimiento económico sostenido.

OBJETIVOS ESPECIFICOS
Los grandes objetivos del programa de Modernización se pueden agrupar en tres grupos

1.- ABRIR AL PAIS A LA LIBRE COMPETENCIA
       El programa planteaba que este objetivo se lograría promoviendo la desregulación
       de las actividades de diversos sectores económicos para eliminar las barreras de
       entrada y sentar las bases para la creación de mercados competitivos y,
       promoviendo de la participación privada en la prestación de servicios públicos en
       las áreas de las telecomunicaciones, electricidad, pensiones, puertos y aeropuertos,
       carreteras, agua y otros
2.- POTENCIAR UN GOBIERNO EFECTIVO EN SU GESTION.
       La efectividad del Gobierno se lograría redefiniendo su rol, competencias, y
       funciones, adecuándolo a los requerimientos de una administración pública con un
       enfoque gerencial moderno, como subsidiario y facilitador del desarrollo de la
       economía de mercado, otro elemento básico de este objetivo era la optimización
       de las finanzas públicas mediante la modernización de la administración tributaria
       y aduanera, la introducción de nuevas modalidades de compra y contrataciones, la
       implantación del Sistema de Administración Financiera Integrada y el
       establecimiento de mecanismos de control más eficientes y efectivos en el manejo
       de los recursos públicos.
3- MEJORAR LA CALIDAD DEL SERVICIO PUBLICO
       La optimización de la calidad y cobertura del servició público se lograría
       promoviendo nuevas modalidades de prestación de servicios públicos que a la vez
       permitiera una participación social más amplia y nuevas relaciones entre usuarios
       y proveedores.. Un elemento esencial para impulsar el logro de la calidad en el
       servicio público era el establecimiento de una nueva cultura organizacional y
       profesionalización del empleado público que se manifestara en nuevas actitudes,
       valores y principios de servicio al cliente.

Para lograr estos objetivos el Programa de Modernización se estructuró en equipos de
trabajo para componentes del préstamo, a los cuales se les asigno presupuesto y funciones
de orientar, coordinar, financiar, regular, supervisar y administrar directamente y de
manera compartida con otros actores la provisión de los servicios públicos que compete
brindar subsidiariamente y traspasar al sector privado aquellos servicios que este pueda
proveer con mas eficiencia y eficacia en la ejecución de las actividades del sector publico.




                                            46

EVALUACION DE LOS OBJETIVOS DEL PROYECTO, DISEÑO,
IMPLANTACION Y EXPERIENCIA DE LA OPERACIÓN

REESTRUCTURACION INSTITUCIONAL
El componente parte de la misión de proveer asistencia técnica y asesoría en el sector
público para redefinir el rol, misión y procesos; eliminar inconsistencias y traslapes
funcionales, con el objetivo de mejorar el funcionamiento y los niveles de eficiencia de
las instituciones del sector público, con especial énfasis en el Órgano Ejecutivo.

Para el cumplimiento de la misión y lograr los objetivos planteados en el proyecto, se
conformó un equipo pequeño de profesionales dedicado al estudio y análisis de la
situación inicial, promover la implementación del Programa de Modernización del Sector
Público ­PMSP-, facilitar asesoría y asistencia técnica para su desarrollo, así como
monitorear los avances del proceso.

El Ejecutivo responsabilizó a los Ministros y Presidentes de entidades autónomas de la
ejecución de sus procesos de modernización, bajo lineamientos de la CPMSP/ST, quien
trabajó con enlaces institucionales para coordinar y dar seguimiento a las consultorías
contratadas para cada una de las entidades donde el proyecto incidió en sus procesos de
reforma o modernización institucional.

De esta forma con recursos del Proyecto, esfuerzos propios, y otros recursos, se cumplió
con el objetivo, logrando impulsar procesos de modernización institucional y reformas
en quince instituciones, entre las que se destacan: Presidencia de la República,
Ministerios de Economía, Gobernación, Obras Públicas, Transporte y Vivienda y
Desarrollo Urbano, Trabajo, Turismo, Superintendencia de Competencia.

El Ministerio de Obras Públicas, Transporte y vivienda y Desarrollo Urbano, merece
destacarse en cuanto al proceso de reforma realizado, específicamente en el
Viceministerio de Obras Públicas, lo que permitió su reestructuración y orientación a un
rol normativo, planificador y canalizador de inversión pública a través de ejecutores
privados; con procesos rediseñados que integraron las funciones corporativas de los tres
viceministerios. Un elemento relevante en este proceso fue la aprobación y aplicación de
la Ley de Conservación Vial ­FOVIAL- para el mantenimiento de la red vial principal,
impactando en la reducción de gastos corrientes del Ministerio, optimizando la inversión
pública y aumentando la cobertura de atención.

En otras instituciones como la Secretaría Nacional de la Familia, Instituto Salvadoreño
para el Desarrollo de la Niñez y la Adolescencia, Televisión Cultural Educativa, Instituto
Nacional de los Deportes, Ministerios de Hacienda, Medio Ambiente y Recursos
Naturales, Relaciones Exteriores, se realizaron procesos de modernización en forma
parcial que permitió readecuar algunas de sus estructuras, reordenar y simplificar
procesos y sistemas, contar con instrumentos como manuales de organización y de
procesos, definición de perfiles del recurso humano, para orientar el trabajo a las
diferentes unidades.




                                             47

Entre los impactos generados por el componente dentro del Proyecto, se mencionan: i)
Macroestructura del Órgano Ejecutivo definida y aprobada, como marco general de la
actuación de los entes comprendidos en la misma, la cual se ha ido             adoptando y
ajustando a los lineamientos de los gobiernos durante la vigencia del préstamo; ii)
aplicación de principios, criterios y orientaciones en instituciones con procesos de
modernización institucional según Normativa General elaborada y difundida en el
Organo Ejecutivo; iii) instituciones reestructuradas y fortalecidas para cumplir con el rol
y funciones asignadas en marcos legales definidos o reformados; iv) fortalecimiento de la
gestión presidencial en áreas asesoras y coordinadora de la gestión.

Todo lo anterior incidió en la capacidad institucional para formular y ejecutar políticas y
planes que han hecho posible cumplir con las responsabilidades asignadas en los Planes
de Gobierno; así como una mejora en la eficiencia de las organizaciones, prestación de
servicios de mejor calidad y una pronta atención a los ciudadanos.

DESCENTRALIZACION
Este componente fue incorporado al proyecto como tal en junio de 2001, ante la
necesidad de apoyar la viabilidad del Plan de Gobierno 1999-2004, con la finalidad de
impulsar modalidades de gestión descentralizada en el Órgano Ejecutivo, que permitiesen
la prestación de servicios más cercanos a los ciudadanos y de mejor calidad; así como de
promover la apertura de espacios de participación en donde las personas identificaran sus
problemas y buscasen conjuntamente con otros actores, formas creativas de solución a los
mismos.

No obstante lo anterior, el componente había tenido participación en el proceso de
reforma con este tema, por medio de asistencias técnicas no reembolsables de otros
donantes.

Dado que este proceso tiene un alto contenido político que requiere de una fuerte
coordinación entre sectores y actores, el componente ha proporcionado asistencia y
asesoría a organizaciones colegiadas conformadas para desarrollar acciones orientadas a
generar acuerdos que hicieran posible el planteamiento de estrategias o agendas en las
cuales se plasmara el compromiso de llevar adelante el proceso. También se dio apoyo a
instituciones para realizar estudios, propuestas y proyectos piloto de descentralización.

De esta forma, en el período 1999-2004, en el marco del Plan de Gobierno "La Nueva
Alianza" y de la "Alianza Solidaria" en particular, se firmó Convenio entre la Secretaría
Técnica de la Presidencia y el Fondo de Inversión Social para el Desarrollo Local ­
FISDL- para prestar asesoría con el objeto de fortalecer su rol estratégico en el ámbito del
desarrollo local; en la conformación del Grupo Consultivo que formuló la Estrategia
Nacional de Desarrollo Local -ENDL-, la cual constituyó un marco de orientación para
las acciones de descentralización y desarrollo local de diferentes actores; en la
negociación del préstamo 1352 con el BID para ejecutar algunas acciones contenidas en
la ENDL, y en otras acciones derivadas de dicha estrategia.




                                             48

Desde 2004, hasta la finalización del proyecto, y bajo la línea de acción "El Desarrollo
Local y Equilibrio Territorial: Progreso con Equidad" del Plan de Gobierno "País
Seguro", el componente ha prestado asesoría a la Comisión Nacional de Desarrollo Local
­CONADEL-, creada por la Presidencia de la República, como un espacio de
entendimiento y concertación en pro del desarrollo local, en la definición de la Agenda
Nacional de Desarrollo Local -ANDL. Estos equipos han generado: propuestas de
reformas al Código Municipal y a la Ley General Tributaria Municipal, Ley del
Endeudamiento Municipal, Ley de la Carrera Administrativa Municipal; propuestas para
el financiamiento con fondos propios del desarrollo local; programa de asistencia técnica
para fortalecer la gestión de las municipalidades, obteniendo fondos de asistencia técnica
por valor de US $1.5 millones por parte de la Unión Europea; estudio sobre comparación
de competencias municipales con otras entidades del Gobierno Nacional con el propósito
de proponer reformas legales que permitan descentralizar algunas competencias o
servicios; estrategia para difusión de los beneficios de la descentralización y el desarrollo
local.

Entre los impactos producidos por el componente dentro del proyecto están: i) incidir en
acuerdos de varios actores sobre la importancia de la descentralización, su
conceptualización y orientaciones generales para implementar el proceso, mediante la
formulación de una Política Nacional de Descentralización; ii) contribuir a la
introducción de cambios en la legislación municipal para la definición de competencias,
la participación ciudadana y la transparencia, la regulación del endeudamiento municipal,
a fin de que la población tenga un gobierno municipal más abierto y transparente; iii)
apoyo a proyectos piloto de descentralización de la administración del servicio de agua
potable y alcantarillado, por medio de los cuales se ha comprobado, en sondeos
realizados, que la población recibe con más frecuencia el servicio y es atendida con más
prontitud en sus demandas.

Por las características del proceso antes mencionadas, las alianzas con otros organismos
como GTZ, AID, PNUD, BID, han sido de vital importancia para potenciar los avances
del proceso. El apoyo del Ejecutivo a CONADEL y su continuidad hasta 2009, así como
la permanencia del equipo de la Secretaría Técnica después de finalizado el
proyecto, son garantía de que los esfuerzos realizados con el Banco serán aprovechados
para lograr que el proceso continúe y siga siendo considerado factor clave para el
desarrollo local y la gobernabilidad.

DESBUROCRATIZACION

El Componente Desburocratización del Proyecto de Modernización del Sector Público,
ha cumplido con los objetivos planteados en el convenio de préstamo, es decir fue
exitoso en producir una simplificación y rediseño de los procesos burocráticos en El
Salvador por lo cual aumentó la eficiencia y la capacidad del sector público de dar
respuesta a las demandas de sus ciudadanos. Del mismo modo, produjo mejoras visibles
en la provisión de servicios públicos por parte del Estado, poniendo las opiniones del
ciudadano en el centro de los mecanismos de mejoras continuas de los servicios.

La metodología utilizada para el mejoramiento de servicios/trámites del sector público,
bajo el Componente de Desburocratización, bajo el Programa de Modernización del


                                             49

Sector Público evolucionó a lo largo de los años. Durante este período la metodología ha
sido participativa, tal y como lo establecía el convenio de préstamo.

En 1996, la estrategia de trabajo del Componente Desburocratización se basó en el
establecimiento de una alianza estratégica con el sector privado (Cámara de Comercio e
Industria de El Salvador), Proyecto "El Salvador Eficiente", iniciando con un sondeo de
opinión dirigido al sector privado y que fue ejecutado por la Cámara de Comercio, de
donde surgieron las prioridades de esa época, en las cuales se trabajó. En el año 2001,
con la experiencia obtenida por el equipo de Desburocratización a lo largo de varios años
y en base a una investigación exhaustiva de mejores prácticas internacionales, se redacta
y publica el Modelo de Optimización de Servicios Públicos. Con este marco, en el año
2002, el Componente Desburocratización, planteó la idea de formular una estrategia de
Gobierno Electrónico y es así como en mayo 2004, la Secretaría Técnica de la
Presidencia publica la estrategia de gobierno electrónico, la que propone directrices
generales, como por ejemplo el acceso compartido a recursos de información de interés
común para entidades de gobierno, el apoyo a la generación de contenidos y el uso de las
TIC para la prestación de los servicios del gobierno, entre otros.Asimismo, el Plan de
Gobierno "País Seguro", plantea como otro de sus 10 programas presidenciales el
Programa Presidencial El Salvador Eficiente, el cual es asignado al Componente
Desburocratización. El nuevo programa El Salvador Eficiente se diferencia del
establecido en el año 1996, ya que en su formulación retoma los factores de éxito y las
lecciones aprendidas del pasado y utiliza como base conceptual el Modelo de
Optimización de los Servicios Públicos. El Programa ha recibido un impulso político
muy importante, fue presentado al máximo nivel jerárquico del Órgano Ejecutivo, el
Consejo de Ministros, el 25 de julio de 2005 y fue lanzado al público por el Presidente de
la República el 24 de enero de 2006.


Entre los resultados obtenidos destacan que más de 130 servicios públicos han sido
mejorados a través de los esfuerzos del Componente Desburocratización, entre los que
cabe mencionar todos los trámites de importaciones, a través de la creación de la
ventanilla única de importaciones; los trámites para la apertura de una empresa, a través
de la creación de la Ventanilla de Servicios Integrales para Iniciar un Negocio en el
Centro Nacional de Registros (CNR) y del apoyo en la Apertura de Centros de Trámites
Empresariales, éstos últimos con financiamiento del BID y de la Comunidad Económica
Europea; los necesarios para la presentación y pago de las obligaciones tributarias; la
emisión y control de las licencias de conducir y del Registro Público de Vehículos; los de
asentamiento de nacimientos para los municipios de Sonsonate y San Salvador; los
servicios de auténticas del Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores; los servicios de
pasaportes tanto al interior del país como los que se maquilaban para los consulados; los
servicios del Consejo Superior de Salud Pública, a través de la reducción de requisitos
que obtienen directamente de la base de datos del CNR; y los servicios de protección al
consumidor, entre otros.


Entre los principales impactos obtenidos por el proyecto, se tiene la disminución de
tiempos y costos para las empresas los que aún no se han cuantificado, pero pueden
presumirse dado que en cada proyecto ejecutado éstos se han disminuido. En términos



                                             50

generales, se puede estimar que en los proyectos ejecutados, se ha reducido en promedio
el 75% del tiempo invertido antes de la reforma y el 50% de los costos. Algunas de las
reformas hechas en los últimos años han impactado la posición en la competitividad del
país, tal como las mejoras reflejadas en el informe Doing Business 2008, del Banco
Mundial (con relación al del 2006). Como resultado directo de las reformas realizadas en
el componente Desburocratización (a excepción de las reformas en el Registro de la
Propiedad que no han sido apoyadas por este proyecto), el país ha escalado 6 posiciones a
nivel global (de la 75 a la 69 entre 178 países). El reporte Doing Business 2007,
menciona que "El Salvador lideró las reformas en América Latina por segundo año
consecutivo"4, además menciona como ejemplo a El Salvador sobre los pasos a
seguir para una reforma exitosa (que fueron establecidos bajo el Componente
Desburocratización). Con estas reformas, se ha logrado reducir los procedimientos para
inicio de negocios de 12 a 9, el número de días, de 40 a 26 y el costo de 118% a 73.1%
del ingreso per capital (44% de reducción). En el caso de importaciones, el Doing
Business 2008, refleja una mejora en el número de días para importar de 30 a 18días
(40% de mejora a nivel del país). A nivel del gobierno, se ha calculado que los trámites
previos a la importación tardaban 20 días y ahora se tardan 1 día, por lo que hay un 95%
de mejora.


Otros impactos importantes son los obtenidos por la Defensoría del Consumidor (DC).
Esta institución ha iniciado un proceso para cambiar la cultura de consumo del país,
obteniendo logros e impactos muy importantes en el ámbito de la educación, la
participación ciudadana, verificación y vigilancia del mercado, estudios sobre el consumo
y mecanismos de solución de conflictos entre proveedores y consumidores.

En sus dos años de existencia, la Defensoría ha logrado acercarse a los consumidores
para que éstos hagan uso de la institucionalidad para defender sus derechos. Desde su
creación en octubre 2005, la Defensoría ha atendido más de 101,500 consumidores
(asesorías y reclamos). Antes de la fecha mencionada, la anterior institución defensora
atendía 350 consumidores al mes; en el 2007, se han recibido aproximadamente 1,462
reclamos mensuales, un crecimiento del 318% respecto a los recibidos en la Dirección de
Protección al Consumidor (DPC). Otro logro importante es la recuperación para los
consumidores de cerca de US $17.5 millones que la Defensoría ha logrado desde octubre
2005, en casos colectivos, del sistema financiero, telefonía y vivienda. Adicionalmente,
se han impuesto multas por más de US $1.3 millones a distintos proveedores por
incumplimientos a la Ley de Protección al Consumidor.


Un logro muy importante ha sido la creación del Sistema Nacional de Protección al
Consumidor, el cual está integrado por las dependencias del Órgano Ejecutivo y demás
instituciones del Estado que entre los asuntos de su competencia les corresponda velar
sectorialmente por los derechos de los consumidores o vigilar a las empresas que operan


4Doing Business 2007, Cómo Reformar. Publicación conjunta del Banco Mundial y la
Corporación Financiera Internacional, p. 11.



                                            51

con el público (Art. 151 de la Ley de Protección al Consumidor). Como logro
significativo puede también mencionarse el lanzamiento de la Política Nacional de
Protección al Consumidor, realizado en Agosto 2007, la cual establece líneas de acción
para promover y desarrollar la efectiva tutela de los derechos del consumidor.

Por otro lado, con la simplificación lograda y la información provista con instrumentos
tales como la guía de servicios del Gobierno y las Cartas de Derecho, se ha incrementado
la Transparencia en la gestión del gobierno. Otro impacto es la adopción de la
metodología participativa del proyecto, lo que además es un factor que contribuye a
garantizar la operación futura del proyecto. Debido a esta metodología participativa
con la que ha contado el Componente Desburocratización, el personal propio de las
instituciones en las que ha habido participación del proyecto ha adoptado los valores
contenidos en la metodología de Optimización de los Servicios Públicos, generando un
efecto cascada y mejorando otros procesos no contemplados originalmente en los
proyectos de modernización.


El Salvador ha avanzado enormemente en su proceso de desburocratización, pero este
proceso no ha culminado aún. No obstante, estas experiencias darán bases sólidas para
que en el futuro se pueda continuar generando mejoras en la atención de las demandas de
los salvadoreños por parte del sector público.

Conectividad

El Componente de Conectividad cumplió sus indicadores planteados. Se publicó la
Estrategia Nacional del Programa e-País y la Plataforma de Gobierno Electrónico, los que
fueron entregados al Señor Presidente de la República. Uno de los proyectos conjuntos
entre Conectividad y Desburocratización es el Pago Electrónico, el que se ha implantado
en los permisos fitozoosanitarios que se encuentran conceptualizados en la ventanilla
única de permisos de importación y los pagos de impuestos internos. También, bajo este
componente se ha formulado la Guía de Estándares de los sitios Web del gobierno, la
cual impactará positivamente al país y se han formulado los anteproyectos de ley de
firmas y comunicaciones electrónicas, de comercio electrónico, protección de datos y las
reformas al Código Penal sobre delitos informáticos. Entre los factores de éxito se tiene
el apoyo de la Comisión Nacional para la Sociedad de la Información, conformada por el
gobierno, la empresa privada y la academia, que formuló la estrategia de ePaís y el apoyo
de un grupo interinstitucional que ha colaborado en la revisión de los anteproyectos de
ley formulados. Entre las lecciones aprendidas, se puede mencionar que se puede lograr
avances aunque no se tenga un presupuesto amplio para estos fines. La unión de
esfuerzos entre los componentes de Desburocratización y de Conectividad permitirá en el
futuro mayores avances. Finalmente, queda como reto la implantación de todos los
componentes de la Estrategia Nacional del Programa ePaís, de la cual se ha avanzado en
el marco legal.


RECURSOS HUMANOS
Se estableció un sistema moderno de administración de la gestión de los recursos
humanos que permite transformar gradualmente la cultura de trabajo de los servidores



                                            52

públicos, para ello se capacitó a los funcionarios responsables de las Unidades de
Recursos Humanos y se fortaleció las capacidades de los funcionarios públicos.

El Sistema de Información de Recursos Humanos- SIRH (HRIS) está completamente
instalado   y    funcionado   en   todos   los  ministerios    y  en    65   instituciones
descentralizadas.   Además, se han diseñado aplicaciones que permitirían darle
mantenimiento a los subsistemas de Gestión de Recursos Humanos diseñados. El sistema
tiene la capacidad de proporcionar información sobre cantidad de personal contratado.

En cuanto al nuevo marco legal para la administración eficiente y flexible, se diseño pero
no se encontró el momento político adecuado para la aprobación correspondiente. Al no
aprobarse la unidad central de recursos humanos no se ha modificado el Reglamento
Interno del Órgano Ejecutivo en este sentido.

El Sistema de Gestión de Recursos Humanos detalla adecuadamente los lineamientos,
normas respaldado por los manuales correspondientes; en las áreas de Clasificación y
Evaluación de Puestos, Reclutamiento y Selección de personal, Gestión del Desempeño,
Retributiva y Capacitación

Entre los impactos de la operación, en relación con los objetivos acordados
Se han agilizado procesos con la utilización del SIRH, con ello se logra eficiencia, por el
tiempo y buen uso de los recursos, además se dispone de información sobre cantidad de
empleados, costo de planilla e información básica de inventario de personal. Se ha
fortalecido las unidades de recursos humanos de los ministerios, generando capacidad por
el conocimientos en la gestión de recursos humanos así: Jefes capaces de asumir su rol
en la gestión de recursos humanos; analistas que partiendo de descripciones de puestos
actualizadas o de puestos tipo hacen la clasificación y evaluación de puestos; se cuenta
con un proceso para la dotación de personal que permite transparencia en la selección de
personal; se dispone de información que permite conocer y tomar decisiones relativas a
una política retributiva. Así mismo se dispone de lineamientos para la elaboración de
planes de     capacitación que respondan a necesidades reales; se ha capacitado a
directores y gerentes en gestión de personal, generado capacidades directivas para
adecuar la gestión según convenga.

Algunos ministerios han acogido los conocimientos y experiencias vividas en el
Programa de Transferencia de Metodologías y adaptado los subsistemas de gestión de
recursos humanos diseñados a sus propias necesidades y lo han aprovechado.

MARCOS REGULATORIOS
Los objetivos
Sector Eléctrico: Incrementar el acceso a la electricidad a través de: 1. Diversificar la
matriz energética; 2. Incrementar la eficiencia energética; 3. Establecer una normativa
legal clara; 4. Incrementar la capacidad instalada nacional; 5. Participar en el desarrollo
del sistema de interconexión regional; y, 6. Incrementar el acceso de usuarios a la
electricidad, a través de una mayor cobertura de electrificación rural mediante sistemas
conectados a la red nacional.



                                           53

Sector Telecomunicaciones: 1. Establecer un marco legal apropiado; 2. y, Contar con un
ente regulador con capacidad institucional apropiada para supervisar las actividades de la
industria; Incrementar el acceso de los usuarios a las telecomunicaciones, mediante un
mayor desarrollo de nuevas tecnologías (alámbrica e inalámbrica) y de nuevos
operadores en el mercado.

Sector Transporte: 1. Contar con un ente rector responsable de la política integral; 2.
Fortalecer la regulación de los subsectores; 3. Mejorar la conectividad física de la red
carreteras; 4. Incrementar la construcción de infraestructura; y, 6.            Mejorar el
ordenamiento del transporte.

Acciones ejecutadas
Sector Eléctrico: 1. Privatización de la distribución (Participación Privada en Generación;
y, en Distribución); 2. Creación de la Unidad de Transacciones (UT); 3. Creación de la
SIGET; y, 4. Designación del Ministerio de Economía como ente rector.

Sector    Telecomunicaciones:      1.    Establecimiento     de   la   Ley    General   de
Telecomunicaciones; 2. Designación de la SIGET como ente regulador; y, 3. Aprobación
de la Ley de Privatización ANTEL.

Sector Transporte: 1. Reestructuración orgánica del MOPTVDU; 2. Creación del
FOVIAL; 2. Expansión de la infraestructura del AIES; 3. Construcción del Puerto La
Unión ­ en proceso; 4. Establecimiento de marcos legales e institucionales; 4. Creación
de la AAC y de la AMP; y, 5. Planificación de procesos de concesiones.

Resultados de las acciones

En el sector eléctrico
Impactos
Se cuenta con cuatro empresas generadoras; asimismo. En el área de distribución se
cuenta con cinco compañías que operan bajo territorios no exclusivos de suministro.
El sistema eléctrico de El Salvador se interconecta con las redes de Guatemala y de
Honduras con capacidad limitadas a 230 KV. Esta red se encuentra en ampliación con lo
cual se contará con 1,756 kilómetros de longitud total (15.7 % de El Salvador) y se
ampliará la capacidad de transporte a 300 MW entre países.
El Índice de Electrificación del país evidencia fue de 52% y de 81% en los últimos años.
La tasa de crecimiento anual promedio de consumo energético del país fue de 3.3% para
los años 1998 a 2004. El 38% de las ventas corresponde al sector doméstico y el 62% al
comercio y a la industria.
Los precios mensuales de la energía eléctrica en el rango de 0 ­100 kwh-mes se han
venido subsidiando por un costo anual aproximado de US $30 millones (el 10% de las
ventas totales de energía). Los precios varían significativamente entre empresas
distribuidoras.




                                              54

En el sector telecomunicaciones
Impactos
Se cuenta con 9 operadores de telefonía fija, y con cinco empresas de telefonía móvil.; en
servicios de Internet se cuenta con una reducida cantidad de operadores.
A finales de 1986, el mercado presentó: 3, 851,611 líneas móviles (14.76 de densidad por
cada 100 habitantes) y con 1, 035,777 líneas fijas (55.10 de densidad por cada 100
habitantes); se tienen 69.86 teléfonos fijos y móviles por cada 100 habitantes.

En cuanto al sector transporte
Impactos
Mejor utilización de recursos públicos del MOPTVDU con lo cual se ha logrado la
construcción y rehabilitación de más de 1,466 kms de caminos principales.

Se ha dado mejor mantenimiento a la red prioritaria de carreteras de aproximadamente
6,000 kms.

Durante el período 1995 - 1999 la inversión en infraestructura totalizó unos US $500
millones. Durante el quinquenio 2000-2004 se ejecutó una inversión total de US $712
millones.
La reforma laboral efectuada en el año 2002 en el Puerto de Acajutla permitió a éste
incrementar significativamente su eficiencia operacional y financiera. La primera etapa
del Puerto La concluirá a finales del 2008.
El Aeropuerto Internacional El Salvador (AIES) ha sido calificado como aeropuerto 4E.

COMPRAS Y CONTRATACIONES
La reforma del Sistema de Adquisiciones y Contrataciones de la Administración Pública
inició en 1996 con la elaboración del anteproyecto de la Ley de Adquisiciones y
Contrataciones de la Administración Pública ­ LACAP, la que respondía a la necesidad
del Estado en materia de adquisiciones y contrataciones administrativas, se obtuvo el
apoyo de la unidad legislativa para su discusión y aprobación. Lo que implicó establecer
un nuevo marco legal e institucional para la administración pública, a fin de que las
compras de bienes, servicios y la contratación de obras se llevaran a cabo con agilidad,
eficiencia, calidad y transparencia. En el año 2000 la Ley fue aprobada por la Asamblea
Legislativa.

El Componente Compras y Contrataciones de la Comisión Presidencial para la
Modernización del Sector Público ­CPMSP de la Secretaría Técnica de la Presidencia, ha
coordinado la implementación del proceso de modernización del Sistema de
Adquisiciones y Contrataciones de la Administración Pública de El Salvador, este tema
formó parte de las diferentes agendas presidenciales, en el período actual forma parte del
Plan de Gobierno País Seguro 2004-2009, en la Acción Probidad y Transparencia:
Gobierno Honesto al Servicio del Pueblo.

Entre los logros más significativos que se han obtenido en este proceso se puede
mencionar que con la aprobación de la LACAP fue unificado en un solo instrumento
legal toda la diversidad de leyes y normativas institucionales que regulaban la gestión de
compras y contrataciones, la actual legislación no hace excepción de ninguna institución


                                             55

del Estado y de todas aquellas que utilicen fondos públicos. Este marco legal ha sido
complementado con otros instrumentos jurídicos como son el Reglamento y la Política
Anual de Adquisiciones y Contrataciones.

Se creó la Unidad Normativa de Adquisiciones y Contrataciones (UNAC), adscrita al
Ministerio de Hacienda, responsable de capacitar y apoyar la implementación de medidas
de carácter general que coadyuvan al sistema de adquisiciones y contrataciones de las
Instituciones del Estado. En el proceso de fortalecimiento de la UNAC se estableció una
metodología de trabajo integrado, entre Secretaría Técnica de la Presidencia de la
República y UNAC, con un fin común, el fortalecimiento del Sistema de Contrataciones
públicas hacia la transparencia, eficiencia y una efectiva divulgación del cumplimiento de
toda la normativa. Al fortalecer a la UNAC se han desencadenando esfuerzos
institucionales y se ha evitado el riesgo del sesgo hacia el excesivo control en detrimento
de la eficiencia.

Se establecieron Unidades de Adquisiciones y Contrataciones Institucionales (UACI),
que trabajan bajo el principio de descentralización operativa, responsables de ejecutar
todos los procesos de adquisiciones y contrataciones de las Instituciones. Estas unidades
han sido fortalecidas mediante programas anuales de capacitación en diversos temas entre
los que se destacan la aplicación de la Ley y su Reglamento, el diseño y aplicación de
criterios de evaluación objetivos, mensurables y no arbitrarios, resolución de conflictos y
controversias, participación de las micro y pequeñas empresas en los procesos que
promueven las instituciones, aplicación del capítulo 9, Compras Públicas, del Tratado de
Libre Comercio CAFTA-DR.

Fue creado un programa de intercambio de buenas prácticas, en el que se estableció la
Red de Jefes UACI. El objetivo principal de este programa ha sido orientar a estas
unidades en sus procesos internos de modernización, creando verdaderos gerentes de
adquisiciones.

Se impulsó un programa denominado Gobiernos Municipales a los Ojos de Todos, cuyo
objetivo es brindarle asesoría a las 262 Alcaldías en el tema de Adquisiciones. Se
coordinó el desarrollo de un programa de preparación de capacitadores del Instituto
Salvadoreño de Desarrollo Municipal- ISDEM y del Fondo de Inversión Social para el
Desarrollo Local ­FISDL, en la aplicación de la Ley y en la normativa de adquisiciones
de organismos internacionales, para que sean éstos los que sirvan de agentes
multiplicadores de su aplicación en los municipios. Se ha establecido alianzas
estratégicas con gremiales y con instancias que fortalecen a la empresa privada así como
a las micro y pequeñas empresas con el propósito de mejorar sus capacidades para que
puedan participar en los procesos de adquisiciones que realizan las instituciones de la
Administración Pública, permite a las Instituciones gubernamentales optimizar sus
recursos y al sector privado ofertar en los procesos de adquisiciones con igualdad de las
condiciones de participación. En la estrategia de diseño, construcción, desarrollo e
implantación del Sistema Informático de Compras y Contrataciones Públicas-
Compr@Sal, se ha delimitado los objetivos específicos, el financiamiento necesario y la




                                             56

programación para su ejecución. Así mismo se cuenta con un diagnóstico de la situación
actual de la gestión e infraestructura tecnológica y de conectividad de las UACI.

Para la puesta en marcha del Compr@Sal se ha establecido un Nivel Organizacional,
Estratégico y Decisorio, el cual considera tres aspectos fundamentales; Coordinación
técnica, representado por el Componente Compras y Contrataciones de la Secretaría
Técnica de la Presidencia, normativo a cargo de la Unidad Normativa de Adquisiciones y
Contrataciones-UNAC y tecnológico a cargo de la Unidad de Tecnología, estas dos
últimas del Ministerio de Hacienda.

Se ha identificado los componentes del Compr@Sal con proyecciones de crecimiento
modular,     fomentando la transparencia por medio de la puesta en producción del
MODDIV como primer módulo del Compr@Sal, a este pueden acceder todos los
ciudadanos, en él se publican las oportunidades de compra en las instituciones del
Estado, las diferentes etapas de los procesos, las adjudicaciones, etc. Puede ser
consultado en el sitio http://www.comprasal.gob.sv, este módulo es utilizado por el 100%
de las instituciones públicas que cuentan con acceso a Internet.

Los módulos de Mesa de Ayuda, Gestión de Garantías y Registro de Conflictos y
Controversias e inconformidades, han sido finalizados en su diseño y construcción,
actualmente está en fase de implantación por la UNAC.

Se cuenta con el diseño del módulo Plan de Compras y Licitaciones, el cual permitirá
realizar los procesos de forma transaccional, desde elaboración del Plan Anual de
compras hasta la contratación, para el desarrollo e implantación de éste se necesita
financiamiento. Los módulos pendientes de diseño, construcción e implantación son:
Administración de Contratos, Registro de Proveedores, Portal de Pagos, compras por
catálogo y Gestión por Resultados, este último está en proceso de contratación.

Para la operatividad del Compr@Sal y la ejecución de la capacitación en la implantación
de los diferentes módulos, fue adquirido equipo informático que ha venido a fortalecer la
capacidad tecnológica de la UNAC y del Ministerio de Hacienda.

En el contexto internacional a fin de conocer los avances en los programas de reforma y
modernización de los Sistemas de Compras y Contrataciones Públicas de otros países, en
El Salvador se realizaron dos eventos Internacionales, en los cuales participaron
representantes de Centro América, Panamá y Chile. El Salvador ha participado en
diferentes eventos internacionales en el tema y actualmente se ejerce la Coordinación
latinoamericana de autoridades de compras públicas para el fortalecimiento de las
MIPYMES, Coordinación centroamericana de la red latinoamericana de autoridades de
compras, Miembro del grupo de trabajo relativo a la contratación pública de la Comisión
de la ONU para el derecho mercantil internacional y la Representación en mesas de
negociación TLC.

ADMINISTRACION FINANCIERA INTEGRADA
La Comisión proporcionó apoyo y asistencia técnica en la coordinación del proyecto
SAFI, hasta abril de 1998, porque de allí en adelante el BID proporcionó financiamiento
para este componente, con el fin de facilitar el arranque de un proceso de reforma se
realizaron acciones de divulgación y promoción de la Ley de AFI y su reglamento; diseño


                                             57

de un sistema de gestión desarrollado a través del Macroproceso Integrado del Ciclo
Presupuestario.

Impacto:
Se cuenta con un Sistema de Administración Financiera integrado que ha sido
implantado, mecanizado y en línea, lo cual imprime transparencia y eficiencia a la
gestión del gasto público.

PENSIONES
Se proporción apoyo y asistencia técnica para el establecimiento de un nuevo marco
técnico y legal previsional; para la creación de la Superintendencia de Pensiones y la
divulgación de material para la educación al ciudadano sobre el nuevo sistema
previsional y la creación de Administradoras de Fondos de Pensiones- AFP.
Impacto:
Se ha logrado constituir un sistema de pensiones de capitalización, basado en las
aportaciones de cuenta individual que permitirán financiar la pensión del afiliado y
solamente de manera subsidiaria con aportes del Estado, como el caso de pensión mínima
o las obligaciones que correspondan por el sistema antiguo de reparto. Por otra parte, el
sistema se encuentra regulado y supervisado por la Superintendencia de Pensiones, que
cuenta con personal especializado y capacitado en sus labores. Por otra parte, también se
ha dedicado recursos para constituir una sola base el historial laboral de todos los
afiliados al sistema de pensiones público y el nuevo sistema, con lo cual se tiene una base
para reconocer los derechos de los afiliados.

UNIDAD TECNICA COORDINADORA
Administración Financiera del Programa
La información financiera del proyecto proporciona de manera clara y oportuna la
información de los recursos del programa, los desembolsos efectuados, las
disponibilidades bancarias, los pagos a consultores y compras de bienes, el control
interno es el adecuado, como se puede comprobar con todas las auditorias efectuadas por
las firmas auditoras externas, así como la de la Corte de Cuentas, cuyos informes desde el
inicio del proyecto han sido de opinión limpia, dichos informes se han remitido al Banco
y no han emitido ninguna observación a los mismos. Además se han tenido dos misiones
del Banco para revisar la parte financiera y no se tuvieron observaciones en cuanto al
control, justificación de desembolsos, ni a la presentación de los informes financieros.

ADELANTO CUENTA DESIGNADA

Depósito Inicial BIRF                         $2,100,000.00
Menos: Montos recuperados e incremento en $1,001,488.23
cuenta designada
SALDO POR DOCUMENTAR                          $1,098,511.77
Saldo en Bancos, al 31 oct-07                 $ 248,710.18
Pendiente de documentar al Banco              $ 849,801.59
TOTAL POR RECUPERAR al 25 oct-07              $1,098,511.77
Se reintegrará al BIRF $248,710.18 de fondos no utilizados



                                             58

ESTADO DE INVERSIONES- EJECUCION FISICA-FINANCIERA
    COMPONENTES            PRESUPUESTO        INVERSION        SALDO NO           % DE
                               ACTUAL        ACUMULADA EJECUTADO EJECUCION
REESTRUCTURACION                3,044,423.56   3,006,923.56       37,500.00
DESCENTRALIZACION                 955,243.15     861,265.37       93,977.78
DESBUROCRATIZACION              2,302,138.55   2,110,336.79      191,801.76
CONECTIVIDAD                     439,343.20      293,597.31      145,745.89
RECURSOS HUMANOS                4,439,381.70   4,439,381.62             0.08
AFI                               484,022.00     494,021.94             0.06
MARCOS                          2,153,373.62   2,153,373.62                0
REGULATORIOS
PENSIONES                       3,000,131.03   3,000,131.03                0
COMPRAS Y                       1,545,415.62   1,068,895.86      476,519.76
CONTRATACIONES
UNIDAD                          4,863,253.05   4,827,881.08       35,371.97
COORDINADORA
SIN ASIGNAR                       773,274.52                     773,274.52
         TOTAL                24,000,000.00   22,245,808.18    1,754,191.82       93%

El monto no ejecutado del préstamo asciende a $1,754,191.82

ESTADO DE DESEMBOLSOS
CATEGORIA             PRESUPUESTO           DESEMBOLSADO          SALDO
                      ACTUAL                                      PRESTAMO
BIENES                        3,315,093.00          2,070,057.83           1,245,035.17
SERVICIOS                    19,686,169.00        18,327,210.91            1,358,958.09
CONSULTORIA
REEMBOLSO PPF                   998,738.00            998,737.85                   0.15
CUENTA                                              1,098,511.77          -1,098,511.77
DESIGNADA-BCR
SALDO A                                                                     248,710.18
REINTEGRAR
                             24,000,000.00        22,494,518.36            1,754,191.82
A este valor hay que agregar los $248,701.18 que se reintegrarán de la cuenta designada,
por no haberse utilizado.




                                           59

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not available.




                                    60

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Project Files (1997-2007): Project Appraisal Documents (comments on Yellow Cover
Memo), Aide Memoirs, Back-to-Office Reports, Project Status Reports, ISRs, and other
documents provided by the Borrower (Completion Report and Semi Annual Reports).

Shepherd, Jorge (2006), Taking Stock ­ An Update on El Salvador's Public Sector
Modernization Loan, Washington D.C.

STP (2007), Experiences in Debureaucratization in El Salvador, San Salvador.

World Bank (1996), Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the IBRD to
the Executive Directors on a Proposed Loan for US$24 Million to the Republic of El
Salvador for a PSMTAL, Report No. P-6839-ES.

World Bank (1996), Technical Annex PSMTAL, Report No. T-6839-ES.

World Bank (2006), El Salvador - Recent economic developments in infrastructure -
strategy report (REDI-SR), Report No.37689, Washington D.C.

World Bank (2005), Pension Reform in El Salvador, Social Protection Discussion Papers
Series No. 0507, Washington D.C.

World Bank (2005), Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of El Salvador, Report
No. 30849-SV.

World Bank (2001), Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of El Salvador, Report
No. 22932-SV.

World Bank (1997), Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of El Salvador, Report
No. 16307.

World Bank (1997), ICR Technical Assistance Loan, Report No. 16832.

World Bank (1996), Loan Agreement between Republic of El Salvador and IBRD, Loan
No. 4082-ES.




                                           61

