Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15203-WBGZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
WEST BANK AND GAZA
WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES PROJECT IN GAZA
Nay 30, 1996
Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 1996)
Currency Unit: New Israeli Sheqalim (NIS)
US$1.0 = NIS 3.1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I meter (m)       =   1.09 yards (yd)
I m2              =   10.76 square feet
I kilometer (km)   =   0.62 miles (mi)
I km2             =   0.38 square miles
ABBREVIATIONS
DANIDA   =        Danish International Development Agency
EAP        =      Emergency Assistance Program
EAPC       =      Executive Authority of the Palestinian Council
EHRP       =      Education and Health Rehabilitation Project
ERP        =      Emergency Rehabilitation Project
ERR        =      Economic Rate of Return
GDP        =      Gross Domestic Product
GNP        =      Gross National Product
HF         =      Holst Fund
ICB        =      International Competitive Bidding
IDA        =      International Development Association
JWU               Jerusalem Water Undertaking
LYSA       =      Lyonnaise des Eaux
MCM               Million Cubic Meters
MOPIC    =        Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
MOU        =      Memorandum of Understanding
NCB        =      National Competitive Bidding
NIS        =      New Israeli Sheqalim
O&M        =      Operation and Maintenance
PECDAR   =        Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction
PLO        =      Palestine Liberation Organization
PWA        =      Palestinian Water Authority
RFP        =      Request for Proposals
SA         =      Special Account
SBD        =      Standard Bidding Documents
SC         =      Steering Committee
SOE        =      Statement of Expenditures
TA                Technical Assistance
TATF       =      Technical Assistance Trust Fund
TCT        =      Technical Counterpart Team
TFG        =      Trust Fund for Gaza
TFGWB             Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
TOR        =      Terms of Reference
UNDP       =      United Nations Development Programme
UNRWA   =         United Nations Relief and Works Agency
WTP        =      Willingness to Pay
WBG        =      West Bank and Gaza
WWCG    =         Water and Wastewater Company for Gaza
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December31



WEST BANK AND GAZA
WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES PROJECT IN GAZA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..................
I.      BACKGROUND ..................................................... I
H.  THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR ........................                                                    2
A.  Water Resources . ................................................. 2
B.    Institutional Structure  .           ............................................. 2
C.    Sector Issues and Constraints ......................................... 3
D.    Sector Investment Program   .......................................... 4
E.    Sector Outlook   .          ................................................. 5
F.    World Bank Group Strategy and Rationale for IDA  Involvement ................ 5
HI. SECTOR RESTRUCTURING                                ...............................                                7
A.    Sector Objectives ................................................. 7
B.    Palestinian Council's Water Policy ..................................... 7
C.    The New  Institutional Framework   ..................................... 8
IV.  PROGRAM AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION .............................                                                     8
A.    Program  Objectives and Description  .................................... 8
B.    Project Objectives and Description  ..................................... 9
C.    Environmental Aspects ............................................  10
D.    Investment Program   ..............................................  10
E.    Experience With Past Lending .......................................  I I
V.  PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS ..                                                       11.... 1
A.  Cost Estimates .              .................................................. I1
B.    Parallel Financing  ...............................................  12
C.    Procurement and Disbursements ......................................  12
This report is based on the findings of pre-appraisal and appraisal missions which visited the West Bank and Gaza in October
1995 and January 1996 and was prepared by a team led by Mr. Jamal Saghir, Task Manager/Sr. Private Sector Development
Specialist. The team consisted of the following members: Mme./Messrs. Andrew Macoun, Sanitary Engineer; Peter Koenig,
Water ResourcesPlanner; Prajapati Trivedi, Private Sector Development Specialist; David Howarth, Senior Procurement Advisor;
Wiley Archer, Water Engineer (Consultant); Dan Elliot, Water Economist (Consultant); James Jackson, Water Supply and
Sewerage Attomey (Consultant); Ibrahim Safi, Water Sector Analyst (Consultant); and Christine Szuszkiewicz, Research
Associate. The report was produced by Ms. Sonia Wheeler. Peer reviewers were Messrs. Alain Locussol (EA31N); Vincent
Gouame (EMTIE); and Guillermo Yepes (TWUWS). The Division Chief is Mr. Alastair McKechnie (MN2PI) and the Program
Manager is Mr. Odin Knudsen (MNCWG). The Regional Vice President is Mr. Kemal DerviS (MNA).



ii
VI.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .................................... 13
A.   Project Management Arrangements .................................... 13
B. Implementation Schedule ..................................... 13
C. Accounting and Auditing ..................................... 13
D.   Supervision Requirements and Monitoring  . ............................. 14
VII.  FINANCLAL ANALYSIS  ................. ................... 14
A.   Current Situation ....................................  14
B.   Financial Outlook  .................................... 15
VIII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  . .16
A. Social and Economic Justification .16
B. Economic Benefits .16
C. Risks .18
D. Project Affordability .19
IX. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ............................... 19
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1  - Project/Program Description
Annex 2  - Environmental Analysis
Annex 3  - Project Costs
Annex 4  - Procurement Arrangements
Annex 5  - Disbursement Schedule
Annex 6  - Implementation Schedule
Annex 7  - Comparative Financial Statistics
Annex 8  - Methodology for Financial and Economic Analysis
Annex 9  - Performance Obligations of the Operator: Performance Indicators
Annex 10 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Map IBRD No. 27652



WEST BANK AND GAZA
WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES PROJECT IN GAZA
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) for the benefit of the Palestinian
Council
Implementing Agency:   Palestinian Water Authority (PWA)
Beneficiaries:          16 Municipalities and Village Councils in Gaza; and the Palestinian Water
Authority
Credit Amount:          US$25.0 million equivalent
Terms:                  IDA credit terms with 40 years' maturity, including 10 years' grace
Financing Plan:
Local               Foreign                Total
Fdgoc  - ------------------------     (US$ million) ------------------------------
Executive Authority of        3.0                                        3.0
the Palestinian Council
Trust Fund for Gaza           4.0                  21.0                 25.0
and West Bank
Total Project                 7.0                  21.0                 28.0
Project Objectives:     To address urgent priorities aiming at: improving the quality, quantity and
management of water and sanitation services in Gaza through a private
sector Management Contract for water and wastewater operations;
strengthening and restructuring the institutional framework for both service
delivery and for sector governance functions; and creating the operational,
institutional and managerial conditions for priority rehabilitation, upgrading
and extension projects to be financed by donors.
Project Description:    The project consists of: (a) the provision of an International Operator under
a four-year Management Contract to implement a Service Improvement
Program; (b) the provision of operating investment funds for the Operator,
built into the Management Contract, essential to fund goods, equipment,
works and services required for improving services and for attainment of
performance targets; and (c) the provision of technical assistance to:
(i) strengthen the newly created PWA; (ii) support implementation and
monitoring of the project; and (iii) provide independent auditors to monitor
the Operator's technical and financial performance.



ii
Benefits and Risks:      The project is expected to produce financial, social and economic benefits
with regard to: (i) saved water and increased revenues by repairing and
installing micro- and macro-meters, leakage repairs and reducing the amount
of accounts receivable; (ii) improving drinking water and treated wastewater
quality and thereby reducing health risks and environmental degradation; and
(iii) improving service delivery, increasing per capita availability of drinking
water, and extending connections to unserved populations. However, there
are several risks related to implementing a project in the West Bank and
Gaza (WBG), not all of which can be addressed at this point: (a) the
potential for political instability, that could have several negative
implications:   (i) access obstruction  due to  border closure; and
(ii) administrative difficulties to implement the Service Improvement
Program by the Operator; (b) non-perforrnance of the Operator; and (c) lack
of counterpart funds and less than anticipated income generation. The
project is addressing these factors as follows: (a) political instability: all
projects in WBG face political risks. The Peace Process has developed
momentum and passed significant milestones, including Palestinian self-rule
in Gaza and parts of the West Bank; nevertheless, disruptions due to political
events can be expected from time to time and could delay implementation;
(b) non-performance of the Operator: the Operator will work according to
clearly defined and quantified performance criteria and will be compensated,
in part, by a perforrnance incentive fee, built into the contract; and all
sixteen municipalities and village councils have signed a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) attesting to their support for the project and agreeing
to facilitate the work of the Operator; and (c) lack of counterpartfinds: the
financial analysis has shown that current tariffs, combined with an increased
sector efficiency, brought about by the Operator, will significantly improve
financial performance.
Poverty Category:        The project is not a part of a core poverty program but is focused on Gaza
where poverty is most acute. It will have a beneficial impact on poor
households which are sometimes forced to purchase water from vendors at
relatively high prices during service interruptions. Improvement of the
quality of the water and improved sanitation will have a positive impact on
reduction of gastro-enteric and other water-related diseases, which most often
affect the poor.
Economic Rate of Return: 14 percent
Environment Rating:      "B"
Map:                     IBRD No. 27652
Project ID No.:          40505



WEST BANK AND GAZA
WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES PROJECT IN GAZA
STAFF APPRAISA L REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
1.1    The combined area of the West Bank and Gaza (WBG) is approximately 6,000 square kilometers.
The 1994 estimated combined population was about 2.4 million, of which 38 percent reside in the Gaza
Strip. With its extremely dense population of 2,225 persons per square kilometer, the Gaza Strip has only
16 towns and villages. Registered refugees represent 72 percent of its population, of which about
50 percent live in refugee camps. The WBG has a per capita Gross National Product (GNP) of US$1,453
(1994), with a marked discrepancy in incomes between Gaza ($857) and the West Bank ($1,819).
Estimates for 1995 suggest real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth of 3.5 percent, but due to further
loss in employment opportunities for Palestinian workers in Israel', and allowing for population increase,
real per capita GNP declined by an estimated 8 percent. Also, the already high 20 percent unemployment
rate in 1994 is estimated to have risen to 25 percent. This indicates that the positive job creation
performance, particularly in residential construction, was insufficient to overcome the impact of repeated
Israeli border closures. The prospects for 1996 had appeared somewhat more promising until the recent
bombings in Israel. These have led to extended border closings which have had a severely negative
impact on economic and social life. Unemployment is now at crisis levels, particularly in Gaza. GDP
and GNP in WBG are projected to decline by -11 and -17 percent, respectively, in real terms for 1996
as a whole.
1.2    The Interim Agreement signed between the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and the
Government of the State of Israel on September 28, 1995, restates parts of the Agreement on the Gaza
Strip and Jericho Area signed in May 1994, and of the Agreement on Preparatory Transfer of Powers and
Responsibilities (Cairo Agreement), signed in August 1994, and in so doing, supersedes the latter two
agreements. Under the Interim Agreement, increasing responsibility has been granted to the Palestinian
Council for public services in WBG, including the power to operate, manage and develop water and
sewerage systems and resources. However, the existing systems supplying water to the Settlements and
the Military Installation Area, and the water system and resources inside them continue to be operated and
managed by the Israeli Mekoroth Water Company (Mekoroth).
1.3    The situation of the water sector is critical in both the West Bank and in Gaza. However, the
extreme water resources limitations facing Gaza, possibly one of the most serious in the world today,
demand a much better level of water resources management and greatly improved standard of service
delivery to be achieved, and quickly. Groundwater, the only significant available source of water, is
seriously over-utilized and badly contaminated.
1.4    There is an urgent need to complete the rehabilitation programn which has started under the
Emergency Rehabilitation Project (ERP) and other bilateral donors' initiatives. The Executive Authority
of the Palestinian Council (EAPC) places a high priority on the improvement of water and wastewater
services in Gaza. A number of donor-supported investment and technical assistance projects are already
underway in Gaza in order to: (a) extend the provision of water; (b) improve sewage collection and
disposal facilities; (c) provide a healthy and clean environment for Gaza's inhabitants; and (d) attract the
1/    About 63,000 job opportunities were lost between 1992 and 1994, and another 29,000 in 1995.



2                                                 Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza
business which is essential to economic development. The proposed project aims at continuing and
reinforcing this effort.
H. THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
A.    Water Resources
2.1    Almost the sole source of water in Gaza is the shallow aquifer that underlies the whole Gaza Strip
and extends north into Israel. Accurate data is generally not available and estimates of abstractions and
recharge vary considerably. There is agreement, however, that recharge is in the order of 60 million cubic
meters (MCM) per year and is greatly exceeded by abstractions estimated at more than 130 MCM per
year. Consequently, the water table is falling and quality is deteriorating as a result of both over-
abstraction, which causes seawater intrusion and up-coning of deeper saline water, and contamination by
seepage of pollutants from the surface, particularly from cesspits and septic tanks. Salinity and nitrates
now exceed recommended standards for potable purposes over most of the Gaza Strip and agricultural use
is increasingly affected by high salinity. Municipal water allocation from the Gaza aquifer accounts for
only 30-35 MCM per year and is obtained from approximately 50 wells. An additional small quantity of
currently 6.2 MCM is purchased from Mekoroth to supply areas where groundwater salinity is excessive.
2.2    There are no ready solutions to the water shortage and quality problems. Total annually renewable
water resources are less than 70 cubic meters per capita, a level that constraints economic productivity.
Limited quantities are available for purchase from Israel but at a price that is relatively expensive, even
for municipal use. Alternatives such as desalination and importation, even from the West Bank, would
also be expensive and require many years to implement. The conclusion is that the Palestinians of Gaza
must primarily rely on better use and management of their own water resources rather than look for
external solutions. Improved institutional capacity will be needed for both regulation and provision of
services from these resources.
2.3    Furthermore, due to expected improved network efficiency, the current effective per capita use
(water actually delivered to households and industries) of about 70 liters per day is expected to increase
with this project by about 35 percent. Under the September 28, 1996 Interim Agreement, Gaza is also
entitled to receive 5 MCM per year of additional water from Mekoroth (at a proposed cost of US$0.46
per cubic meter). This will help to maintain the current level of supply as the population increases,
estimated at present at 6.2 percent per annum, gradually decreasing to 3.5 percent over the next ten years.2
Even though these changes, developments and additional supplies are far from sufficient to cover unmet
demand for municipal water, the improvements resulting from the project will progressively increase sector
revenues and put it on a path toward financial viability, which, in the long rnn, may allow exploration of
more expensive, alternative water resources.
B.    Institutional Structure
2.4    Prior to the Cairo Agreement of August 1994, under which the Israeli military and Civil
Administration withdrew from Gaza, water resources were administered by the Water Department of the
Civil Administration. Permits for the drilling of new wells were restricted and quotas were placed on
2/     Source: Palestinian Bureau of Statistics--Demography of the Palestinian Population in the West Bank
and Gaza Strip (December 1994).



Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza                                              3
abstractions from all but municipal wells. These restrictions were not enforced in the weeks preceding
and subsequent to the handover of responsibilities, and illegal wells proliferated. The Water Department
was placed under the Ministry of Agriculture when it was established, but responsibility for regulatory
matters in the water sector will be transferred to the newly created Palestinian Water Authority (PWA).
The PWA was established by Decree 90/1995 in April 1995, and its powers and responsibilities defined
in Bylaws (Law No 18/1996) enacted on January 18, 1996. The PWA has policy-making and regulatory
responsibilities for both Gaza and the West Bank. Its authority in the West Bank is limited under the
Interim Agreement pending final negotiations of the Israeli-Palestinian Peace Agreement.
C.    Sector Issues and Constraints
2.5    The present fragmented institutional structure in Gaza, with responsibility divided between
4 municipal water departments, 12 village councils, and a United Nations agency, is incompatible with
efficient service delivery and the integrated management of the limited groundwater resources. The key
sector challenges are: (a) improving water resource management and environmental health conditions,
particularly management of the Gaza aquifer; (b) improving water supply delivery systems; (c) improving
the sewerage collection, treatment and disposal system; (d) improving wastewater resource management;
and (e) strengthening the institutional, financial and regulatory framework for the management of water
and wastewater.
2.6    WaterAvailability, Aquifer Overdraft and Allocation. Limited renewable water resources is the
main constraint for economic development in Gaza. Renewable water, all from underground resources,
is less than 70 cubic meters per capita per year, amnong the lowest in the world. Present water use in Gaza
currently is more than double the annually renewable supply of water. An additional 6.2 MCM per year
is purchased from Mekoroth to supply central and southern communities. Of the cumulative total of about
136 MCM (pumped from the Gaza aquifer and purchased from Mekoroth), about 70 percent is used for
agricultural irrigation. Of the balance, about half is unaccounted for and the remainder is used for
commercial and industrial purposes (estimated at about 6-7 MCM per year) and for domestic use (about
15 MCM per year).
2.7    Unaccountedfor Water. Approximately 650 miles of transmission and distribution mains provide
service to nearly 75,000 metered connections (there are also around 20,000 unmetered and illegal
connections). Neither the volume of water produced nor used is recorded with any accuracy. Although
most wells in Gaza and many consumers do have meters, many do not function, so that water pumped
and used can only be estimated. However, overall estimates indicate that about 50 percent of water in
municipal distribution networks is lost through leakages in distribution networks, illegal connections and
inaccurate, or lack of metering. In summary, the average Gaza citizen has less than 70 liters per capita
per day at disposal from public water supply, a low consumption in comparison to countries with similar
income levels which typically use 80-120 liters per capita per day.
2.8    Water Use in Agriculture  Although water conserving drip irrigation and plastic houses are
known and occasionally used, most crops are still flood irrigated, an inefficient use, since only about
30 percent of the water reaches the plant. The rest evaporates, or ends up as agriculture run-off or
drainage water, infiltrating through the soil into the shallow aquifers. The excessive water use in
agriculture is partly a result of the lack of control over the drilling of wells. Although theoretically a
license from the Ministry of Agriculture is necessary, it is estimated that at least 3,000 wells, of which
about 1,000 are illegal, have been drilled in the past 20 years in the Gaza Strip.



4                                                 Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza
2.9    Wastewater Collection, Treatment and Disposal Service coverage for sewerage is only about
25 percent in the Gaza Strip. The rest of the population uses septic tanks, pit latrines and other on-site
excreta and wastewater disposal systems. The three operational treatment plants are inefficient (Jabalya,
Gaza City and Rafah) and dispose of their insufficiently treated effluent either into the sea (without sea-
outfall) or in open fields, causing coastal and aquifer pollution. For example, the effluent of the Jabalya
treatment plant is a serious hazard for the still relatively unpolluted northem aquifer. New sewerage
systems are expensive with a per capita cost of up to US$400--which corresponds to about US$3,000-
4,000 per household. At this cost, full sewerage coverage is unaffordable. In addition, none of the
municipalities currently operating sewerage systems are able to fully recover Operation and Maintenance
(O&M) expenses from users. There is no capital cost recovery.
2.10   Water Quality. The tremendous overdraft from shallow aquifers has serious implications. Not
only are these resources finite and will eventually be exhausted, but the excessive withdrawals are causing
seawater intrusion and up-coning of deeper brackish water. The salinity of most groundwater in Gaza,
except for small areas in the north (6 MCM renewable) and south (3.5 MCM renewable) of the Gaza
Strip, exceeds by up to five times the maximum norm indicated by the World Health Organization.
Agricultural drainage water and leachate from sanitation facilities are the cause of high nitrate contents
in aquifers.
2.11   Cost Recovery. Data related to cost recovery is limited. In addition to inaccurate water metering,
there is no accounting separation between different operational departments in the 16 municipalities and
village councils. While it is possible to discern the revenues from water and wastewater services, the costs
incurred by these services cannot be clearly identified, as many functions are shared between different
departments. Accounts receivable at any given time are estimated at 32 percent, based on 1994 figures
and estimates. Overall, the 1994 financial deficit is estimated at only 2 percent, indicating that O&M costs
could be covered with present tariffs, if the collection rate could be improved significantly (see Section
VII "Financial Analysis"). However, maintenance expenditures are far below a level necessary to maintain
infrastructure adequately, and no provision is made for depreciation or capital cost recovery.
2.12   Tariffs. The 16 communities have twelve different tariff systems. Most tariffs are flat or
regressive and do not encourage conservation. Many municipalities and villages have large "social"
blocks, allowing water use of up to 20 or 30 cubic meters per month without variation in price. The
average tariff is between US$0.30 and US$0.40 per cubic meter. About 75 percent of all municipal water
is used by Gaza City, Jabalya, Deir al Balah, Khan Younis and Rafah. Their average tariff is about
US$0.20 to US$0.30 per cubic meter (see Section VII "Financial Analysis").
D.    Sector Investment Program
2.13   At this very early stage of Palestinian empowerment, planning of sector investments is still at a
very preliminary stage. Little investment took place during the period of military occupation although the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and United Nations Relief and Works Agency
(UNRWA) made important contributions and facilitated other donor funding for priority projects. The
Emergency Assistance Program (EAP) prepared in December 1993 defined a strategy for the sector with
initial investment priority given to: rehabilitation and selective extension of municipal and village water
networks; construction of new wells in selected municipalities and villages where resource, institutional
and political conditions permit; urgently needed tools and equipment to support improved O&M; the
development of the Jerusalem Water Undertaking (JWU) as a model regional utility; and rehabilitation
and extension of existing sewerage networks and treatment plants. These priorities have been supported
during the first two years by the ERP through the Palestinian Economic Council for Development and



Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza                                          5
Reconstruction (PECDAR) and by other bilateral donor-funded projects, mainly through UNDP, UNWRA
or directly with municipalities.
2.14   The Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MOPIC) was established in 1994 and
has moved swiftly to assess sector needs. A rapid review of water and sanitation requirements with a
10-year horizon indicates that investment needs in Gaza alone are in the order of US$500 million.
Detailed planning within the water sector is needed to define a sectoral investment program. This was
not possible prior to the establishment of the PWA. It has been agreed that a Gaza and West Bank Water
and Sanitation Planning Study will be implemented by the PWA, with funding provided by the Technical
Assistance Trust Fund (TATF), as an immediate priority to define a five- to ten-year investment
framework. Pending more detailed sectoral planning, the Bank/IDA has assisted the EAPC to define a
Core Investment Program, including the proposed Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza and a
Municipal Infrastructure Development Project which will include water sector investments in the West
Bank. The Core Investment Program was presented to a Donors' Meeting in Paris in January 1996. In
addition and in parallel to the Gaza project, which primarily addresses improvement of service operations,
around US$60 million investment program of priority infrastructure rehabilitation and improvements in
Gaza has been identified in conjunction with local governments. A number of bilaterally supported
projects are addressing some of the larger infrastructure improvement needs.
E.    Sector Outlook
2.15   A future situation is envisaged in which management of the separate municipal and village council
water and wastewater departments in Gaza would be consolidated into a single, efficient Water and
Wastewater Company for Gaza (WWCG), administratively and financially independent of the local
governments that it serves, but accountable to its customers to provide adequate supplies of water to meet
their drinking and other water needs, and to collect wastewater for treatment and re-use.
2.16   The immedfate objective, however, is to improve to an acceptable level the quality of water
supplied and wastewater treated, the quantity of water available, and the management of water and
wastewater services. To do so, an internationally experienced water and wastewater operator would assist
in implementing a service improvement program. The existing municipal and village council water and
wastewater departments would be strengthened, operation and maintenance of services improved, and the
management and financial accounting of water and wastewater services separated from other services.
This is expected to lead to the establishment of WWCG, capturing economies of scale, and facilitating a
more efficient, sustainable and equitable sharing of the limited available water resources.
2.17   Upon completion of the operator's contract, the fully functional unified WWCG is expected to
continue to operate autonomously under the direction of a Board of Directors. If the EAPC so chooses,
private sector management could be continued in the form of a management contract, affermage, or a
concession granted to the private sector to provide water and wastewater services for an extended period
of time.
F.    World Bank Group Strategy and Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.18   Bank Group Strategy. Bank strategy for WBG has four main themes: (a) restoring and further
developing basic and social infrastructure; (b) building policy-making and institutional capabilities;
(c) supporting private sector development; and (d) sustaining the financial viability of the EAPC. The
Bank has been at the forefront of efforts to help the EAPC define a feasible rehabilitation and
development strategy. It played a prominent role in setting a policy and investment framework through



6                                                  Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza
the 1993 study "Developing the Occupied Territories: an Investment in Peace" and has continued to play
a prominent role in helping the EAPC define investment priorities. As the Secretariat for the Ad Hoc
Liaison Committee, the Bank supplies regular information and analysis on aid flows and requirements to
all parties. To participate in financing the construction effort, in 1993 IBRD set up the Trust Fund for
Gaza (TFG) (US$50 million) from its own surplus, of which US$30 million was allocated to the ERP and
the balance of US$20 million to the EHRP. In October 1995, the Governors of IBRD and IDA approved
a US$90 million replenishment of the TFG and expanded the territorial scope of activities to the West
Bank (thus the TFG became the TFGWB). IDA has also developed a set of five supporting "Core
Investment Projects," including the currently proposed Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza.'
2.19   While preparation of the Core Projects is well advanced, the severity of the current economic crisis
(para. 1.1) required an immediate response. This is necessary to relieve unemployment, minimize social
hardship, and avoid permanent damage to the peace process. In response to the crisis, an Emergency
Employment Generation program has been developed which would create some 80,000-person days of
employment over the next few months. This program would be financed partly by the Hoist Fund and
by increasing the commitment to ERP by US$20 million. It would also be supported by accelerating
EHRP, the Municipal Infrastructure Development Project and the Water and Sanitation Services Project
in Gaza.
2.20   The Bank/IDA assistance strategy for the 1996-98 period focuses on the provision of basic/social
infrastructure, supporting the private sector, as well as helping sustain the financial viability of the
Palestinian administration and assisting in the development of key economic policies and institutions.4
To this end, eighteen project concepts were identified, cleared through the EAPC and distributed to
donors. The proposed Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza, one of the Core Investment projects,
supports the objectives of the Bank/IDA strategy, particularly restoring infrastructure, strengthening
institutions, and facilitating private sector involvement in the sector. The project would also build on the
ERP, continuing its focus on water and wastewater rehabilitation and narrowing the financial gap between
expenditures and revenues for water and wastewater services. The project is essential to the successful
restructuring and rehabilitation of the sector in Gaza. IDA's assistance will play a critical role in attracting
support and financing from other donors. IDA's involvement will also help maintain the impetus for
sector institutional restructuring and increase private sector participation through the introduction of a
management contract which will provide program management capacity that will encourage donor
financing of the water and wastewater sector in Gaza.
3/     Other core projects are: Municipal Infrastructure and Development Project (FY96); Palestinian Housing
and Housing Finance (FY97); Border and Local Estates (FY97); and Electricity Sector Investment and
Management (FY97).
4/     The new strategy was summnarized in a note presented to the Board on April 25, 1996 entitled "The
West Bank and Gaza: The World Bank's Response to the Current Economic Crisis: An Interim
Strategy," dated April 23, 1996.



Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza                                           7
III. SECTOR RESTRUCTURING
A.    Sector Objectives
3.1    The short-term strategy for the water and wastewater sector in WBG is to: (a) improve the
quantity of water and strengthen regulatory controls over the Gaza aquifer; institute effective conservation
practices to reduce losses and manage demand; improve the quality and management of water; (b) involve
the private sector in the provision and management of services; (c) continue to implement a program of
priority water network rehabilitation and expand piped water coverage to selected municipalities and
villages; implement a program of priority sewerage network and treatment plant rehabilitation; and develop
new wells; (d) lay the basis for long-term institutional reform; (e) create regional water and wastewater
companies by rationalizing and consolidating individual municipal utility departments and village councils;
(f) establish effective data collection and cost recovery policies and systems; and (g) establish an effective
regulatory framework. The medium- and long-term strategy is to: (a) develop and implement coherent
water resources management policies for the West Bank and for Gaza, including particularly a wastewater
re-use policy for Gaza; (b) develop regional water resources management policy with Jordan and Israel;
(c) extend and consolidate a program of priority network rehabilitation; expand piped water coverage to
all villages; (d) develop additional new wells in the context of an overall water resources management
strategy; (e) consider desalination subject to economic feasibility; (f) develop and implement a long-term
WBG-wide program of improvement to sewerage networks and treatment plants, and reclaimed water re-
use; and (g) increase private sector participation in the provision of services.
B.    Palestinian Council's Water Policy
3.2    The PWA has a number of agreements relating to water resources contained in the Interim
Agreement. These include management to prevent harm to the water resources, continued supply of water
to Settlements and the Military Installation Area, and payment of the real cost of water purchased from
Mekoroth. Law 18 of January 18, 1996 empowering the PWA to exercise its functions provides the
overall direction of sectoral policy. The PWA presented IDA with a detailed statement of Flements of
a Palestinian Water Policy. A key factor of the EAPC's water policy is the separation between regulatory
functions and service delivery. The PWA will be in charge of regulation, comprising tariff review, water
law and legislation, water extraction licensing and monitoring, overall sector planning and coordination,
and establishing standards for drinking water and wastewater quality, as well as other technical standards.
3.3    The legislation also establishes a Water Council to make decisions on sectoral policy, water
management, tariffs, and key organizational arrangements. The Water Council comprises representatives
of relevant ministries and research institutions. The role, mandate, scope of work and powers of the PWA
and its commissioner are defined in the legislation.
3.4    Water ResourcesPlanning/lInstitutionalStudy. During the first year of the project, the PWA will
carry out a Water Resources Planning/Institutional Study for the WBG, financed by the TATF, and
managed by IDA. The objectives of this study would be to formulate a vision for the water sector;
contribute to sector policy development and water resources strategy; develop plans for optimal use of
water allocations in accordance with the provision of Article 40 (Water and Sewage) of the Interim
Agreement; determine priority investments and estimate costs for a five- to ten-year investment program;
and assist to define a more appropriate institutional framework for service delivery.



8                                      -        Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza
C.    The New Institutional Framework
3.5    As indicated in previous sections, it is expected that in the future, water and sewerage
responsibilities in WBG will be merged into a small number of regional utility companies along similar
lines to the JWU in the Ramallah District. In Gaza a single company (WWCG) is envisaged. However,
in the short term, service provision in Gaza will remain the responsibility of municipalities and village
councils and a Management Contract Operator (Operator) will implement a Service Improvement Program.
3.6    The above policy has been agreed to by all municipalities, village councils in Gaza and the
PWA and translated into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed by all parties. It states that
the municipalities and village councils support the proposed Service Improvement Program and are willing
to cooperate and facilitate the assistance to be provided by an Operator. The municipalities and village
councils will also maintain, as a minimum, present operating levels and financing of water supply and
sanitation in their respective areas including staff, power and consumables. Moreover, they support in
principle the proposed WWCG, the form of which has yet to be determined and agreed; and they will
collaborate and cooperate fully with the Operator to facilitate necessary preparatory activities that will be
required in order to make a decision to proceed with the establishment of WWCG.
3.7   Implementation of the Management Contract would be facilitated by a Steering Committee (SC),
which was recently established and could subsequently become the Board of the WWCG. It comprises
representatives of the municipalities and village councils, consumers, the PWA, and appropriate ministries
of the EAPC. The SC would oversee and guide the activities of the Operator and provide advice to the
PWA.
3.8    The assistance provided by the Operator would be coordinated by a Technical Counterpart Team
(TCT) of responsible water engineers from municipalities and village councils. The TCT would work
hand in hand with the Operator, and facilitate access to and cooperation with the 16 municipalities and
village councils.
IV. PROGRAM AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.    Program Objectives and Description
4.1    The proposed project is designed within the framework of a program addressing the priority needs
for WBG as originally defined in the water and wastewater component of the three-year EAP. The
objective of the program is to improve the quality, quantity and management of water and wastewater
services in the WBG. It includes equipment procurement; upgrading and extension of municipal water
supply networks; rehabilitation, extension and construction of municipal storm-water and sewerage
networks; improvement of village water distribution and related programs; the drilling of new wells; and
improving management of water and wastewater services. For Gaza, the program includes: (a) the
provision of an Intemational Operator to implement a Service Improvement Program together with the
provision of operating capital for the Operator; (b) finance for investment in rehabilitation projects and
provision of additional water and wastewater facilities in areas where they are most urgently required
(through bilateral funding); and (c) Technical Assistance (TA) and Institutional Capacity Development.
A description of the program is given in Annex 1.



Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza                                          9
B.    Project Objectives and Description
4.2    Within the framework of the program, the project would address urgent priorities aimed at
improving the quality, quantity and management of water and wastewater services in Gaza. The proposed
Management Contract is a means to this end. The project will assist the EAPC in meeting urgent needs
(not covered under ERP) through: (a) improving water and sanitation services through a private sector
Management Contract for water and wastewater operations; (b) strengthening and restructuring the
institutional framework for both service delivery and for sector govemance functions; and (c) creating the
operational, institutional and managerial conditions for priority rehabilitation, upgrading and extension
projects to be financed by donors. The US$28 million project (including contingencies) consists of a
Management Contract (base fee of US$8.8 million, incentive fee of US$3 million); operating investment
(US$15 million including local contribution of US$3 million); and a TA component (US$1.2 million).
(a)    Management Contract Fees (US$1 1.8 million). The provision of an International Operator
under a four-year Management Contract to implement a Service Improvement Program.
In the first phase, the Operator will help improve the capacity and service delivery of
local, municipal and village council water departments, and in the second phase, will
assist in the creation of the WWCG that would consolidate the water services of the
municipalities and village councils.  Part of the Operator's payments will be a
performance incentive fee based upon the attainment of specific performance targets;
(b)    Operating Investment (US$15 million--TFGWB US$12 million and local contribution
US$3 million). The provision of operating investment funds for the Operator (US$12
million), built into the Management Contract, is essential to fund goods, works and
services required for improving water and wastewater services. Under the proposed
Service Improvement Program, it was agreed with all municipalities and village councils
that they will maintain, as a minimum, present operating levels of financing of water
supply and sanitation, including staff, power and consumables. The increase in efficiency
under the project of operating the water supply and sanitation systems in Gaza will result
in greater use of consumables, such as chlorine and fuel, as well as additional workload
on staff of the municipalities and village councils. The project includes US$0.35 million
(for the sake of efficiency, through the Operator) to finance part of these incremental
operating expenses. As the income from the Service Improvement Program increases, it
is projected that the systems will generate a minimum of US$3 million in revenues as a
local contribution to the project.
(c)    Technical Assistance and Institutional Capacity Development (US$1.2 million). The
provision of consultants including independent auditors to monitor the Operator's
technical and financial performance, a Project Manager, and an accountant, and equipment
to:  (i) strengthen the newly created PWA; and (ii) support implementation and
monitoring of the project.
4.3    The IDA Project File contains the Terms of Reference (TOR) for the auditors and other specialists
needed to strengthen the PWA and support monitoring and implementation of the project, and other
relevant documents as listed in Annex 10.



10                                               Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza
C.    Environmental Aspects
4.4    The proposed project has been placed in environmental screening category "B" consistent with
the provisions of World Bank Operational Directive 4.01, "Environmental Assessment."  The
Environmental Planning Directorate of the MOPIC has not issued environmnental assessment guidelines
for use in the WBG. However, once these procedures are issued they would be applicable to the proposed
project and to the parallel investment program. All investment projects (in excess of 100) which would
be financed in parallel by donors (outside the scope of the project) are subject to field-based review
against a set of criteria which include an assessment of environmental impacts. All selected projects will
be submitted for review and approval by Palestinian environmental authorities and by IDA environmental
specialists. Currently there are no known project proposals whose implementation would require land
acquisition or result in involuntary resettlement. No known archaeological or historical sites would be
affected by rehabilitation of sub-projects to be supported, nor does the operating investment component
of the project raise any international water issues. The project will not support major expansion or
rehabilitation of existing wastewater treatment facilities, for which bilateral funding would be used, but
will ensure that any expansion of wastewater collection facilities does not result in unacceptable
overloading of treatment facilities. The project would give particular attention to the findings and
recommendations of the report on Wastewater Treatment and Re-use Strategy for Gaza and the West Bank
commissioned by PECDAR in 1994. Implementation of the project would result in significant
improvement in the management of water and wastewater services in Gaza and in the regulation of
abstractions from the seriously overdrawn and contaminated Gaza aquifer. Staffing requirements of the
Operator require a sewerage engineer with experience in regulation of industrial wastewater, wastewater
treatment and reclaimed water re-use. The project also required, during its preparation, the issuance of
Bylaws for the PWA to exercise policy and regulatory functions (enacted as Law 18/1996). Technical
assistance will support improved control over groundwater abstractions.  Annex 2 includes the
Environmental Analysis.
D.    Investment Program
4.5    A capital investment program which is part of the larger programn for Gaza (para. 4.1) is to be
implemented as a parallel but closely linked activity, rather than as a component of the project, either
directly with donors, or through additional cofinancing of the ERP or the Municipal Development Project
(under preparation). Local governments have submitted requests for priority investment needs through
PECDAR, totalling approximately 130 projects at an estimated cost of $56 million. The list includes a
number of projects already prepared by PECDAR for implementation, but for which funding is not
available. A number of issues require resolution to enable implementation of these projects under a new
investment program: (i) few of the priority projects submitted by local governments to PECDAR are
ready for funding approval without more detailed feasibility review and assessment of their economic
justification (funding for a consultant to carry out detailed project preparation is being sought and one
donor has already expressed interest in financing this assistance); (ii) the PWA has neither the capacity
nor the mandate to implement an investment program; (iii) both the organization and procedures of
PECDAR would require refocusing if it were to continue as the implementing agency assisting local
governments; (iv) co-financing by donors remains to be clarified; and (v) major investments (such as the
utilization of the additional 5 MCM per year available from Israel) require a planning and prefeasibility
study to define a strategic plan for meeting Gaza's water and wastewater needs (TOR have been prepared
and funding is available from the TATF). The capital investment program is described in Annex 1.



Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza                                       11
E.    Experience With Past Lending
4.6   IDA involvement in WBG consists of the following activities: (a) two donor-financed Trust
Funds-the Hoist Fund (HF)-US$215 million of donor resources (to support start up and recurrent
expenditures), and the Technical Assistance Trust Fund (TATF)--US$25 million of donor resources;
(b) the Emergency Rehabilitation Project--USS30 million (FY94) and the Second Emergency
Rehabilitation Project-USS20 million (FY96); (c) the Education and Health Rehabilitation Project
(EHRP)-US$20 million (FY95); and (d) the Municipal Infrastructure Development Project-US$40
million (FY96). The first four operations are being executed by PECDAR. The last two projects are
being implemented by PECDAR and other sector ministries. PECDAR was established as an interim
agency pending the creation of sectoral ministries and authorities. Now that these organizations are in
place, they are in a better position to prepare and implement projects with the assistance of PECDAR, as
needed. More general lessons learned from IDA projects in WBG are to keep project design simple and
practical and to ensure local ownership. These lessons were incorporated into the design of the project.
4.7    Recognizing that successful project activities in WBG required quick turnaround, World Bank
management has delegated to the WBG Resident Representative the full authority to design and manage
all ongoing and future Bank assistance programs.
V. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS
A.    Cost Estimates
5.1   The total project cost, including the local contribution of US$3 million, is estimated at
US$28 million equivalent with a foreign exchange component of about US$21 million equivalent (or
75 percent of total project cost). The total cost is net of taxes and duties. Annex 3 summarizes project
costs by component and by expenditure category. Contingencies for the base fee of the Management
Contract are included in the project cost. The Trust Fund Credit (Credit) of US$25 million equivalent on
IDA terms would finance 100 percent of total costs of the Management Contract, Operating Investment
needed for the Operator, and TA activities. This reflects the inability of the EAPC to provide counterpart
funding at this point. However, as indicated in the project description, as the income from the Service
Improvement Program increases, it is projected that the systems will generate a minimum of US$3 million
in revenues sufficient to cover a portion of the costs of operation of the water and wastewater sector in
Gaza, as local contribution. The financing plan is as follows:
Table 5.1: Financing Plan
Local        Foreign         Total
Funding Sources
(USS million)
Executive Authority of the Palestinian Council  3.0                         3.0
Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank              4.0           21.0          25.0
Total Project                                  7.0           21.0          28.0



12                                               Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza
B.    Parallel Financing
5.2   In parallel to the project and as part of the program, at least US$60 million is expected to finance
priority investment projects (para. 4.5) to further expand and improve the water and sanitation services
in Gaza. A number of donors and agencies have expressed interest in parallel financing (European
Investment Bank, European Union, Japan, USA, Denmark, Italy, Saudi Fund and Arab Fund). However,
commitments have not yet been formally finalized.5 To minimize delays and keep flexibility in processing
the Credit, the US$60 million investment component is not included in the scope of the project and the
legal documents. However, since it is part of the Core Investment Program for WBG, IDA's team will
continue preparation and refining of this component and assist in mobilizing funding from donors. The
priority investment program will be designed and packaged to permit parallel financing from donors after
Board approval. Nevertheless, these parallel investments are not a prerequisite for the Operator to achieve
the performance targets. It is expected that this project would assist in raising and coordinating further
donor financing.
C.    Procurement and Disbursements
5.3    Procurement. The Management Contract for the Operator  (para. 4.2) was selected through
international competition under a two-stage bidding process, according to IDA Procurement Guidelines.
The Operator, as part of the services and under the Operating Investment component, will also have the
responsibility to procure on behalf of the PWA and in accordance with IDA procurement procedures,
goods, works and services. Funds will be requested by the Operator with a fully documented annual plan
and budget to meet each of the initiatives identified.  In this respect, works contracts above
US$1.0 million will be awarded under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. Works
contracts below this threshold will be awarded using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures
agreed under the ERP and the Association's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD). Contracts for goods
above US$250,000 will be awarded under ICB procedures. For contracts between US$50,000 and
US$250,000, International Shopping procedures will be used up to a maximum in aggregate of
US$2.0 million. Goods below US$50,000 may be purchased using National Shopping procedures up to
an amount in aggregate of US$1.0 million. All procurement for goods and works valued at or over
US$250,000 would be subject to prior review by IDA. These arrangements will result in a prior review
of about 80 percent of procurement financed under the TFGWB.
5.4    The specialists, auditors and other consultants will be recruited in accordance with the
Association's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August, 1981). All consultant contracts above
US$100,000 equivalent with firms and US$50,000 equivalent with individuals, and the TORs, would be
subject to prior review by IDA. All other contracts would be subject to ex-post review by IDA missions.
The table summarizing the procurement arrangements is in Annex 4.
5.5    Disbursements. Estimated Credit disbursement is included in Annex 5. The Credit will finance
100 percent of total expenditures reflecting the PWA's and EAPC's inability to bear a share of project
cost at this stage. Withdrawal applications for all categories with a contract value for goods and works
at or above US$250,000 would be made on the basis of full documentation. For contracts valued below
these thresholds, payments would be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). All consultant
contracts below US$100,000 for firms and below US$50,000 for individuals might be financed on the
basis of SOEs. The minimum size of applications for direct payment from the Credit account and
51    European Investment Bank and European Union parallel financing in this program is conditional on the
effectiveness of the Bank's project.



Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza                                       13
issuance of the special commitment is 20 percent of the current allocation to the Special Account (SA).
The PWA and the Operator would retain the supporting documents for disbursements submitted under
SOEs and would make these available to IDA supervision missions.
5.6   Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would establish an SA in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA to cover expenditures under the Credit. The
Authorized Allocation would be US$2,500,000, representing about four months of average expenditures
made through the SA. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation to the SA would be
limited to US$1,700,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the Credit have reached the
level of US$7,000,000, the initial allocation will be increased up to the Authorized Allocation of
US$2,500,000 by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. The PWA would maintain the SA
in US Dollars as a separate identifiable account to be used exclusively for project expenditures and retain
all supporting documentation for ex-post review by IDA supervision missions. Applications for
replenishment of the SA would be submitted monthly or when one-third of the amount has been
withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment would follow the
standard IDA procedure as described in the Disbursement Handbook, Chapter 6. Monthly bank statements
of the SA which have been reconciled by the Borrower would accompany all replenishment requests.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Project Management Arrangements
6.1    The PLO for the benefit of the Palestinian Council would be the Borrower while the responsibility
for the implementation of the project would rest with the PWA. The PLO would enter into a Subsidiary
Agreement with the EAPC pursuant to which: (a) the PLO will make the borrowed funds available to
the PWA through the EAPC; (b) the EAPC will repay the funds to IDA if requested by the PLO to do
so; and (c) the EAPC will cause the PWA to carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of
the Trust Fund Credit Agreement. As a condition of effectiveness of the Credit, the subsidiary agreement
between the PLO and the EAPC would be signed
6.2    Under the TA component of the project, long-term and short-term consultants, equipment and
vehicles would be provided to the PWA to facilitate monitoring and implementation of the project
(Annex 1).
B.    Implementation Schedule
6.3    The project would be implemented over a four-year period. Project completion is expected around
June 30, 2000 and the Credit Closing Date has been established as December 31, 2000, six months after
completion of the Service Improvement Program. Implementation arrangements for the project are shown
in Annex 6.
C.    Accounting and Auditing
6.4   The PWA would have the authority to sign withdrawal applications and would maintain accounts
satisfactory to IDA. All project-related expenditures will be fully documented and aggregated quarterly.
Records for the accounts and copies of supporting documentation will be kept by the PWA to facilitate
auditing. During negotiations, assurances were given that: (a) project accounts, including the SA and all



14                                                Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza
disbursements against SOEs, would be audited on a yearly basis by auditors acceptable to IDA; and
(b) certified audit project reports would be furnished to IDA as soon as possible but not later than six
months after the close of the fiscal year. In order to ensure maintenance of accounts on a satisfactory
basis and timely disbursement, the PWA would be staffed with a suitably qualified accountant (financing
is included in the TA component of the project).
D.    Supervision Requirements and Monitoring
6.5    The project would be closely supervised by IDA. Particular attention would be paid to supervision
of activities leading to the procurement of the goods and works under the operating investment component.
Staff input into supervision will take the form of reviewing the following, inter-alia: the quality of work
of the Operator, auditors and other professionals recruited under the project; progress in implementation
of the Service Improvement Program; procurement, disbursement and coordination with other program
components and with the EAP; and complementary activities of donors.
6.6    The following arrangements for project monitoring and reporting were agreed at negotiations: that
the PWA would provide, on a semi-annual basis, consolidated reports on project implementation progress
covering: (i) projections for project financing and implementation; (ii) status of project finances,
procurement of goods and works; (iii) status of implementation of the Service Improvement Program
under the Management Contract; (iv) statement of income and expenditure for the current and previous
semester; and (v) monthly cash flow projections for the next six months. These reports would be
submitted to IDA within one month of the end of the relevant semester, and would provide the basis for
monitoring the progress of the project and for discussions at the formal joint half-yearly reviews by IDA
and the PWA.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.    Current Situation
7.1    Quality of Data. The availability of data in the Gaza Strip, both operational and financial, is poor.
On the operational side, neither water produced nor used is recorded with any accuracy. Although most
wells have meters, they often do not work, and water production can only be estimated. Similarly, water
use is in many cases not measured, due to defective meters. It is also estimated that throughout Gaza,
there are more than 20,000 illegal connections, but the amount of water "lost" through these connections
is not known. Overall, unaccounted-for water in the municipal distribution system is in the order of
50 percent, including through network leakages, illegal connections and inaccurate metering.
7.2    On financial data, none of the 16 municipalities and village councils keep records of the assets
they own, nor do they publish financial statements related to income and expenditures of the sector.
While all communities have separate departments for water and sanitation, accounts are not strictly kept
apart from other municipal or village activities. Although income from water and sanitation services can
be identified, the cost arising from those services can only be estimated, since in many cases, municipal
functions and tasks are shared between different services. Annex 7, Table 7.1, provides Comparative
Statistical Data for all of the Gaza Strip, as well as for individual municipalities and village councils.
7.3    Tariffs. The 16 municipalities and village councils have twelve different tariff systems. Many
of them depict flat, or regressive tariffs, not encouraging conservation. Water tariffs range between



Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza                                         15
US$0.15 and US$0.35, with an average billed of US$0.33 equivalent per cubic meter. This compares with
total operating costs of US$0.31 per cubic meter. However, maintenance expenditures are minimal and
capital costs are not recovered. Water sales from Mekoroth average NIS 1.29 per cubic meter (US$0.43).
Hence, tariffs in Khan Younis and the surrounding central and southern Gaza villages, where mostly
Mekoroth water is used, are the highest. Tariffs in this area range from US$0.33 per cubic meter for up
to 20 cubic meters in Khan Younis, to US$0.66 per cubic meter for the highest consumption block
(30 and above cubic meters per month) in Bani Suheila, Abassan K, Abassan S and Khzaa (Annex 7,
Table 7.2--Domestic Tariffs for Gaza, October 1995).
7.4    Only the four municipalities and the village council of Beit Lahia and Jabalya, where some
sewerage is in place, collect a small sewerage charge. The sewerage tariff, covering about half of
sewerage costs, is typically added to the water bill. For example, Jabalya has 2,970 sewerage connections,
about 65 percent of the households connected to the drinking water distribution network. The sewerage
charge is US$1.65 per month, which resulted in an operating loss for sewerage of US$60,000 in 1994.
Gaza City has 20,000 sewerage connections and a sewerage charge of 15 percent of the water tariff,
resulting in 1994 in an operating loss of US$173,000. The overall operating cash loss for sewerage in
Gaza Strip is US$630,000, again with minimal expenditure on maintenance and no capital cost recovery.
7.5    Revenues and Operating Expenses. Tariff Collection is weak due to poverty, poor service and
the legacy of the occupation. Accounts receivable range between 32 percent and 40 percent. In 1994,
this resulted in a revenue shortfall (difference between billing and collection) of about US$2.5 million.
The overall water and sewerage operating loss in the Gaza Strip in 1994 is estimated at US$107,000.
(Annex 7, Table 7.3--Gaza Strip, Statement of Revenues and Operating Expenses). However, it should
be noted that expenditure on maintenance was far below an acceptable level because of lack of funds.
The Operator is expected to introduce a uniforn billing and collecting system and mechanisms for non-
payment of bills. These measures, along with improved service delivery, are the cornerstones to improved
tariff collection.
B.    Financial Outlook
7.6    Under the proposed project, about 15,000 illegal water connections out of an estimated 20,000 are
expected to be legalized, around 20,000 defective consumer connections replaced, between 20,000 and
50,000 faulty meters replaced or repaired, unaccounted-for water reduced from 48 percent to 30 percent,
and accounts receivable reduced from 32 percent to 10 percent. At the end of the four-year Management
Contract, annual revenues collected are expected to increase by almost 50 percent (about US$2.5 million).
Due to an efficiency increase, and given the current tariff structure and consumption pattern, operating
costs would fall from US$5.5 million to US$4.5 million per year. Overall improvements would result in
an operating cash surplus of US$3.5 million--a dramatic increase from a loss of US$107,000 before
implementation of the management contract (Annex 7, Table 7.4--Impact of Management Contract on
Income and Expenditure). Annex 8 provides details of the Financial Analysis.
7.7   In summary, the above results can be achieved without an increase in tariffs, other than cost of
living adjustments. It is, however, expected that the Operator, in agreement with the municipalities and
the village councils, will restructure the tariff system from its current flat or regressive stage to a
progressive scale and to increase sewerage charges. As services improve and willingness to pay (WTP)
increases, tariffs can be raised to encourage conservation of scarce water resources and to progressively
increase the recovery of capital expenditures.



16                                               Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza
VIII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.    Social and Economic Justification
8.1    This project follows and complements the ERP. It constitutes an urgent measure to quickly
improve the dismal drinking and wastewater situation in the Gaza Strip, thereby reducing health hazards
and environmental degradation, and improving economic opportunities.
8.2    The project is designed to improve the quantity, quality and management of the water and
wastewater sector. Specifically, at the end of the four-year project period: (i) the Gaza water sector will
have at least 65,000 newly regularized service connections; (ii) effective water use will increase by about
20 percent to 58 liters per capita per day; (iii) water will be reliably disinfected throughout Gaza; and
(iv) the quality of wastewater discharges will be significantly improved.
8.3   In addition, the Management Contract will improve overall water resources management in Gaza,
mainly through an increase in sector efficiency (reduction of unaccounted-for water), improved planning
and project design capacity within the municipalities and village councils, and through implementation of
a uniform, progressive tariff system throughout Gaza to encourage water conservation and recovery of full
operation and maintenance costs, as well as an increasing portion of capital costs.
8.4    The proposed project will produce social, economic and environmental benefits with regard to:
(i) saved water and increased revenues by repairing and installing consumer and production meters,
leakage repairs, regularizing illegal connections, reducing the amount of accounts receivable, and by
economies of scale achieved by the consolidation of services under a single WWCG; (ii) improving
drinking and wastewater quality, consequently reducing health risks and environmental degradation;
(iii) improving service delivery, increasing per capita availability of drinking water, and extending
connections to unserved populations; (iv) protecting the environment, particularly aquifers from wastewater
pollution and seawater intrusion; (v) creating employment during implementation of the Service
Improvement Program; and (vi) improving economic opportunities and quality of life for the Gaza
population in general. The project would also help strengthen the PWA, local municipal and village
council water departments, and create a sustainable service delivery through the envisaged WWCG.
Finally, the project will assist the EAPC in the management of a vital resource, and thereby contribute
to the Peace Process.
B.    Economic Benefits
8.5    Many of the above benefits are not quantifiable and will have repercussions beyond the water
sector. The analysis of quantifiable benefits shows an economic rate of return (ERR) of about 14 percent,
ten years after project completion. This compares with an opportunity cost of capital of about 10 percent
in countries with similar income levels (e.g., Jordan, 8.5 percent; Egypt, 12 percent).
8.6    The underlying assumptions for this analysis are that: (i) the Operator will achieve sector
efficiency targets as spelled out in Annex 9 (reduction in unaccounted-for water); (ii) given finite and
already vastly over-exploited water resources within Gaza, future new supplies from traditional resources
will increase only marginally; (iii) population growth, currently at 6.2 percent per year (mostly from
refugees and immigration), will decline to about 3.5 percent in ten years; (iv) given the large unmet
municipal demand and the extreme pressure in general on water resources in the Middle East Region--
resulting in high water prices in the West Bank and in comparable neighboring countries--the WTP is



Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza                                            17
assumed to be higher than the present highest block tariff in Gaza (US$0.67 per cubic meter), gradually
increasing over ten years to the cost of supply from desalination, by then projected at US$1.25 per cubic
meter. Annex 8 provides details of these assumptions.
8.7    These are conservative estimates. Although achieving a sector efficiency improvement from
currently 52 percent to 70 percent in four years may appear optimistic in the Gaza context, a one-year
delay in meeting distribution network efficiency targets would only marginally affect the ERR. Other
assumptions were deliberately underrated, given current uncertainties in Gaza. Similarly, they would have
only minor impacts on the ERR. This is explained by the large unmet municipal demand, expected to be
about 75 percent higher than effective water use with the project ten years from now (Annex 8, Table
8.4). This leads to a WTP factor which is probably significantly higher than the highest tariff block in
Gaza. In the West Bank, the highest tariff block is equivalent to US$1.45 per cubic meter. In comparable
countries in the Middle East, water is frequently purchased from vendors at prices ranging from US$3
(Lebanon) to US$5 (Jordan) per cubic meter.
8.8    Water for agricultural use is currently virtually free. Tariffs are non-existent. License fees for
wells are nominal and are often not collected. At least 1,000 out of approximately 3,000 wells are illegal.
In some cases, mostly in the central area of Gaza, where water is especially scarce, farmers sell their
excess water to nearby municipalities, at prices of up to US$0.70 per cubic meter, despite nitrate
contamination and high salinity. To relieve the scarcity constraint on alternative, higher value-added
economic development for resource conservation and equity, it is likely that agriculture will have to give
up water for the benefit of municipal supplies. Thus, a system for charging for agricultural water will have
to be established. This will allow shifting water from low-value crops to higher-value uses. Likewise,
municipal tariffs--at present on average US$0.33 per cubic meter--will have to be increased to allow for
better operation and maintenance of water and wastewater systems.
8.9    Sensitivity analyses have been carried out with four alternative scenarios:
ERR
10 years
(after project execution)
(i)    Total benefits increased by 10 percent                  15%
(ii)    Total benefits decreased by 10 percent                 13%
(iii)   Water transferred from agriculture, gradually
increasing to 10% of current agriculture use by 2007    15%
(iv)   Efficiency performance targets delayed
by one year                                             14%
8.10   Water Demand Versus Supply. The current municipal (domestic and industrial) per capita use
of about 70 liters per day (24 cubic meters per year)--one of the lowest in the world--is a constraint on
socio-economic growth. Based on experience in countries of similar economic development, potential
municipal per capita demand in Gaza would be 80 to 120 liters per day, between 33 and 44 cubic meters
per year. This demand will increase, both with population growth and with economic development. It
is estimated that within the next eight to ten years, per capita demand for municipal water will increase
to about 60 cubic meters per year (see Annex 8). The savings resulting from improving distribution
network efficiency and from expected additional supplies from Israel would increase available per capita
municipal water by about 35 percent, still leaving a gap of about 75 percent to meet projected actual
demand.



18                                                  Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza
8.11   This project is designed to achieve quick results, in terms of improving water and sewerage
services quantitatively and qualitatively, and in strengthening the institutional capacity. It is not meant
to resolve all water sector problems. In fact, there is an enormous demand--estimated at close to US$I00
per capita--for sector investments to rehabilitate existing installations and to expand services over the next
three to five years. Even if these funds were available, it is uncertain whether the EAPC would at present
have the institutional and physical capacity to absorb them.
8.12   The capital investment program, which is expected to be financed by donors, includes well in
excess of one hundred mostly small investment or rehabilitation projects for a total amount of about
US$50 million, proposed by the 16 municipalities and village councils. Many of these projects need more
preparation, and their feasibility and economic justification established, before funding for implementation
can be approved by donors (para. 4.6). However, it is expected that these projects will contribute
significantly toward the improvement of the water services in Gaza over the next five years.
C.    Risks
8.13   There are several risks related to implementing a project in WBG, not all of which can be
addressed at this point. Risk factors include: (a) non-performance of the Operator either as a result of
(i) poor selection; or (ii) lack of cooperation between municipalities and village councils; (b) lack of
counterpart funds, i.e., revenues to pay for labor, maintenance and other costs related to the management
contract Operator; and (c) the potential for political instability, that could have several negative
implications: (i) access obstruction due to border closure; (ii) administrative difficulties to implement the
Service Improvement Program by the Operator; and (iii) foreign exchange.restrictions that could hamper
imports necessary to achieve performance targets, and investments to improve and expand water and
wastewater services.
8.14   The proposed project is addressing these factors as follows:
(a)    Non-performance: First, the international Operator was selected by a two-stage bidding
process, optimizing the likelihood that the best available Operator was contracted.
Second, the Operator will work according to clearly defined and quantified performance
criteria and will be compensated, in part, by a performance incentive fee, built into the
contract. In addition, the Management Contract provides for remedial action if minimum
performance criteria are not reached. Third, all sixteen municipalities and village councils
have signed an MOU attesting to their support for the project and agreeing to facilitate
the work of the Operator.
(b)    Lack of counterpartfinds: The financial analysis has shown that current tariffs, combined
with an increased sector efficiency, brought about by the Operator, will significantly
improve the financial performnance, producing an annual operating cash surplus of up to
US$3.5 million after four years.
(c)    Political instability: All projects in WBG face political risks. The Peace Process has
developed momentum and passed significant milestones, including Palestinian self-rule
in Gaza and parts of the West Bank; nevertheless, disruptions due to political events can
be expected from time to time and could delay implementation.



Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza                                         19
D.    Project Affordability
8.15   Based on the financial and economic analysis, including risk factors, the project is affordable
because expected improved cost recovery--even without tariff increases in real terms--would allow to cover
higher operating costs. Increased water system efficiency will make niore water available for effective
use. With regard to the parallel capital investment program, each sub-project proposed for funding will
be carefully evaluated according to its socio-economic impact on the community, the effect on the
environment, its economic and technical feasibility, and its affordability at least in terns of recurrent costs.
8.16  In conclusion, although the financial and technical data available for water and wastewater
services in Gaza is poor, the tariffs, even at current levels, appear to be sufficient to cover O&M costs
of the sector, provided that accounts receivable and unaccounted-for water are substantially reduced.
Wastewater charges cover only about half of the cost of service and need to be increased. Successful
completion of the Service Improvement Program by the Operator will enhance the sector's viability and
generate a significant operating surplus.
IX. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
9.1    During project preparation, the Palestinian leadership and the PWA have taken specific actions
to ensure proper project design and project implementation, including: the preparation and issuing of the
Request for Proposals (RFP) for the Management Contract; completing the Pre-proposal conference with
the pre-qualified bidders, selecting the Operator and signature of the Management Contract; the signature
of the MOU by all municipalities and village councils; the presentation of a detailed statement of Elements
of a Palestinian Water Policy; and the enactment of the PWA's Bylaws (No. 18 of 1996).
9.2    During negotiations, agreement with the PWA was reached that, as a condition of Credit
effectiveness, the Subsidiary Agreement between the PLO and the EAPC would be signed (para. 6.1).
9.3    During negotiations, assurances were obtained on:
(a)    details of the procurement, disbursement, accounting and reporting requirements, including
the establishment and operations of the SA (paras. 5.3 to 5.6 and 6.4 to 6.6); and
(b)   the scope, content and modalities of the formal half-yearly joint project reviews by IDA
and the PWA (para. 6.6).
9.4    During negotiations, understanding with the PWA was reached that:
(a)   the EAPC and local administrations would continue coverage of the cost of operations of
the water and wastewater services; and
(b)    project indicators described in Annex 9 and referred to in Section B(a) of Schedule 4 of
the Trust Fund Credit Agreement would be utilized for monitoring the Operator's
performance and would be included in progress reports (para. 6.6).
9.5    Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would constitute a suitable
basis for a Trust Fund Credit of US$25.0 million out of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank to the
PLO for the benefit of the Palestinian Council.






Annex I
Page I of 9
WEST BANK AND GAZA
WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES PROJECT IN GAZA
Detailed Program/Project Description
I. Management Contract (US$11.8 million) '
A.    Why a Management Contract?
1.    A number of institutional options for the water and wastewater sector available to the Executive
Authority of the Palestinian Council (EAPC) were assessed. The advantages offered by private sector
involvement are recognized by Palestinian professionals, but full privatization-divestiture and private
investment--is considered unlikely to the EAPC that has only been recently empowered to manage their
resources; and also unlikely to appeal to investors under present conditions in Gaza. A concession to a
private Operator involves a long-term commitment (20-25 years) by both parties and even an affermage
(lease) contract (10-12 years) may not be attractive to the private sector because of uncertain business
climate, poor condition of existing facilities, and inadequate revenues.
2.    In order to improve Gaza's water and wastewater services rapidly, a Managemnent Conuact with
an experienced Operator was requested by EAPC's Chairman and agreed with IDA. The objectives are
to enhance efficiency and rapidly improve service quality, quantity and management of the sector. Under
the terms of a 4-year contract, the Management Contract Operator (Operator) will be required to supply
services, proven know-how and systems to achieve agreed deliverables and specified levels of service
performance. Continuation of the Management Contract scheme, a lease agreement or a concession may
become options after the 4-year management contract.
3.    The primary advantage of this approach is its flexibility and low level of risk to the EAPC. No
assets, financing, or major policy decisions are given up by the EAPC, the contract is relatively short tenn
(4 years), and EAPC will retain access to donors for financing. As a result of this low risk and flexibility,
this solution is considered the most appropriate first step to improving sector performance, especially if
increased private sector involvement is planned for the future in the forn of lease or concession
arrangements.
B.    Objectives
4.    The basic goals to be pursued under the Management Contract are to improve the quality and
quantity of the water supplied and the management of the water and wastewater systems.
Improving the Quantity of the Water
*     Improve the efficiency of the water supply distribution system
*     Improve the efficiency of the water system and wastewater system operating equipment
I/    Including contingencies.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 9
Improving the Quality of the Water for Public Health
*     Improve the quality of water supplies (through disinfection or other appropriate measures)
*     Improve the quality of the wastewater effluent
Improving the Management of the Water & Wastewater Systems
*     Improve the efficiency of revenue collections
*      Improve the operations of water and wastewater systems
*     Improve the efficiency of customer service and public relations
Improving the Institutional Aspects of the Water & Wastewater Systems
*     Improve the effectiveness of the management of the water and wastewater systems
*      Improve the long range performance of the water and wastewater systems
*      Prepare and assist in the identification of the investment projects
C.    Scope of Work
5.     The Operator will provide:  all personnel and associated wages, salaries, and benefits; and
administrative facilities and services necessary to oversee the management and direct the operations of
the various water and wastewater systems including source withdrawal, treatment, pumping, and
distribution systems, wastewater collection, pumping, treatment and disposal. The Operator will be
required to complete the following tasks:
(a)    To improve the efficiency of the water supply distribution system the Operator will:
(i)    Develop, direct and supervise a leak detection program including repair of leaks
and replacement of pipe;
(ii)    Develop, direct and supervise a meter calibration, repair and replacement program
starting with the master meters at the wellheads and including all distribution
meters;
(iii)   Map the water and wastewater network; develop and test a hydraulic model and
train the PWA and municipality/village council staff in its use. Provide the
associated hardware and software to the PWA; and
(iv)   Using the hydraulic model, identify and implement a program  of system
strengthening to reduce hydraulic losses.
(b)    To improve the efficiency of the water system and wastewater system operating
eauipment the ORerator will: identify the immediate needs for equipment repair, obtain
parts and tools, direct and supervise the repairs and maintenance including, but not limited
to all wells, pumps, generators, controls, water and wastewater treatment equipment, and
auxiliary equipment included in the water and wastewater systems.
(c)    To improve the disinfection of water supplies the Operator will:
(i)    Identify the problems of existing chlorination equipment, obtain repair parts,
direct and supervise the repairs, direct subsequent maintenance; and



Annex 1
Page 3 of 9
(ii)    Ensure the supply of sufficient chlorine to ensure chlorine residuals throughout
the distribution system.
(d)    To protect the integrity of the well sources the Operator will: examine each of the wells
and identify and carry out the work and obtain parts, supervise and direct the required
wellhead protection measures.
(e)    To improve the gualitv of the wastewater effluent the Operator will:  identify the
problems of existing wastewater treatment facilities, obtain repair parts, direct and
supervise the repairs, and direct subsequent maintenance.
(f)    To improve the efficiency of revenue collections the Operator will:
(i)    Develop, supervise and direct a program to identify illegal connections and with
the assistance of the EAPC and the PWA, convert these connections to legal
service connections;
(ii)    Develop, supervise and direct a program to update the database of connections
and to classify the use in accordance with current tariff definitions;
(iii)   Develop, supervise and direct the institution of computerized administrative
systems to enforce collection of overdue accounts. Provide hardware and
software and train the employees in its use;
(iv)   Analyze the tariffs and recommend a tariff structure and tariff levels that will
promote water conservation;
(v)    Develop a unified billing and collection system; and
(vi)   Create separate financial accounts for water and wastewater services based upon
utility Code of Accounts.
(g)    To improve the operations of water and wastewater systems the Operator will:
(i)    Identify the need for support facilities and procure, as necessary the facilities and
equipment; e.g., transportation, including specialized vehicles; communications
systems, including telephones and two-way radios; facilities including office
space, warehouse space, repair space and repair tools and equipment, meter
testing and repair space and equipment;
(ii)    Develop and establish a preventative maintenance program and train the operators;
(iii)   Develop and establish a computerized materials and maintenance management
systems, obtain the hardware and software, and train the employees; and
(iv)   Identify a listing of critical and necessary spare parts, materials and equipment,
obtain the parts, materials and equipment and establish an inventory system for
storage and replacement (as a part of the materials management system);
(h)    To improve the efficiency of customer service and public relations the Operator will:
(i)    Develop and establish a customer service system and train the employees involved
in responding to customer complaints, inquiries and any other interface with the
customer;
(ii)    Develop and establish a public information program to educate the public as to:



Annex 1
Page 4 of 9
*     the importance of water supply and wastewater collection and treatment
to the population, public health, and the economy;
*      the problems existing in the sector including overdrawing of the
aquifer(s), contamination of the sources, illegal connections, and
excessive leakage;
*      the programs underway to improve service;
*      the costs of operating the systems and the methods of recovering the costs
including the provisions of needed amounts for domestic use at minimum
cost and the concept of everyone paying their "fair share";
(i)    To improve the effectiveness of the management of the water and wastewater systems the
ORerator will:
(i)    Develop and implement a management training program consisting at a minimum
of the elements of management, personnel management, financial management,
budgeting, planning, and controlling;
(ii)    Develop and implement a training program to provide technical operations and
maintenance training to all water system operators and maintenance workers;
(iii)   Develop and establish computerized administrative systems, obtain the hardware
and software, and train the employees;
(iv)   Develop and establish a comprehensive occupational safety program, and provide
safety training;
(v)    Develop and establish an emergency operations plan, train the water/wastewater
system employees and conduct mock drills as training for the implementation of
the emergency actions; and
(vi)   Develop and establish a region-wide association of water works and wastewater
works technical, administrative and management personnel in order to foster a
cooperative transfer of knowledge; schedule and conduct seminars on all aspects
of water works and wastewater works management and operations.
(j)    To improve the long-range performance of the water and wastewater systems the ORerator
will:
(i)    Identify major problem areas; and
(ii)    Develop a prioritized capital improvement and rehabilitation plan.
(k)    To assist in implementing the Investment Component which will be carried out in parallel
and financed by other donors, the Operator will:
(i)    Identify rehabilitation and extension sub-projects;
(ii)    Assist in preparing bid documents for sub-projects by local consultants; and
(iii)   Supervise the construction of sub-projects.
(1)    To provide for administrative control the Operator will:
(i)    Compile and maintain comprehensive monthly records and report to the
appropriate authorities for facilities and systems operations, regulatory matters,
laboratory analyses, maintenance plans and activities, related financial matters,



Annex I
Page 5 of 9
pernit and compliance results, equipment status, and other relevant information
in accordance with applicable laws, regulations, permits, and guidelines; and
(ii)    At least monthly, or as necessary, meet with the PWA designated representative
to review operations, reports, ongoing cost information, and key upcoming
projects and/or operations which may impact service delivery to the public.
Conduct annual comprehensive plant and system inspections with the PWA
designated representative to evaluate and document conditions, safety, or other
concerns.
D.    Compensation to the Operator
6.    As compensation for the delivery of services described above, the Operator will be paid a fee
consisting of two parts: a base fee on a reimbursable basis and an incentive fee based upon the attainment
of specified goals that are included in Annex 9.
7.    Base Fee (US$8.8 million). A base fee will be paid to provide for mobilization and operating
costs during the period of the contract and finance necessary staff to implement the four (4) year Service
Improvement Program.
8.    Incentive Fee (US$3 million). The maximum amount that can be paid as an incentive fee for
meeting the specified targets over the duration of the Contract has been fixed at US$3 million. The
maximum amount of incentive fee that can be paid annually is equal to US$750,000 (US$3 million
divided in four equal parts). The actual amount of the incentive fee received by the Operator will depend
on the extent of the achievement of performance targets specified in the Contract and will be determined
by the application of a performance factor (composite score) to the maximum incentive fee amount of
US$3 million.
HI. Operating Investment
(USS15 million: TFGWB USS12 million and Local Contribution USS3 million)
9.    To implement the Service Improvement Program identified in the RFP and achieve the service
improvement targets (Annex 9), the project will provide the Operator with Operating Investment funds
of US$12 million built into the Management Contract. The funds are provided specifically to procure
goods and services for immediate rehabilitation and repair throughout the period of the contract; for
example, the repair and installation of meters, replacement of pipes to reduce major leaks, and improving
tariff collection through a unified billing and collecting system. The performance targets take into account
what realistically could be achieved with the allocated funds.
10.   Under the proposed Service Improvement Program, it was agreed with all municipalities and
village councils that they will maintain, as a minimum, present operating levels of financing of water
supply and sanitation, including staff, power and consumables. The increase in efficiency under the
project of operating the water supply and sanitation systems in Gaza will result in greater use of
consumables such as chlorine and fuel, and additional workload on staff of the municipalities and village
councils. The project includes in the Operating Investment funds provisions for financing USS0.35 million
(for efficiency, through the Operator) of these incremental operating expenditures. As the income from



Annex I
Page 6 of 9
the Service Improvement Program increases, it is projected that the systems will generate a minimum of
US$3 million revenues sufficient to cover these additional costs, as a local contribution to the project.
m. Technical Assistance and
Institutional Capacity Development (US$1.2 million)
11.   This component of the project includes the provision of TA to: (i) strengthen the newly created
PWA; (ii) support implementation of the project; and (iii) provide independent auditors to monitor the
Operator's technical and financial performance. Around eight (8) long-term and short-term consultants
would be recruited and equipment and vehicles procured to facilitate monitoring and implementation of
the project (detailed costs are included in Annex 3).
Long-Term Specialists
12.   Project Manager. The objective of the Resident Project Manager is to provide daily oversight
of the Operator and to provide expert support to the Commissioner of the PWA on all strategic, technical,
financial and management issues relating to the provision of water and wastewater services in Gaza. In
particular, he/she will: (a) advise on Management Contract issues as well as wider issues relating to water
resource management and the future institutional structure of the sector; (b) participate in meetings of the
Steering Committee of the Management Contract and advise this Committee on strategic options for the
development of the water and wastewater system; (c) provide day-to-day overview of the operations of
the Operator; (d) manage the long-term and short-term specialists recruited under the TA component of
the project to facilitate monitoring and implementation of the project's Service Improvement Programn;
(e) review the Operator's Annual Plan for expenditures of the Operating Investment fund; (f) review, on
behalf of the PWA, the reports of the Operator and auditors relating to the performance of the Operator
and advise the PWA on any issues or concerns on which the auditors should specifically report; (g) advise
the PWA on the formation of a unified Water and Wastewater Company for Gaza (WWCG): whether the
unification/merger should proceed and if so, the form of the new undertaking; (h) liaise with the Operator
and the Technical Counterpart Team (TCT) so as to facilitate smooth communications between the
Operator and the PWA; and (i) advise the PWA on issues relating to the development of a long-term
regulatory framework for water and wastewater services in the WBG.
13.   Project Accountant. The objective of the Project Accountant is to maintain the books and
accounts and supporting documentation related to the project and to provide daily support for the financial
aspects of the project. In particular, with the approval of the PWA and the oversight of the Project
Manager, the Accountant will: (a) establish the books and account formats for the project; (b) establish
financial reporting procedures and formats; (c) review Operator invoices and advise the PWA on payments
and prepare disbursement reports to IDA; (d) maintain the financial records pertaining to all aspects of
the project; (e) provide financial projections regarding the project; (f) provide financial/accounting
expertise and support to the PWA; and (g) perform other financial and record keeping support as may be
required to complete the project.
14.   Administrative Secretary. The objective of the Project Administrative Secretary is to provide
support to the project implementation staff.



Annex I
Page 7 of 9
Short-Term Specialists
15.   Sanitary Engineer. The objective of the Sanitary Engineer is to provide technical expertise on
water and wastewater systems to the PWA and the Project Manager. In particular, at the direction of the
PWA and with the oversight of the Project Manager, the Sanitary Engineer will: (a) review the technical
operations of the Operator through a combination of office and field reviews; (b) coordinate with the TCT
and counterpart personnel in the municipalities and village councils regarding the daily activities of the
Operator; (c) provide technical expertise to advise the PWA and the Project Manager regarding the
Operator's Work Plan and annual plan for the expenditure of the Operating Investment funds; (d) provide
technical assistance for the design and installation of projects performed by the Operator from the
Operating Investment funds; (e) complete field inspections of work completed by the Operator; (f) provide
technical assistance in reviewing the Operator's progress toward completing the performance factors; and
(g) provide technical support to the PWA and Project Manager for water and wastewater programs in the
WBG.
16.   Regulatory/Licensing Specialist. The objective of the Regulatory/Licensing Specialist is to assist
the PWA in the development of programs for the management and administration of the water resources
in the West Bank and Gaza. At the direction of the PWA and with the oversight of the Resident Manager,
the Regulatory/Licensing Specialist will: (a) review the current regulatory structure for the management
of the water resources; (b) evaluate the regulatory structure as it compares to water resource regulation
in adjacent and/or similar countries; (c) identify the major issues regarding water resource management;
(d) provide expertise to the PWA in the development of appropriate legislation and regulation to
implement water resource management programs; and (e) provide expertise to the PWA to develop
appropriate licensing policies and procedures pertaining to water resource management.
17.   Technical and Financial Auditors. The objectives of the auditors are to audit technical and
financial performance targets of the Operator against the terms of the Management Contract so as to
ensure fairness to the PWA and to the Operator, to ensure disclosure and transfer of information obtained
in the operation of the Management Contract and to oversee the use of funds provided to the Operator.
In essence, the auditors will assist the PWA in performing the future role of utility regulator.
18.   The Management Contract contains a detailed schedule of Performance Obligations and a schedule
which will be used to calculate the fee to be paid to the Operator for a given overall performance. At the
end of each six-month period of the Management Contract, the Operator will produce a Performance
Report detailing its progress against each of the Performance Obligations. The Operator will be obliged
to provide such evidence as is necessary to corroborate its performance against each indicator. The
Operator will also report on its activities in each of the sixteen Municipalities or Village Councils. In this
context, the auditors will: (a) review the Performance Reports submitted by the Operator and certify a
statement to the PWA that the Operator's report constitutes a fair and accurate record of its achievements
against the targets agreed in the Management Contract; (b) take steps necessary to satisfy itself of the
accuracy of the report, including visits to works and installations, examination of the Operator's records
and inventories and meetings with the Operator; (c) be responsible for verifying the Operator's overall
performance score at the end of each year under the terms of the contract, and communicating this score
to the PWA and the Operator; and (d) report to the PWA on the substance of the Operator's financial
statements and any issues arising from them.
19.   Legal Advisor and Other Short-Term Advisors. The objective of the Legal Advisor is to
provide legal expertise and advice to the PWA to administer the Management Contract. At the direction



Annex I
Page 8 of 9
of the PWA, the Legal Advisor will: (a) review any documents and provide legal advice to the PWA;
(b) provide a legal opinion for any aspect of the Management Contract as requested by the PWA; (c) assist
the PWA in the interpretation of laws, regulations, decrees, etc. that may affect the operations of the
PWA; and (d) assist the PWA in the development of water resource management legislation and/or
regulation. The objective of the other short-term advisors is to provide the PWA with expert technical
assistance for the solution of specific short-term problems and issues that could arise during
implementation of the project. These advisors will provide specific recommendations on specific situations
that may arise in the course of implementing the project.
IV. Capital Investment (US$60 million)
Investment Needs
20.   A total of 35 individual water sector projects with a total cost of approximately US$16 million
are being implemented in the Gaza Strip through the Emergency Rehabilitation Project with IDA and
Danish Intemational Development Agency (DANIDA) co-financing. These projects addressed only the
highest priority needs and, although of substantial impact, are quite insufficient to meet even the basic
service rehabilitation and improvement requirements. It is therefore proposed that an investment program
continue financing--through donor contributions--the many small rehabilitation and improvement projects
needed to complement the assistance to be provided through the project to improve the operations and
maintenance capabilities of the municipal and village council service providers.
21.   PECDAR, in consultation with municipalities, has compiled more than 130 priority projects
proposals, with an estimated cost of US$56 million, for funding consideration. The list includes a number
of projects already prepared by PECDAR for implementation, but for which funding is not available.
Additional projects will be identified as a result of the activities of the Operator. In particular, the leakage
detection survey will identify sections of reticulation requiring rehabilitation, and hydraulic analysis of
water and sewerage networks will reveal sections needing increased capacity. Much of this work could
be implemented through a schedule of rates contract prepared by PECDAR. Major projects, such as that
required to utilize the additional 5 MCM per year of water available to Gaza as described in Article 40
of the Interim Agreement, are expected to attract bilateral support.
Program Implementation
22.   A number of issues require resolution to enable implementation of the investment program:
(i) few of the priority projects submitted by local governments to PECDAR are ready for funding approval
without more detailed feasibility review and assessment of their economic justification (funding for a
consultant to carry out this review is being sought); (ii) the PWA has neither the capacity nor the mandate
to implement an investment program; (iii) both the organization and procedures of PECDAR would
require strengthening if it were to continue as the implementing agency assisting local governments;
(iv) co-financing by donors remains to be clarified; and (v) major investments (such as the utilization of
the additional 5 MCM per year available from Israel) require a planning and prefeasibility study to define
a strategic plan for meeting Gaza's water and wastewater needs (terms of reference have been prepared
and funding is available from the TATF).



Annex I
Page 9 of 9
23.    To enable the Service Improvement Program supported by the Credit to be initiated without delay
(by appointment of the Operator), and thereby to improve management of the water and wastewater
infrastructure that the investment program would be supporting, it was agreed with the PWA not to
include an investment component in the scope of the IDA proposed project. Instead, the investment
program would be prepared and implemented as a parallel but closely linked activity, either directly with
donors, or through additional cofinancing of the ERP or the Municipal Infrastructure Development Project.
24.    Co-financing. It is expected that the investment program will be funded entirely by donor
financing. A number of donor agencies have expressed interest and financing pledges to the Core
Investment Program (which includes the Water and Sanitation Services Project in Gaza) were made at the
January 9, 1996 meeting with donors. Many specific commitments, however, are yet to be formally
confirmed.



Annex 2
Page I of 3
WEST BANK AND GAZA
WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES PROJECT IN GAZA
Environmental Analysis
Environmental Issues and Consequences
I.     Scarcity of water resources and the unsustainable use of groundwater are the major environmental
issues in Gaza. Groundwater abstractions conisiderably exceed recharge, regulatory control over the
drilling of wells and abstractions of water are ineffective, and contamination of the shallow aquifer has
resulted from over-use, inadequate sanitation, and inappropriate agricultural activities.
2.     At present the aquifer underlivng Gaza, the only significant water resource, is overdrawn by at
least 100%  in excess of the average annual recharge.  The main use, for agricultural irrigation, is
ineffectively controlled with a proliferation of illegal wells and no effective limits on abstractions from
licensed wells. Fees are either not charged or not collected for a permit to drill a well, for an annual
license to operate a well, or for the volume of water abstracted from a well. As a consequence, water
levels have declined below sea level over a large area, and salinity, with the exception of limited and
decreasing areas, significanly exceeds drinking water standards and is adversely affecting irrigated crops.
Partly as a result of over-use of fertilizers, but particularly as a consequence of wastewater leaching into
the aquifer from cesspits and wastewNiater treatment plants, the concentration of nitrates in groundwater also
exceeds health guidelines, in some municipal wells by an order of magnitude. Furthermore, agricultural
irrigation practices are inefficient and wasteful of water.
3.     Although municipal and industrial water use is lower, its management also leaves much to be
desired. Unaccounted-for losses are in the order of 50% of the quantity pumped into the system, and
tariffs are too low to signiticantly encourage conservation or to provide sufficient revenue to finance
adequate maintenance, resulting in further deterioration of assets and declining service.
4.     Wastewater services are limited. Three houses out of four utilize cesspits which contaminate the
groundwater, and sullage (grey water from washing, bathing, and kitchen water use) is usually discharged
to surface drains and eventually pollutes wadis and low-lying areas. In those areas served by sewerage,
lack of control over discharges from industries, opening of manholes to relieve stormwater flooding, and
inadequate and poorly operated treatment plants, all result in poor service and environmental degradation.
A particular case is the Beit Lahia Treatment Plant, where effluent is discharged into surrounding sand
dunes, slowly accumulating in a large plume of poor quality water which is contaminating the aquifer
containing the best quality groundwater remaining in Gaza.
5.     The above problems result from many causes: the lack of attention during nearly three decades
of military occupation, the absence of an adequate legal and institutional framework, the shortage of
adequately qualified and trained staff, the lack of public awareness of the consequences of water use and
behavior, and the lack of finan,dial resources needed to construct and maintain the needed infrastructure.
Many of these problems are the subject of completed or on-going studies. For example, PECDAR
commissioned a report "`Wastewaier T-reatment and Re-use Strategy."  This and other studies were
discussed with the PWA and other agenicies and, w.here relevant, incorporated into the project design.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
Project Provisions
6.     The project will help to address these issues in three principal ways:
(a)   the services of an internationally experienced Operator under a four-year management
contract will address the management of water and wastewater services for the whole
Gaza Strip, improving the quality of water supplied and wastewater treated, increasing the
quantity of water supplied for high value industrial, commercial and domestic use, and
enhancing the management of the operation and maintenance of the services. The
Request for Proposals for the proposed management contract issued in December 1995
clearly indicated that the Operator should include in his team a Sewerage/Sanitation
Engineer to be responsible for operation and maintenance of the sewerage system and the
satisfactory functioning of on-site septic tank/cesspits, including sewers, pump stations,
wastewater treatment and disposal, and the development of wastewater re-use. The
engineer should have the competence to judge if a certain industrial wastewater could be
connected to the municipal sewerage network without causing harm to the network or
disturbing the sewerage treatment. He/she should also have the competence to give advice
on alternative ways of treating or if possible preventing the industrial water. Finally,
he/she should also have the competence to advise on what quality and treatment is
necessary for using reclaimed municipal sewage water in agriculture.
(b)    supporting the development of a legislative framework and assisting the PWA develop its
regulatory capacity to control the misuse and degradation of water resources; and
(c)    facilitating the establishment of a more appropriate institutional arrangement for delivery
of services and implementation of needed investments in rehabilitating and expanding the
water and wastewater infrastructure.
7.     The Operator will be responsible for improving the efficiency of water use for municipal and
industrial purposes, for operating water and wastewater facilities properly and preventing pollution of the
environment, and will include a sewerage engineer to address the problems of industrial wastewater
management and the reclamation and re-use of wastewater effluent.
8.     Enactment of the Palestinian Water Authority's Bylaw (No. 18 of 1996) provides the legal
framework for the PWA's regulatory functions. The technical assistance component includes an adviser
to assist the PWA design and implement regulatory systems together with monitoring capacity and
sanctions. In particular, control of water abstractions and measures to protect remaining regions of good
quality groundwater from contamination and misuse will be priority tasks. Provision for a sanitary
engineer will give the PWA capacity to investigate deficiencies in sanitation practices and to develop
solutions to the problems arising from cesspits and inadequate collection and disposal of septage.
9.     Finally, the project will assist the establishment of a Regional Water and Wastewater Company
for Gaza, accountable to the sixteen local government agencies that now provide fragmented and
inadequate management of services. The capacity to properly manage the services, to develop regional
infrastructure, to capture the economies of scale of unified management, and to enhance the capacity to
prepare and implement a capital investment program will be strengthened as a result.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
10.    The project will not include major rehabilitation or expansion of wastewater treatment plants,
which are all committed to bilaterally funded projects, nor does it include projects involving involuntary
resettlement, sites of archeological or cultural significance, nor sensitive ecological areas. In view of the
above, and in accordance with Environmental Assessment Operational Directive 4.01, the project has been
classified under category "B".



Annex 3
Page I of 3
WEST BANK AND GAZA
WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES PROJECT IN GAZA
Project Cost Estimate'
[DESCRITON                                           UNrrS        UNIT COST _JNUMBER              TOTAL
US$          OF UNITS        USS 
1.      MANAGEMENT CONTRACT
Technical Manpower - Lonr Term
Manager - Ex Patriot                                  MM                  18,000      48              864,000
Water Engineer - Ex Pat                               MM                  18,000      48             864,000
Sewer Engineer - Ex Pat                               MM                  18,000      48             864,000
Financial - Ex Pat                                    MM                  18,000      48             864,000
Technical Specialists - Ex Pats - Short Term          MM                  18,000      48             864,000
Inventory/AdminlProcurement - Local                   MM                   1,500      48              72,000
Technicians - Local                                   MM                   1,500     784            1,176,000
Local Labor                                           MM                   1,000    1,100           1,100,000
Sub-total Long-Term Technical Manpower                                                     6,668,000
Admnin & Surnort
Office Manager - Local                                MM                   2,000      48              96,000
SecretarialTrranslators - Local                       MM                    7,000    144              144,000
Drivers - Local                                       MM                     700     300             210,000
Sub-total Admin & Support                                                                    450,000
Facilities & EOuiRment
Office rental                                        Month                 1,500      48              72,000
Warehouse rental                                     Month                 2,000     48               96,000
Office Equipment (Copier/Fax/Computers/Furniture)     Each                68,000      1               68,000
Utilities/Supplies/Misc                              Month  |              2,000      48              96,000
Vehicles (10)                                         Each                25,000      10             250,000
Sub-total Facilitits & Equipment                                                             582,000
Trvel
Air Travel                                          Rnd Trip               3,600      50              180,000
1/      Estimate done during appraisal of the project (January 1996).



Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
E DESCRIrTON                                          UNITS        UNIT COST       NUMBER |    TOTAL
l  I       |       USS          OF UNITS |      USS
Hotel and Subsistence                            I   Day                    150|   800              120,000
Sub-total Travel                                                                            300,000
Sub-total Base Fee                                                                        8,000,000
II.     Incentive Fee                                                                              3,000,000
Sub-total Base Fee and Incentive Fee                                                     11,000,000
III.    Operating Investment Fund
New Service Connections                               Ea                     70    15,000          1,050,000
Meters - New for replacement                          Ea                     30    30,000           900,000
Meters - Repair Parts                                 Ea                     20   20,000            400,000
Repair equipment and parts                            Ea              2,000,000      1             2,000,000
Tools, supplies, spare parts                          Ea                750,000      1              750,000
Pipe for replacement                                 Miles                   30   200,000         6,000,000
Consumables and incremental operating expenditures    Ea                700,000      1              700,000
(chlorine, fuel, labor costs)                                                  I
Computers - Hardware & Software                       Ea                200,000      1              200,000
Sub-total Operating Investment Fund                                                      12,000,000
TOTAL MANAGEMENT CONTRACT                                                                23,000,000
IV.     TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR PWA
Project Manager                                      MM                   2,500     48              120,000
Project Accountant                                   MM                   2,000     48               96,000
Project Administrative Secretary                     MM                   1,000     48           -  48,000
Sanitary Engineer                                    MM                   2,000     28               56,000
Regulatory/Licensing Specialist                      MM                  10,000      8               80,000
Auditors (I Engineering & I Accounting)              MM                  25,000     16              400,000
Legal & short term specialists                    Lump Sum              300,000      1              300,000
Office equipment/vehicles/etc                         Ea                100,000|    I               100,000
TOTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                                                1,200,000
V.      CONTINGENCY on Management Contract Base Fee (100/c)                                         800,000
VI.     LOCAL CONTRIBUTION                                                                        3,000,000
TOTAL PROJECT COST (I+11+III+IV+V+VI)                                                    28,000,000



Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
WEST BANK AND GAZA
WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES PROJECT IN GAZA
Summary Project Cost Estimate
(US$ million)
_Foreign as    Total as
Project Components                  Local      Foreign       Total     Percentbge   Percenotge
of Total     of Total
Ba  Co.t
A. Management Contract Fees                        3.10         7.90       11.00        72           41
B. Management Contract Operating Investment
Works                                           0.65                    0.65
Goods                                           0.20        10.80       11.00
Incremental Operating Expenditures              2.31         1.04       3.35
Total                                           3.16        11.84       15.00        79           55
C. Technical Assistance                            0.40         0.80        1.20        67            4
Total Base Cost (January 1996)                 6.66        20.54       27.20         76          100
Contingencies (a)                              0.34         0.46        0.80        58             3
Total Project Cost (b)                         7.00        21.00       2t00         75           103
Notes:
(a)     USSO.8 million contingencies are applicable only to the management contract base fee (USS8 million). The Operating
investment is a maximum amount available to the Operator.
(b)     All costs are net of taxes and duties.
Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Funding Sources                       Local                Foreign                 Total
Executive Authority of the                       3.0                     --                    3.0
Palestinian Council
Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank                4.0                    21.0                  25.0
Total Project              .                      7.0                  21.0                   28.0



Annex 4
WEST BANK AND GAZA
WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES PROJECT IN GAZA
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Methods       |  Non-IDA           Total
Financed         Cost
Project Elements                     ICB      NCB  |  Other
Management Contract fees                           11.80                                             11.80
Management Contract Operating Investments:
Works                                                      0.65                                    0.65
Goods and Equipment                              7.20      1.45     2.35 (a)                      11.00
Incremental Operating Expenditures                                  0.35 (b)      3.00 (c)         3.35
Technical Assistance
Consultant Services                                                 1.10 (d)                       1.10
Goods and Equipment                                                 0.10 (a)                       0.10
TOTAL                                               19.00     2.10     3.90          3.00            28.00
Nots:
(a)     Intemnational and local shopping.
(b)     Includes utility charges, chlorine, fuel and labor costs.
(c)     Operating expenditures procured by municipalities and village councils under local government procurement procedures.
(d)     Consulting services will be procured under the Guidelinesfor Use of Consultants by the World Bank.



Annex S
Page 1 of 2
WEST BANK AND GAZA
WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES PROJECT IN GAZA
Disbursement Against Project Components
Amount of             Percent of
Category                     Credit Allocated        Expenditures
l_____________________________________          (USS million)         to be Financed
(1) Management Contract Fees                       11.00                 100%
(2) Works                                           0.65                 100%
(3) Goods and Equipment                            11.10                 100%
(4) Incremental Operating Expenditures              0.35                 100%
(5) Consulting Services (Technical Assistance)      1.10                 100%
(6) Unallocated                                     0.80
TOTAIL                                   25.00                 100%
Estimated IDA Disbursements
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year         1 1997    |    1998         1999    |   2000    |   2001
Annual                 13.01          6.28          3.43          1.72         0.56
Cumulative              13.01        19.29         22.72         24.44       25.00
Percent                  52            77    _      91             98          100



Anex S
Page 2 of 2
WEST BANK AND GAZA
WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES PROJECT IN GAZA
Credit Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
Bank Fical Year           Quarterly      |    Cumulative             Disbursements
Quarter Ending         Disbursements          Disbursements         as % of Total
FY 1997
September 30, 1996            3.00                   3.00                   12
December 30, 1996             3.36                   6.36                   25
March 31, 1997                3.36                   9.72                   39
June 30, 1997                 3.29                   13.01                  52
FYx1im
Septenber 30, 1997            1.36                   14.37                  57
December 30, 1997             1.36                   15.73                  63
March 31, 1998                1.36                   17.09                  68
June 30, 1998                 2.20                   19.29                  77
FY 199
September 30, 1998            0.86                  20.15                   81
December 31, 1998             0.86                  21.01                   84
March 31, 1999                0.43                  21.44                   86
June 30, 1999                 1.28                  22.72                   91
IFYm2000
September30, 1999             0.43                  23.15                   93
Decemnber31, 1999             0.43                  23.58                   94
March 31, 2000                0.43                  24.01                   96
June 30, 2000                 0.43                  24.44                   98
nY2001
Septenber 30, 2000            0.43                  24.87                   99
December 31, 2000             0.13                  25.00                   100



Annex 6
Page I of 2
WEST BANK AND GAZA
WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES PROJECT IN GAZA
Implementation Schedule
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .T arget   D ate
A.   MANAGEMENT CONTRACT
Bidding procedure and documents agreed                                 October 23, 1995
*      Advertisement for Expression of Interest                               October 28, 1995
| *    Submission of Expression of Interest                                   December 7, 1995
l *    Send list of pre-qualified firms to Bank                              December 13, 1995
! .    Bank's comments/no-objection                                          December 14, 1995
*      Issue Request for Proposals                                           December 15, 1995
*      Pre-bid conference                                                     January 14, 1996
*      Send invitation to bidders to participate in the public opening of     February 11, 1996
proposals
*      Proposals Due Date and public opening of Technical Sections            February 19, 1996
*      Complete Technical Sections Review                                       March 7, 1996
*      Send Technical Evaluation Report to Bank                                 March 10, 1996
*      Bank's comments on Technical Section Evaluation                          March 11, 1996
*      Public Opening of Financial Section                                      March 18, 1996
*      Send recommendation for selection of Operator to Bank                    March 19, 1996
*      Bank's comments/no-objection                                             March 22, 1996
*      Contract signature                                                        May 29, 1996



Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Target Date
B.     TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Proiect Manager
1.     Finalize Terms of Reference                                                   July 1996
2.     Letter of Invitation sent                                                     July 1996
3.     Proposals received                                                          August 1996
4.     Evaluation completed                                                        August 1996
5.     Contract awarded                                                         September 1996
6.     Implementation                                                     Sept. 1996 - July 2000
Proiect Accountant
1.     Finalize Terms of Reference                                                   July 1996
2.     Letter of Invitation sent                                                     July 1996
3.     Proposals received                                                          August 1996
4.     Evaluation completed                                                        August 1996
5.     Contract awarded                                                         September 1996
6.     Implementation                                                     Sept. 1996 - July 2000
Auditors
1.     Finalize Terms of Reference                                                   July 1996
2.     Letter of Invitation sent                                                     July 1996
3.     Proposals received                                                         August 1996
4.     Evaluation completed                                                     September 1996
5.     Contract awarded                                                         September 1996
6.     Implementation                                                  January 1997 - June 2000
Lmal Advisor
1.     Prepare Terms of Reference                                                    July 1996
2.     Letter of Invitation sent                                                     July 1996
3.     Proposals received                                                         August 1996
4.     Evaluation completed                                                       August 1996
5.     Contract awarded                                                         September 1996
6.     Implementation                                                     Oct. 1996 - Dec. 1998
Note: The Regulatory/Licensing Specialist and the Sanitary Engineer are short-term positions. The
procedure for implementation of their services will be the same as that used for the long-term
positions; however, the schedule will be determnined by the needs of the project.



PopANCL -                               S98,300    55.500   332.000    45,000   128,900   112.500    18,000    23.000    47,0(    45,000   2                 9,000    20,000    11,000    5.500     5.400        3
OporbIg Rao (Tolt. RI-)                  0S       08 9      0 57      0 70     1 02      0 81     0 51      0 52      NIA       0 68     0 90      1 0       1.09     0 54      0 76     0.65      0 93
l-DRV     o Re.W (R.  CO.d0)            1 02     0 99      0 87      a 95     1.40      0 83     056       078       WA        114      131       144       I1       0090      127       I0 O     155        1t
Art~o...4s r.v9. (%)                     32%       30%      34%       26%       27%      27%       IOX       30%       N/A      40%       31%      25%       40%       40%      40%       40%       40%
ThrI R.m, pwe  ns    md 0)               O 50     0.38      0 36      04       0 54      0.41     0.50      058                 1.5      140       0.97      117      112        40       135      138
R.v.m.eCo8.cI.d  rm          (watr       0.34     0 26      028      0 39      039       0 30     045       0 40       -       0.93      086       073       070      867       0.6      081       083         . .
qbn   MMg r   pCr,   (549 _lor)          031      0.20      0 17      0 35     0 51      0 20     0.26      0 23      01    I5 10    26            t0        1.27       000     107      07        128                  - 8
OngrDMaQcw erm4(e,d  lbe5o~58i)          020      020       017       029      029       020      020       023       0.15      021      123       083        WA      018       0.27     029        MIA
Manp.rhI smbu4iop.n(%)                   25%       33%      41%       27%       16%      52%       15%       22%       14%       1%        5%       7%        3%        3%       2%        7%        4%       3
OPfRA IONAL                                                                           I                                                                                 _c
Empby 0sp      OO  op                   0.30     049       53       0.29      023 _   036        044       052       007       004      0.08      013      022       015       018      0.381     0270           ll 
Empbso6  a  rO000 e .aions               3 35     5.90      360 S9     I 13    3 53      4 85     4 44      4 17      1      00  0 50      0       1.27      1 43     1 50      1 33      4 04     3 28                         >
ErO    s pr m       ln.of               026       048       027      015       023      0.28       WA        WA       NIA      008       009       0.13     0.09      006       007       WNA      008         _
UnrAc8d far wlbr,                        50%       53%      43%       43%       53%      64%       50%       50%      00        47%      47X       SS#       55%       57%      46%       4S%      47#
Unacr4.madIbrwar lm  fik    )           57.89    129.59    51 99    23 22     50 43      8 66     NWA        WA       WA      36.06     35.40     5286      2232     3347      2530       WA      1419
L_ (mhmleSq)       X  <      ~~~~~~~40 76  S4 87  42.25    19.00 <33 OO    37 31         MIVA      NIA      NIA    27 3S    2S 11    33 4S        14 U4    20.55    19 25      NVA      10 5i 
Co mrY   AubU(m y)               16S Oa   44    _    9           -7 427  17 43   31 34      N/A       WA        WVA     9.20      929      19.15      8.45    12922      SOS       NIA      3.62                  ;
Km    W    r000 popAicn                  1 17     1.02      1.33      1.SS     1 03      1 .25     N/A      WIA       WA       0.79      O S9      I00      2.3n      2.50      2 n        v       44           l    
SW".        t0wn~a                       38      1.5       1.4       23        5 50     1700       WA        WA       WA       8863      888       9857 . 15.38      2500'    20.00       W/A    38 51 
S  _   (m3/e)   0.01  _     0.08      0.00      002 m     .                           0 oD                0 1       -        0.0       012      021       0.29       3        Cj         .
Sbr (m  1)           d                   012                 .       0. O.51   0 04      0 24      _. 0 02                                O        000                0.63      0891     2.30      2 40                 >       N  
CONSUbtPT0ON                                                                                                                                                                                                              IV -   7 ;
Avp pr         mowwd                     0.W0     0O1       0 8S      0 94     1 17      115      1 01       I Is      WA       2 91     2.67      2.17      2 600    2 20      280      280       2 60        _                 >
Tou       c p                           70.00    IS045    104.00      s 040   8300      8.637    15.S    137.15      40 30     40 22    4305    8 18        65.83    98 43    9750      7561      87 so     
ConTOon P wooX                                           OM 770  67 139.4 930 52S  S 4  S47 27  SSt.S9  S44 00    465 OD   3S7 ii   348 03   424 90   n2.9w   631 30   594 0         0 e7 SS2.S=
C o l Vd)  878.57  2.20081    520.94    347890  1 00 88   2138.1   1086.67 101280        OO558  320 01    330 08    75 08   520.87  120187    484        872.08    572.82       =.
CcmWc        l.p Cpw n.                                                            0.25      0.25      0 25      .25      0 25      025      0.25      0.25      0 25     025       0 2  25   0 25       n
P_conriol         l       11.24     12.13   1   .22    1082      15 a     1364   10.00         8.00     15.00    1117      1000     9887        .43     10.00     7 33   111          85 I e   S
Pq*_ncr *NIS       dm                     .       8.71      8.17     8.S0     1213      1091      8.00      8.40     12.00     8.83      w00       7 90      5.14     S 00      5 87     a 88      7 08
CaaTas                                                                                                                     , U
US$1 -MS 3050
-4



Monthly consumption
___            _                      2/up to 10m3           up to 20m3                   up to 30m3                   up to 40m3                   up to 50m3                    over
i                                                                                 .  .   7 - !   !    -: 7- :: D ; :: 7 7: 7 - E rT - ,lD: -E: . 7 7 TE -: -. .   . . . . . . .   . .   . .   .  . . . .    . . .   .   .   .   . .-
__za        __ CityI/mnt                                                                                                       0.7NIS/m3 :i Nt+tf^9S30   : |044;:;;       .NI/3 |0.NSm 
.Lahia                                .            j :.7                                                          3 .. .
abalya C.mp.Free.from                                                                NR     A  -20n                                       ..IS/...t..from.private wells
NDeir al Baa             15NI ;:DD ::DS/ot              1.7NI,,0    ;; S/            I.NI/m                                                   1.NSm                                                       - I E;#13NSm  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                               . . . . .   .   . . . .    . . .  . .   . .
MaKhanue                l5NSfmoth                       1.7NISm-                    1.2NIS/m3                                                 1.9NIS/m3                                                   o
. .          . . .   .   . .   . . . . . . .  .  . . .
Dweirala       h                                                       ..ISm .........                                         10 NIS/m3 5
..:.   .   . : .  ..   .   .:S :77      ..... : : S        7          I   7  :::: :i : i  
ait SHela ou       ::;;I5N1S./mf t;;; cED::fn 0 Dth :  1.6N :w IS/m    30          1.NI/m  2i t; 0 +f;0::t    :0;                              .7NIS/m3 
Bei assan           00i0i000;t;00000070   ; ;      h       0 K0: 1 ISmofL  1.6>15/rn  1.NSm                                                  2.ONIS/rn07NI/m33
Jbalys an       pFe io   NW   20 NlS/montht froNSm piae  eI
K.  ... 6: ...N IS .. o .   . .i:t: h   . 7......    1....... . . ...   .....
Maghaz              ...0;-0_                       1 NSm                       1.25NIS/m3                                                1.75NIS/m3O
.N~~~~~~~~~~~..                      .  ....
: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .       .  .... ':  ....  . ...  ..... 1: :     ,:
Abassan S  00::0-;                                                                2.0NIS/m3~~~~~~0.NIS
Khzaa   0 t;i00,1vlvdi0000000 1.....7NSm .8NSm                                                                                     0 .7NIS/m3



1   7483       630      2433        300       825       746       198       333  _              523       282        176      130       399       282        105       122
5 _                                455       109       290        15         9        25                   a 6     .            .         .       .           .       .         .         .
Tobl                             7.83        739     2,723       315       834       772       196       339       .         523       282        176      130       399       282        105       122
CWd   -b  ___                                        _         _          _        _                  -_                                        _    ___             ____                                        ft
.                                 (ee      pS5        (40 (359  J4)  (109)    (174   (15)      CA        (7)       (5)       (12)      (14)       (5)       (7)       (5)       (5)        5
b                                    S (7    O19)      (11)        3       ( 11       (5)      (20,        (3                            3                            .         .         .         .            k
Ei y                            p, r9 (22tl                01 104         (16        160        51      (100       (46)       (8   1)              (3)               (27)         4        (4) 
Moklkww=  (94   I  (33)(7)             (23       -           5       -                    -  I =  I- __
Mekoh                           0169                   .         (42)    (481)                                              (344)      (238)     (173)     (13       (180)     (0)        (59)    (109           0
OSir                               (28)                (1         (1)                     _     14                 -         -          -_
Todl V64                                      (1 (1.097         (196      (774)                          13) (99  (   53)    (356)     (254       190)    (141       (215)    (215)        (8 113
466(48             (273)       (2        40        (70                 (12       -                                                        - : 
(4      -         -          131)                         (10                                                                                                     3
Eflmgy                            {{0        (83      (144                   6 (-) (35         .         (1        - .          _                 .         .         .         .         .3.l
M~mnmt                             1. -o                                               - _~   _                                                 _              -    -              
08rw                                1C       J0)    (            -                                                  -         -         -         -                    
TdOl                                         1691 ()  (463       (25        74       106     _            (41      .          .         .                   .         .         .         . - 
TOW Op        Cca-               8s,461     (51o    (1I.se      (221      84e       (467       195 (In              _       C          (254      (190)     (141      (215)     (215)      ()        113
________zoo                                  289   11336         104        s0       364        97       197 _53             17         28         15_       1        185        66        37         9
S _               1^           (eoM     (~17       (1         4        p9         .         (- 36               .    _ -           :          .         .         -         . 
TOW                              244         229     1.163        94       (14       308        97       162        53       167        28         15       11        1s5        as        37         9 I
- p  C_h              }3                   100       570        21        1        182         77        97       (53)       42                   8                  25       () 
PM                  MM4        (10)     (e4)       mm(37                                                                 .         . .            
ToWSl                                          7 (1en  230      _I1       (243)       96        77          W          e S)j  42)                                   -(
MS I - US.33
S    4



Annex 7
Page 4 of 4
Table 7.4: Impact of Management Contract on Income and Expenditure
Statement for Water and Wastewater in the Gaza Strip, 1994 USS
Without Contract         With Contract        Gain/(Loss)
Revenue (Billed)
Water                                     7,482,933               8,279,025         796.093
Seweragc                                   454,918                 454,918 
Total                                     7,937,851               8,733,943         796,093
Revenue (Collected)
Water                                     5,137,479               7,451,119       2,313,640
Sewerage                                   246,852                  409,426         162,575
Total                                     5,384,331               7,860,546       2,476,215
Costs of Operation
Water                                                                                          l
Manpower                                  (874,945)               (874,945)
Materials                                  (75,939)                (75,939)                 l
Energy                                  (1,586,410)             (1,356,766)        229,644
Maintenance                                (82,056)                (82,056)               -
Mekoroth                                (1,968,681)             (1,182,188)        786,493
Other                                      (26,149)                (26,149)              -
Total Water                             (4,614,179)             (3,598,043)       1,016,136
Sewerage
Manpower                                  (497,650)               (497,650)               -
Materials                                  (26,470)                (26,470)
Energy                                    (280,029)               (280,029)
Maintenance                                (63,000)                (63,000)
Other                                      (10,166)                (10,166)
Total Sewerage                            (877,315)               (877,315)              -
Total Operating Costs                     (5,491,494)             (4,475,358)       1,016,136
Operating Surplus (Loss)
Water                                     2,868,754               4,680,982       1,812,229
Sewerage                                 (422,397)                (422,397)              -
Total                                     2,446,357               4,258,585       1,812,229
Operating Cash Surplus(Loss)
Water                                      523,300                3,853,080       3,329,780
Sewerage                                 (630,463)                (467,889)        162,575
Total                                    (107,163)                3,385,191       3,492,354



Annex 8
Page 1 of 15
WEST BANK AND GAZA
WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES PROJECT IN GAZA
Methodology for Financial and Economic Analysis
Part I: Methodology of Financial Analysis
I.    Assumptions Used
1.    The purpose of producing a combined financial statement for the water and wastewater sector in
Gaza was to examine the current financial situation of the sector as a whole. In particular, we are
interested to know whether the sector can cover its operational and maintenance costs from its present
level of receipts (i.e., after allowing for accounts receivable).
2.    To produce this statement, however, certain assumptions needed to be made to fill in the gaps of
financial and operational data, when the correct information was not available from the Municipalities and
Village Councils themselves or from other sources.
3.    The basis of these assumptions is as follows:
Revenue: When revenue figures were not provided (for Zuweida, Bani Suheila, Big
Abassan, Small Abassan and Khzaa), a figure of 2.6NIS/m3 (US$0.87) delivered was
assumed. This figure was derived as the average revenue per m3 for the councils of
Bureij, Maghazi and Nuseirat, which are similar in character and tariff structure to the
councils for which data was available. When not recorded, accounts receivable were
assumed to be 40% of total revenue, which appeared consistent with other Village
Councils.
Manpower numbers and costs: Manpower numbers could not be obtained for Jabalya
Camp, Zuweida, Small Abassan and Khzaa. In these cases it was assumed that the water
departments employ only I person per 1,000 connections, subject to a minimum staff of
2. It was assumed that the salary cost was 7,000 NIS p.a. These assumptions are
consistent with the numbers declared for the other central and southem Village Councils
drawing most or all of their water from Mekoroth.
*      Energy costs: When not declared, energy costs for water were assumed at 0.13 NIS per
m3 of own production (excluding water from Mekoroth). This is consistent with the
average cost declared by the other councils.
Mekoroth: When a council buys water from Mekoroth but the costs were not available,
the volumes drawn (derived from the Lyonnaise des Eaux (LYSA) May 1995 report) were
charged at 1.29 NIS/m3 (US$0.43/i3), the current tariff.
*     Unaccounted-for water: Figures for Beit Lahia and Jabalya Camp were not available.
In these cases a conservative assumption of 50% was made after consulting the LYSA
reports.



Annex 8
Page 2 of 15
Leakage: As recorded above, local engineers were unable to provide leakage figures out
of unaccounted-for water. For the purposes of this report, a figure of 65% of total
production was assumed lost due to leakage and inaccurate metering for all areas. This
amount is included in the unaccounted-for water.
Illegal connections and consumption: After consulting with local experts, an estimate
of 25 illegal connections per 100 legal connections was adopted for all areas. Illegal
consumption was calculated as the residual of unaccounted-for water after deducting
assumed leakage; for the purpose of this report, it is estimated at 35% of all unaccounted-
for water. This omits the fact that a small volume of water is supplied to mosques,
schools and government buildings free of charge. However, given the questionable
accuracy of the data in general, this assumption is not significant.
II.    Results
4.     Table 8.1 below shows the consolidated income and expenditure statement for the water and
wastewater sector in Gaza in NIS and in US$.
5.     The sector generates revenues of just under US$8 million p.a. However, research indicates that
approximately 32% of this revenue is never collected, hence receipts for the sector are only about
US$5.4 million. This figure of 32% is somewhat lower than was initially indicated; other reports
(Lyonnaise des Eaux, May 1995: 40%) have frequently quoted a figure of 40% for accounts receivable.
Discussions with Gaza sector specialists indicated that this may have been true during the height of the
Intifada, but that the situation has since been improving, especially in the Municipalities.
6.     Total operating costs of US$5.5 million are dominated by those of operating the water system,
at US$4.6 million. By far the largest elements of expenditure are the purchase of water from the Israeli
Mekoroth Water Company, energy and labor.
7.     These figures suggest that the current level of tariffs for water and sanitation is sufficient to cover
all current expenditures and make a contribution of up to US$2.4 million p.a. towards investment',
provided that all present revenue that is billed can be collected. However, the balance of charges between
water and wastewater services is such that wastewater revenues are insufficient to cover costs even if all
revenues were collected. This suggests that some degree of tariff rebalancing might be appropriate within
a unified and independent water and wastewater company.
8.     Once accounts receivable are taken into account, the sector makes currently a small operating loss
of about US$107,000. This illustrates the important role that the Operator has to perform in improving
the accounts receivable figures.
9.     A table presenting the estimated income and expenditure statements for each of the Municipalities
and Village Councils is provided in Annex 7, Table 7.3. These show that the regional pattern varies
across Gaza. In the Municipal areas and the Northern Village Councils which supply their own water
rather than purchase from Mekoroth, revenues, and indeed receipts, are more than sufficient to cover
operating costs. In the central and southern Village Councils that rely on Mekoroth, the situation is
I/    Which could either be measured in terns of capital expenditure or depreciation and interest charges, or
as maintenance costs which are by far insufficient.



Annex 8
Page 3 of 15
different. Once non-payment of bills is taken into account, receipts are not adequate to cover costs at
present. In Maghazi and Zuweida even total revenues do not cover costs, while in Bureij and Khzaa the
excess of revenues over costs is slim. The other councils appear to be able comfortably to cover costs
from current total revenues.
Table 8.1: Income and Expenditure Statement for Water and Wastewater
[I _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _    I  _   _    _    _    __NIS  I
Revenue (Billed)                                        __X ___
Water                                                             22.448,798               7,482.933
Sewerage                                                            1,364,755               454.918
Total                                                             23.813,552               7.937.851
Revenue (Collected)
Water                                                              15.412,438              5,137.479
Seweraze                                                             740,555                246.852
Total                                                              16.152,993              5,384,331
Costs of Operation                                      _
Water 
Mannower                                                          (2.624,834)              (874,945)
Materials                                                          (227,817)                (75,939)
Energy                                                            (4.759.229)            (1,586,410)
Maintenance                                                         (246,167)               (82.056)
Mekoroth                                                          (5.906.042)            (1.968.681)
Other                                                               (78.447)                (26.149)
Total Water                                                      (13.842,537)            (4.614,179)
Sewera2e
Manpower                                                          (1,492,950)              (497.650)
Materials                                                           (79.409)                (26.470)
Energy                                                             (840,088)               (280.029)
Maintenance                                                         (189.000)               (63.000)
Other                                                               (30.498)                (10.166)
Total Seweraze                                                    (2.631,945)              (877.315)
Total Operating Costs                                              (16.474.482)            (5.491.494)
Operatine Surplus (Loss)                                                                              l
Water                                                              8.606,261               2,868.754
Seweraee                                                          (1.267,190)             (422,397)
Total                                                              7.339.070               2,446.357
Overatin_ Cash Surplus (Loss)                            _                     l
Water                                                               1,569,901               523,300
Sewerage                                                          (1,891.390)              (630.463)
Total                                                              (321.489)              (107.163)



Annex 8
Page 4 of 15
m.    Overview of Operating Performance
10.     Table 8.2 presents a limited set of performance indicators for the Gaza water and wastewater
system and compares these with some examples from other countries around the world. The purpose of
this table is to indicate the particular characteristics of the problems faced in Gaza.
Table 8.2: Performance Indicators for Gaza, Compared with Other Countries
Gaza   |  Ramallah   |  Spain   1  USA           Canada      Frsnce   | Jordan
Strip       (JWU)l
__E                                                                        .  .~ . ==1
Total supply                135           76            267        666         431         n/a          144
per capita (1/d)
Delivered per connection     24            15           33         89          82          n/a         14.5
(m'/conniyear)
Unaccounted-for water (%)   48%          25%           26%         12%        15%          15%         42%
Unaccounted-for water        58           7.3           23          17         16          n/a         n/a
(m'Ikniday)
000 m3 water supplied per    84           34            170        370        424          200          33
employee
Employees per 000           3.4           7.2          2.5         2.9        2.0          4.5         12.7
connections
Km of pipe per 000          1.2           4.2          3.1         4.9        n/a          2.6         n/a
population                                                    I
Km of pipe per 000           13           28            10         24         n/a          n/a         n/a
connections
Storage volume (m'/capita)  0.0           0.1          n/a         0.5        0.6          0.6         n/a
Storage volume              0.1           0.7          n/a         1.3        3.0          3.9         n/a
(m'/connection)                                    I          I                  .
11.     Looking at the demand and supply factors, supply per capita is low by international standards,
because of the poor quantity and quality of water, as well as because of low per capita incomes.
Considering the high level of unaccounted-for water (48%) effective per capita use is only about 70 liters
per day. Unaccounted-for water makes up an extremely high proportion of total distribution input,
because of illegal consumption and leakage. Losses per kilometer of pipe are also high.
12.     In terms of personnel, because of the shortages of labor in the Municipalities and Village Councils,
employment in the water and wastewater system is not particularly high by international standards. This
figure in fact conceals the general lack of sufficiently well-trained workers in the water and wastewater
departments.
13.     Looking at the network itself, when compared to the number of connections, Gaza has a
reasonably normal length of distribution network. However, there is an extremely low level of storage.
Many areas of Gaza have no storage at all in practice.



Annex 8
Page 5 of 15
IV.   Modelling the Financial Impact of the Management Contract
Questions to be Addressed
14.   The key questions which the financial modelling was intended to answer were:
How much revenue can be expected to be generated if the targets in the Management
Contract are achieved, including the conversion of 15,000 illegal connections to legal
ones, the reduction in unaccounted-for water to 30% and the reduction of accounts
receivable to 10% by the end of four years?
*     In this improved financial situation, will the current tariffs for water and wastewater in
Gaza be sufficient to cover the operation and maintenance costs of the network (taking
into account that they are simply indexed with the cost of living)? Given the difficult
economic situation in Gaza, substantial increases in the overall level of water tariffs in
real terms are not expected in the next few years. Therefore, the ability of the system to
finance its operating and maintenance costs from current revenues (at current tariff levels)
is important for a unified water and wastewater utility to maintain the integrity of the
supply system and to retain the benefits stemming from the Management Contract.
Approach and Assumptions
15.   Because of the limitations of the data, there is little purpose served in attempting to build a
complex financial forecasting model for the water and wastewater sector in Gaza. Such a model would
only serve to lend a spurious appearance of accuracy to financial figures which must at best be viewed
as indicative of the true position.
16.   The simple approach that has been adopted therefore is a comparison of two static positions, one
presenting the current situation as represented by our estimates of the position of the sector for 1994, and
the other representing a re-working of the 1994 figures taking into account the changes that will occur in
all relevant cost and revenue items as a consequence of the successful implementation of the Management
Contract. This has the benefit of isolating the specific impact of the Management Contract without
attempting to project the additional effect of cost inflation and further population growth.
17.   The main aspects of the Management Contract which have an impact on the finances of the sector
are assumed to be as follows:
Reduction in illegal connections by 15,000: This increases the volume of water for
which the Municipalities and Village Councils can bill, leading to increased revenue. In
addition, it is to be assumed that once illegal connections are placed on a meter they will
reduce their use of the volume of water the utilities need to purchase from Mekoroth. For
the purposes of modelling, the current average use per legal connection and per illegal
connection in each area was applied. Consumption per illegal connection is typically at
least 10% higher than per legal connection. On conversion of an illegal connection to a
legal one a reduction in consumption to the average level in that area for legal
connections was assumed.



Annex 8
Page 6 of 15
*     Reduction in leakage: This has a direct benefit to the water utilities in terms of reducing
the volume of water that must be pumped or purchased from Mekoroth for a given level
of consumption.
*     Meter repair and replacement:  When connections with non-functional or poorly
functioning meters have a new meter installed, an effect on the level of water use is
expected because the connection will thereafter be paying for each cubic meter they use.
The size of this effect is not easy to estimate. It was therefore assumed that new and
repaired meters installed reduce consumption by 10% of the average consumption per
connection in that area.
*     Reduction in accounts receivable: It was assumed that reducing accounts receivable has
no impact on water use, only on receipts. However, it could be argued that reducing
accounts receivable has a similar impact to installing functioning meters: connections that
were previously not paying their bills will afterwards actually be paying for the water they
use, and they may reduce their water use as a result.
18.   The assessment of the financial impact of these changes was modelled using the following
additional assumptions.
*     Impact on revenue: Each additional cubic meter supplied to a legal connection generates
revenue at the average price per cubic meter currently applying in the relevant area.
*     Impact on receipts: Receipts are assumed to reach 90% of revenue, because the target
for accounts receivable is 10%.
*     Impact on costs: This impact is extremely difficult to estimate. It was assumed that
reductions in volume pumped as a result of reduced leakage and consumption per
connection will lead to reductions in energy costs and the costs of purchasing from
Mekoroth. No effect is assumed for materials costs because only a tiny fraction of these
costs are -currently related to the use of chemicals. The reduction in energy costs is
assumed to occur pro-rata with the reduction introduction from Municipality and Village
Council wells.
V.    Results
19.   Annex 7, Table 7.4 shows the predicted impact of the Management Contract on the income and
expenditure statement for Gaza.
20.   Annual Revenues (amount billed) are predicted to increase by US$800,000 (10%). The predicted
increase in revenue would be greater if we assumed that the conversion of illegal connections to legal
status and the installation of functioning meters had no effect on consumption.
21.   Operating costs fall from US$5.5 million p.a. to US$4.5 million p.a. as a result of increased
operating efficiency.



Annex 8
Page 7 of I5
22.   Overall, the annual excess of revenues over expenses is predicted to rise by US$1.8 million from
US$2.5 million to US$4.3 million. The reduction in accounts receivable results in operating Cash Surplus
of US$3.4 million, compared to an operating Cash Loss of US$107,000 before the Management Contract.
23.    These figures imply that the successful implementation of the Management Contract will result
in a financial position for the water and wastewater sector in Gaza which will provide strong position to
maintain the gains achieved during the four years of the Contract itself.
Part II: Methodology of Economic Analysis
A.    Social and Economic Justification
1.    This project follows and complements the ERP. It constitutes an urgent measure to quickly
improve the dismal drinking and wastewater situation in Gaza, thereby reducing health hazards and
improving economic opportunities. Economic Sector Work is planned in 1996/1997, and it is anticipated
that the water and sanitation sector will emerge as a priority for the future socio-economic development
of Gaza, and that this project will match the criteria for actions to bring about quick results in this priority
sector.
2.     The project is expected to meet its objective to improve the quantity, quality and management of
the water and wastewatersector. Specifically, and as a result of the project, it is expected that at the end
of the four-year project period: (i) the Gaza water sector will have at least 65,000 newly regularized
service connections (20,000 connections replaced; 30,000 meters replaced; and 15,000 illegal connections
converted to legal status); (ii) effective water use would increase by about 20 percent to 58 liters per
capita per day; (iii) water will be reliably disinfected throughout Gaza; and (iv) the quality of wastewater
discharges will be significantly improved.
3.    In addition, the Management Contract will improve overall water resources management in Gaza,
mainly through an increase in sector efficiency (reduction of unaccounted-for water), a reduction of
accounts receivable, improved planning and project design capacity within the municipalities and village
councils, and through implementation of a uniform, progressive tariff system throughout Gaza to
encourage water conservation and recovery of full operation and maintenance costs, as well as an
increasing portion of capital costs.
4.     The proposed project will produce social, economic, financial and environmental benefits with
regard to: (i) saved water and increased revenues by repairing and installing consumer and production
meters, leakage repairs, regularizing illegal connections, reducing the amount of accounts receivable, and
by economies of scale achieved by the consolidation of services under a single WWCG; (ii) improving
drinking and wastewater quality, consequently reducing health risks; (iii) improving service delivery,
increasing per capita availability of drinking water, and extending connections to unserved populations;
(iv) protecting the environment, particularly aquifers, from wastewater pollution; (v) creating employment
during implementation of the Service Improvement Program; and (vi) improving economic opportunities
and quality of life for the Gaza populh'ioni in general. The project would also help strengthen the PWA,
local municipal water departments and create a sustainable service delivery through the envisaged WWCG.
Finally, the project will assist the EAPC to achieve autonomy in the management of a vital resource, and
thereby contribute to the Peace Process.



Annex 8
Page 8 of 15
B.    Economic Benefits
5.     Many of the above benefits are not quantifiable and will have repercussions beyond the water
sector. The analysis of quantifiable benefits shows an economic rate of return (ERR) of about 14 percent,
ten years after project conclusion. This compares with an opportunity cost of about 10 percent in
countries at similar income levels (e.g., Jordan, 8.5 percent; Egypt, 11 percent).
6.     The underlying assumptions for this analysis are that: (i) the Operator will achieve maximum
sector efficiency targets (reduction in unaccounted-for water); (ii) given finite and already vastly over-
exploited water resources within Gaza, future new supplies from traditional resources will increase only
marginally; (iii) population growth, currently at 5 percent per year (mostly from refugees and
immigration), will decline and level off to about 2.8 percent in ten years; (iv) given the large unmet
municipal demand and the extreme pressure in general on water resources in the Middle East Region--
resulting in high water prices in comparable neighboring countries--the willingness to pay (WTP) is
assumed to be higher than the present highest block tariff in Gaza (US$0.67 per cubic meter), gradually
increasing over ten years to the cost of supply from desalination, by then projected at US$1.25 per cubic
meter. The paragraphs below provide details on the key assumptions.
7.     These are conservative estimates. Although achieving a sector efficiency improvement from
currently 52 percent to 70 percent in four years may appear optimistic in the Gaza context, a one-year
delay in meeting distribution network efficiency targets would only marginally affect the ERR. Other
assumptions were deliberately under-rated, given current uncertainties in Gaza. Similarly, they would have
only minor impacts on the ERR. This is explained by the large unmet municipal demand (at present close
to 100 percent of effective water use), resulting in a WTP factor which is probably significantly higher
than the highest tariff block in Gaza which is US$0.67 per cubic meter. In the West Bank, the highest
tariff block is equivalent to US$1.45 per cubic meter. In comparable countries in the Middle East, water
is purchased from vendors at prices ranging from US$3 (Lebanon) and US$5 (Jordan) per cubic meter.
8.     Water for agricultural use is currently virtually free. Tariffs are nonexistent. License fees for wells
are nominal and are often not collected. At least 1,000 out of approximately 3,000 wells are illegal. In
many cases, especially in the central area of Gaza, where water is especially scarce, farmers sell their
excess water to nearby municipalities, at prices of up to US$0.70 per cubic meter, despite nitrate
contamination and high salinity. To relieve the scarcity constraint on alternative, higher value-added
economic development, for resource conservation and equity, agriculture should give up water for the
benefit of municipal supplies. This would require that a system for charging for agricultural water will
have to be established to encourage shifting water from low-value crops to higher-value uses. Likewise,
municipal tariffs--at present on average US$0.33 per cubic meter--would have to be increased to allow
recovery of the full cost for operation and maintenance and, gradually, also capital expenditures.
9.     Sensitivity analyses have been carried out with four alternative scenarios:
ERR
10 years
(after project execution)
(i)    Total benefits increased by 10 percent                    15 %
(ii)    Total benefits decreased by 10 percent                   13 %



Annex 8
Page 9 of 15
(iii)   Water transferred from agriculture, gradually
increasing to 10% of current agriculture use by 2007      15 %
(iv)   Efficiency performance targets delayed
by one year                                               14 %
10.    Water Demand Versus Supply. The current per capita municipal consumption (domestic and
industrial use) of about 70 liters per day (24 cubic meters per year)--one of the lowest in the world--is a
constraint on socio-economic growth. Based on experience in countries of similar economic development,
potential per capita municipal demand in Gaza would be at least 80 to 120 liters per day, between 33 and
44 cubic meters per year. This demand will increase, both with population growth and with economic
development. It is estimated that within the next eight to ten years, per capita demand for municipal water
will increase to about 60 cubic meters per year (Table 8.3). The savings resulting from improving
distribution network efficiency and from expected additional supplies from Israel, would increase per
capita availability of water to about 33 cubic meters per capita per year, while total per capita annual
municipal demand will be about 60 cubic meters. This would leave an enormous gap in unmet demand
(Figure 1).
Figure 1 - GAZA - Municipal Water Demand & Supply Deficit
1995- 2005
60
--*-ESTIMATED
DEMAND
'3--ap/year
40
-             0   -l    -     0C - C - EFFEcrivE
30                                                USE
ll wol -,,          l      !        llp           rojec
+++   ++   +  ++D3cpy*
20. .             . . . .
+ EFFECTIVE
USE wtthout
10                 'i nproject- 
Wn/csp/year
|  |       i       |    i    i  ff I                       I
YEAR
POPULATION (mIlPln)
090 0.96 1.02 1.07 1.13 1.20 1.24 1.29 1.34 1.40 1.4
11.    This project is designed to achieve quick results, in terms of improving water and sewerage
services quantitatively and qualitatively, and in strengthening the institutional capacity. It is not meant
to resolve all water sector problems. In fact, there is an enormous demand--estimated at close to



Annex 8
Page 10 of 1S
US$100 peT capita--for sector investments to rehabilitate existing installations and to expand services, over
the next three to five years. Even if these funds were available, it is uncertain whether the EAPC would
at present have the institutional and physical capacity to absorb them.
12.   Key Assumptions. The following explains the meaning of major terms used throughout this
analysis and the rationale underlying the key assumptions used to assess social and economic benefits:
(a)    Municipal Water Supply includes domestic and industrial water. In 1995, an estimated
43.0 MCM were pumped into the water supply network of the 16 municipalities and
village councils. Approximately 36.8 MCM were extracted from aquifers and 6.2 MCM
were supplied by Israel from Mekoroth. The 1995 figures were used as a basis for
estimates projected into the future. Supplies are from aquifer withdrawals and from
Israel, including an additional 5 MCM as per the September 28, 1995 Interim Agreement
(Table 8.3). They are projected to increase in parallel with population growth.
(b)    Population Growth has been extremely high in the past, among the highest in the world.
This is mostly the result of the return of refugees and immigration. For the purposes of
this analysis, it is estimated that the population growth rate would gradually decrease over
the next ten years from 6.2 percent in 1995 to 3.5 percent by 2004, declining to about
2.7 percent by 2012.2 The Gaza land area is limited and has already one of the highest
population densities in the world (less than 10 mZ per person in some refugee camps).
The territory will, thus, reach a level of saturation, both in population density and in
economic opportunities (Table 8.3).
(c)    Willingness to pay is perceived to be relatively high in Gaza, mainly as a result of the
large unmet demand and finite resources. The highest block tariff in the central villages
of Gaza is at present US$0.67 per cubic meter. The highest block tariff in the Ramallah
District of the West Bank is US$1.45 per cubic meter. Table 7.1 provides data on
average price per cubic meters consumed in each municipality and village council in
Gaza. In comparable neighboring countries the price for water from vendors (tank trucks)
is US$5 (Jordan) and US$3 (Lebanon) per cubic meter. Another comparator was GDP
in the West Bank and in Gaza. The latter is 60 percent of the former; thus, it was
assumed that given the much more acute water shortage in Gaza, the WTP in Gaza would
be about 60 percent of the highest block tariff in the West Bank, i.e., US$0.80 per cubic
meter in 1996. The WTP factor would gradually increase to reach in 2001 the projected
price of desalinated water, US$1.25 per cubic meter delivered through the distribution
network. It would then remain constant, as supplies at this price will be unlimited
(Tables 8.3 to 8.6).
(d)    Cost savings from increased operational efficiency are based on findings of the financial
analysis in Part I, estimating that at project completion the Operator would achieve
savings in operating costs of about US$1 million per year. It was assumed that these
savings would marginally increase over a ten-year period after project completion, to
reach US$2.5 million in 2009. Savings would be achieved mainly through improved
economies of scale (accounting, billing, collecting, technical design, repair workshops and
2/     Source: Palestinian Bureau of Statistics--Demography of the Palestinian Population in the West Bank
and Gaza Strip (December 1994).



Annex 8
Page 11 of 15
other services could be combined for the 16 communities) and streamlined operations.
This estimate may be under-rated, since it is envisaged that a regional water and sewerage
utility will be created for Gaza within the four years of the project (Tables 8.3 to 8.6) that
may achieve even greater savings.
(e)    Effective supply refers to the amount of water, net of losses, actually delivered to the user.
In Gaza in 1995, the municipal supply, as pumped into the distribution network, amounted
to 135 liters per capita per day. However, due to 48 percent unaccounted-for water
(losses), the effective supply is less than 70 liters per capita per day.



Table 83: Gaza Strip - Municipal Water Demand and Supply, 1995-2005 - With and Without Project
Input Criteria                   1995      Year I  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4         Year 5      Year 6     Year 7    Year 8    Year 9 | Year 10              N  oo
1. Population (million)                         0.90       0.96       1.02      1.07     1.13       1.20        1.24       1.29       1.34       1.40       1.44
Population Growth/year'                      6.2%       6.0%/     5.90/.    5.7%      5 6%       4.2%       4.0%/o      3.8%       3.7%      3.6%       3.5%
2. Municipal Water Supply  (mio. m3)            42.3       44.9       47.6      50.4     53.3        56.3       58.6       61.0        63.3      65.6       68.0
3. Effective Water Use'                         22.0       23.3       24.8      26.2     27.7        29.3       30.5       31.7        32.9      34.1       35.4
Total for Gaza  (mio. m3/year)
(i) Without Project (m3/cap/year)             24.4       24.3      24.3      24.5      24.5       24.4        24.6       24.6       24.6      24.4       24.6
(ii) With Project (m3/cap/year)               24.4       25.7      28.0      30.6      33.0       32.8        33.1        33.    1 33 1       32.8       33.1
Projected Efficiency                      52%        55%       60%/o     65%      70%         70%        70%         70%        700/.     70%/a      700o%
4. Total Water Saved (mio. m3)                _     _      .4         3.8       6.6       9.6        10.1        10.5       11.0       11.4     1_1.8       12.2
- of which by regularizing illegal             .         0.5       1.3       2.3       3.4        3.5         3.7        3.9        4.0       4.1        4.3
connections 4 (mio. m3)
- Net water saved (mio. m3)                    -         0.9       2.5       4.3       6.2        6.6         6.8        7.1        7.4       7.7        7.9
(benefit to economy)
5. Estimated Municipal Demand                   29.2        32.9      36.5      40.2      43.8       47.5        51.1       54.8       58.4      58.4       58.4
(i) m3/capita/year
(ii) million m3 for Gaza Strip               26.3       31.6       37.2     43.0      49.5        57.0       63.4       70.7       78.3       81.8       84.1
6. Shortfall of Effective Municipal Water Use    4.3        8.3       12.4      16.8     21.8        27.7       32.9        39.0       45.4      47.7       48.7
mio. m3 for all of Gaza Strip
Source: Palestinian Bureau of Statistics, Demography of the Palestinian Population in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, December 1994.
2/       Water pumped into system (100%), expanded in parallel with population growth, including additional supply from Israel (Mekoroth) of 5 million cubic meters per
year, as per Oslo-2 Agreement.
3/       Effective water use is water delivered to users, net of losses (52% system efficiency, without project).
4/       Illegal connections are estimated to account for 35% of unaccounted-for water.
5/       Based on 80 liters per capita per day in 1995, gradually increasing with projected economic growth potential to 160 liters per capita per day during the next
10 years.



Year    Cost      Mun.     Existing    Efficiency   Efficiency   Water    Water saved   WTP        Value of     Oper.    Total          1              2
Supply   Efficiency    with        with     saved     net of illegal  value        water       costs   benefit    Increased      Decreased
w/out     (52%)       project    project              connections'             saved net of   saved 2               benefits      benefits
project                                                                           illegal                             100/c         100/0
mio                                                              mio m3                  connections
USS    mio. m!    mio. m3        %        mio m3    mio m'                     S/rM        mio S       mio S    mio S        mio S          mio S
1       7.0       44.9       23.3        55         24.7      1.4          0.9           0.80        0.7         -        0.7             0.8           0.6
2       7.0       47.6        24.8       60         28.6       3.8         2.5           0.90        2.3         0.2      2.5              2.8          2.3
3       7.0       50.4       26.2        65         32.8      6.6          4.3           1.00        4.3         0.5      4.8             5.3           4.3
4       7.0       53.3       27.7        70         37.3       9.6         6.2           1.10        6.8          1.0      7.8            8.6           7.0
5        -        56.3       29.3        70         39.4      10.1         6.6           1.20        7.9         1.1      9.0              9.9          8.1
6        -        58.6       30.5        70         41.0      10.5         6.8           1.25        85           1.1     9.6             10.6          8.6
7        -        61.0       31.7        70         42.7      11.0         7.1           1.25        8.9          1.2    10.1             11.1          9.1
8        -        63.3       32.9        70         44.3      11.4         7.4           1.25        9.3         1.3     10.6             11.7          9.5
9        -        65.6       34.1        70         45.9      11.8         7.7           1.25        9.6         1.5     11.1             12.2         10.0
10        -        68.0       35.4        70         47.6     12.2          7.9           1.25        9.9         1.7    11.6             12.8          10.4
II        -        70.3       36.6        70         49.2      12.6         8.2           1.25        10.3        1.9    12.2             13.4          11.0
12        -        72.7       37.8        70         50.9    13.1           8.5           1.25        106         2.1     12.7            14.0          11.4
13        -        75.1       39.1        70         52.6      13.5         8.8           1.25        11.0        2.3     1               14.6          12.0
14        -        77.4       40.2        70         54.2      14.0         9.1            1.25!      11.4        2.5    13.9             15.3          12.5
| Total H 28.0                       1          F           I                                     l                     129.9            143.1         1
ERR:                                14 % - 10 years after project completion.
Sensitivity Analysis:               1. Benefits increased by 100/o: ERR - 15% -10 years afTer project completion.
2. Benefits decreased by 100/o: ERR - 13% - 10 years after project completion.
I/      Unaccounted-for (UAF) water related to illegal connections is estimated at 35% of total UAF; the regularization of illegal connections is a financial benefit, but
not an economic one. Hence, only water saved net of illegal connections (65% of total UAF) is an economic benefit of the project
2/       This refers to operating cost savings due to improved operating efficiency, taking into account economies of scale to be introduced by the Operator and other
efficiency improvements. The estimates are conservative, since the Water and Wastewater Company for Gaza to be created in the course of the project will likely
produce even more operating cost savings.



Table 8.5: Sensitivity 3 - Water Transfer from Agriculture to Municipal Use
Year    Cost   Mun.   Transfer    Transfer    Total    Existing           Efficiency     Efficiency    Water    Water saved         WTP       Value       Oper.        Total
suppi       from       from     munic.       effic.        with       with project    saved     net of illegal    value     water       costs       benefits
mio    mmi3o  agric.  agric    sumPply     (5 2%)        project                               connections'                saved      saved 2
mio  M3                         mi~~~~o     mio                       mio m3iom
usS                 %         mio m3      m3          m3             %mi                                                  S/m3        mijo     mio USS          USS
m3                                  us$
1        70      44.9                              44.9          23.3          55             24.7       1.4          0.9            0.80      0.7           -             0.7
2        7.0     47.6         -                   47.6          24.8          60             28.6        3.8          2.5            0.90      2.3           0.2          2.5
3        7.0     50.4         -                   50.4          26.2          65             32.8        6.6         4.3             1.00      4.3          0.5           4.8
4        7.0     53.3         2           1.9     55.2          28.7          70              38.6       9.9          6.4            1.10      7.0           1.0          8.0
5        -       56.3         3           2.9     59.2          30.8          70             41.4       10.6          6.9            1.20      8.3           1.1          9.4
6        -       58.6         4           3.7     62.3          32.4          70              43.6      11.2          7.3            1.25      9.1           1.1         10.2
7                61.0         5           4.8     65.8          34.2          70              46.1      11.9          7.7            1.25      9.6           1.2         10.8
8        -       63.3         6           5.6     68.9          35.8          70             48.2       12.4          8.1            1.25     10.1           1.3         11.4
9        -       65.6         7           6.7     72.3          37.6          70              50.6      13.0          8.5            1.25     10.6           1.5         12.1
10        -       68.0         8          7.4      75.4          39.2          70             52.8       13.6          8.8            1.25     11.0           1.7         12.7
I1 I              70.3         9          8.6      78.9          41.0          70             55.2       14.2          9.2            1.25     11.5           1.9         13.4
12        -       72.7        10          9.3      82.0          42.6          70             57.4       14.8          9.6            1.25     12.0           2.1         14.1
13        -       75.1        10          9.3      84.4          43.9          70             59.1       15.2          9.9            1.25     12.4           2.3         14.7
14                77.4        10          9.3      86.7          45.1          70             60.7       15.6         10.1            1.25     12.6           2.5         15.1
--o.    L8.0  j         -=                           =j                                                                                                             j      139.9
* Transferfrom agriculture: percentages are based on total estimated agricultural water use of 93 mio. m3 in 1995,
supposing that agricultural water use will not increase.
Sensitivity analysis 3:       ERR:  15%  - 10 years after project completion.
1/        Unaccounted-for (UAF) water related to illegal connections is estimated at 35%  of total UAF; the regularization of illegal connections is a financial benefit, but
not an economic one. Hence, only water saved net of illegal connections (65% of total UAF) is an economic benefit of the project
2/        This refers to operating cost savings due to improved operating efficiency, taking into account economies of scale to be introduced by the Operator and other
efficiency improvements. The estimates are conservative, since the Water and Wastewater Company for Gaza to be created in the course of the project will likely
produce even more operating cost savings.



Table 8.6: Sensitivity 4 - Efficiency Performance Targets Delayed by One Year
Year        Cost          Municipal         Existing        Efficiency       Efficiency       Water      Water saved        WTP          Value        Operating.       Total
Supply         Efficiency      with project    with project    saved         net of illegal     value       of water         costs        benefit
w/out project        (52%)         I year delay     I year delay                 connections'                    saved          saved 2
mio USS         mio m3            mio m3              %             mio m3         mio m3        mio m3           S/mr3      mio USS        mio USS       mio US$
-             7.0           449                23.3               52               23.3                       -              0.80                           -            -
2             7.0          47.9               24.8               55               26.2         1.4          0.9              0.90           0.8            0.2          1.0
3             7.0          50.4               26.2               60               30.2         4.0          2.6             -.00            2.6            0.5          3.1
4             7.0          53.3                27.7              65               34.6         6.9          4.5              1.10           5.0            1.0          6.0
S       F                  56.3               29.3               70               39.4        10.1          6.6              1 .20          2.9            1.1          9.0
6             -            58.6                30.5              70               41.02       10.5          6.8              1.25           8.5            1.1          9.6
7             -            61.0                31.7              70               42.7        11.0          7.2              1.25           9.0            1.2         10.2
8             l            63.3                32.9              70               44.3        11.4          7.4              1.25           9.3            1.3         10.6
9                          65.6                34.1              70               45.9        11.8          7.7              1.25           9.6            1.5          11.1
10 l                        68.0               35.4               70               47.6        12.2          7.9              1.25          9.9             1.7         11.6
l            -             70.3               36.6               70               49.2       12.6           8.2              1.25          10.3            1.9         12.2
12                          72.7               37.8               70               50.9        13.1          8.5              1.25          10.6            2.1         12.7
13    l                     75.1               39.1               70               52.6       13.5           8.8              1.25          11.0            2.3         13.3
14            .            77.4               40.2               70               54.2        14.0          9.1              1.25          11.4            2.5          13.9
a                 .1                              .                                             =                             =                    I              |      124.3
Sensifivity analysis 4:       ERR: 14% - 10 years after project completion.
I/       Unaccounted-for (UAF) water related to illegal connections is estimated at 35%  of total UAF; the regularization of illegal connections is a financial benefit, but
not an economic one. Hence, only water saved net of illegal connections (65% of total UAF) is an economic benefit of the project.
2/        This refers to operating cost savings due to improved operating efficiency, taking into account economies of scale to be introduced by the Operator and other
efficiency improvements. The estimates are conservative, since the Water and Wastewater Company for Gaza to be created in the course of the project will likely                     g
produce even more operating cost savings.
%rl0



Total
Performance Criterion                                    UInits                      Yearly Targets                       Targ ers
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4                            ^e     $
1. IMPROVING QUANTITY OF WATER                                                              j Y                   2Y
1.1   Water Supply Distribution System                                                                                                                     8 _
1.1.1  Leak detection-repair/replacement                                                                                                             0 __
1.1.1.1  Survey                                             Kms of pipe       500         550            0           0            1050
as
1.1.1.2  Service Connection Replacements                     Number of       2000        4000         7000        7000          20000
Connections
1.1.2  Meter calibration/installation
1.1.2.1  Meters repaired                                     Number of       2000        4000         7000        7000          20000        e       Z
meters       _ _   _       _   _                  _   _   _   _    _   _
1.1.2.2  Meters replaced                                     Number of       2000         7000       10000       11000          30000
meters
1.2   Overall System Efficiency                                           % accounted        55          60           65          70             70     
for water                                                                      3 
2. IMPROVING QUALITY OF WATER                                                                             _                        __                 _
2.1  Improve Disinfection                                                  % of water        40           65          85         100             100       a2
network                                                                       eS
disinfected                                                    ____
2.2  Improve Wastewater Discharge
2.2.1  Reduce Biological Oxygen Demand                              % Reduction        75          77           83          85              85       0
2.2.2  Reduce Chemical Oxygen Demand                                % Reduction        75          77           83          85              85
2.2.3  Reduce Total Suspended Solids                                % Reduction        75          77           83          85              85
_" N



I                                                                  |    Total
Perfonnance Criterion                                       Units                      Yearly Targets                       Target for
____________________________________I                                                 IYear I Year 2  Year 3 |Year 4
3. IMPROVING MANAGEMENT
3.1   Management of Water Services
3.1.1  Improve CoDection of Water Revenues
3.1.1.1  Decrease in Accounts Receivable (AR)                  % of AR           35          25           15           10             10
3.1.1.2  Identify illegal connections/convert to legal status  Number of       1000        3000         5000        6000           15000
connections
3.1.1.3  Develop and update database of service connections      Tine          90%        100%                                     100%
3.1.1.4  Implement computerized administrative systems to        Time          50%        100%                                     100%
enforce collection of overdue accounts
3.1.1.5  Analyze tariffs ad recommend progressively              Time          50%        100%                                     100%
increasing tariff system for each customer class
3.1.1.6  Establish a unified billing and collections system      Time         100%                                                 100%
3.1.1.7  Map and Hydraulicaly model water and wastewater         Time          70%        100%                                     100%
network
3.1.1.8  Create separate funancial accounts for water and        Time          50%         100%                                    100%
wastewater utilities
3.2  Improving Management of Wastewater Services
3.2.1  Identify needed support and administrative needs                 Time         100%                                                 100%
3.2.2  Develop and implement preventative maintenance system            Time          40%          70%        100%                        100%
3.2.3   Develop and implement maintenance and materials                 Time          50%          80%        100%                        100%
maragement system
3.2.4  Identify, obtain critical and necessary spare parts, develop     Time          50%         100%                                    100%
and imnplement inventory control system                                                                                       l



I  I                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Total
Perfonrmce Cntenon                                        Units                     Yearly Targets                      Tre ers
|Year I    Year 2  |Year 3  |Year 4|
4. PROMOTING INSTIfUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
4.1   Develop and implement management & technical training program         Time          30%         50%         80%        100%           100%
4.2   Develop and implement computerized administrative systems - train      Time         60%        100%                                   100%
4.3   Develop and implement safety program                                  Time          50%        100%                                   100%
4.4   Develop an Emergency Operations plan - train                          Time          50%        100%                                   100%
4.5   Establish regionwide association of water sector personnel - conduct  Time           10%        50%         100%                      100%
seminars, support
4.6   Customner Service and Public Information                              Time          30%        100%                                   100%
4.6.1   Develop and implement customer service system - train         Time         100%                                               100%
4.6.2   Develop and unplement public information program              Time          50%        100%                                   100%
4.7   Inprove Long-Range Performance Planning                                                                                                         l
4.7.1   Develop prioritized capital improvement program and           Time          50%        100%                                   100%
rehabilitation plan and get it accepted by EAPC
4.8   Develop and implement water re-use from existing facilities           Time          50%         60%         100%                      100%



Annex 10
WEST BANK AND GAZA
WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES PROJECT IN GAZA
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Service Improvement Program for Water and Wastewater Systems in the Gaza Strip:
Request for Proposals for Management Contract - December 15, 1995
*      Addendum I to the Bidding documents for a Management Contract - January 18, 1996
*      Long-term and Short-term Specialists: Draft Terms of Reference - January 22, 1996
*      Auditors: Draft Terms of Reference - October 17, 1995
*      Service Improvement Program: Memorandum of Understanding - December 20, 1995
*      Steering Committee of the Management Contract Operator and Technical Counterpart
Team: Objective and Role - October 17, 1995 and January 20, 1996
*      Palestinian Council, PECDAR, Assessment of Water and Sewage Public Services in Gaza,
Report prepared by Lyonnaise des Eaux; May 1995
*      Letter of Water Sector Policy, January 13, 1996
*      Bylaws of the Palestinian Water Authority, No. 18/1996 of January 18, 1996
*      Procedures for the Evaluation of Bids for Management Contract






3413               3. ,3               325'                34' 0
G A Z A
o  CITIES AND TOWNS
-   LATERAL ROADS
31-13'              DIVIDED HIGHWAYS                               /1'5w
-   MAIN ROADS
OTHER ROADS
SECURITY PERIMETER
---   DELIMITING LINE
,'vl  t C   I t  (I  rI  o II
II 'I                                              R
31V25'                                                                                  31-P25
\_~ ~~~~~~     ~~~~ As w./-'''fr'-A.-'1.'S4'd''4G..
1,...<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ =.,...0
MIS
II-y  0-4 e /   3-,.rrar
sI ls   /\\    ///               ZI-IS r       / Y| >   ~~~~~~~~~~~WEST  O
ARAAA   IRAEB
R E P U B L I C -                                            -       @uoei     /!
OF EG Y PT    \\                                                  o-DO4
\                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~G A 2A  I S R A E L OV    IS  I   I
s;          3415      \3l  2r                      34,a25i'









a
IMAGING
Report No:       15203 WBGZ
Type: SAR



