                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 26156

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                            (TF-26056)

                                              ON A

                                      TRUST FUND CREDIT

             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25 MILLION AND US$6 MILLION (SUPPL.)

                                             TO THE

                                    WEST BANK AND GAZA

                                             FOR A

                        WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES PROJECT




                                           June 25, 2003




Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Group
Middle East and North Africa region

          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

       (Exchange Rate Effective June, 2003)

            Currency Unit = New Israeli Sheqalim (NIS)
                US$ 1.00 = NIS 4.53

                 FISCAL YEAR
          January 1    to   December 31

       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD          French Development Agency
CDF          Comprehensive Development Framework
CMWU         Coastal Municipal Water Utility
EAPC         Executive Authority of the Palestinian Council
ERP          Emergency Rehabilitation Project
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
IDA          International Development Association
lcd          Liters per capita per day
MC           Management Contract
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MTR          Mid-Term Review
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NGO          Non-governmental Organization
PA           Palestinian Authority
PCD          Project Concept Document
PLO          Palestinian Liberation Organization
PMU          Project Management Unit
PWA          Palestinian Water Authority
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SAWSIP       Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project
TA           Technical Assistance
TCT          Technical Counterpart Team
VAT          Value Added Tax
WBG          West Bank and Gaza
WHO          World Health organization
WTP          Willingness to Pay




          Vice President:     Jean-Louis Sarbib
        Country Director:     Nigel Roberts
         Sector Manager:      Francoise Clottes
       Task Team Leader:      Somin Mukherji

                                     WEST BANK AND GAZA
                       WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              6
    6. Sustainability                                                                  7
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   8
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
    9. Partner Comments                                                              11
    10. Additional Information                                                       12
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             13
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             14
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             16
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             18
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             20
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                21
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            22
    Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              23
    Annex 9. Borrower's ICR                                                          26
Map: IBRD 27652

Project ID: P040505                                                      Project Name: GZ-WATER & SAN.
                                                                         SERVICES/GAZA
Team Leader: Somin Mukherji                                              TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 26, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: GZ-WATER & SAN. SERVICES/GAZA                            L/C/TF Number: TF-26056
   Country/Department: WEST BANK AND GAZA                                                 Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Sewerage (48%); Water supply (47%); Central government
                            administration (5%)
                  Theme: Other urban development (P); Infrastructure services for private
                            sector development (P); Pollution management and environmental
                            health (P)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    09/19/1995                                        Effective: 07/08/1996              07/08/1996
   Appraisal:    12/15/1995                                            MTR:                           12/02/1998
    Approval:    07/02/1996                                         Closing: 12/31/2000               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Palestine Liberation Organization (For the benefit of the Palestinian
                                           Council)/Palestinian Water Authority
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jean-Louis Sarbib                              Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Nigel Roberts                                  Odin K. Knudsen
Sector Manager:                 Francoise Clottes                              Alastair McKechnie
Team Leader at ICR:             Somin Mukherji                                 Jamal Saghir
ICR Primary Author:             Lizmara Kirchner; Manuel
                                Schiffler and Somin Mukherji


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:HS

           Borrower Performance:HS


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1 The objectives of the Project were to address urgent priorities aimed at: (i) improving the quality,
quantity and management of water and sanitation services in Gaza through a private sector Management
Contract for water and wastewater operations; (ii) strengthening and restructuring the institutional
framework for both service delivery and for sector governance functions; and (iii) creating the operational,
institutional and managerial conditions for priority rehabilitation, upgrading and extension projects to be
financed by donors. The Project was conceived to continue and reinforce the Emergency Rehabilitation
Project (ERP) that was initiated by other bilateral donors following the conclusion of the interim agreement
(September 1995) between the Palestinian Liberation Organization (PLO) and the Government of the State
of Israel.

Assessment of Original Objective and Design:
3.1.2 The objectives and design of the Project need to be assessed in context of the exceptional economic,
political and institutional conditions prevailing in the West Bank and Gaza (WBG), and the overall
program of which the Project was a part of. The political situation in the WBG was and still remains
extremely volatile. Since 1996, extended border closings had a severe negative impact on the economic and
social life of the Palestinians. The situation of the water sector in Gaza at the time was critical with good
quality resources extremely limited, over-utilized and badly contaminated.            There was no accurate
accounting of water production or consumption, though estimates put the daily per capita consumption at
less than 70 liters, well below the levels in countries with similar income levels. About half of the water
supplied was unaccounted for, as a result of system losses, illegal connections, and non-functioning meters.
Consequently, water was relatively scarce and costly. Service coverage for sewerage was only about 25
percent and the inefficient treatment plants continued to cause severe environmental degradation
particularly on the coastal areas and the aquifer. In addition, the institutional structure was fragmented and
incompatible with efficient service delivery and integrated management of the limited water resources.

3.1.3 Under this back drop, the Palestinian Water Authority (PWA) was created in April 1995 as the
institution responsible for policy-making and regulation of the sector. In addition, during the initial
discussions with the Bank, it was concluded that private sector involvement was the only way to rapidly
improve the water supply and wastewater disposal services. Since any long-term arrangement posed
significant risks to both the Palestinian Authority (PA) and potential private investors, a Management
Contract (MC) was considered most appropriate, as it would allow the Palestinians to assess the
advantages of private sector management without committing to a long-term relationship. By aiding the
rehabilitation process through an appropriately designed Management Contract, the Project was extremely
responsive and relevant to the prevailing circumstances and Borrower's priority needs.

3.1.4 The project objectives reflect the high priority the Executive Authority of the Palestinian Council
(EAPC) placed on the improvement of water and wastewater services in Gaza, and complemented the
efforts of a number of donor-supported investment and technical assistance programs/projects that were
underway at the time. The objectives were also aligned with the Bank's strategy for the WBG, particularly
in terms of restoring infrastructure, strengthening institutions and facilitating private sector involvement.
They were consistent with the government's and Bank's assessment that, given the infeasibility of external
solutions to the water shortage and quality problems at the time, the Palestinians would have to rely
primarily on better use and management of their own water resources.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not revised.



                                                     - 2 -

3.3 Original Components:
Component 1: Financing of a four-year management contract with a private international operator
(Operator) to implement a service improvement program - Under the contract provisions, the Operator was
required to help improve the capacity and service delivery of local, municipal and village council water
departments. The basic goals pursued under the management contract were to enhance efficiency and
rapidly improve service quality, quantity and overall management of water supply and wastewater services.
Cost: US$11.8 million.

Component 2: Provision of operating investment funds to enable the private operator to implement the
service improvement program - These funds were built into the management contract and were provided
specifically to procure goods and services for immediate rehabilitation and repair needed throughout the
contract period. Cost: US$15.0 million (US$12.0 million from project funds and US$3.0 million from
local contribution).

Component 3:        Provision of technical assistance and developing institutional capacity - Technical
assistance was to be provided to: (i) strengthen the capacity of the newly created PWA; (ii) support the
implementation of the project; and (iii) finance independent auditors to monitor the Operator's technical and
financial performance. Cost: US$1.2 million.

The design of the components was appropriately linked to the Project objectives. The Project focused on
achieving the much needed efficiency in service improvement for water supply and wastewater disposal in
Gaza through the management contract and operating investment fund, while adequately providing for the
institutional capacity building measures necessary to have an appropriate level of regulation and monitoring
of service-provision in the sector.

3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1 Although the structure of the components was not revised, on November 1, 2001 a Supplemental
Trust Fund Credit of US$6.0 million was approved by the Board. The Supplemental Credit was necessary
to finance the increased costs of implementation due to the exceptional and unforeseen circumstances of
heightened conflict that led to extended border closures. These led to restrictions in the movement of goods
and services, which prevented timely delivery of supplies and increased the average unit cost of
implementation of the rehabilitation component.

The Supplemental Credit (retroactively from June 2001) of US$6.0 million and the Borrower's contribution
of US$0.8 million was meant to finance the following activities:

l Extension of the existing management contract to ensure that the remaining rehabilitation works were
    implemented effectively. Cost: US$1.65 million;
l Essential rehabilitation works and services in the water supply and sanitation systems where financing
    gaps resulted due to the cost overruns. Cost: US$4.35 million; and
l Limited technical assistance for construction works, supervision and engineering designs.            Cost:
    US$0.8 million.

3.4.2 The original Trust Fund Credit Closing Date of December 31, 2000 was extended for the first time
until December 31, 2001. The Supplemental Credit Agreement (of November 2001) established a new
Closing Date of June 30, 2002, which was subsequently extended until December 31, 2002.

3.5 Quality at Entry:



                                                     - 3 -

The performance rating of the ICR for quality at entry of the Project is satisfactory. The Project was never
subject to a QAG review but a review of the institutional capacity building measures initiated along with
the project concept, technical and financial management aspects that were thoroughly addressed at entry,
justifies the rating.    During the project's preparatory stage, within the overall constraints, the
implementation arrangements were detailed and set up satisfactorily (including meeting the necessary
fiduciary requirements related to procurement, disbursement and financial management).             This was
instrumental for the Project's satisfactory implementation. By preparing the Project in ten months, the
preparation team also excelled in speed of responsiveness - an attribute so important for the development of
such a conflict ridden region.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1 Despite extremely difficult circumstances, the Project achieved its key development objective of
improving water and sanitation services through a management contract with a private sector operator.
After a somewhat slow first year, almost all the performance indicators as agreed upon in the management
contract were attained from the second year onwards until the Project closed. In particular, apart from
improvements in water quality through reliable chlorination, the per capita use of water is reported to have
increased from a level of 70 liters per capita per day (lcd) in 1996 to about 100 lcd by 2000. However,
following the outbreak of renewed hostilities in October 2000, this improving trend was no longer
sustainable and at the end of the Project, per capita usage declined to around 80 lcd.

4.1.2 In terms of strengthening and restructuring of the institutional framework for both service delivery
and sector governance functions, the Project supported the drafting of a new water law, adopted in March
2002, which reorganized the sector and established an autonomous regional water and waste water utility,
the Coastal Municipal Water Utility (CMWU), which is ultimately supposed to take over service delivery
functions from all municipalities and village councils in Gaza. Although formally established, this utility is
yet to become operational.      The service delivery functions of the municipalities were substantially
strengthened through the support of the Operator and through the Technical Counterpart Team (TCT),
which consists of municipal staff who work on specific tasks under the guidance of the Operator. The
strengthening of sector governance functions was partially achieved through the creation and development
of a strong Project Management Unit (PMU). As other donors are deeply involved in several other sector
governance functions of the PWA, such as environmental, water resources regulation etc., the Project's
intervention was aligned appropriately.

4.1.3    An appropriate framework (operational, institutional and managerial) was successfully created that
facilitated financing of investments by other donors in priority areas particularly related to wastewater
disposal and sewerage services. However, the deteriorated security situation in Gaza has prevented the
implementation of these projects.       Nevertheless, PWA has been and continues to coordinate the
implementation of donor financed activities in the West Bank.

4.1.4    By the end of the Project, close to 100 percent of the water delivered was chlorinated which
reduced considerably the health hazards associated with poor quality of water available. Through the
Management Contract, the Operator was able to quickly address issues related to repair/rehabilitation
works of the sewerage treatment plant which resulted in a cleaner environment and arrested the
environmental degradation particularly on the coastal areas and the aquifer. Appropriate strengthening of
the PMU had also helped in better management of the water quality in the aquifer. Thus, on the whole, the
Project had a positive impact on the environment.




                                                      - 4 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
As appraised, the Project had three major components. Overall, the outputs were fully attained and except
for partial strengthening of the PWA, the impact as explained above was more than what was envisaged.
The status of the individual components is discussed below:

4.2.1 Management Contract:
The Management Contract (MC) framework is considered an example of best practice within the Bank and
has been successfully replicated elsewhere in the Region. Despite the difficult sociopolitical conditions,
procurement of the MC was carried out in a transparent manner and in strict accordance with Bank
Procurement Guidelines. There were 52 expressions of interest, of which eight bidders were short listed
and six out of these had responded to the Request for Proposal; the winning bidder was selected out of
these six. Since mid-1996, when the contract was awarded, availability of water has increased, quality has
improved, and losses have been reduced. These resulted in higher per capita water consumption and
increased revenues for the water sector. By the end of the Project, system efficiency was reported to be at
66 percent, compared to an estimate of 50 percent at appraisal and water disinfection rate improved to
about 100 percent compared to only about 50 percent at the time of appraisal.

4.2.2. Each year, the performance of the Operator has been audited by internationally reputed audit firm
and based on the audit reports, the performance of the Operator is considered to be excellent, except for
actions related to reduction of accounts receivable (consolidation of this figure among the 16 municipalities
was an issue that prevented the tracking of this indicator). Annex-1 highlights the status of some of the key
performance indicators that were agreed upon during appraisal. Some of the key features that resulted in
the success of the MC can be attributed to the simplicity and upfront clarity of risk allocations between the
parties concerned. However, despite the improved performance, the contract did illustrate some limitations
as well. The contract left implementation of management decisions in the hands of the local authorities,
limiting the benefits of improved management. For example, as of the end of project implementation, the
number of illegal connections was estimated at 30,000; resolution of these has been left to the
municipalities and the PWA - and to date, actions taken have been rather limited.

4.2.3 Operating Investment Fund:
This component played a very crucial role for the overall sector improvement and established a fund to
invest in augmenting the operational capacity of the water and sanitation infrastructure. The fund provided
the Operator with the means to make improvements in the system in as much the same way a lessee would,
based on needs identified by the management. The Operator had considerable flexibility in determining
immediate investment needs and procured necessary goods and services strictly in accordance with World
Bank Procurement Guidelines. Each year, the Operator submitted the estimated annual forecast investment
needs which after approval by the PWA triggered necessary procurement actions. Thus, the Operator
while being responsible for implementation of the systems improvement measures, also acted as a
"Procurement Agent" for Bank financed components.            This was yet another innovative feature that
facilitated implementation and smooth monitoring of targets.

4.2.4 Technical Assistance and Institutional Capacity Development:
The Project provided technical assistance and supported the drafting of a new water law, which reorganized
the sector and established an autonomous regional water and wastewater utility, in lieu of the current
fragmented and inefficient institutional structure. In addition, a strong PMU responsible for project
implementation and monitoring was established within the PWA.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1 The ex-post economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 33 percent and the NPV is



                                                     - 5 -

estimated at US$21.7 million. This unusually high rate of return is close to the ex-ante economic rate of
return of 37 percent calculated based on appraisal figures (NPV US$35.6 million). The main reasons for
the lower ex-post rate of return are: (i) higher investment costs, mainly due to longer project duration; (ii) a
somewhat slower reduction in leakage losses than anticipated, while the magnitude of reduction in physical
losses was ultimately somewhat higher than anticipated; (ii) lower savings in operating costs than
anticipated, partly due to the delay in creating the CMWU. The cost of the institutional strengthening
component (US$1.2 million) is not included in the economic analysis, as well as some non-quantifiable
benefits from the project; such as improved health because of better water quality (resulting from more
reliable chlorination, and reduced turbidity from the replacement of damaged pipes) and improved
operation and maintenance of wastewater treatment plants.

Note: The rate of return shown in the SAR is 14 percent. It is not very clear how this rate of return was
calculated. A recalculation using all figures and assumptions of the appraisal report results in an ERR of
37 percent, as indicated above.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated during appraisal. The ex-post financial rate of return is
estimated at 3 percent. The main reasons for the divergence between the financial and economic rate of
return are: (i) the fact that the average water tariff (US$0.29 per cubic meter) is much lower than the
shadow price of water used in the economic analysis (US$1.25 per cubic meter); and (ii) the inclusion of
the benefits from reducing administrative losses in the financial analysis, which are not considered in the
economic analysis. This calculation does not take into account the dramatic deterioration in collection
efficiency that occurred from 2001 onwards, since it is attributable to factors external to the project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact is substantial, with the two key achievements being the
development of a strong PMU, and the establishment of an appropriate legal and regulatory framework,
including the creation of the CMWU. The PMU played a key role in project implementation by effectively
monitoring the contractual deliverables of the Operator. Its staff are expected to transfer to the secretariat
of the CMWU, thus forming the core team that will primarily be responsible for quality of service
provisions for the water and wastewater sector in Gaza. The legal establishment of the CMWU was in
itself a major accomplishment, since the idea of a regional utility was initially met with strong resistance
from some of the local mayors. PWA, the PMU, the Bank, the Operator and the Gaza representative of the
Ministry of Local Government made substantial efforts to overcome these hindrances and were finally
successful. The functional establishment of the CMWU will be undertaken as part of the proposed Gaza II
project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Palestinian economic recovery that began in 1998 came to an abrupt halt with the start of the second
Intifada in September 2000, and the subsequent imposition of closures, curfews, and tight movement
restrictions on the Palestinian population.      The outbreak of renewed hostilities resulted in prolonged
closures that led to widespread unemployment and sharp decline in household income. This resulted in
reduced ability of consumers to pay for water bills and, consequently, adversely affected the finances of the
water sector. Since then, the Palestinian economy has been in a severe recession, with per capita income
declining by 12 percent in 2000 and a further 19 percent in 2001. Unemployment has climbed from 10
percent of the Palestinian work-force in September 2000, to 26 percent in March 2002, and by February
2003, it was close to 42 percent. This economic decline made it increasingly difficult for the water
authorities to maintain the desired level of revenue collection, which declined to about 30 percent. In


                                                      - 6 -

addition, the restrictions in movement led to an increase in the average unit cost of implementation of the
project's rehabilitation component.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
In August 1997, due to exceptional circumstances related to the coordination and agreement between PWA
and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) on the treatment of value-added tax (VAT), the Bank, on an
exceptional basis, provided its no-objection to pre-finance VAT payments, until MOF was able to honor its
obligation to prepay these taxes. The Bank allowed up to US$170,000 to be temporarily transferred from
the project's special account to a new VAT revolving fund account opened by the PWA. Resolution of this
issue took longer than expected and after the Bank's Loan department started reducing withdrawal
applications in order to recover the amount of the advance, the MOF issued the repayment to the special
account in two tranches, one paid on June 12, 2000, and the other on July 1, 2000, and decided to
implement a policy of "zero VAT invoicing" in which Bank-funded contracts would be exempt from VAT.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 Strong commitment and action within the PWA and appropriate staffing of the PMU enabled it to
effectively manage and coordinate all aspects of project implementation. While the PWA continued to play
its key role in keeping the Project on track and ensuring its sustainability through the follow-up of the MC
and the creation of the CMWU, the PMU carried out a close monitoring of the Operator's performance and
effectively managed the day-to-day Project activities.

5.3.2 However, given the fact that the MC left the implementation of management decisions in the hands of
local authorities, action by PWA and municipalities was limited with respect to resolution and conversion
of the illegal connections identified by the Operator. Although illegal connections were recognized as a
critical problem that adversely affected the overall system efficiency, action taken to resolve this issue
varied among the different municipalities. The Operator conducted illegal connection campaigns in many
areas, and was in charge of identifying illegal connections and submitting related documentation to the
municipalities requesting that specific actions be taken in order to legalize these connections. During the
first four years of implementation, 17,200 illegal connections were identified, out of which 8,400 were
converted into legal status. Subsequently, at the time of project closing, illegal connections have been
estimated at 30,000. These illegal connections are mostly in areas surrounding the refugee camps where
given the current political and security concerns, implementation of such legal measures are deemed
difficult. Also, notwithstanding the general agreement of all municipalities, the PWA, despite its best
efforts has not been able to bring about a uniformity in the tariff structure within its licensed area.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project cost including contingencies, at the time of approval of the Supplementary Trust Fund Credit
was US$34.8 million. The Credit for US$31.0 million was to be complemented by US$3.8 million of
counterpart funds. By the Closing Date, actual project cost is estimated at US$31.0 million with financing
from the Bank totalling US$31.0 million and no financing from the Borrower. As of the Credit Closing
Date, additional funding (about US$4.35 million) was made available from the Southern Area Water and
Sanitation Improvement Project (Trust Fund Credit TF-22443), SAWSIP, to finance extensions to the
management contract and urgent rehabilitation works; this arrangement is still continuing.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The overall strategy of the water and waste water sector in the short-long term includes interalia to: (a) lay
the basis for long-term institutional reforms; (b) create regional water and wastewater companies by
rationalizing and consolidating individual municipal utility departments and village councils; (c) involve the


                                                     - 7 -

private sector in the provision and management of services; (d) expand and consolidate a program of
priority network rehabilitation, expanded piped water coverage to all villages; and (e) develop and
implement coherent water resources management policies for the West Bank and Gaza including a
wastewater re-use policy for Gaza. The PA and its people are convinced of the benefits and advantages of
having the private sector involved in the provision of water services, given the relatively successful
implementation of the management contract and considerable performance improvement of delivery
services. In line with the agreed strategy, several actions under the Project have been taken in the short
term. These include the creation of an appropriate framework for other donors to step in and invest,
formation of a single entity for the delivery of water supply and wastewater disposal systems in Gaza etc.
In addition, consultative mechanisms, such as the joint water committees, have proven to be very effective
in ensuring a good dialogue between the Israelis and Palestinians, under the current circumstances,
contributing to the effective resolution of issues and enabling the continued implementation of the Project at
a reasonable pace. In view of the above, Project sustainability is likely, provided that the current conflict
does not worsen and financing by donors of private intervention in the services of water and wastewater
continues until the water authority attains a minimum level of financial viability.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Given the current political and security concerns, donor involvement in the sector is key to guarantee the
sustainability of the improvements achieved so far. A follow-on operation is currently under preparation
under which the provision of water services will be done by the recently created CMWU through an
operating contract, giving the private operator a greater degree of flexibility and autonomy in its daily
operations. The PMU's staff are expected to become the core members of the CMWU, and focus on being
the service quality regulator of the private operator.       Until the proposed project becomes effective,
extensions of the management contract and urgent rehabilitation works will continue to be financed through
the SAWSIP.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal was highly satisfactory. The Project
design was built on the ERP while continuing its focus on water and wastewater services. The introduction
of the Management Contract that ultimately succeeded in fulfilling almost all of the expected performance
criteria was a major highlight of the Project and is considered as one of the best case applications in the
region. Also, establishing the US$15.6 million fund to invest in operational capacity of the sector gave the
operator ample flexibility to determine and finance the immediate investment needs. This particular aspect
was innovative and was successfully adopted elsewhere by other donors as well (e.g., Lebanon/Tripoli
Management Contract project financed by AFD). By designing and preparing the Project within ten
months in a manner that best suited the clients, the Bank proved to be extremely responsive and receptive to
Borrower needs.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank's performance during supervision was highly satisfactory. Throughout the implementation period,
despite the unusual circumstances and security concerns, supervision missions were carried out on a
regular basis (Annex-4a provides additional information on the staff skill-mix and continuity). All through
the implementation period, the Bank continuously coached and advised the Borrower which resulted in
necessary confidence building and recognition of the Bank's role as an honest broker to resolve numerous
problems and issues related to successful implementation of the Project. Exceptional and unforeseen
circumstances had prevented timely delivery of supplies; consequently, the average cost of implementing
the rehabilitation components had increased. During the last year of implementation, the Credit was fully



                                                      - 8 -

committed but the PA was unable to fully finance the increased costs. This justified the need for additional
finances of US$6.0 million and the Bank processed a Supplemental Trust Fund Credit within four months.
Thus, the Bank was extremely receptive to this particular need of the Borrower and the Project. Also,
between the time that the entire Credit amount was disbursed and the Supplemental Credit was effective,
financing of the Management Contract and procurement of essential goods and services were arranged
through the SAWSIP. This is quite uncommon and innovative and once again, the Bank demonstrated
appropriate flexibility that ensured smooth continuity of project implementation.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank responded quickly to address the urgent rehabilitation needs of the sector. With continuous
security concerns and extended border closures, implementation delays were inevitable. However, despite
the continuous threat and instability, close monitoring of the implementation activities ultimately led to the
completion of all the major components. All through the implementation period, the Bank was flexible; this
demonstrated adequate responsiveness towards Borrower's changing needs and priorities. Reallocation of
funds between components and between other projects (in the same sector) were formalized whenever
necessary.   Although the effectiveness of the institutional strengthening component was modest with
regards to building PWA's regulatory capacity, adequate support through the provision of necessary TA
ultimately helped in creation of a solid PMU and in the adoption of the new Water Law that led to the
creation of the Water and Wastewater Company for Gaza. Finally, the overall project framework created
the necessary environment for other donors to provide much needed funds for the sector. In view of the
above, the overall Bank performance is considered to be highly satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Preparation of the Project was strongly supported by the Palestinian Authority (PA). In fact, the personal
support of the Chairman of the PA was instrumental in many ways during the initial stages of project
preparation that helped accelerate the preparatory activities on a fast track. The Borrower's performance
during the preparation phase was highly satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance was satisfactory. The Ministry of Local Government was initially
skeptical about the creation of a regional water utility, but reversed its approach subsequently and was
instrumental in gaining support for the utility. The Ministry of Finance assisted in resolving issues of VAT
coverage as well as other procedural issues.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
PWA's performance was highly satisfactory. The continuity of the senior management of the PWA, played
a key role in preparing the Project, keeping it on track, and ensuring its sustainability through the follow-up
operating contract and the creation of the CMWU. The PMU's performance was also excellent. It fulfilled
its role of monitoring the performance of the operator and managing the day-to-day activities of the Project.
In addition, the PMU provided necessary guidance and advice to the PWA on many related issues, such as
investment planning and water resources management. Both the PWA and the PMU were instrumental in
setting up the Board of the CMWU and in arranging its first meetings. The Board of the CMWU
effectively replaces the project steering committee, whose composition was very similar to the composition
of the CMWU Board.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance was highly satisfactory.




                                                      - 9 -

8. Lessons Learned

l Borrower commitment and ownership: Borrower's strong commitment for development of the sector
   through the Project was a key factor that not only helped formulate the Project concept/design but also
   facilitated its implementation at every successive stage. Formal creation of the PWA (as the regulatory
   body) followed by consolidation of the municipalities' water departments through the creation of the
   CMWU as the sole entity responsible for the provision of water supply and wastewater disposal
   systems demonstrates the commitment of the Borrower in implementation of its stated strategy for the
   sector. The strong ownership that the Project enjoyed is amply demonstrated through the introduction
   of the private operator which ultimately caused a turn around in the sector's overall performance
   through a "public-private partnership" that was based on mutual trust and confidence. This created an
   enabling environment for other donors to step-in and provide much needed finances for the sector's
   further development.

l Independent auditing: In Gaza, where no regulatory capacity existed before the management contract
   went into effect, the contracting of an independent reputable auditing firm proved to be essential in
   building trust between the public and private parties involved.          The auditor was in charge of
   performing an annual audit of the operator's technical and financial performance, and calculating the
   incentive fee. Based on their audit work, each year the auditors provided a "comfort letter" which
   formed the basis of payment of annual incentive fees.

l Management contract: The management contract experience in Gaza, suggests that providing higher
   degrees of management responsibility to the operator can expedite system improvements.               As
   successful as the Operator was in meeting the requirements under its direct authority, local authorities
   were not always committed to supporting these improvements (e.g., conversion of illegal connections).
   Despite the overall success of the contract, the Operator was not able to consolidate the trade
   receivables of all the municipality water departments. Thus, the initial financial position of the newly
   created CMWU could be undermined by this unclear receivables position and implementation of a clear
   action plan to reduce them may be difficult. This was an aspect that perhaps could have been taken
   into consideration while finalizing the contract.

l Some of the key features that enabled a successful implementation of the Management Contract
   include:

       1. Well defined roles of the PWA and the Operator (parties of the contract);

       2. Clear allocation of risks between the PWA and the Operator;

       3. Achievable performance targets; and

       4. Clear linkage between incentive fees and performance.


l Overall, the experience in Gaza suggests that management contracts are most likely to work under the
   following conditions:

       1. The primary objective is to rapidly enhance the technical capacity and efficiency of services;

       2. Government faces obstacles in committing to a long-term arrangement for private participation
            in infrastructure, or in attracting private sector investment that is willing to bear commercial
            and/or political risks;




                                                    - 10 -

        3. Tariffs are too low to support a sustainable long-term arrangement for private participation in
            infrastructure; and

        4. Government faces difficulties in securing agreements to allow the long-term involvement of the
            private sector, due to an inappropriate/absence of any regulatory framework. Putting in place
            a short-term management contract allows the authorities to focus on adopting an appropriate
            strategy, creating a proper regulatory framework, adjust tariffs and subsidies; thus creating an
            environment that has the proper conditions for private sector participation and risk taking.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                   - 11 -

In addition to these comments, the Borrower's contribution to the report is included as Borrower's ICR in
Annex-9

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

This ICR was originally planned to be classified as an Intensive Learning ICR, and a local consultant was
hired to carry out the beneficiary survey. However, continued violence, closures and security concerns
prevented the conduction of the stakeholders workshop initially planned for January 2003. After all
logistical arrangements were carefully planned and necessary preparatory work completed, the Workshop
had to be cancelled. Subsequently, with renewed efforts, the workshop was re-scheduled for May 2003 and
once again as violence erupted, and it had to be cancelled.




                                                   - 12 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for the Project did not have a log frame matrix. However, a long list of
output indicators (26 in total) had been identified in the SAR to track the performance of the private
operator, and these were monitored in the context of the management contract and revised upon its
extension. Compliance with these indicators was largely satisfactory. The table below highlights some of
these key output indicators, the full list is available in the project files.

      Outcome/Impact Indicators
                      Indicator                   Baseline           Projected in SAR          Actual/Latest Estimate
      Per capita use of water                      70 lcd                94.5 lcd.            100 lcd by 2000, reduced
                                                                                              to 80 lcd by the end of
                                                                                              the project.
      Regulatory Framework                      Non existent    Effective regulatory          Regulatory framework
                                                                framework established.        established (New water
                                                                                              law adopted.)
      Output Indicators
                                                                        Projected
                      Indicator                   Baseline         Initial       Revised       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                                   4-Year        6-Year
                                                                   Target        Target
      Leak detection
      ·    Number of service connection               /a           20,000        25,000                 26,800
           replacements
      ·    Kms of pipe surveyed                       /a           1,050          1,050                 1,200
      Meter calibration/installation
      ·    Meters repaired                            /a           20,000        22,000                 22,000
      ·    Meters replaced                            /a           30,000        37,000                 40,000
      Overall system efficiency
      ·    % of accounted for water                 52%             70%           68%                    66%
      Water quality
      ·    % of water network disinfected           50%            100%           100%                  99.8%
      Management of water services
      ·    Illegal connections converted to                                                   17,200 illegal
           legal status                               /a           15,000        19,000       connections identified
                                                                                              8,400 converted into
                                                                                              legal status (/b)
      ·    Level of Accounts receivable         32% to 40%        Reduced        Reduced
                                                                  by 10%         by 10%             Not available

      Institutional development
      Develop and implement computerized administrative systems.                                        Completed
      Develop and implement management & technical training program.                                    Completed
      Establish region-wide association of water sector personnel ­ conduct seminars,
      support.                                                                                          Completed

      Customer service
      Develop and implement customer service system and public information program.                     Completed
      Long range performance planning
      Develop prioritized capital improvement program and rehabilitation plan and get it
      accepted by EPAC.                                                                                 Completed


      /a : For these indicators there was no program in place at the time of project preparation. The numbers
      projected in the SAR reflect estimated needs at the time of appraisal.
      /b : Data as of fourth year of implementation. The illegal connections campaign did not carry forward
      through the sixth year of implementation. Estimates at project closing place the number of illegal
      connections at 30,000.




                                                            - 13 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal         Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                                     Estimate            Estimate          Appraisal
                        Component                                   US$ million         US$ million
A. Management Contract Fees                                             12.65               10.52              83.2
B. Management Contract Operating Investment                             19.35               19.07              98.6
C. Technical Assistance                                                  2.00                1.41              70.5

Total Baseline Cost                                                     34.00               31.00
 Price Contingencies                                                     0.80
                           Total Project Costs                          34.80               31.00
                    Total Financing Required                            34.80               31.00
Note: Appraisal estimate indicates cost figures as revised during finalization of the Supplementary Credit.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                 1
                                                       Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                      2         N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                0.00               1.50              0.33             0.00            1.83
                                      (0.00)              (1.50)             (0.33)           (0.00)         (1.83)
2. Goods                                7.20               1.82              3.47             0.00           12.49
                                      (7.20)              (1.82)             (3.47)           (0.00)        (12.49)
3. Services                           11.80                0.00              3.55             0.00           15.35
                                     (11.80)              (0.00)             (3.55)           (0.00)        (15.35)
4. Incremental Operating                0.00               0.18              1.95             3.00            5.13
Expenditures
                                      (0.00)              (0.18)             (1.15)           (0.00)         (1.33)
5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00            0.00
                                      (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00            0.00
                                      (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
   Total                              19.00                3.50              9.30             3.00           34.80
                                     (19.00)              (3.50)             (8.50)           (0.00)        (31.00)
Note: The figures include appraisal and Supplementary Credit estimates.




                                                       - 14 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                        Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                     2           N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               7.76              0.77               0.00            8.53
                                           (0.00)            (7.76)            (0.77)             (0.00)           (8.53)
   2. Goods                                4.37               0.00              2.77               0.00            7.14
                                           (4.37)            (0.00)            (2.77)             (0.00)           (7.14)
   3. Services                             10.52              0.00              2.98               0.00            13.50
                                          (10.52)            (0.00)            (2.98)             (0.00)          (13.50)
   4. Incremental Operating                0.00               0.13              1.70               0.00            1.83
   Expenditures
                                           (0.00)            (0.13)            (1.70)             (0.00)           (1.83)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00               0.00            0.00
                                           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00               0.00            0.00
                                           (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               14.89              7.89              8.22               0.00            31.00
                                          (14.89)            (7.89)            (8.22)             (0.00)          (31.00)
   Actual cost was about US$35.30 million which included financing of US$4.35 million from the SAWSIP for the
   following amounts: (a) US$1,579,855 for the Operator's fees; and (b) US$2,771,021 for procurement of goods,
   works and services.
    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes procurement through international and national shopping of goods and equipment, consulting services, services
      of contracted staff of the project management unit, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
      costs related to managing the project.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                        Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                    Appraisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank         Govt.      CoF.          Bank         Govt.        CoF.      Bank     Govt.    CoF.
A. Management Contract         13.45        0.00        0.00         10.52         0.00        0.00       78.2     0.0     0.0
Fees
B. Management Contract         15.55        3.80        0.00         19.07         0.00        0.00      122.6     0.0     0.0
Operating Investment
C. Technical Assistance         2.00        0.00        0.00         1.41          0.00        0.00       70.5     0.0     0.0
Total                          31.00        3.80        0.00         31.00         0.00        0.00      100.0     0.0     0.0

   Note: While the Credit financed the entire amount (US$31.0 million) as envisaged, additional Bank financing for
   about US$4.35 million was made available from the SAWSIP.




                                                          - 15 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

For the ex-post economic analysis, the model used for appraisal was reconstructed from Annex 8
of the appraisal report, Table 8.4. The model showed that the economic rate of return (ERR) at
appraisal using appraisal data and assumptions should have been 37 percent, instead of 18 percent
as indicated in the appraisal report. The ERR shown in the appraisal report was apparently due to
a mathematical error.

The following changes were made to the ex-ante model to use it for the ex-post analysis:

·       Actual investment costs were used for 1996-2002;
·       Investment costs for 2003-2009 are included in order to maintain system efficiency. This is
fully in line with the justification for the follow-up project. At appraisal, it was estimated that
system efficiency would be maintained without any further investments.
·       Actual figures for system efficiency and physical losses were used for 1996-2002;
·       More moderate estimates than at appraisal were made for savings in operating costs, since
the coastal municipal water utility that was supposed to bring about most of the savings was not
functionally created during the project.

The estimated willingness-to-pay (WTP) for water was left unchanged from the appraisal
assumptions, in order to allow for a better comparison between appraisal and completion
estimates of rates of return. However, the methodology of assigning the shadow price of water on
the basis of estimated costs of seawater desalination is debatable and a more accurate estimate of
WTP based on a demand curve derived from WTP surveys would probably have yielded a lower
shadow price of water and a lower rate of return.

The ex-ante rate of return using the estimated WTP at appraisal yields an ERR of 33 percent. The
main reason for the slightly lower ERR compared to appraisal is that investment costs were higher
due to the longer duration of the project; that investment costs are assumed to continue after the
end of the Gaza I project; and lower savings in operating costs. These effects are somewhat
compensated by the higher than anticipated reduction in physical losses.

Tables A3.1 and A3.2 show some of the key figures used in the economic analysis at appraisal and
at completion. More detailed figures and a diskette with spreadsheet file are included in the
project file.




                                                  - 16 -

Table A3.1: Key Figures used in the economic analysis at appraisal

                                                              Value of
                   Physical   Physical  Water saved         water saved Operating
       Investment losses wo losses w    net of illegal      net of illegal  costs   Total    Net
 Year     Costs    project    project   connections    WTP  connections     saved  Benefits Benefits
 1996      7.0       31%        29%         0.9        0.8      0.7          0.0    0.7      -6.3
 1997      7.0       31%        26%         2.5        0.9      2.2          0.2    2.4      -4.6
 1998      7.0       31%        23%         4.3        1.0      4.3          0.5    4.8      -2.2
 1999      7.0       31%        20%         6.2        1.1      6.9          1.0    7.9      0.9
 2000      0.0       31%        20%         6.6        1.2      7.9          1.1    9.0      9.0
 2001      0.0       31%        20%         6.9        1.25     8.6          1.1    9.7      9.7
 2002      0.0       31%        20%         7.1        1.25     8.9          1.2    10.1     10.1
 2003      0.0       31%        20%         7.4        1.25     9.3          1.3    10.6     10.6
 2004      0.0       31%        20%         7.7        1.25     9.6          1.5    11.1     11.1
 2005      0.0       31%        20%         8.0        1.25     9.9          1.7    11.6     11.6
 2006      0.0       31%        20%         8.2        1.25     10.3         1.9    12.2     12.2
 2007      0.0       31%        20%         8.5        1.25     10.6         2.1    12.7     12.7
 2008      0.0       31%        20%         8.8        1.25     11.0         2.3    13.3     13.3
 2009      0.0       31%        20%         9.1        1.25     11.4         2.5    13.9     13.8
 Total      28                                                                     129.9

ERR           37%
NPV           35.6


Table A3.2: Key Figures used in the economic analysis at completion

                                                               Value of
                     Physical   Physical Water saved         water saved Operating
         Investment losses wo losses w net of illegal        net of illegal  costs   Total    Net
 Year       Costs    project     project connections   WTP   connections     saved Benefits Benefits
 1996        0.6      24%        24%          0.0        0.8      0.0         0.0    0.0      -0.6
 1997        6.0      24%        23%          0.5        0.9      0.4         0.2    0.6      -5.4
 1998        6.4      24%        19%          2.5        1.0      2.5         0.2    2.7      -3.7
 1999        6.3      24%        16%          4.7        1.1      5.1         0.2    5.3      -1.0
 2000        6.3      24%        12%          6.9        1.2      8.2         0.2    8.4      2.1
 2001        4.6      24%        12%          7.3       1.25      9.2         0.2    9.4      4.8
 2002        4.6      24%        11%          7.9       1.25      9.9         0.5    10.4     5.8
 2003        4.6      24%        10%          8.9       1.25     11.1         1.0    12.1     7.5
 2004        4.6      24%         9%          9.8       1.25     12.3         1.0    13.3     8.7
 2005        4.6      24%         9%         10.2       1.25     12.8         1.0    13.8     9.2
 2006        4.6      24%         9%         10.5       1.25     13.2         1.0    14.2     9.6
 2007        4.6      24%         9%         10.9       1.25     13.6         1.0    14.6     10.0
 2008        4.6      24%         9%         11.3       1.25     14.1         1.0    15.1     10.5
 2009        4.6      24%         9%         11.6       1.25     14.5         1.0    15.5     10.9
 Total      67.0                                                                    135.4

ERR            33%
NPV            21.7




                                             - 17 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              8/24/1995                 2    Sr. PSD Specialist (1), Water
                                             Specialist (1).
              10/2/1995                 9    Sr. PSD Specialist (2), Water
                                             Specialist (2), Water Resources
                                             Planning Specialist (1), Water
                                             Engineer (1), Water
                                             Economist/Financial Analyst (1),
                                             Water Sector Analyst (1), WSS
                                             Attorney (1), Research Associate
                                             (1).

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/08/1996                9    Mission Leader, Sr. PSD
                                             Specialist (1), Water
                                             Specialist (1), Procurement
                                             Advisor (1) Water Resources
                                             Planner and Economist (1),
                                             Water Engineer (1), WSS
                                             Attorney (1), Water Sector
                                             Analyst (1), Lawyer (1).

 Supervision

              07/24/1996                1    Sr. PSD Specialist (1)               S               S
              11/08/1996                2    Sr Water Specialist (1); Task        S               S
                                             Mgr, PSD Specialist (1)
              03/18/1997                2    Sr Water Specialist (1); Task        S               S
                                             Mgr, PSD Specialist (1)
              07/07/1997                2    Sr Water Specialist (1); Task        S               S
                                             Mgr, PSD Specialist (1)
              11/11/1997                3    Sr. Water Specialist (1); Task       S               S
                                             Mgr, PSD Specialist (1);
                                             Financial Specialist (1)
              03/10/1998                3    Sr. Water Specialist (1); Task       S               S
                                             Mgr, PSD Specialist (1);
                                             Financial Specialist (1)
              04/30/1999                2    Sector Leader (1); Sr. Sanitary      S               S
                                             Engineer (1)
              08/19/1999                2    Sector Leader (1); Pr.               S               S
                                             Water/Sanit. Spec. (1)
              01/23/2000                3    Sector Manager (1); Financial        S               S
                                             Analyst (1); Sanitary Engineer
                                             (1)
              08/16/2000                2    Sector Manager (1); Financial        S               S
                                             Analyst (1)
              05/28/2001                3    Sr. Financial Analyst (1);           S               S



                                              - 18 -

                                                Sanitary Engineer (1); Economist
                                                (1)
               02/10/2002                 1     Sr. Fin. Analyst/TTL (1)             S    S
               07/28/2002                 3     Sr. Fin. Analyst (1); Economist      S    S
                                                (1); Sr. Operations Officer (1)

 ICR
                                                                                     S    S

Source: SAP (June 2003)

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation        Not available                              253
  Appraisal/Negotiation             Not available                   included above
  Supervision                       Not available                              400
  ICR                               Not available                               20
  Total                             Not available                              673
Source: SAP (June 2003), data from FY98 onwards.




                                                - 19 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

The following documents are available in the project files:

1. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President to Executive Directors (for the original and
   supplemental Trust Fund Credits)
2. Staff Appraisal Report
3. Project Aide Memoires
4. Project Supervision Reports (PSR)
5. Audited Financial Statements
6. Beneficiary Survey




                                                  - 22 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

A survey was conducted aimed at assessing the impact of the project on the beneficiary population, whose
findings are discussed below. Due to the difficult political situation and movement restrictions, the scope
of the survey was limited to persons familiar with the project in Gaza--mainly water engineers,
accountants, mayors and municipal councilors. Thus, the sample is not representative of the Gaza
population as a whole, but it does at least reflect the views of professionals familiar with the sector and the
project. A total of 54 persons from 16 municipalities were interviewed, and their characteristics are shown
in Attachment 1 below. The impact on water quality, quantity and reliability, as well as public awareness
and trust in the municipalities were some of the key issues addressed in the survey. The findings are
discussed below.

Impact on Quality and Quantity

It can be seen from Figure 1 that respondents believe that quality improvements have been significant.
More than 53 percent believe that the quality of water available has increased considerably, and another 28
percent believe that it has increased somewhat.

Figure 2 indicates that respondents believe that quality improvements have been significant. More than 60
percent believe that the quantity of water available has increased considerably, and another 26 percent
believe that it has increased somewhat.

Figure 1: Improvement in Water Quality                      Figure 2: Improvement in Water Service Quantity



                         2%                                                       6%
                  17%                                                          7%

    Quite a lot                  33%                           Quite a lot

    a lot                                                      a lot                           41%
                        v                                                          v
    somewhat                                                   somewhat    26%
    a little                                                   a little

    don't know  28%                                            don't know

                              20%                                                   20%



Impact on Service Reliability

Respondents also believe that service reliability improvements have been significant (as seen in Figure 3),
but slightly less so than service quantity and slightly more so than service quality. Fifty four percent
believe that reliability has increased considerably, while another 17 percent believe that it has increased
somewhat.




                                                      - 23 -

                             Figure 3: Improvement in Water Service Reliability



                                                       4%
                                                  11%
                                    Quite a lot
                                    a lot                        37%
                                                       v
                                    somewhat
                                    a little
                                                31%
                                    don't know


                                                            17%


Impact on Community Awareness and on Public Trust in Municipalities

It can be seen from Figure 4 that respondents believe that improvements in public awareness have been
significant, though much less so than quality, quantity and reliability. About 11 percent of the respondents
believe that reliability has increased considerably, while another 31 percent believe that it has increased
somewhat.

Figure 5 indicates that respondents also believe that improvements in public trust have been significant,
considerably less so than service quantity, quality and reliability, but more so than public awareness.
Thirty percent believe that reliability has increased considerably, while another 39 percent believe that it
has increased somewhat.

Figure 4: Impact on Public Awareness                        Figure 5: Impact on Public Trust


                             7%
                        2%                                                    13%         19%
    Quite a lot                4%
                 28%                                           Quite a lot
    a lot
                                                               a lot
    somewhat           v                                                   19%    v
                                                               somewhat                      11%
    a little                      31%
                                                               a little
    not at all
                                                               not at all
    don't know

                    28%
                                                                                    38%

Summary

In sum, the information obtained from the survey indicates that the project has had a considerable impact,
at least among municipal professionals in Gaza. Their perceptions are that the quality, quantity and
reliability of service has increased significantly, and a lower impact was achieved in the areas of public
awareness and trust. The latter impacts were significant nonetheless.




                                                     - 24 -

Attachment 1: Characteristics of Persons Interviewed

                                Distribution by Municipality
No.            Municipality       Sample Size
1                  Gaza                 5
2              Khan-Younis              6
3                  Rafah                5
4                  Jabalia              7
5              Deir El-Balah            3
6                Beit Lahia             4
7              Beit Hanoun              5
8                 Nuseirat              3
9                  Buraij               2
10                Maghazi               2
11                 Zawida               2
12              Bani-Suhila             2
13            Abasan Kabera             2
14            Abasan Saghera            2
15                 Qarara               2
16                Khuza'a               2
Total                                  54

                                 Distribution by Age Group

             Age                      Frequency                Percent

            18-25                         2                      3.7

            26-35                         14                    25.9

            36-45                         25                    46.3

            46-55                         12                    22.2
             >55                          1                      1.9

            Total                        54                     100


                                Distribution by Qualification
        Qualification                 Frequency                Percent

      Secondary or less                   4                      7.4

           Diploma                        8                     14.8

             B.Sc.                        33                    61.1

      Postgraduate degree                 9                     16.7

            Total                        54                     100




                                           - 25 -

Annex 9. Borrower's ICR




                           - 26 -

   The Palestinian National Authority

  The Palestinian Water Authority

   Water and Wastewater Services
        Improvement Project


IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR)

           (Borrower's Contribution)



                     By

     The Project Management Unit

                 June 2003




                    - 27 -

1. Abstract
This Internal Completion Report (ICR) gives a brief overview on the implementation of the World Bank financed
project named as Water and Wastewater Service Improvement Project. The project started in 1996 and continued
for six years until the end of the year 2002. As the first project of this style in Palestine, this report will give the
reader to understand the main achievement of the project. It can be safely said that the project was a very good
experience and all of its goals were almost met on time. Due to this success the Palestinian Water Authority (PWA)
and the World Bank extended the experience to start another Management Contract in the West Bank. More
involvement of the private sector was witnessed after that in neighboring countries like Amman of Jordan.
Currently PWA is convinced to start a second phase in Gaza to contribute in strengthening the newly evolved
Coastal Municipalities Water Utility. The financial expenditures according to the amended trust fund agreement,
are also illustrated by categories and tasks. The total fund is USD 31 million and was spent in accordance with
developed procurement plans just before the closing date, 31 December 2002.

2. Background
Prior to the Cairo Agreement of August 1994, under which the Israeli Civil Administration withdrew from Gaza,
water resources were administrated by the Water Department of the Civil Administration and water services were
and still carried out by the Water Departments of the 20 Municipalities. These departments were in general weak
and the water and water services were inadequate. The overall system efficiency was about 50%. This is due to the
sector negligence, the old piping system, non functioning meters, leakage, poor management and lack of
professionalism in the water industry.

The PWA was established by Decree 90/1995, and its powers and responsibilities defined in Law No 2 of 1996. As
policy-maker and regulator to the water sector, the newly established PWA found itself facing the following
challenges:
a. Improving water resources management and environmental health conditions;
b. Improving water supply delivery systems;
c. Improving the sewerage collection;
d. Improving wastewater resource management;
e. Enhance new water resources to meet current and future demands, and
 f. Strengthening the institutional, financial and regulatory framework of the management of water and
    wastewater.

In order to improve the water services in a sustainable manner, PWA recognized the need for an internationally
experienced water and wastewater Operator. Thanks to the World Bank which has responded positively to the
Palestinian Authority Chairman to finance the water and wastewater service improvement project. The preparation
for the management contract started in 1995 while the contract award and its commencement started in August
1996. The tendering process was carried out in accordance with the WB guidelines in two stage bidding. Due to
the positive political environment PWA received 52 expression of interest with more than 15 operation companies.
The short listing allowed for 8 companies to compete out of which 6 responded to the request for proposal. The
winner was a consortium from Lyonnaise des Eaux and Khatib and Alamy (LEKA).

The immediate objective of the Management Contract was to improve the quality of water supplied and treated
wastewater, the quantity of water available, and the management of water and wastewater services and to promote
the appropriate institutional setup through which a unified water utility will perform water and sewage services as
a replacement to the current fragmented structure. The proposed utility will operate autonomously under the
direction of its Board of Directors.

3. The Project Objectives
The project as designed with the World Bank consists of three components, originally raised through the Bank's
Staff Appraisal

3.1. Management Contract: The provision of four-year management contract with a private international operator
(Operator) to implement a service improvement program.



                                                       - 28 -

The MC was signed in May 1996 between the PWA and the winning bidder, Lyonnaise des Eaux /Khatib & Alami
(LEKA). This is the first project under the Water and Wastewater Service Improvement Program (WWSIP). This
project is financed by the World Bank under IDA terms for soft loans and has an original budget of US$25 million
to be executed over four years. Then an extension took place and financed through a supplemental credit of US$ 6.
Thus the total project budget is US$ 31. The project aims at:


 1. Improving the efficiency of the water supply distribution system.
 2. Improving the efficiency of the water systems and wastewater operating equipment.
 3. Improving the disinfection of drinking water.
 4. Protecting the integrity of the well sources.
 5. Improving the quality of the wastewater effluent.
 6. Improving the efficiency of revenue collections.
 7. Improving the operations of water and wastewater.
 8. Improve the efficiency of customer service and public relations.
 9. Improving the effectiveness of the management of the Water and Wastewater systems.
10. Improving the long-range performance of the water and wastewater systems.
11. Assisting in implementing the investment component which will be carried out in parallel and financed by
     other donors.
12. Development of an appropriate institutional setup by establishing water utility to carry out the water and
     wastewater services in Gaza instead of the fragmented municipal water departments.

3.2. Operating Investment: The Provision of investment funds was allocated in order to enable the private operator
(LEKA) to implement the service improvement program. These funds were built into the management contract
and were provided specifically to procure goods and services for immediate rehabilitation and repair needed
throughout the period of the contract (including the successive extensions).

3.3 Technical Assistance and Capacity Development:
The provision of consultants including independent auditors to monitor the Operator's technical and financial
performance as well as strengthening the role of PWA as the water sector regulator. This has been achieved though
out the following activities (details are through the related chapters):

  i. Creation of a Project Management Unit (PMU) in charge of supporting and monitoring the implementation of
     the whole components of the project as designed and performance criteria.
 ii. Hiring the services of an independent auditor responsible for monitoring the Operator's technical and financial
     performance in accordance to the signed contract and the international professional ethics.
iii. Strengthen the role of the newly created PWA and restructure the institutional framework for the actual
     services provider (the municipalities) by proposing the creation of a unified water utility (the Coastal
     Municipalities Water Utility). Those two goals have been achieved throughout the following activities:

 a. PWA's by-law as the water sector regulator has been endorsed by a Presidential Decree and the Palestinian
     Legislative Council.
 b. A memorandum of understanding of creating the CMWU has been signed by all Gaza Governorates
     municipalities
 c. A Ministerial Decree of creating a common water services utility, that was called later as the CMWU, has been
     singed.
 d. The CMWU by-law has been drafted by the municipalities legal advisors and will be discussed and endorsed
     in the meeting of the Board of Directors by July, 2003.
 e. The CMWU Board of Directors has been appointed and the Chairman of the board will be elected by July,
     2003.
 f. An Operating Contract, called Gaza II project, is under preparation. This contract aims at hiring the services
     of an international qualified firm that will be responsible for water and wastewater services in Gaza
     Governorates on behalf of the CMWU, and supporting the newly created CMWU.



                                                         - 29 -

4. Achievements
Annex 1 shows the status of achievement of the Operator (LEKA) under the management Contract over the life of
the project (September 1996 ­ December 2002). In general the implementation was smooth and most of the targets
were timely met apart from the first year. Due to difficulties in procurement, the operator failed to achieve an
excellent performance in many tasks. PWA recognized the encountered difficulties and accepted to transfer the
incentive to be possibly gained with the second year. The agreement was fruitful and gave the operator the
momentum they need to achieve the cumulative targets satisfactorily.

5. Difficulties
1. In general the implementation of the project through out the entire life of six years was smooth. This is due to:
2. The effective management practice and continuous follow up of the project's management unit (PMU).
3. The high technical standard of the operators' personnel.
4. Conducting the tasks of the project in a highly professional manner with the best Management Practice.
5. The constructive cooperation between TCT (municipal team), LEKA, and the Palestinian Water Authority.
6. The high level of support from the municipalities as their staff was involved in the various stages of the project
    preparation and implementation.
7. The incentive which was allocated for good municipal TCT members.
8. The incentive allocated to the operator. This incentive has a ceiling of more than 50% of the base fee and was
    performance driven.
9. The professionalism of the auditor (Deloite and Touche) which plays an important and neutral role in
    assessing the achievement by the end of each year and consequently evaluate the incentive to be paid to the
    operator.

However and due to some outstanding conditions the following obstacles were encountered. This can be
summarized as:

1. Outstanding conditions due to the current prevailing conditions.
2. The V.A.T. problems
3. The low level trained municipal employees, and lack of professionalism.
4. The lack of the power to instruct and mange the municipal employee directly by the operator.
5. Procurement problems dud to continuous closures of borders.

Thanks to the support of the World Bank and the Palestinian Authority responsible agencies, these all problems
were resolved and mitigation measures were adopted. For instance the dedicated discussion between the World
Bank, PWA and Ministry of Finance was fruitful to overcome the VAT problem in the early stage of the project's
implementation. In this context, and due to the time delay in of VAT recovery between Israel and the PA, The
Bank exceptionally allowed PWA to use the Special account to pay for the VAT until the issue was resolved. This
permission was limited with time, amount and no replenishment for VAT expenditures was allowed.

6. Lessons Learned
The achievements of the Management Contract were beyond the expectations, especially Gaza Governorates was
suffering not only from deteriorated water quality and low water quantity, but also from a poor service
management.

By the end of the contracted period of the MC, many lessons came out of this rich experience that could be
considered as keys for the success of any project of the same nature. These learned lessons can be summarized as:

1. A well understanding of the terms of this contract enabled PWA and the operator to maximize the benefits of
    the fund allocated for this project.
2. The incentive concept was an excellent tool towards encouraging the Operator and/or the municipal staff to
    increase their efforts in order to achieve the targets in terms of timing and quality of work.
3. The involvement of the various water sector players such as some Ministries, Municipalities, Universities and



                                                         - 30 -

    representative of the private sector in the decision making in the various stages of the project preparation was
    a very important tool in bridging the gap between the sector requirements and the scope of work of the
    Operator.
4. Not seconding the municipal staff under the direct Operator's management and responsibility was a constraint
    to maximize the benefit of the know-how transfer and developing services.
5. Sustainability of the water service could not be achieved if it is not conducted professionally by a high level of
    management practice and in close cooperation of all concerned parties.

7. Sustainability
The project has strongly contributed to the PWA strategy towards the sustainability of water resources in general
and water and wastewater services in particular. This has been achieved through the project tasks and performance
indicators in one hand and PWA strategy on the other hand. In this context, the most important achievements
were:
1. Improving the system efficiency from 50% to 70%. This was achieved through establishing systems for leak
    detection, meter repair and replacement, auditing the meter reading and data input, conducting training
    programs and installing district meters for better management. All of these systems helped to raise the level of
    expertise among the municipal staff. Also increasing the system efficiency has a positive impact on the water
    industry financing. The reduction in the unaccounted for water resulted in more revenues to the water sector
    which undoubtedly helps the services to improve through the realization of part of the business plans.
2. Improving the billing and collection departments throughout the various municipalities. This helped in
    increasing the customers willing to pay. In some municipalities like the eastern villages customer service data
    base was installed were computerized system did not exist before.
3. The project contributed in replacing more than 30% of the customer service connection. This has reduced the
    losses and reduced the vulnerability of the drinking water from pollution.
4. Besides reducing the unaccounted for water, meter replacement and repair (>50% of customer meters) helped
    in ensuring social equity and raise the concern of the customer of customers to conserve water.
5. The project resulted in the formulation of the Coastal Municipalities Water Utility (CMWU). The CMWU is
    formed from all municipalities in Gaza Strip. All municipalities has signed an MOU to establish the utility.
    Legally the utility has been established under the ministerial decree which was issued by the Minister of Local
    Government. In order to strengthen the utility, the World Bank has expressed its commitment to finance a
    second phase known as Gaza II. This is expected to be managed through an operating contract. The
    preparation to launch the RFP for the project has been finalized.
6. The upgrading of the wastewater treatment plants and sewage system collection has raised the potential for
    wastewater reuse due to the improvement of the effluent quality.
7. The public health was of prime concern. This was done through implementing a very successful disinfection
    program for drinking water and disposed effluent to the bathing water in Gaza city especially during summer
    season.
8. Throughout the project a comprehensive training program was conducted. This program covered engineers,
    technicians, managers, administrators, financial staff, water scientist and on top of that the mayors of the
    municipalities. Training sessions were conducted locally as well as abroad. In many cases Palestinians
    attended some international meeting and conferences to enrich their knowledge.

8. Project Management and Institutional Framework Setup
Towards the implementation of this project, PWA fulfilled its obligations as stated in the contract with respect to
the setup of necessary institutional framework and creating and/or appointing the various necessary bodies. This
includes the establishment of the Project Management Unit (PMU), formation of the Technical Counterpart Team
(TCT), the appointment of the Regional Coordinators (RC), the appointment of the auditor and the formation of
the Steering Committee (SC).




                                                        - 31 -

8.1. Project Management Unit:
As it is described in section III of the Staff Appraisal Report, Annex1, this is covered under the consultancy service
to PWA. This unit is composed of the project manager, the water and/or wastewater engineer, accountant and
secretary. The unit was established at the beginning of the project by the project manager who was initially selected
by the Palestinian Water Authority (PWA) chairman in conformity with the World Bank procedure. In general the
PMU role was to help the PWA in implementing the project and facilitate the role of the Operator.

8.2. Technical Counterpart Team:
Since the Operator was working hand in hand with the sixteen (16) municipalities of the Gaza Governorates, it has
been recognized that the formation of the TCT wais important in order to facilitate the role of the Operator and
leads to efficient implementation. In order to cover the wide scope of the WWSIP, the TCT members covered a
wide range of specialties including water and wastewater engineering, management, accounting, billing,
administration, customer services and computer skills and modeling. Other important criteria were spatial
representation of the whole municipalities. In all cases the final appointment of the TCT member was subject to an
official approval by his/her Mayor. This has been conducted through meetings with the mayors who signed a
memorandum of understanding during the project preparation phase, whereas during the implementation of the
project, the list of the TCT members where approved and sent by each Mayor.
For some political reasons within some municipalities, the nomination of the TCT member (s) was slow. The PWA
has arranged an assembly meeting on 20th October 1996. This meeting included the Operator, the TCT, the
Steering Committee and PWA. The meeting aimed at introducing the various parties, briefed the TCT members
about project scope and their role and highlights the PWA expectation of this project.

According to schedule1 of the Trust Fund agreement (category 5) and clause 5.6a of the management contract,
provisions were made to compensate the TCT for the extra effort they made subject to their performance. This
incentive has been approved to be a successful driving force to motivate the TCT to comply with the Operator plans
towards the implementation of the project. The incentive is calculated based on the following formula which
accounts for both the extra time and performance.
                                                 i=T
                                        I = S  (1.25 + 0.5 P )              i
                                                  i=1
where,
I         =         Incentive payment,
S         =         Hourly rate based on the net salary,
Pi        =         Performance factor from 0 to 1.0 and
T         =         Total number of working hours to perform the various tasks.

This formula was developed by the PMU and approved by the chairman of the PWA, Mr. Nabil El-Sharif, endorsed
by the Steering Committee and was accepted by the Operator and the TCT members. For convenience, payments
were performed on quarterly basis.

8.3. Steering Committee:
The steering committee was an important body which represented the major stockholder in the water sector. This
included the PWA, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Industry,
Municipalities and Village Council (three representatives), Universities (a representative), private sector (a
representative), Universities (a representative) and two representatives for the consumers. The formation of such a
committee was a perquisite to the World Bank Approval of the Trust Fund. The main role of this committee was
the advice of the operator and PWA on the priority issues to be tackled and the endorsement of the work plan and
the procurement plan as produced by the Operator.




                                                         - 32 -

8.4. Regional Coordinators:
Due to the wide scope of Management Contract and the wide area of coverage (16 municipalities), it was suggested
that regional coordinators were needed to follow the implementation of the project throughout the Gaza
Governorates and follow activities in the water and wastewater sectors by other donors. Also these coordinators
were facilitating the role of the operator in conjunction with the TCT members at their specified regions. The
suggestion was highly supported by the World Bank Task Manager, whereas, five coordinators were appointed
(Mechanical and Civil engineers). Each was located at one of the five regions of Gaza Governorates. These are
namely: Northern, Gaza, Middle, Khan Yunis and Rafah regions.

8.5. Auditors:
As described in the contract, this was independent auditors which evaluated the technical and financial
performance of the operator in order to be able to estimate the amount of incentive to be paid by PWA. Also the
auditor was responsible for auditing the financial operations and accounts of the operator. On the other hand the
auditor helped PWA in auditing their account.

Norway has accepted to finance this team throughout the Norwegian Palestinian Protocol of Cooperation. Since
this Protocol was valid until the year 1998, Norway committed themselves to cover the expense of auditing for the
first two years. The financing of the next years of the MC was subject to the new protocol which took place later.

The Norwegian firm Deloitte and Touche (D&T) was selected as the Auditor. This selection was subject to a
thorough evaluation of the firm's technical and financial proposal.

9. Project Disbursement Summary
By the Closing Date of the SIP, the total project cost including the committed contracts that signed under the
various components of the project is estimated at US$31.0 million (Annex 2).

It is important to note that due to abrupt halt with the start of the second Intifada in September 2000, PWA's
willingness to maintain the improvement that made on the water and wastewater services, and upon the request of
PWA, it has been agreed with the Bank that an extension of the original project closing date is needed.

The additional funding (about US$7.61 million) necessary to cover the successive extensions that agreed upon with
the World Bank was made available from the Southern Area Water and Sanitation Improvement Project (Trust
Fund Credit TF-22443), SAWSIP. This has been endorsed by the World Bank throughout two correspondents in
July 2002 and March 2003

This agreement was to finance extensions to the management contract and urgent rehabilitation works; this
arrangement is still on-going.




                                                        - 33 -

 Annex 1: Summary of the targets and achievements over the life of the Management contract
 for Gaza Water and wastewater Service Improvement project.
 ITEM                                           TARGET IN ACHIEVEMENT                 DETAILS AND REMARKS
                                                SIX YEARS
I. Improving quantity of water:
1.1 Improve the efficiency of the Water Supply
Distribution System
1.1.1 Leak detection-repair/replace               1050         1200
1.1.1.2 Service connection replacement            25,000       26,800
1.1.2      Meter calibration/installation
1.1.2.1    Meter repaired                         22,000       22,000
1.1.2.2    Meter replaced                         37,000       40,000

1.2 Overall System Efficiency                      68%         66%
II. Improving quality of water:                   100%         99.8%
2.1 Improve disinfect ion
2.2        Improve wastewater discharge            86%         88%
III. Improving management:
3.1 Management of water services
3.1.1 Improve collection of water revenues

3.1.1.1 Decrease in Accounts Receivable            10%          0%     It is important to acknowledge that the Operator is making
                                                                       more efforts in order to decrease, as much as possible, in
                                                                       account receivable. However, those activities could not be
                                                                       measurable and utilized in evaluating the reduction in AR
3.1.1.2 Identify illegal connections/convert to   19,000       30,000
legal status
3.1.1.3 Develop and update database service       100%         100%
of service connections
3.1.1.4 Implement computerized                     30%         30%     The Operator has carried out all the agreed activities under
administration systems to enforce collection of                        this task. However, as it has been mentioned earlier, the
overdue accounts                                                       achievement of this task is a matter of creating separate
                                                                       financial accounts for water and wastewater subject to the
                                                                       creation of the Regional Offices of the CMWU, which is
                                                                       expected before the end of the sixth year of the MC.
3.1.1.5 Analyze tariffs and recommend                                  Task merged and completed under task 3.1.1.4
progressively increasing tariff system for each
customer class
3.1.1.6 Establish a unified billing and                                Task merged and completed under task 3.1.1.4
collection system
3.1.1.7 Map and hydraulically model water         100%         100%
and wastewater network
3.1.1.8 Create separate financial accounts for                         Task merged and completed under task 3.1.1.4
water and wastewater utilities
 3.2 Improving management of wastewater
 services
3.2.1 Repair and replace various equipment        100%         100%
3.2.1 Identify needed support and                 100 %        100%
administrative needs
3.2.2 Develop and implement preventive            100 %        100 %
maintenance system
3.2.3 Develop and implement maintenance           100 %        100 %
and materials management system
3.2.4 Identify, obtain critical necessary spare   100 %        100 %
parts, develop and implement inventory
control system




                                                         - 34 -

ITEM                                       TARGET IN   ACHIEVEMENT  DETAILS AND REMARKS
                                           SIX YEARS
IV. Promoting institutional development
4.1 Develop and implement management &       100 %        100%
technical training program
4.2 Develop and implement computerized       100 %        100 %
administrative systems - train
4.3 Develop and implement safety program     100 %        100 %
4.4 Develop an Emergency Operation plan -    100 %        100 %
train
4.5 Establish Region wide Association of     100 %        100 %
water sector personnel - conduct seminar,
support
4.6 Customer Service and Public Information
    4.6.1 Develop and implement customer     100 %        100 %
         service system - train
    4.6.2 Develop and implement public       100 %        100 %
         information program
4.7 Improve long - Range Performance
Planning
    4.7.1 Develop prioritized capital        100 %        100 %
         improvement program and
         rehabilitation plan and get it
         accepted by EPAC
4.8 Develop and implement water re-use       100 %        100 %
from existing facilities




                                                 - 35 -

Annex 2: Summary of Disbursements
                                            IBRD/IDA TRUST FUNDS
                                              MULT ACCOUNT 26056

                                        WATER AND SANITATION SERVICES

                                            GZ - WEST BANK AND GAZA
Date : November-30-2002
Currency : US Dollar                         CATEGORY BALANCES
                                                  Original *         Final

No.  Category Description                         Allocation     Reallocation**  Disbursed       Committed

  1  CIVIL WORKS

  1  CIVIL WORKS/PWA                                                           2,062,916.21

  1  CIVIL WORKS/LEKA                                                          6,470,510.26

  1  CIVIL WORKS/TOTAL                            650,000.00     8,840,000.00 8,533,426.97      8,600,000.00

  2  GOODS

  2  GOODS/PWA                                                                 462,730.76

  2  GOODS/LEKA***                                                             6,665,550.60

  2  GOODS/TOTAL                                11,100,000.00    7,030,000.00 7,141,508.36      7,120,000.00

  3  MGT FIRM'S FEE PART A

  3  BANK CHARGES                                                              13,612.63

  3  MGT FIRM'S PART A(USD)****                  6,551,040.00                  7,962,386.40

  3  MGT FIRM'S PART A(FRF)****                 12,066,032.00                  2,144,739.56

  3  CWU AND GAZA MASTER PLAN                     401,455.00                   401,455.00

  3  MGT FIRM'S PART A(USD)                     11,000,000.00    10,500,000.00 10,522,203.49   10,523,000.00

  4  CONS.SVC PART C

  4  CONS.SVC PART C/PWA                                                        1,445,567.72

  4  CONS.SVC PART C/LEKA                                                       1,272,916.55
     CONS.SVC PART C/HAZEN &
  4 SEWER and Gaza II Blake                                                      256,927.00

  4  CONS.SVC PART C/TOTAL                       1,100,000.00    2,900,000.00   2,975,411.27    2,932,000.00

  5  INCREM.OP.EXPEND.                            350,000.00     1,730,000.00   1,827,449.91    1,825,000.00

  6  UNALLOCATED                                  800,000.00                        0.00            0.00
     SUB-TOTAL                                 25,000,000.00      31,000,000.00 31,000,000.00 31,000,000.00

     TOTAL                                                                      31,000,000.00


     * These figures have been taken from Trust Fund Agreement
     *** This figures include S/C No. 01(DEM 1,421,305.83)//USD 813,192.64(Committed) USD
     326,042.26(DEM 576,736.16) paid on 22-Sep.-97 by WB and USD 463,514.44(DEM 844,569.67) paid on 24-
     Feb.-98
     ****This figures have been taken from the contract between PWA & LEKA


Note: The table above represents the Original and Final Trust Fund allocations, the copy in the files has all of the
information from the allocations in between.




                                                           - 36 -

- 37 -

