Documet of
The World Bank
FOR OFFIaAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1285 1-IND
MULTILATERAL FUND UNDER THE MONTREAL PROTOCOL
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE DIRECTOR
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC COUNTRY DEPARTMENT III
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
ON A
PROPOSED OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$17.0 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PHASE OUT PROJECT
OCTOBER 21, 1994
Environment Unit
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(As of February, 1994)
Currency Unit  =      Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00    =      Rp 2105
Rp 1 million   =    US$475
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)           =     3.28 feet
1 kilometer (kn)      =     0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)        =      10,000 square meters = 15 mu
1 kilogram (kg)       =     2.204 pounds
1 metric ton (MIT)    =     2,204.6 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BI           Bank Indonesia
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment
GOI          Government of Indonesia
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
MP           Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer
MPEC         Executive Committee of the Multilateral Fund for Implementation
of the Montreal Protocol
MPF          Multilateral Fund for Implementation of the Montreal Protocol
MOF          Ministry of Finance
MT           Metric Tons
ODS          Ozone Depleting Substances
OTF          Ozone Projects Trust Fund
PPA          Project Preparation Advance
SME          State Ministry of Environment
TA           Technical Assistance
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
UNEP         United Nations Environment Programme
UNIDO        United Nations Industrial Development Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PHASE OUT INVESTMENT pROJECT
Project and Grant Summary
Recipient                  Republic of Indonesia
Project Description        This project would assist Indonesia to achieve its 1997 ODS phase out
target by: (i) establishing an efficient mechanism for selecting and
implementing MP projects through local institutions; and (ii) financing
the incremental costs of conversion to non-ODS technology for a
group of pliority, cost effective subprojects to reduce ODS
consumption in the country.
Executing Agency           State Ministry of Environment (SME) with assistance from Bank
UPPINDO
Beneficiaries              Local Enterprises which are phasing out ODS;
SME and Bank UPPINDO as executing agencies
Amount                     US$17.00 million
Terms                      Grant
Financing Plan             Component                                  US$ million
Financing Requirements:
Subprojects                                  22.42
Project Preparation Advance                   0.25
Technical assistance                          0.10
Financial agent fee                           0 51
Total                                 23.28
Financed by:
Ozone Projects Trust Fund (OTF)              17.00
OTF Project Preparation Advance               0.25
Total OTF                              17.25
Enterprise funds                              Om
Total                                 23.28
Economic Rate of Return    N/A
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l






MEMORANDUM AND RE-COMMENDATION OF THE DIRECTO
OF COUNTRY DEPARTMENT III
TO THE REGIONAL VICE PRESIDENT
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC REGION
1.           I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a
proposed Ozone Projects Trust Fund Grant to the Republic of Indonesia (the Recipient) for US$17.0
million, to help finance a project to meet Indonesia's plans for phasing out its consumption of ozone
depleting substances (ODS). The total grant funding for the project is US$17.25 million, including
US$0.25 million for the ODS Project Preparation Advance (OTF 05-21929).
Background
2.           Indonesia ratified the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer
(MP) in June 1992 and the government is committed to phasing out consumption of ozone depleting
substances (ODS) by 1997, well ahead of the 2010 MP deadline for developing countries. With total
ODS consumption below 0.3 kg per capita, the country is eligible for funds from the Ozone Projects
Trust Fund (OTF) which the Bank administers and which is instituted by funds provided by the
Multilateral Fund for Implementation of the MP (MPF) to cover the incremental costs of ODS phase
out activities. To minimize economic disruption that could result from constrained supplies of ODS
and overall phase out costs, Indonesia has decided to accelerate phaseout activities and aims for
complete phaseout by 1997. Conservation measures and substitute technologies are commercially
available for most major ODS uses in Indonesia. To meet its aggressive phase out schedule,
Indonesia will require technical assistance to develop a phaseout strategy and to strengthen the
institutions that will implement an action plan, as well as financial assistance to acquire and adopt
substitute technologies. The Bank is working with the Government of Indonesia (GOI) to develop a
series of projects to utilize MPF resources to realize the goals of the GOI's ODS phase out program.
This proposed project would be the first such operation.
3.           The government is committed to developing and implementing a cost effective ODS
phase out program and has established a National Committee for Protection of the Ozone Layer and
ODS Phase Out chaired by the State Ministry of Environment (SME) which is advised by a Technical
Team with participants from BAPPENAS, the Departments of Trade, Industry, Foreign Affairs and
Agriculture, BAPEDAL (the Environmental Impact Management Agency) and the Indonesia Chamber
of Commerce. In addition, SME has set up an Ozone Layer Protection Unit which acts as Secretariat
to the Technical Team and oversees day to day activities of implementing Indonesia's ODS phase out
program. During preparation of the government's Country Program for the Phase Out of ODS Under
the MP (ODS CP), which includes Indonesia's policy, strategy, costs and action plan to eliminate
ODS consumption (provided technical and financial assistance are forthcoming), the Technical Team
established five sector groups to formulate sector specific phase out strategies and action plans for
refrigeration and air-conditioning, foams, aerosols, solvents and fire protection (halons).
4.           In 1992, Indonesia consumed about 7,800 metric tons (MIT) of ODS, all imported,
primarily in refrigeration and air-conditioning (32% weighted for ozone depletion potential-ODP),
aerosols (30% ODP), foams (16% ODP), fire protection - halons (15% ODP), and solvents (7%
ODP). Except for the aerosol sector, for which growth in ODS consumption is frozen as a result of a
Ministry of Health Decree to ban ODS use in production of cosmetic aerosols, consumption of ODS
is increasing at about 12% per annum on average.



5.           Indonesia's ODS Country Program (CP), which describes the GOI's plan to eliminate
ODS consumption by 1997, was endorsed by the Minister for Environment in February 1994 and was
approved by the Executive Committee of the MPF (MPEC) during its March 1994 meeting. The
ODS CP was prepared with UNDP support using MPEC-approved funds and Bank assistance. The
ODS CP outlines a phase out strategy which will rely on voluntary actions by industry in response to
both government promotion of the 1997 phase out target as well as constrained supplies of ODS
which are occurring as a result of international MP controls on ODS production. The five sector
groups established by the Technical Team, which include government, industry and trade association
participants, will continue to liaise between industry and the Technical Team to help promote the
GOI's 1997 phase out target and assist in identification of appropriate phase out technologies and
specific phase out investment operations. In addition, the GOI is studying provisions to adjust import
duties on ODS and non-ODS chemicals and equipment to further induce adoption of ODS substitutes.
Should these measures fail to achieve phase out targets established in the CP, the GOI will consider
limiting ODS imports through a quota system. SME will work with the Customs department to
closely monitor ODS imports and consumption.
6.           The Bank, through an Ozone Projects Trust Fund (OTF) Project Preparation Advance
(PPA) and direct support, is helping the GOI prepare investment subprojects to execute the ODS CP
sector action plans for household refrigeration, foams, fire protection and solvents. The Bank is also
working with the govermnent to prepare projects for eliminating ODS consumption in the aerosol
sector. UNDP is providing institutional strengthening support to SME's Ozone Unit and is working
with the Technical Team to develop halon banking and recycling projects as well as projects to phase
out ODS in the commercial refrigeration and air-conditioning sector. In addition, SME is
coordinating ODS phase out technical assistance from UNEP for refrigeration and air-conditioning
servicing, and from the Australian and Japanese governments with which it is jointly hosting
workshops on technical alternatives to ODS.
Project Objectives and Approach
7.           The objective of the project is to support the GOI's proposed program to phase out
ODS by 1997. The project strategy is to provide funding from OTF through SME, who will be
assisted by a local bank, Bank UPPINDO, in the administration of subgrants to ODS users. These
grants will cover the incremental costs to firms of introducing ozone protecting technologies as an
incentive for early adoption.
8.           The proposed approach is to: (i) establish an efficient mechanism for selecting and
implementing MP projects through local institutions; (ii) assist SME to oversee the preparation of
subproject proposals through direct Bank support and an OTF-PPA; and (iii) finance the incremental
costs of conversion to non-ODS technologies for a group of priority, cost effective subprojects to
reduce ODS consumption in the country. The investment project would be organized as an umbrella
financial agreement executed by SME with assistance from Bank UPPINDO, the selected local
financial agent, in administration of subgrants to project beneficiaries. The Technical Team, with
guidance from the five sector groups, is overseeing the selection and preparation of subprojects in
about three tranches including execution of the US$250,000 OTF Project Preparation Advance.
Funding approval for an initial group of six subprojects - prepared with direct Bank support - was
given by the MPF Executive Committee (MPEC) at its November, 1993 meeting. As subsequent
subproject proposals are completed and endorsed by GOI and the Bank, they will be submitted to the
MPEC for approval. The OTF-PPA funded "Feasibility for Use of Non-ODS Technology in
Indonesia' will result in about 12 more subproject proposals. Additional project preparation
resources will be requested from MPEC as required to support preparation of additional proposals for



- 3 -
subprojects under this project. Proposals approved by the Technical Team will be pre-appraised by
Bank UPPINDO and submitted to the Bank for MPEC approval. Eligibility criteria for approval of
proposals by the Technical Team and MPEC will be those specified for subprojects in Annex 2.
Project Description. Costs and Flnancine
9.           The project comprises subproject preparation, subproject investments and technical
assistance. Under an OTF-PPA, SUCOFINDO has been selected to prepare 20 subproject concepts,
and to finalize 12 for preappraisal. Additional PPA will be requested from MPEC as required. The
project will support 25-30 subprojects in several tranches and will cover all major ODS use sectors in
Indonesia including refrigeration and air-conditioning, foams, fire protection (halons), aerosols and
solvents. Subprojects will assist beneficiaries with technology transfer, design, safety, training, and
implementation. The first group of six subprojects, covering foams and aerosols where unit
abatement costs for ODS are relatively low, and for which MPEC approved US$4.56 million in grant
funds to cover incremental costs, represents about 25% of the total project. A list of proposed
subprojects, including detailed summaries of the first group of six subprojects, is attached in Annex 1.
The project also includes US$50,000 of technical assistance (TA) already approved by MPEC for the
strengthening of Bank UPPINDO's technical capabilities in project review and supervision. The TA
work program will include hiring international or local consultants to transfer knowledge about non-
ODS technologies while assisting in subproject appraisal and supervision, and will also cover
participation in local, regional or international conferences on ODS phaseout technologies. SME,
which will coordinate implementation of the proposed project, has established an "Ozone Unit" to
guide and monitor the country's overall ODS phase out program and act as coordinator for related
investment operations, using US$315,000 in institutional strengthening funds from the MPF through
UNDP. Subject to MPEC approval, the Bank would provide about US$50,000 as additional,TA to
SME to cover travel and other direct expenses related to selection and monitoring of subprojects, as
well as for workshops to promote non-ODS technologies and successes of ODS phase out activities.
10.          Estimated total project costs are US$23.28 million, including US$0.51 million
financial agency fee. Of this amount, about US$17.25 million, including the US$250,000 PPA, is
expected to be eligible as incremental costs for MPF grant funding through the OTF. The balance
will be financed from commercial sources or from the beneficiaries own funds. Project costs and the
financing plan are shown in Schedule A. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Recipient that funds for incremental costs will be channeled to project beneficiaries as grants through
SME.
11.          Incremental costs for this project are defined by Bank and MPEC guidelines as the net
present value of incremental economic project costs (investment plus operating costs net of operating
benefits) discounted at 10% in real terms. This amount is then adjusted to reflect the local share of
ownership (see Annex 2). Following current MPF practice, reimbursement for incremental operating
costs for subprojects is limited to four years. In cases where an enterprise is eligible for less than
100% grant financing of the investment, and the enterprise requires an incentive for early adoption of
ODS phaseout technology, it may, at the discretion of MPEC, be eligible for an additional amount so
as to enable it to realize an acceptable rate of return compared to the risk of the project. An overall
contingency allowance of 15% and a financial agent fee of 3% have been included in the grant
amount. The contingency will be allocated, as needed, by the Bank, to cover any justified subproject
cost increases. If any one subproject shows a cost increase in excess of MPF guidelines (i.e.,
US$500,000 increase), the subproject would be resubmitted to MPEC for re-approval.



-4-
Project Implementation
12.          The State Ministry of Environment (SME) in its role as chairman of the inter-agency
National Committee on Ozone Protection and ODS Phaseout will act on behalf of GOI as executing
agency for the Montreal Protocol ODS Phase Out Investment Project (ODS Project) and will ensure
that subprojects are consistent with the ODS Country Program and meet eligibility criteria for projects
financed by the MP Fund. The National Committee Technical Team, with assistance from the five
sector groups it established, will oversee and promote subproject identification and preparation. Daily
operations of the Technical Team will be handled by the Ozone Unit located at SME. To manage the
ODS phase out projects and Indonesia's overall ODS phase out program efficiently, assurances wr
obtained from the Recipient that SME will maintain the Ozone Unit. with adequate staffing and funds.
and with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank. and that SME will ensure that
subprojects are consistent with the country's ODS Country Program.
13.          SME has, with Bank concurrence, selected Bank UPPINDO to assist in financial
administration of grants to project beneficiaries including appraisal of subproject proposals,
overseeing disbursement and procurement, and the supervision of subproject implementation. To
ensure prompt funds transfer, it was agreed that Bank UPPINDO would facilitate the disbursement
process by tracking disbursement requests and ensuring consistency of the requests with subproject
agreements, but that grant funds will actually be disbursed through SME by the Ministry of Finance
(MOF) or through Bank Indonesia (BI), as appropriate, directly to subproject beneficiaries. Bank
UPPINDO will receive a fee equivalent to 3% of grants for its services, of which it will receive one
third (= 1%) following approval of subproject appraisal reports by SME and the Bank, and two-thirds
(=2%) upon disbursement of the grants to the subprojects. Bank UPPINDO would be guided by
subproject eligibility, appraisal and financing criteria for Montreal Protocol projects (summarized in
Annex 2) and would operate under terms and conditions defined in Annex 3. Assurances Ar
obtained from the Recipient that it will engaee Bank UPPINDO as financial agent for the project
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
14.          The Grant Agreement between the Government and the Bank, the Project
Implementation Agreement between the SME and Bank UPPINDO, including Operating Procedures
and Guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and the subgrant agreements between SME and the
participating enterprises will describe the responsibilities of each party. The subgrant agreement for
each subproject will, inter alia, require each participating enterprise to complete the subproject
satisfactorily and to maintain satisfactory financial viability using indicators as agreed with the Bank.
Signing of the Project Implementation Agreement between the SME and Bank UPPINDO. satisfactory
to the Bank. is a condition of grant effectiveness. During negotiations. assurances were obtained
from the Recipient that subgrant agreements with each participating enterprise will include terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank. including those described in paragraph III (5) of Annex 3.
15.          SME will be responsible for monitoring the overall project and attaining the ODS
phase out commitments. The Bank will supervise the project, including approval of each subproject
and monitoring SME, the Ozone Unit and Bank UPPINDO's activities. SME and Bank UPPINDO
will prepare semi-annual reports for submission to the Bank. Subproject completion reports,
approved by SME, will be furnished to the Bank promptly upon completion of subprojects. Final
operation reports, also approved by SME, will be furnished to the Bank two years after subproject
completions for those subprojects with incremental operating costs. Financial audit reports of the
Grant will be prepared according to standard OTF requirements. In addition, technical audit reports
of subproject implementation will be prepared by independent consultants and submitted



-5-
simultaneously to SME and the Bank at six month intervals, contingent upon the approval of funds for
this purpose by the MPEC.
16.          Procurement of goods and services will be in accordance with Bank Procurement
Guidelines. Bank UPPINDO will satisfy itself that the goods and services to be purchased are for the
investment subprojects and are reasonably priced, by ensuring that the grant recipient has canvassed
the main sources of supply and purchased from the most advantageous source. Consultants will be
selected in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. A Special Account, with an
initial deposit of up to US$1.5 million, would be established at BI to facilitate disbursement of OTF
grants as outlined in Annex 3. MOF would submit requests for replenishment of the Special Account
based on a Statement of Expenditures for contracts with a value of up to US$200,000. Project funds
are expected to be fully committed by January 1995 and are expected to be fully disbursed by June
30, 1998. Procurement procedures, ceilings for prior review, and the disbursement schedule are
given in Schedule B. The timetable for processing the project is given in Schedule C and a detailed
project schedule is provided in Annex 4.
Project Sustainability
17.          The proposed ODS Phase Out project will be implemented within the institutional and
policy framework described in Indonesia's ODS Country Program, which was approved by MPEC at
its March 1994 meeting, and is considered sustainable. Indonesia is committed to the phase out of
ODS as required in its obligations under the MP. Moreover, the project will assist the Government
in establishing an efficient mechanism for developing and funding subprojects to initiate and sustain
its ODS phase out action plans. During negotiations. assurances were obtained from the Recigient
that SME will inform the Bank from time to time about implementation of the ODS Country
Progrnm. Limited availability of ODS and ODS dependent components will work to ensure sustained
future use of ODS recycling equipment and non-ODS technology.
Environmental Aspects
18.          The overall project objective is protection of the environment by reducing emissions
of ODS. However, the change to non-ODS technologies or substitution of ODS with other chemicals
may involve other environmental risks. Subprojects may employ flammable substitutes or, in the case
of solvent subprojects, increase waste water. In accordance with the Bank's guidelines, satisfactory
safety and environmental precautions are being incorporated into subproject design. Participating
enterprises will be responsible for providing environmental impact assessments (EIAs) as required by
Indonesian law. SME will work with BAPEDAL to ensure that EIAs are prepared for those
subprojects which require them. EIAs will be submitted with subproject appraisal reports to the Bank
for approval. The project is classified as a Category B in accordance with OD 4.01.
Project Benefits
19.          The project will help the Government implement an accelerated ODS phase out
program by providing financing for priority subprojects which will result in the phase out of
approximately 3,000 MT of ODS annually (3,200 ODP-weighted MT or about 50% of Indonesia's
total ODP-weighted consumption of ODS). The project will enable export-oriented firms to maintain
their export markets by adjusting in a timely manner to non-ODS products as requested by importers
from industrialized countries. In addition, the project will help domestic firms minimize the potential
economic disruptions of constrained ODS supplies.



-6 -
Project Risks
20.          Private firms' lack of interest in ODS phase out investments because of low financial
benefits could become a risk. The project will address this risk by providing grant funding which
will compensate for financial, market, and technical risks of proposed investments and will provide
acceptable returns on investments of participating enterprises. Financial incentives will be
complemented by regulations and non-financial incentives to be determined by the National
Committee. SME has limited experience in implementing investment subprojects, which could delay
processing of subproject proposals and disbursement requests. To minimize this risk, SME will
contract a financial agent familiar with World Bank operation procedures to assist in financial
administration of subprojects. This project will provide technical training to the financial agent, Bank
UPPINDO, to familiarize project staff with ODS industries and non-ODS phase out options. In
addition, UNDP is providing institutional strengthening to SME to coordinate implementation of the
ODS CP, including investment operations under this project. This project will supplement UNDP's
support by providing funds to strengthen SME's capability to identify and monitor subprojects.
Lessons from Previous Bank Experience
21.          Projects utilizing OTF resources are being developed concurrently in Mexico, Brazil,
Philippines, Thailand, China, Malaysia, Turkey, and other countries. Several country studies have
been completed which identify ODS consumption patterns and phaseout strategies. In addition,
implementation arrangements based on environment ministry implementation with local financial agent
assistance in fund administration have been established for most ODS phase out operations. The
findings of the country studies and experience in setting up implementation arrangements were
considered in the design of the proposed project. In particular, to minimize delays in disbursement of
approved MP funds, this project adopted the recently developed 'umbrella' structure which
establishes a framework for processing a large number of small sub-components under one project.
In addition, the project team was pro-active in initiating subproject preparation, making use of experts
in the dynamic ODS substitute fields to help SME identify sectors for which cost effective phase out
options are available and to provide information about those options to ODS consuming enterprises.
Rationale for Funding from the Montreal Protocol Interim Multilateral Fund
22.          As noted above, GOI has ratified the MP and is committed to a successful phase out
program in advance of MP requirements for developing countries. The project is consistent with the
Implementation Guidelines and Criteria for OTF funding established by the MPEC.
Agrd Actions
23.          Prior to negotiations, the Recipient furnished to the Bank for concurrence:
(a)    draft Operating Procedures and Guidelines for Bank UPPINDO; and
(b)    draft Work Program for the First Year of the Ozone Unit Operation.
24.          During negotiations, the Bank obtained assurances from the Recipient that:
(a)   funds for incremental costs will be channeled to project beneficiaries as grants through
SME (para. 10);



- 7 -
(b)    SME will maintain the Ozone Unit, with adequate staffing and funds, and with
functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank (para. 12);
(c)    SME will ensure that subprojects are consistent with the country's ODS Country
Program (para. 12);
(d)    SME will engage Bank UPPINDO as financial agent for the project under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 13);
(e)    SME will enter into a subgrant agreement with each project beneficiary under terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including those described in paragraph HIm(5)
of Annex 3 (para. 14);
(t)    SME will inform the Bank from time to time about implementation of the ODS
Country Program (para. 17); and
25.          The following will be a condition of effectiveness of the Grant:
signing of a Project Implementation Agreement satisfactory to the Bank between the
SME and Bank UPPINDO that describes the responsibilities of Bank UPPINDO under
the Grant Agreement (para. 14).
Recommendation
26.          I am satisfied that the proposed Grant would comply with the relevant provisions of
the Ozone Projects Trust Fund in Resolution 91-5 of the Executive Directors, and I recommend that
the Regional Vice President approve it.
Marianne Haug
Director
Country Department m
East Asia and Pacific Region
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
October 21, 1994






- 9 -                             Schedule A
Project Costs
Project Cost
(US$ millions)
Net      Proposed
Total Project   Investment     Recurring          OTF
Costsa         Costs         Costs         Grantc
(4 Yrs)b
PPA                               0.25           0.00          0.00          0.25
TA-Bank UPPINDO & SME             0.10           0.00          0.00          0.10
Approved Subprojects              4.87           3.85          0.46          4.42
Future Subprojects               17.55          15.13          0.10          11.97
Financial Agent Fee               0.51           0.00          0.00          0.51
TOTAL Project                    23.28          18.98          0.56          17.25
a/ Including 15% contingency.
b/ Discounted at 10%.
c/ Eligible incremental cost = incremental cost multiplied by the share of local ownership,
including 15% contingency.
Financing Plan
Source                                                 USS million equivalent
OTF Grant                                                     17.25
of which PPA                                                  0.25
Commercial loans or enterprise funds                           6.03
Total                                                         23.28






- 11 -                              Schedule
Summary of Proposed Procurement Anrangements
Bank UPPINDO will be responsible for ensuring that participating enterprises follow the
agreed procurement guidelines. Total procurement will amount to US$17.0 million for about 25-30
subprojects whose procurement will be administered following international competitive bidding (ICB)
using Bank Standard Documents, or the procurement practices of private industry in Indonesia which
the Bank has examined and found acceptable, consisting at a minimum of the following:
(i)  contracts over US$2 million equivalent (excluding proprietary packages) would be
procured under ICB procedures, under which preference for eligible domestic bidders
should be allowed in the evaluation of goods (15%);
(ii)  contracts between US$200,000 and US$2 million equivalent would be procured on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers
from at least two countries;
(iii)  contracts below US$200,000 equivalent would be procured on the basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers; and
(iv)  direct contracting will be used for proprietary packages.
Consultants
(i)   Consultants shall be engaged on the basis of the 'Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency" dated August
1981.
Prior Review
Prior review is required on the following contracts and bid packages:
(i)  over US$250,000 equivalent for goods;
(ii) for consultants' contracts, over US$100,000 equivalent for firms and US$50,000 for
individuals; and
(iii)  for proprietary technology and equipment.



Schedule-B                                 - 12 -
Disbursement Table
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the OTF Grant
1.         The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of
the OTF Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the OTF Grant to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
OTF Grant Allocated                   % of
(Expressed in                  Expenditures
Category                        Dollar Equivalent)               to be Financed
(1)   Goods, consultants'               16,390,000                       100%'
services and training for
Subprojects
(2)   Goods, consultants'                                                100%
services and training for
(a) Technical Assistance            50,000
to SME
(b) Technical Assistance            50,000
to Bank UPPINDO
(2) Bank UPPINDO fee                     510,000                         100%
TOTAL                              17,000,000
1. In accordance with the Bank's Operational Policy OP 10.21, paragraph 4, dated November 1993, the proceeds of the
grant may be used to pay for taxer on locally supplied goods that can be obtained off the shelf.
Disbursement Schedule
CALENDAR YEAR           CY 1994       CY 1995      CY 1996       CY 1997      CY 1998
-(US$ million)
Annual                    1.88          8.08          3.54         2.25         1.25
Cumulative                1.88          9.96         13.50        15.75        17.00
_ _--_--__---------( % of total)-------------
Cumulative                 11            59           79            93          100



- 13 -                               Schedule
Timetable of Key Project Processing Events
Preparation (time taken)                              25 months
Prepared by                                           SME and the Bank
First Presentation to the Bank                        October 1992
Departure of Bank Appraisal Mission                   January, 1994
Date of Negotiations                                  June 6, 1994
Planned Date for Effectiveness                        December 31, 1994
Planned Completion Date                               June 30, 1998
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, which visited Indonesia in February
1994, comprising Jessica Poppele (Ozone Operations Coordinator, Asia Region and Task Manager), Abyd
Karmali (Engineer, Consultant), Bala Nathan (Aerosol Specialist, Consultant), Paul Martin (Economist,
Consultant) and Kunrat Wirasubrata (Operations Officer, Indonesia Resident Mission). Peer reviewers
were Donald Brown (Industrial Specialist), Bilal Rahill (Environmental Specialist), Laura Tlaiye
(Environmental Specialist) and Charles Di Leva (Lawyer). In addition, Maritta Koch-Weser (Division
Chief, Environment and Natural Resource Division), and Ken Newcombe (Chief, Global Environment
Coordination Division) reviewed the technical content of the project. Marianne Haug (Director, EA3)
and Richard A. Calkins (Chief, EA3EN) have endorsed the project.






-15 -                                                       Annex 1
Pre-Appraised and Anticipated Subprojects - Summary Table and Descriptions
lud1esia         Coa_umption                   Reductiont       yd1L  t-    |  Ndt lacurrig       Prompad O1
Company               Ed Use          O _4---p         in1992       6ODS Utsd    Ead of 1995          Cost         Coda (4 yarW           Grant
_(%)        ([ ODS)           (type)      (MT 6ODS)      (IE  aillion)    (UBS mlio)         (U$ s5ilio
First Tranche
Tulus Bakti Sempurna      Non-Inul. Foam        100              100         CFC-12            95               0.075              0.276             0.420
Foamsndolnduati      .   Non-lnrul. Fom          51               S0         CPC-II            S0               0.307             (0.015)            0.176
Dam Wu,du                 Non-Iaul. Foam        100              125         CPC-I 1          122               0.620              0.843             1.733
Intitzi Muliaas           Non-asul. Foam         50              120         CPC-12           120               1.300             (0.647)            0.390
TA for Small Foam         Non-Ianul. Foam      N/A               200         CPC-II           100               1.351              0                 1.600
TA for Aerosol Fille      Aerols                N/A            1.000'        CFC-12         1,000               0.201              0                 0.238
Subtd l First Trancha                                                                                           3.54                                 4.557
Second Tranche
(Provisional)
HAP, Purification Facility    Aeaaoas           100              400         CFC-12           400               0.425              0                 0.500
TA for Bank UPPINDO       All End Use          N/A              N/A            N/A           N/A                0.050              0                 0.050
TA for SME                All End Use          N/A              N/A            N/A           N/A                0.050              0                 0.050
Eriogsg                   Non-nrul. Foam        100              100         CFC-11           100              0.550              (0.250)            0.365
Royal Abadi               Non-Inaul. Foam       100              120         CPC-II           120              0.350              (0.150)            0.235
Subtotal Second Tranieb                                                                                         1.425                                1.200
Third Tranche
(Provisional)
MAC. Recycling            Air Conditioni        100            1,536         CFC-12           350               0.500             0                  0.600
8 Housebold Refrigerator    Refrigeration      N/A               290         CFC-12             0              9.000              0                  6.250
MnUufcurer (ISt pbAse)                                                       CFC-Il
2 Foam Manufacturer ,       Xul Porm           N/A               120         CFC-II           120               0.600              0 0200            0 700
3 Elecronics Comnanies/    Solvent Ckign       N/A              N/A         CFC-113t          150 .             L200  |O                             0.700
3 Fue Exfinuser Man,    Ftr Po                 NIA                50         H-1211             o               0600               0                 0500
Subtotal Third Tance                                                                                  T         ..                        I          s .75=
Fourth Tranche
(Provisional)
3 Foam Menufacturers      Non-haul.            N/A               180         CFC- 1           ISO               0.900              0.300             1.420
2 Fire ExtinguiaherMen.    Fie Protection      N/A                66         H- 1211           66               0.900              0                 1.070
Subtoal Fourth Tranche                                                                                         0I.     |                             2.490
|| GRAND TOTAL                                          I _              I _            I _                   18.979[            0.557             17.000
Ni present value (NPV) of first four yeas of operating oor/.avings discounted Ot 10%. Negative number indicate operting  vings.
2     Grnt amount equal incremental costs mukipLicd by percent Indoneian ownernhip. Inclhdes 15 % contingency and 3 % financial agent fee.
Thi reduction wr achieved in 1992. Thi subproject will ensure its continuain by crng  safe environment for using hydrocaron arosol propellants.



Annex I                                  - 16-
Description of First Tranche Subprojects
(Pre-Appraised and MPEC approved)
Implementation of this group of sub-projects is expected to begin in December, 1994.
NON-INSULATING FOAMS
PT Tulus Bakti Sempurna
The approved total cost for this sub-project is US$420,000 in OTF grant financing to phase
out 95 ODP-weighted MT in the production of extruded polystyrene (EPS) and polyethylene (EPE)
foam sheet at PT Tulus Bakti Sempurna by converting its foam production line to HCFC-22. The
enterprise will use an external process specialist to supervise and to assist the conversion and start-up
to capitalize on existing accumulated experience in the use of HCFC-22 for the production of
EPS/EPE. Tulus recognizes that HCFC-22 is a temporary solution and plans to eventually convert to
HFC-134a with its own funds. The approved grant amount considers that Tulus is 100% Indonesia-
owned.
PT Foamindo
The approved total cost for this sub-project is US$176,000 in OTF grant financing to phase
out 80 ODP-weighted MT in the production of flexible polyurethane foam (slabstock and molded) by
converting to methylene chloride (slabstock) and water-blown foam (molded). The enterprise will use
support from a process specialist to convert foam formulations and to train personnel in the safe
handling of methylene chloride and in the use of vacuum cooling equipment. The approved grant
amount considers that Foamindo is 51 % Indonesian-owned.
PT Dasa Windu
The approved total cost for this sub-project is US$1.733 million in OTF grant financing to
phase out 122 ODP-weighted MT in the production of several polyurethane foams. The project will
start with modification and replacement of its existing equipment where necessary to allow the
introduction of new non-ODS technologies. The approved grant amount considers that Dasa Windu is
100% Indonesian-owned.
PT Intitri Muliatama
The approved total cost for this sub-project is US$390,000 to phase out 120 MT of CFC-12
in the production of EPS and EPE foam sheet at P.T. Intitri Muliatama, Jakarta Indonesia by
converting to the maximum extent possible to carbon dioxide supplemented by HCFC-22. The
enterprise will work under license from DOW Chemical for the carbon dioxide technology and use
support from an international process specialist to implement the use of HCFC-22. The approved
grant considers that the enterprise is 50% Indonesian-owned. This will be the first project in an
Article 5 country that will use the new technology developed by DOW. The project will therefore
serve as a demonstration model for future utilization of this technology in other projects under the
Montreal Protocol Multilateral Fund.



-17-                                   Annex 
Foams Technical Assistance Program for Small Users
The approved total cost for this sub-project is US$1.6 million to phase out about 100 ODP-
weighted MT of CFC-11 at approximately 50 small companies in the non-insulating foam sector in
Indonesia. These companies use CFCs as blowing agents to manufacture flexible polyurethane foam
(slabstock) using batch processing. The sub-project will involve preparing a technical assistance video
to help convey to participating enterprises the technical and policy aspects of the phaseout program.
The program will be managed by the Association of Foam Indonesia (AFI) under the supervision of
the Indonesian Technical Team headed by SME. Companies will convert their operations from CFC-
11 to methylene chloride. Those enterprises manufacturing low density foams will also receive
vacuum cooling equipment to ensure a successful conversion.
AEROSOLS
Aerosols Safety and Technical Assistance Program
The approved total cost for this sub-project is US$238,000 to ensure the safe and effective use
of hydrocarbon aerosol propellants (HAPs) at eighteen large aerosol product manufacturing plants in
Indonesia. These companies have already begun to shift from CFCs to HAPs and in 1992 reduced
their consumption of CFCs by about 1,000 ODP MT. However, because high quality hydrocarbon
aerosol propellants (HAPs) are not yet widely available in Indonesia, CFCs are still being used in
some product applications. These enterprises are suffering from the poor quality of the available
hydrocarbons and are losing market share to those that still use CFCs. A complementary project
proposal is being prepared to ensure that aerosols companies have access to an adequate supply of
high quality HAPs.
While the project will not directly phase out the use of CFCs at the larger companies, it will
ensure that they use HAPs in a safe and effective manner. At present, plants that have converted to
hydrocarbons have inadequate flammability safeguards in place to prevent a major accident involving
HAPs. In the long-run, improvements in manufacturing safety is key to minimizing the possible
dislocation to the Indonesian aerosol industry resulting from the potential impacts of a major accident
involving HAPs. The proposal will set up a safety and technical assistance program that will include
plant safety audits, a training program, investments in safety equipment, and information awareness
directed at smaller companies and consumers of aerosols products.
FINANCIAL AGENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
The approved total cost for this technical assistance project is US$50,000, which is designed
to build up the FA's technical expertise for the appraisal and supervision of ODS phaseout projects
through training of the FA's staff. The Financial Agent (FA) will be responsible for channeling funds
from the World Bank administered Ozone Projects Trust Fund (OTF) to eligible subprojects. Three
principal functions will be performed by the FA, including: (i) appraisal of subproject proposals; (ii)
disbursement of OTF grants to subprojects; and (iii) supervision of subproject implementation. While
the FA has substantial experience with the financial aspects and the general technical aspects of
subprojects, it lacks technical capability in the specific field of ODS phase out projects to adequately
appraise and supervise such projects. The TA will address this issue through on the job training by
local and foreign consultants, and participation in seminars and workshops.



Annex 1                                  -18-
Description of Provisional Second Tranche Subprojects
Implementation of this group of sub-projects is expected to begin in January, 1995.
NON-INSULATING FOAMS
PT Royal Abadi Sejahtera
This sub-project will likely request US$237,000 in OTF grant financing to phase out 120
ODP-weighted MT in the production of flexible polyurethane foam (slabstock) at Royal Abadi by
converting the foam blowing agent from CFC-1 1 to methylene chloride combined with increased
water levels. To eliminate scorching during the production of low density foams, the additional
process heat that is generated will be removed by a vacuum cooling system. The enterprise will use
support from an international foam process specialist to convert the foam formulation and to train
personnel in the safe handling of methylene chloride. The proposed grant amount considers that
Royal Abadi is 100% Indonesia-owned.
PT Erlangga Trimunuggal Kusumah
This sub-project is still being finalized. It will likely request OTF grant financing of
approximately US$350,000 to phase out 100 ODP-weighted MT in the production of flexible
polyurethane foam (slabstock and molded) by converting to methylene chloride (slabstock) and water-
blown foam (molded). The enterprise will use support from a process specialist to convert foam
formulations and to train personnel in the safe handling of methylene chloride and in the use of
vacuum cooling equipment. The proposed grant amount considers that Erlangga is 100% Indonesian-
owned.
AEROSOLS
HAPs Purification Facility
This sub-project is still being finalized. The goal of the project is to ensure a supply of high
quality hydrocarbons from Pertamina for aerosol fillers. It will likely request OTF grant financing of
approximately US$500,000. Together with the safety and technical assistance program submitted for
consideration of funding in the first group, this sub-project will be critical in ensuring the long-term
conversion of aerosol fillers from CFCs to HAPs and further reduce CFC-12 consumption by about
1,500 ODP MT.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR STATE MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT
The objective of the proposed US$50,000 technical assistance project is to assist SME in
covering travel and other direct expenses related to selection and monitoring of subprojects as well as
for workshops to promote non-ODS technologies and successes of ODS phase out activities.



-19 -                                  Annex 
Description of Provisional Third Tranche Subprojects
Implementation of this group of sub-projects is expected to begin in February, 1995.
The third group will likely include about 12 subprojects to eliminate about 750 ODP MT and
will require US$8.71 million in OTF financing. These sub-projects will include mobile air
conditioning recycling (US$0.6 million), first phase conversions for eight household refrigerator
manufacturers (US$6.2 million), conversions for two non-insulating foam manufacturers
(US$0.7 million), conversions for three halon fire extinguisher manufacturers (US$0.5 million), and
conversions for three solvent users in the electronics and/or metal cleaning industry (US$0.7 million).
Description of Provisional Fourth Tranche Subprojects
Implementation of this group of sub-projects is expected to begin in April, 1995.
The fourth group will likely include about 5 subprojects to eliminate about 450 ODP MT and
will require US$2.5 million in OTF financing. These sub-projects will likely include conversions for
three non-insulating foam manufacturers (US$1.4 million) and conversions for two halon fire
extinguisher manufacturers (US$1.1 million).






- 21 -                                  Annex 2
Draft Sub-Project Eligibility, Funding and Appraisal Criteria
This annex outlines major criteria for evaluation of subprojects financed by the Ozone
Projects Trust Fund (OTF). These criteria should serve as a basis for the preparation of projects to
phaseout ozone depleting substances (ODS) and to evaluate eligibility and funding:
A.    SUBPROJECT AND FUNDING ELIGIBILITY
1.            election. Subprojects should be on priority list as given in the Country Program for
Phase Out of Ozone Depleting Substances (CP) or confirmed by the Technical Team of the National
Ozone Committee as essential to achieve CP objectives. Subprojects should have direct and
demonstrable results in reducing ODS consumption in the country. They should be cost effective and
based on environmentally sound technologies that can be substituted for the ozone depleting the
substances (ODS) controlled by the Montreal Protocol, or that can be used to recycle ODS or
substitutes, taking into account the national industrial policy of the Country.
2.           Eligibility. Enterprises that produce or consume ODS are eligible for the incremental
costs of phaseout as defined below, taking into consideration enterprise ownership and the market for
its goods or services as follows:
(a)    Ownership. An enterprise/subproject is eligible for funding in direct proportion to
local ownership percentage of the enterprise.
(b)    Market (Exprts). In terms of market, a subproject is eligible for fimding unless it is
located in a "free zone' and its products for export only.
3.           Financing. Montreal Protocol funds processed through the World Bank's Ozone
Projects Trust Fund (OTF) are on the basis of grants to enterprise/agency/institution implementing
subprojects. Grants are calculated in economic terms for the "incremental costs" as elaborated below.
Methodology for calculating incremental costs should be consistent with eligibility as defined by
Montreal Protocol Fund Executive Committee (MPEC) and with the Bank's interpretation of
incremental costs.
Determination of Incremental Costs:
(a)   Incremental costs are defined as the net present value of incremental economic
subprojects costs (investment capital plus operating costs net of operating benefits)
discounted at 10% in real terms (constant prices). When appropriate, projecting
operating benefits, risks associated with technology, market and financial factors of
undertaking the subproject should be taken into consideration.
(b)   In cases where the subproject proponent has to put up capital (from its own resources
or commercial loans) to co-finance part of the project costs, the necessity for
providing sufficient incentive to undertake the subproject should be considered, i.e.,
enterprise obtains an acceptable return on its own capital. The Grant amount could
then be determined in such a way that the economic rate of return (ERR-internal rate
of return calculated in economic terms) on the risk capital is 10% (real terms). For
comparison, a financial rate of return (FRR-internal rate of return calculated in



Annex-2                                   - 22 -
financial terms) for the subproject should also be calculated. If the financial rate of
return differs substantially from the ERR (e.g., because of major distortions of market
prices) and would be unacceptably low for the enterprise, the grant amount may be
determined based on a minimum FRR. Such situations should be raised as issues in
the Subproject Appraisal Reports. The minimum FRR should be determined based on
an objective assessment of the country's local financial sector and should correspond
to the best judgement of a reasonable return on capital expectation within the
country's industrial sector. In many cases subproject proponents will view ODS
phaseout investments as necessary business costs and may not require financial
incentives in addition to grants for incremental costs.
Reimbursement:
Present informal MPEC guidelines limit reimbursements for recurring costs net of
operational savings to 4 years. Reimbursements for longer periods would have to be
approved on a case by case basis. Direct taxes (import, excise, etc) are not eligible
for reimbursement. However, normally UN/Bank projects would be exempt from
such taxes. (The issue of taxes should be addressed in the appraisal process and if an
issue, raised in the Project Summary and Bank project documents).
4.           Policy Considerations. The purpose of the MP Fund is to encourage
countries/enterprises to undertake operations quickly to correct an external environmental problem,
and to compensate for direct costs incurred by those operations. Overall economic/industrial policy
reform is excluded from consideration by the MP. Guidelines and policies required to develop and
implement the country's ODS phaseout program are to be addressed in the ODS Country Program
that is approved by the MPEC. However, policies that directly affect the successful implementation
of the subproject should be identified and addressed in the Bank project approval process, preferably
before the subproject is submitted to the MPEC.
B.    ELEMENTS OF THE SUBPROJECT APPRAISAL
The subproject feasibility and appraisal reports should include:
(a)    Project scope - including full description, technology, source of supply; divided into:
(a) component relating to ODS phaseout; and (b) other components, such as expansion
of output or product upgrading. For subprojects relying on consultants for technical
assistance, the appraisal will include a list of consultants and their CVs.
(b)    Schedule and quantity of ODS (expressed as ODS and ODP) phaseout directly
attributed to subproject, on annual and total basis.
(c)    Project costs, divided into: (a) one-time capital and training costs; (b) incremental
recurring costs/savings such as operating costs/savings; and (c) incremental benefits
such as additional revenues according to standard project analysis methodology.
(d)    Review of technical feasibility of subproject, including safety provisions, should be
undertaken to determine the soundness of the technical proposal in terms of the
enterprises basic technical capability. Appraisal of the non-ODS technology selection
will be completed by the World Bank's Ozone Operations Resource Group.



- 23 -                                 Annex
(e)    Economic and financial analysis of the subproject should be undertaken according to
standard Bank methodology. Any significant difference between the IRR in calculated
in financial and economic terms should be explained. Any policy distortion that
affects the successful implementation of the subproject or affecting the implementation
of the country's ODS CP should be identified, analyzed and appropriate
recommendations made.
(f)    Financial analysis of enterprise. A set of minimum financial indicators to ensure
enterprise viability and its ability to implement the subproject successfully should be
determined based on local conditions and should be consistent with commercial
financial practice in the country.
(g)    Financing arrangements, sources and terms and conditions, divided into:
(a) incremental costs related to ODS phaseout to be financed as a grant from the OTF;
(b) amount to be provided by the enterprise form its own resources; and (c) local
and/or foreign loans to be financed through commercial loans from local and/or
foreign institutions (at commercial interest rates), should be shown and confirmed.
@h)    Project implementation arrangements including management, engineering and
technology acquisition, procurement, installation, operation, marketing and schedule
for all implementation steps should be included in the appraisal report. Procuremet
and selection of consultants should follow procedures consistent with the relevant
Bank Guidelines. For subprojects which include environmental concerns, an
appropriate evaluation in accordance with local regulations will be included in the
Subproject Appraisal Report.
(i)    Reporting requirements by the subproject proponent would include progress reports to
the financial agent according to the practice applied by in similar World Bank funded
projects. As a minimum, the enterprise would submit periodic project progress
reports and project completion reports. For subprojects which include incremental
operating cost payments, beneficiaries would submit annual operation reports until
disbursement is complete.
U)    Cost effectiveness. The 'unit abatement cost' (UAC) is an indicator of the cost
effectiveness in terms of ODS reduction. The UAC is the annual cost required to
remove one kilogram of ODS weighted for its ODP value. The most cost effective
subprojects, those with the lowest unit abatement cost, should in most cases be done
ahead of projects with a higher UAC. Developments and improvements in ODS
replacement technologies are on-going and subprojects with a high cost for ODS
reduction may become cheaper in the future as more experience is gained with
replacement technologies. It should noted, however, that UAC is only one indicator
of cost effectiveness for ODS phaseout projects. Other considerations, such as
cumulative ODS savings, are also important effectiveness indicators.



Annex 2                                   - 24 -
UAC Calculation Formula:
A  = CM  + (OC-_S
w
where:
A = Unit abatement cost, US$/kg ODP saved/year
(at full operation)
C = Incremental capital cost, including all initial
one time costs such as technology, training
F = Capital recovery factor; the annualized capital
cost charges, discounted at a standard discount rate of
10% per year, over the economic life of the project.
OC = Annual Operating Costs at full operation
OS = Annual Operating Benefits at full operation
W  = Quantity of ODS saved annually expressed as ODP units
The unit abatement cost calculation is also used to give a relative ranking of projects across
countries and within the same sector. The lower unit abatement costs corresponds to the
higher priority in terms of cost effectiveness. The unit abatement cost is calculated at
standard discount rates to facilitate cross country comparisons.



- 25 -                                Annex.3
Proposed lmplementation and Funds Transfer Framework
Overall Responsibilities
The State Ministry of Enviroment (SME) in its role as chairman of the inter-agency
National Committee on Ozone Protection and ODS Phaseout will act on behalf of the Government of
Indonesia (GOD as implementing agency for the ODS Phase Out Investment Project (ODS Project)
and will ensure that subprojects are consistent with the Country Program on Substances that Deplete
the Ozone Layer (CP) and meet eligibility criteria for projects financed by the Multilateral Fund for
Implementation of the Montreal Protocol (the MP Fund). The Technical Team under the National
Committee will oversee and promote subproject identification and preparation. Daily operations of
the Technical Team will be handled by the Ozone Layer Protection Unit located at SME. SME has
appointed Bank UPPINDO to assist in administration of grants from the World Bank's Ozone Prjects
Trust Fund (OTF) through the Ministry of Finance (MOF) to subproject beneficiaries approved by the
Technical Team, The World Bank and the MP Fund Executive Committee (MPEC), including
appraisal of subproject proposals, overseeing disbursement and procurement, and the supervision of
subproject implementation. SME will supervise Bank UPPINDO's activities including visits to
subproject sites. Specific sign-off responsibilities and the processing leading up to the finalization of
subgrant agreements are summarized in Figure 1, at the end of this annex.
1.    Processing Steps Prior to Funding ARproval by the MPEC:
(1)    Subproject Preparation. The Technical Team will promote subproject preparation by
coordinating dissemination of information to enterprises that consume ODS, including
information about: (i) alternative technologies; (ii) MP Fund eligibility and financing
criteria; and (iii) the MP Fund application process. Enterprises will be responsible for
preparing pre-investment studies and funding proposals. The Technical Team will
also coordinate activities among implementing agencies, including designation of
projects to agencies by subsector, or other division, that will ensure efficient use of
project preparation resources. The Bank will provide resources for project
preparation as approved by MPEC.
(2)    Preliminary Technical Review. Subproject preparation will include a preliminary
technical review of project concepts from the appropriate technical expert in the
World Bank's Ozone Operations Resource Group (OORG). Copies of project
concepts submitted for OORG review and OORG comments will be provided to Bank
UPPINDO, the World Bank and the Technical Team.
(3)    Local Endorsement. The Technical Team, after reviewing subproject proposals and
OORG comments, will endorse proposals that are sound and conform to priorities
established under the Indonesian Country Program for the Phase Out of ODS.
(4)    Subproiect Appraisal. Bank UPPINDO, the project financial agent (FA), will
appraise subprojects based on agreed criteria in accordance with the Bank Proforma
Subproject Appraisal Report format, ensuring that all technical issues raised by OORG
reviewer (preliminary review) have been addressed. The Technical Team will review
appraisal reports and submit them along with subproject feasibility studies to the
World Bank.



Annex3                                   - 26 -
(5)   Technical Review and Bank Endorsement. The Bank will oversee final OORG
technical reviews of subproject proposals (appraisal reports and feasibility studies) and
endorse each subproject to ensure that it is consistent with guidelines for the Ml
Fund.
II.    MPEC Approval. The Bank will submit subprojects to the MPEC in groups. The first
groups of subprojects up to US$17 million in grant funds will comprise the ODS project.
Although subprojects will be submitted in groups under one umbrella project, the MPEC will
review and approve each subproject individually.
m.   Processing Steps Following Funding Approval by the MPEC:
(1)    Grant Agreement. Following MPEC approval of at least 20% of the total amount to
be channeled under the ODS project, or US$3.4 million, an 'umbrella' Gant
Agreement will be signed between the Bank and MOF.
(2)   PIA for Financial Administration Services. SME will sign a Project Implementation
Agreement agreeable to the Bank with Bank UPPINDO describing the bank's
responsibilities under the ODS project including, subproject appraisal, procurement
and disbursement oversight, and supervision.
(3)    Final Subproject Appraisal. In accordance with priorities established by the Technical
Team, Bank UPPINDO will prepare final Subproject Appraisal Reports for approved
subprojects considering any MPEC comments. Bank UPPINDO will submit them to
both SME and the Bank for approval, together with draft subgrant agreements based
on a model acceptable to the Bank.
(4)   Bank Review and Sub-Grant ADnroval. The Bank will review each Subproject
Appraisal Report and draft subgrant agreement to ensure consistency with eligibility
criteria and MPEC approval.
(5)    Subgrant Agreements. After Subproject Appraisal Reports are approved by SME and
the Bank, SME will finalize subgrant agreements. SME and the beneficiary will sign
agreements after they are reviewed by Bank UPPINDO. The subgrant agreement will
commit the beneficiary to undertake the necessary activities agreed upon in the
subproject proposal in order to achieve the intended ODS reduction or elimination.
Terms, conditions and schedule for disbursement would be included in the subgrant
agreement.
(6)   Disbursement:
(a)    Between World Bank and MOF: The World Bank proposes to transfer an
initial amount up to US$1.5 million to a Special Account which MOF would
open. The minimum amount for replenishment of the Special Account would
be US$300,000, provided funds were approved by MPEC and transferred to
the OTF. Requests for replenishment would be based on Statement of
Expenditures (SOEs) for contracts for goods with a value of up to
US$250,000 each. The World Bank would accept requests for direct payment
or L/Cs to supplier of goods or services (not through Special Account) only



- 27 -                                Annex 3
above a minimum of US$300,000. Such requests would be processed through
BI following BAPPENAS approval (Form 2).
(b)   Between MOF, BI, Bank UPPINDO and Beneficiary: Disbursement requests
will be passed by the beneficiary to Bank UPPINDO who will, after
confirming requests consistency with subproject agreements, process
appropriate disbursement applications. Disbursement applications will be
passed through SME to MOF or BI, as appropriate, for payment processing.
(Special Account requests will be handled by MOF and direct payment or L/C
requests will be handled by BI). Bank UPPINDO may authorize disbursement
up to US$250,000 per contract (except consultant contracts), to the beneficiary
for eligible expenses without prior review by the World Bank. Disbursement
will follow the guidelines established in the Disbursement Handbook published
by the World Bank in 1992. Details of the disbursement procedures will be
included in a Disbursement Letter to be issued by the World Bank.
(c)    Disbursement for operating costs: For projects with incremental operating
costs (as opposed to investment costs), Bank UPPINDO will propose in the
Subproject Appraisal Report a disbursement plan in two or more tranches.
Release of the tranches would be based on receipt of progress reports
satisfactory to Bank UPPINDO.
(7)    Procurement. Beneficiaries will ensure that procurement under the project follows
agreed guidelines. They will, with assistance from technical consultants provided for
in the grant as required, and/or with guidance from Bank UPPINDO, arrange
procurement (international and local) for the packages in each subproject. Bidding
documents will be prepared based on model bidding documents acceptable to the
World Bank (e.g., standard Bank bidding documents). Bank UPPINDO will review
compliance with the agreed procedures.
(8)    Subproject ImDlementatign. Each beneficiary will be responsible for subproject
implementation in accordance with the subgrant agreement. Beneficiaries will be
responsible for preparing quarterly progress reports, progress completion reports and
project operational reports for subprojects receiving incremental operating cost
payments and submitting them to Bank UPPINDO. Bank UPPINDO will review
reports and pass a copy to SME. In cases where multiple disbursement tranches have
been agreed, the beneficiary would submit one progress report prior to each tranche
release.
(9)    Subproject Su ervision and Reporting. Bank UPPINDO will have prime
responsibility for supervising implementation of subprojects until all disbursements
have been made. Bank UPPINDO will receive technical support for subproject
supervision from the Technical Team and from consultants provided for in its
technical assistance component. Bank UPPINDO will submit semi-annual reports on
the status of the grant disbursements and the progress of the subprojects to SME and
the World Bank until grant is fully disbursed. Bank UPPINDO's responsibility for
subproject supervision ends after full disbursement and approval of the project
completion report. The National Committee has the right to monitor the progress of
OTF funded subprojects in fulfillment of its overall responsibility for implementation
of the ODS Phaseout Country Program.



Annex 3                                  - 28 -
(10)  Auditing:
(a)    MOF will have an annual audit report of the Special Account prepared by an
independent auditor acceptable to the World Bank. The audit report,
including a separate opinion on SOEs used as a basis for disbursement, would
be submitted to Bank within six months of the end of the GOI's fiscal year.
(b)    Contingent upon the approval of additional funds for this purpose by the
MPEC, SME will appoint an independent consultant acceptable to the Bank to
perform technical audits of the subproject investments. The Terms of
Reference for the consultant will be submitted for the approval of the Bank,
and the consultant will be appointed in December 1994. Three audit reports
will be submitted simultaneously to SME and the Bank at six monthly
intervals, the first in June 1995. Each report will include an independent
opinion of the implementation of the subprojects as specified in the subgrant
agreements, and the extent to which ODS have been successfully phased-out.
(I 1) Com=liance:
(a)   If the Bank determines at any time that an unjustified payment has been made
from the Special Account, the MOF will ensure that an equal amount is
deposited into the Special Account.
(b)   If the Bank or SME determines that any part of a subgrant has been used in a
manner other than specified in the subgrant agreement, the enterprise will
refund the amount together with interest calculated as a moving average of the
SBI rate over the relevant period.



- 29 -                                Annex 3
FlZure I
Sumnary of Processing Steps and Sign-off Responsibilities
Leading to Fiaalization of Subgrant Agreements
1. Prepare Subprojectsl
SUCOFINDO, Technical Team, Enterprise
2. Preliminary Technical Review
OORG, The World Bank
3. Local Endorsemnent
Technical Team
4. Subproject Appraisal
Bank UPPINDO
Technical Team - Sign-off
5. Technical Review and Bank Endorsement
OORG
The World Bank - Sign-off
6. MOPEC Approvall
[           6.MPEC - Sign-off
7. Final Subproject Appraisal Reports
UPPINDO
8. Subproject Approval
The World Bank - Sign-off
SME - Sign-off
9. Subgranl Agreement
SME - Sign-off
Enterprise - Sign-ff






Project Implementation
1994                 1995                  1996                  1997                  199
ID   Name                                   Start       Finish    Qtr2 Qtr 3 Qtr4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2Qtr 3  tr 4 Qtr 1l Qtr2Otr3 Otr 4 Qtr 1 Qtr1 Qtr 3| Qtr4Qtr   2 Qtr3 Qtr4
1    Project Implementation                  11/1/94     10/5/98_____
2        TA Component                        11/1/94      2/6/95              _
3             UPPINDO Work Program           11/1/94    12/26/94
4            Ozone Unit Work Program         11/1/94      2/6/95
5        Subprojects                         11/1/94     10/5/98-                                                  --m                   m                  i
6            Group 1                         11/1/94      7/7/97              _   =                = 
7                Fund Utilization Schedut    11/1/94    11114/94
8                Appraisal                  11/15/94    12/26/94
9                Sign Subgrant Agreemen     12/27/94      1/9/95
10               Implementation              1/10/95      7/7/97
11           Group 2                         11/1/94     2/19/96       _          _ _
12                MPEC Approval              11/1/94    12/26/94              _
13                Fund Utilization Schedul  12/27/94       1/9/95
14                Appraisal                  1/10/95      2/6/95                 -
15                Sign Subgrant Agreemen     2V7/95      2/20/95                   u
16               Implementation              2/21/95     2/19/96                    _   _    _    _   _
17           Group 3                         11/1/94     10/5/98              _   _            _     _     _   ---    -                                   _    _
18                OORG Review                11/11/94    11/21/94            -
19                MPEC Approval             11/22/94      1/2/95
20                Fund Utilization Schedul     1/3/95    1/30/95
21                Appraisal                   1/31/95    3/27/95
22                Sign Subgrant Agreemen     3/28/95     4110/95
23               Impiementation              4/11/95     10/5/98                       .    |      _                              I               I          I
24           Group 4                         11/1/94    12/29/97      _        _              -_
25                Project Prep               11/1/94     1/23/95
26                OORG Review                 1/24/95    2/13/95                  w
27                MPEC Approval              2/14/95     3/27195
28                Fund Utilization Schedul   3/28/95     4/24/95
29                Appraisal                  4/25/95     6/19/95                         _ |
30                Sign Subgrant Agreemen     6/20/95      7/3/95                           t1
31               Implementation               7/4/95  12/29/97                               ----- --  - --



