Page  1
CONFORMED COPY   
OTF GRANT NUMBER TF 021982   
Ozone Projects Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Montreal Protocol Ozone Depleting
Substances Phase Out Investment Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Ozone Projects
Trust Fund
Dated November 10, 1994
OTF GRANT NUMBER TF 021982
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 10, 1994, between the REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the 
"Recipient") and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
"Bank"), acting as Trustee of grant funds provided by Parties to the Montreal Protocol 
on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (Montreal Protocol) to the Vienna 
Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer into the Ozone Projects Trust Fund 
("OTF") (the "Trustee").
WHEREAS (A): the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991, of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank (the "Resolution"), established a Facility, including 
the OTF, to assist in the protection of the global environment and promote thereby 
environmentally sound and sustainable economic development;
WHEREAS (B): the parties to the Montreal Protocol have established the 
Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol (the " Multilateral 
Fund") to operate under the authority of the said parties to provide the financing of 
agreed incremental costs to enable the parties operating under paragraph 1 of Article 
5 of the Montreal Protocol to comply with control measures provided for in the said 
Protocol;
WHEREAS (C): the Executive Committee of the Multilateral Fund (the "Executive 
Committee") and the Bank have entered into an agreement effective on July 9, 1991, 
pursuant to which the Executive Committee has agreed to provide funds into the OTF to 
Page  2
be administered by the Bank as Trustee in accordance with the provisions of the said 
agreement and the Resolution;
WHEREAS (D): the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested 
assistance from the resources of the OTF in the financing of the Project, and the 
Trustee has determined that such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions 
of the Resolution;
WHEREAS (E): Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Recipient through 
SME and UPPINDO (as said terms are defined herein) and Part A of the Project will be 
carried out by the Subproject Beneficiaries (as said term is defined herein) with the 
Recipient's assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Recipient will make 
available to the Subproject Beneficiaries, through SME, a part of the proceeds of the 
Grant as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS (F): the Trustee has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend a grant (the "OTF Grant") to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the "General Conditions") 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), 
(18) and (20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (i) and (k), 
6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
The term "Bank", wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Trustee except that 
in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development acting in 
its own capacity;
(ii)
The term "Borrower", wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
The term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
The term "Loan" and "loan" wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the OTF Grant; and
Page  3
(v)
The term "Loan Account" wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the OTF Grant Account.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Country Program" means the Recipient's Country Program for the Phase Out 
of Ozone-Depleting Substances under the Montreal Protocol, dated February 1994, as 
approved by the Executive Committee on March 29, 1994.
(b)
"Fiscal Year" means the twelve (12) month period corresponding to any of 
the Recipient's fiscal years, which period commences on April 1 and ends on March 31 
in each calendar year.
(c)
"MOF" means the Recipient's Ministry of Finance or any successor thereto.
(d)
"ODS" means ozone depleting substances.
(e)
"PIA" means the project implementation agreement entered or to be entered 
into between the Recipient, represented by SME, and UPPINDO pursuant to Section 3.03 
of this Agreement.
(f)
"SME" means the Recipient's State Ministry of Environment or any 
successor thereto.
(g)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(h)
"Subgrant" means the portion of the proceeds of the Grant made available 
to a Subproject Beneficiary under a Subgrant Agreement.
(i)
"Subgrant Agreement" means the subgrant agreement referred to in 
Paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(j)
"Subproject" means a project, consisting of investments and other 
activities eligible under the Montreal Protocol which result in reduction of ODS use 
or in the substitution of non-ozone depleting technologies for ozone depleting 
technologies, selected and approved in accordance with the Subproject Guidelines.
(k)
"Subproject Beneficiaries" means collectively the entities to whom 
Subgrants have been made available for the purpose of carrying out Subprojects; and 
"Subproject Beneficiary" means any one of the Subproject Beneficiaries.
(l)
"Subproject Guidelines" means the guidelines containing the criteria and 
procedures for the selection and approval of Subprojects as set out or referred to in 
the Annex to Schedule 4 of this Agreement.
(m)
"UPPINDO" means PT Bank UPPINDO, a legal entity established and existing 
under the laws of the Recipient.
ARTICLE II
The OTF Grant
Section 2.01. The Trustee agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, the OTF Grant in an 
amount in various currencies not to exceed the equivalent of seventeen million dollars 
($17,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the OTF Grant may be withdrawn from the OTF 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Trustee shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project, and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant.
(b) The Recipient shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on terms and conditions, satisfactory 
to the Trustee, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or 
Page  4
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998, or such later date as 
the Trustee shall establish. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date.
Section 2.04. The Trustee shall not be obligated to make any payment under this 
Agreement, except to the extent it shall have received funds for the purposes of the 
Project from the Executive Committee referred to in WHEREAS Clause (C) of the Preamble 
to this  Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out Part B of the Project through SME and UPPINDO, and Part A of the Project through 
the Subproject Beneficiaries with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, and engineering practices and with due regard 
to ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Recipient and the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and services required for the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the OTF Grant, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limiting the generality of Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall engage UPPINDO to carry out Part B(2) of the 
Project and to administer subgrants to Subproject Beneficiaries (including appraisal 
of Subproject proposals, monitoring disbursements and procurement, and the supervision 
of Subproject implementation) under a project implementation agreement under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Trustee.
Section 3.04. (a) The Recipient undertakes that, unless the Trustee shall 
otherwise agree, Subgrants will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Paragraphs 2 and 3 of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
(b)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights in relation to each Subproject in 
such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Recipient and the Trustee; (ii) 
comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) to accomplish the purposes 
of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments, agencies or entities (including, but without limitation, UPPINDO) of the 
Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof. 
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each Fiscal 
Year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Trustee;
(ii)
furnish to the Trustee as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
Page  5
detail as the Trustee shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)
furnish to the Trustee such other information con-cerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Trustee shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the OTF Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
     (ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Trustee has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the OTF Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
    (iii)
enable the Trustee's representatives to examine such records; and
     (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, namely, the execution of the PIA by the parties 
thereto.
Section 5.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until the OTF Grant has 
been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Minister of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P.O. Box 139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
      FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
      Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Trustee:
Page  6
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC).
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Tjahjono
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT as Trustee of
  the Ozone Projects Trust Fund
By /s/ M. Haug
Director             
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the OTF Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the OTF Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
   OTF Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
   Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed 
(1)
Goods, consultants'
16,390,000
100%
services and
training for 
Subprojects under
Part A of the
Project
(2)
Goods, consultants'
100%
services and 
training under 
(a) Part B.1 of the
   50,000
    Project
(b) Part B.2 of the
   50,000
    Project
(3)
Agency Fee
  510,000
100%
Page  7
Total
     17,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "Agency Fee" means the fee to be paid 
to UPPINDO in accordance with paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a)
prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
under Category 1, unless the Subproject, in respect of which disbursement 
is sought, has been approved by the Trustee or the Executive Committee (as the case 
may be) and the Subgrant Agreement, in respect of such Subproject, has been entered 
into between the Recipient and the concerned Subproject Beneficiary in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
OTF Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of 
this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, refund to 
the Trustee for deposit into the OTF Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so 
used or the portion thereof as specified by the Trustee.
5.
The Trustee may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods not 
exceeding $250,000 equivalent under such terms and conditions as the Trustee shall 
specify by notice to the Recipient.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in carrying out its 
Country Program so as to phase-out the use of ODS within its territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Trustee may agree upon from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:
Subprojects
Carrying out Subprojects comprising, inter alia: (1) specific cost-effective 
priority investments to reduce consumption of ozone depleting substances through the 
provision of equipment and introduction of appropriate technology; and (2) technical 
assistance through the provision of consultants' services and training.
Part B:
Institutional Strengthening
Strengthening (1) the management and operational capability of SME; and (2) 
technical capabilities in project review and supervision of UPPINDO, through the 
provision of consultants' services, training and equipment required therefor. 
*  *  *  *  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1992 (the "Guidelines") and in accordance with the following 
additional procedures:
(a)
When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, 
such period may be extended once, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  8
paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete 
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and award the contract.  The 
bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the 
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid price to 
reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension.  
Such an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid 
evaluation.  With respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior review in 
accordance with the provisions of Part D.1(a) of this Section, the Bank's prior 
approval will be required for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the 
period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any subsequent extension of the 
bid validity period.
(b)
In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part A, the Recipient 
shall use, or cause to be used, the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the 
Trustee, with such modifications thereto as the Trustee shall have agreed to be 
necessary for the purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding 
documents have been issued by the Trustee, the recipient shall use, or cause to be 
used, bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard terms 
agreed with the Trustee.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured within the territory of the Recipient may be granted a 
margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Items or groups of items of goods, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
two million dollars ($2,000,000) per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three (3) 
suppliers from at least two (2) different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
2.
Items or groups of items of goods, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) per contract, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three 
(3) suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable 
to the Trustee.
3.
Contracts for proprietary items may be awarded after direct negotiations with 
suppliers, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Trustee.
Part D:
Review by the Trustee of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($250,000), and with respect to 
each contract for a proprietary item, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to 
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that 
the two (2) conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Trustee 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Trustee prior to the making 
of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two (2) conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the Trustee 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Trustee as part of the evidence 
to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the OTF Grant Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for purposes of 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Page  9
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Recipient in carrying out the Project, the Recipient 
shall employ and cause UPPINDO and the Subproject Beneficiaries to employ consultants 
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Trustee. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Trustee on the basis of the "Guidelines 
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.  For complex, time-based assignments, 
the Receipient shall employ such consultants under contracts using the standard forms 
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as 
shall have been agreed by the Trustee. Where no relevant standard contract documents 
have been issued by the Bank, the Recipient shall use other standard forms agreed with 
the Trustee.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank/Trustee review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Bank/Trustee review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Trustee, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Recipient shall select and submit subprojects, for approval by the Trustee, 
both in accordance with the Subproject Guidelines.
2.
For the purpose of carrying out Subprojects, the Recipient shall make available 
a portion of the Grant to Subproject Beneficiaries under subgrant agreements to be 
entered into between the Recipient, represented by SME, and each of the Subproject 
Beneficiaries upon terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Trustee, including the 
following:
Terms and Conditions of Subgrants
Subgrants shall be provided on terms whereby the Recipient shall obtain, through 
the Subgrant Agreements, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Trustee and 
the Recipient, including but without limitation, the right to:
(a)
require the Subproject Beneficiary to carry out the Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
managerial, environmental and ecological standards;
(b)
require that (i) the goods and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the OTF Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services shall be used 
exclusively for the purposes and in furtherance of the objectives of the Project;
(c)
require the Subproject Beneficiary to comply with the obligations similar 
to the financial covenants set forth in Section 4.01 of this Agreement;
(d)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Trustee, if the 
Trustee shall so request, the goods and plants included in the Subproject, the 
operation thereof and any relevant records and documents;
(e)
require that (i) the Subproject Beneficiary shall take out and maintain 
with responsible insurers such insurance against such risks and in such amounts, as 
shall be consistent with sound business practices; and (ii) without any limitation 
upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover the hazards incident to the 
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the 
OTF Grant to the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made 
payable in a currency freely useable by the Subproject Beneficiary to replace or 
Page  10
repair such goods;
(f)
obtain all such information as the Trustee shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Subproject Beneficiary and to the benefits derived from the 
Subproject;
(g)
obtain upon demand the refund of any part of the proceeds of the OTF 
Grant (together with payment of interest thereon at the commercial rate from the date 
of payment until repayment thereof) which, in the opinion of the Recipient or the 
Trustee, has been misused by the Subproject Beneficiary; and
(h)
suspend or terminate the right of the Subproject Beneficiary to the use 
of the proceeds of the OTF Grant upon failure by the Subproject Beneficiary to perform 
its obligations under the Subgrant Agreement.
3.
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under each Subgrant Agreement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Trustee and to accomplish 
the purposes of the OTF Grant, and, except as the Trustee shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subgrant Agreement or any 
part thereof.
4.
The Recipient shall coordinate the implementation of the Subprojects in a manner 
satisfactory to the Trustee.
5.
For each Subproject approved by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of 
this Agreement, UPPINDO shall be entitled to an agency fee in an amount not to exceed 
the equivalent of three percent (3%) of the amounts disbursed under each Subgrant 
Agreement, such fee to be paid out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant as follows: (a) 
one percent (1%) of the Subgrant amount after approval of the Subproject by the 
Trustee or the Executive Committee (as the case may be); and (b) the remaining two 
percent (2%), pro-rata, on the dates of disbursement of the Subgrant proceeds under 
the Subgrant Agreement.
6.
The Recipient shall, upon the completion of each Subproject, carry out a 
technical audit of such Subproject in a manner and in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Trustee.
7.
The Recipient shall maintain the Ozone Unit in SME with adequate staffing and 
funds and with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Trustee.
8.
The Recipient shall from time to time, as reasonably requested by the Trustee, 
provide information to the Trustee regarding implementation of the Country Program.
ANNEX -- SCHEDULE 4
SUBPROJECT GUIDELINES
Selection of Subprojects
1.
Subprojects shall: (a) be consistent with the Country Program priorities and 
objectives; (b) have direct and demonstrable results in reducing ODS consumption 
in the country; (c) be cost effective and based on environmentally sound 
technologies that can be substituted for ODS covered by the Montreal Protocol or 
that can be used to recycle ODS or substitutes, taking into account the national 
industrial policy of the country; and (d) meet any other criteria established by 
the Executive Committee.
2.
Subprojects shall be appraised, inter alia, in accordance with the following 
criteria: (a) the proposed grant shall not exceed the proposed subproject's 
eligible incremental costs; (b) the proposed subproject beneficiary's revenues 
shall be sufficient to cover any operating costs not provided for by the proposed 
grant; (c) the proposed subproject beneficiary meets financial viability 
indicators acceptable to the Trustee; and (d) the impact of the proposed 
subproject on ODS reduction.
Approval of Subprojects
1.
The Recipient shall submit each Subproject to the Trustee for approval by: (a) in 
the case of a Subproject, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $500,000, 
Page  11
the Trustee; and (b) in the case of a Subproject, estimated to cost more than the 
equivalent of $500,000, the Executive Committee.
2.
When submitting a Subproject to the Trustee, for approval of the Trustee or the 
Executive Committee (as the case may be), the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Trustee an application, in form and substance satisfactory to the Trustee, 
together with, inter alia: (a) an appraisal of the Subproject (including an 
environmental impact assessment and a financing plan), and a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the OTF Grant; (b) a 
detailed description of how such Subproject meets the criteria and procedures set 
forth in the Subproject Guidelines; (c) a draft of the Subgrant Agreement to be 
entered into between the Recipient and the proposed Subproject Beneficiary; and 
(d) such other information as the Trustee may, either on its own or on behalf of 
the Executive Committee, reasonably request in respect of such Subproject.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
The term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the OTF Grant allocated from time to time to the Eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to one 
million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) to be withdrawn from the OTF Grant 
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Trustee has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Trustee a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the OTF Grant 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Trustee shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Trustee the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Trustee shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the OTF Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Trustee 
from the OTF Grant Account under the respective Eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Trustee shall reasonably request, furnish to the Trustee 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Trustee 
Page  12
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
If, at any time, the Trustee shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the OTF Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
Once the total unwithdrawn amount of the OTF Grant allocated to the 
Eligible Category, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into 
by the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the OTF Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount 
of the OTF Grant allocated to the Eligible Category shall follow such procedures as 
the Trustee shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Trustee shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Trustee, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee: 
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Trustee may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Trustee shall so request, refund to the Trustee) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Trustee shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Trustee 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Trustee shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Trustee, 
refund to the Trustee such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Trustee, refund to the Trustee all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Trustee made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the OTF Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
