Document of
the World Bank
Report No: ICROOOO 1954
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
(TF-21982)
ON A
GRANT FROM THE MONTREAL MULTILATERAL FUND
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$36.55 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
MONTREAL PROTOCOL OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCE
PHASE OUT INVESTMENT PROJECT
January 06, 2012
Indonesia Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Department
East Asia and Pacific Region


﻿CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2010)
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah
IDR 1,000 = US$0.11
US$1.00 = IDR 9,010
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CFC        Chlorofluorocarbon (an ODS)
CP         Country program (for ODS phase-out)
ExCom      Executive Committee of the Multilateral Fund
Ekofin      Financial agent for implementation of the project (subsequent to UPPINDO)
FI         Financial intermediary
FA         Financial agent
FY         Fiscal year
GEO        Global environment objective
GWP        Global warming potential
HCFC       Hydro chlorofluorocarbon (an ODS)
ICR        Implementation Completion Report (of a Bank project)
KLH        Kementrian Lingkungan Hidup (Ministry of Environment previously State Ministry
of Environment- SME)
MAC        Mobile air conditioning
MC         Methylene chloride
MLF        Multilateral Fund for the Implementation of the Montreal Protocol
MP         Montreal Protocol
MT         Metric ton (1,000 kilograms)
ODP        Ozone Depleting Potential
ODS        Ozone-depleting substance
OTF        Ozone Projects Trust Fund
PCR        Project completion report (for each subproject, as required by the MLF)
PMU        Project management unit
PU         Polyurethane
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
UNEP       United Nations Environment Programme
UNIDO      United Nations Industrial Development Organization
UPPINDO Financial agent for implementation of the project (prior to Ekofin)
Indonesia
Vice President: James W. Adams
Country Director: Stefan G. Koeberle
Sector Manager: Franz Drees-Gross
Project Team Leader: Ina Pranoto
ICR Team Leader: Ina Pranoto


﻿Ozone Depleting Substances Phase Out Investment Project
CONTENTS
Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph
1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes   ................  ..... 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes         ........................................... 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................... 13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance   ...............      ......... 13
6. Lessons Learned            ........................................   ...... 15
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ..... 16
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing                      ................................. 17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component          ...............................  ..... 18
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis    ................................ 24
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ...... 25
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results................................. 27
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results......................... 28
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ....    ..... 29
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders  .   .......... 34
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents       ..........................  ..... 35
MAP


﻿A. Basic Information
Montreal Protocol
Ozone Depleting
Country:            Indonesia            Project Name:SusacsPset
Substances Phaseout
Investment Project
Project ID:          P003701             L/C/TF Number(s):    TF-21982
ICR Date:            01/06/2012          ICR Type:            Core ICR
Lending Instrument:  SIL                 Borrower:            GOI
Original Total
OmitnalTt:l       USD 17.OOM           Disbursed Amount:    USD 28.39M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:      USD 36.55M
Environmental Category: B                Global Focal Area: 0
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Environment
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Process           Date           Process       Original Date     es)
Date(s)
Concept Review:    12/15/1992   Effectiveness:                       02/03/1995
06/17/1998
12/10/1999
11/13/2001
Appraisal:         01/31/1994   Restructuring(s):                    1/420
12/27/2007
09/14/2009
Approval:           10/24/1994  Mid-term Review:                     09/30/1996
Closing:            12/31/1998      12/31/2010
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome       Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                        Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                    Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank               Ratings             Borrower             Ratings
Quality at Entry:         Satisfactory   Government:               Satisfactory
Quality of Supervision:   Satisfactory   Implementing              Satisfactory
1


﻿Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
Pefomace                  Satisfactory    PfStifctr
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation                          QAG Assessments
Performance                                (if any)
Potential Problem Project                 Quality at Entry   None
Yeson
at any time (Yes/No):                     (QEA):
Problem Project at any  Yes               Quality of         Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                             Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before      Stsatr
Closing/Inactive status  Stsatr
D. Sector and Theme Codes
Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                    1                1
Central government administration                          1                1
Other industry                                           98                98
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Pollution management and environmental health             100              100
E. Bank Staff
Positions                   At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:       James W. Adams                  Russell Cheetham
Country Director:      Stefan G. Koeberle            Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:       Franz R. Drees-Gross           Richard A. Calkins
Project Team Leader:   Ina Pranoto                   Jessica Poppele
ICR Team Leader:      Ina Pranoto
ICR Primary Author:   Ina Pranoto
Erik Pedersen


﻿F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The objective of the project is to assist Indonesia in carrying out its Country Program so
as to phase out the use of ODS within its territory
Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
No revision
(a) GEO Indicator(s)
Original Target  Formally     Actual Value
Values (from     Revised      Achieved at
approval       Target      Completion or
documents)      Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Reduction in consumption of ozone depleting substances (ODS)
Value
(quantitative or 7800 MT ODS       3200 ODP tons                6892 ODP tons
Qualitative)
[Date achieved 112/31/1992          12/31/1997                   12/31/2010
7800MT ODS = 6567 ODP tons (Source: CP). 100% phase out of ODS (GROUP
A) achieved with 2008 import ban. Project target is based on approved
(inc. %
ac.      t  implementation plans. The project helped users of ODS covert to other
substances both before and after the ban
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
Original Target               Actual Value
FormallyromAchieved at
Indicator      Baseline Value      Values (from     Revised     cmplet
approval                   Completion or
documents)                  Target Years
Indicator 1 : IODS Phase-out by individual subproject (refrigeration)
Value
(quantitative or N/A               572 ODP tons                 572 ODP tons
Qualitative)
Date achieved  10/24/1994           12/31/1997                  01/01/2001
Comments      10 refrigeration manufacturing enterprises participated and completed the sub-
ac.      t  projects successfully. Achievement 100%
achievement)
Indicator 2 : IODS Phase-out by individual project (Foam)
Value
(quantitative or N/A               3,159 ODP tons               2,655 ODP tons
Qualitative)
[Date achieved 110/24/1994          12/31/1997                  01/01/2007
Comments      Achievement 86%. 26 sub-projects were approved and 22 completed
(incl. %      successfully. 4 were discontinued (closed down during financial crisis in 1999
achievement)  and/or opted to convert using own resources). 88 enterprises benefitted from
iii


﻿project
Indicator 3 : IODS Phase-out by individual project (aerosol)
Value
(quantitative or  /A               460 ODP tons                 460 ODP tons
Qualitative)
Date achieved 105/01/1997          06/01/1999                  105/31/2005
Comments      Project achieved 100% of its target from establishment of aerosol filling center
(inc. %
ac.      t   (phase out 460 ODP tons)
achievement)
Indicator 4 : IODS Phase-out by umbrella project (halon umbrella)
Value
(quantitative or N/A               465 tons                     682 ODP tons
Qualitative)
Date achieved  10/24/1994           12/31/1997                  112/31/1997
Comments      3 enterprises (fire equipment) participated in the umbrella project. Target
(incl. %      consumption 465 ODP ton. Actual achievement 6820DP ton (achievement 147%
achievement)  of target)
Indicator 5 : IODS Phase out under Sector Plan (MAC)
Value
(quantitative or N/A               915 ODP tons                 915 ODP tons
Qualitative)
[Date achieved 11/01/2002          12/31/2007                   12/31/2009
Comments      The program achieved 100% of its target and involved participation by 854 MAC
ac.     t    service shops, located in many cities all over Indonesia
achievement)
Indicator 6:  ODS Phase out under Sector Plan (Foam)
Value
(quantitative or N/A               333 ODP tons                 333 ODP tons
Qualitative)
Date achieved 112/01/2004           12/31/2007                  12/31/2009
Comments      The project achieved 100% of its target and achieved participation by 36 foam
(inc. %
ac.      t  manufacturing companies
achievement)
Indicator 7 : IODS phase-out under Sector Plan (Aerosol)
Value
(quantitative or N/A               700DP tons                   70 ODP tons
Qualitative)
Date achieved  12/01/2004           12/31/2007                  12/31/2009
Comments      The project achieved 100% of its target and participation by 6 aerosol
ac.      t  manufacturing companies
achievement)
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
iv


﻿Actual
Date ISR                                                         Ata
No.     Ate                 GEO                     IP              Disbursements
(USD millions)
1    06/07/1995         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  1.50
2    05/13/1996         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  2.03
3    10/11/1996         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  2.47
4    03/25/1997         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  4.32
5    10/24/1997         Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  5.66
6    05/08/1998     Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory                 10.41
7    12/03/1998     Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory                 11.25
8    06/09/1999     Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory                 11.72
9    11/10/1999     Highly Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory                11.78
10    05/08/2000     Highly Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory                 11.78
11    08/03/2000     Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory                 12.03
12    05/15/2001     Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory                 12.73
13    12/07/2001     Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory                  13.08
14    03/28/2002     Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory                  13.08
15    06/28/2002     Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory                  13.33
16    10/03/2002     Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory                  13.54
17    02/25/2003     Highly Satisfactory  F    -Satisfactory                14.38
18    06/27/2003     Highly Satisfactory  F    Satisfactory                 14.75
19    10/28/2003     Highly Satisfactory  F    Satisfactory                 14.93
20    03/29/2004     Highly Satisfactory  F     Satisfactory                 14.93
21    06/16/2004     Highly Satisfactory  F     Satisfactory                 15.48
22    06/29/2004     Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory                 15.48
23    12/03/2004     Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory                 16.38
24    06/06/2005     Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory                 18.89
25    12/27/2005     Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory                 18.89
26    01/06/2007        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                 24.82
27    12/13/2007        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                25.76
28    12/30/2008        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                28.20
29    06/03/2010        Satisfactory            Satisfactory                29.29
H. Restructuring (if any)
ISR Ratings at   Amount
Restructuring     Board     Restructuring  Disbursed at   Reason for Restructuring &
Date(s)      Approved                  Restructuring      Key Changes Made
GEO Change GEO         IP      in USD
millions
Increased amount of grant from
$17M to $27M and changed the
closing date from December 31,
1998 to December 31, 1999
12/10/1999        N         HS      U         11.78   Changed Financial Agent from
V


﻿ISR Ratings at  Amount
Restructuring    Board     Restructuring Disbursed.at  Reason for Restructuring &
Date(s)     Approved                 Restructuring     Key Changes Made
GEO Change GEO       IP      in USD
millions
PT Bank UPPINDO to PT
Ekofin Konsolindo; Extension
of GA from December 31 1999
to December 31, 2001
11/13/2001                HS      S         12.97  Extension of GA from Dec 31,
2001 to Dec 31, 2007
Increased amount of grant
(ceiling) from $27M to $36.5M
since more ODS had to be
phased out through the Bank as
IA; Add category 2(c) for
11/14/2003       N        HS      S         14.93  goods, consultants and training
as well as category 4 for IOC
under part B.3 of the project;
Amend schedule 3 of GA
regarding procurement and
consultant services
Extension of GA from
December 31, 2007 to
December 31, 2010 to match
12/27/2007       N         5      5         25.76  with the Montreal Protocol
ODS Phase Out Schedule;
Reallocation of amounts among
categories to allow 100%
expenditure under category 4
09/14/2009                 5      5         28.20   Further reallocation of amounts
S _ _among categories
Vi


﻿I. Disbursement Profile
-   Original ---- Formally Revised -- Actual
40-
30
L W                  -           f   . L  a           a'i  0  0 F
vii


﻿1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
The ozone layer and ozone depletion. The "ozone layer" is an area of the stratosphere about 15-
35 kilometers above the Earth's surface in which most of the Earth's atmospheric ozone is
concentrated. The height, depth, and ozone concentration in this layer varies a great deal both
geographically and seasonally. While ozone actually represents only a tiny fraction of the
molecules in the ozone layer, it acts as a natural shield that screens out harmful ultraviolet (UV)
radiation, and in particular the highly damaging, short-wavelength (UV-B) radiation. Excessive
exposure to UV-B radiation can lead to skin cancer, cataracts, damage to materials like plastics,
and harm to certain crops and marine organisms. High levels of ultraviolet B rays have also been
linked to suppression of the immune system.
Depletion of the ozone layer was discovered in 1972, and by the mid-70s had been clearly linked
to a range of human-produced chemicals containing chlorine, bromine and fluorine, the most
damaging of which are the chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and halons. These chemicals are known
collectively as ozone-depleting substances (ODS). Despite efforts to protect the ozone layer, the
depletion continued, with particularly sharp declines leading to a recurring seasonal "ozone hole"
over Antarctica in the winter. Variation in ozone concentrations and ground-level UV radiation
caused by ODS is fairly low in the tropics (where natural ozone concentration is low and UV
radiation is high), but increases toward the poles. Worldwide, average ground-level UV radiation
is now 5-10% higher than pre-1980 levels, and will remain that way for another decade or more.
The Montreal Protocol. The Montreal Protocol is an international agreement to eliminate
production and consumption of ODS. It was adopted in 1987 to create binding controls and
targets for the general framework agreed under the 1985 Vienna Convention for the Protection of
the Ozone Layer. The Protocol entered into force on January 1, 1989 and Indonesia ratified it on
June 26, 1992. The Protocol and its subsequent amendments (London, Copenhagen, Montreal,
Beijing) allowed developing countries with low per capita consumption of controlled ODS
(Article 5 countries) substantially longer than developed countries to meet the phase-out targets.
Table 1 show the Article 5 phase-out schedule for CFCs and halons, which were the most widely
used ODS and were the primary target of the original Protocol.
Table 1. Schedule to Phase Out Consumption of CFCs and Halons in Article 5
Countries
CFCs                         Halons
Reduction target         (Annex A, Group I)            (Annex A Group II)
Base level             Average of 1995-1997          Average of 1995-1997
Freeze at base level        July 1, 1999                January 1, 2002
50% reduction             January 1, 2005               January 1, 2005
85% reduction             January 1, 2007
100% reduction            January 1, 2010               January 1, 2010
Note: Non-Article 5 countries were required to achieve 100% reduction by January 1996 for
CFCs, and January 1994 for halons.
1


﻿The Protocol defines "consumption" as production, plus import, minus export. It also required
annual reports by the parties on their production and consumption levels. Since Indonesia did not
produce or export ODS, consumption was equal to imports. Reduction levels and target dates
were set separately for seven other groups of ODS that were either less widespread or had
significantly lower ozone depleting potential (ODP). The Bank ODS Umbrella was designed to
focus on phase-out of CFCs and halons.
The World Bank as an Implementing Agency of the Montreal Protocol. The Parties to the
Montreal Protocol agreed that financial assistance would be provided by developed countries to
developing countries to help them meet their phase-out obligations. As a developing country,
Indonesia is eligible for financial assistance from the Multilateral Fund (MLF), which was
established by the 1990 London Amendment and began operation in 1991. To date the MLF has
provided over US$2 billion to support developing countries' phase-out efforts. In 1991, The
World Bank signed an agreement with the MLF to become an Implementing Agency, along with
UNDP, UNEP and UNIDO. The Bank's involvement is consistent with its commitment to
support developing countries in implementing international environmental agreements.
Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS). CFCs, carbon tetrachloride, and halons, and methyl
bromide are examples of ODS controlled under the Montreal Protocol. ODS are used mainly as
refrigerants in refrigeration equipment, blowing agents in the production of foam, propellants in
aerosol cans, fire extinguishing agents, and as process agents in many chemical production. ODS
products penetrate into all facets of daily life, including refrigerators, coolers, freezers, cold
storage and warehouses, mobile air conditioners (MAC), transportation vehicles and railways,
hair sprays, shaving cream, paint, fire extinguishers and systems, furniture, construction materials,
insulation materials, automobile parts, and others. HCFCs are also an ODS, but because the upper
range of their ODP generally was less than one-tenth that of CFCs, in Article 5 countries they
were used as CFC substitutes during the phase-out of CFCs, with 2009-10 to be used as the base
level for beginning their eventual phase-out (by 2040).
The ultimate goal of reversing damage to the ozone layer requires global compliance by all
parties to the Montreal Protocol. Although emissions of ODS have already declined dramatically,
and will continue to drop as lower-ODP substances are phased out, the abundance of ODS in the
atmosphere is declining much more gradually. The time needed for recovery of the ozone layer
itself will vary substantially by latitude and hemisphere. In Antarctica, the region most sensitive
to ODS-caused depletion, it could take sixty to seventy years.
Project background. In 1993 Indonesia prepared a Country Program (CP) for the phase-out of
ODS, with financial assistance from the UNDP and support by the World Bank and other
implementing agencies. The CP was financed by the MLF and forms the basis for financial
assistance from the MLF. This project was designed to help Indonesia effectively phase out its
use of ODS in various industrial sectors. This was to be achieved through (a) strengthening the
project management office in the Ministry of Environment (KLH) in program management and
policy framework, and local financial agencies in project management; and (b) providing
financial and technical assistance to institutions important for the ODS phase-out program and to
users of ODS in the manufacturing and service sectors.
Indonesian ODS consumption in 1992 was estimated at 7,800 metric tons (MT) of ODS and was
increasing by about 12 percent annually. The Bank ODS program originally was expected to
cover phase-out of around 50 percent of Indonesia's consumption (while UNDP and UNIDO
covered the rest). Indonesia was planning to use a full range of financing instruments, regulatory
2


﻿measures and control of ODS imports to meet its ODS phase-out targets. Results were to be
measured at the level of the CP, not at the level of each project.
1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators
The GEO stated in the Grant Agreement was used for purposes of this ICR, which consistent with
the longer version of GEO stated in the Memorandum of Director (MOD) which used during
project supervision.
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in carrying out its Country Program so as to
phase-out the use of ODS within its territory.
1.3 Revised GEO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification
The global environment objective and indicators were not revised during project execution.
However, the 1997 target date that was included in the longer version of the GEO was no longer
applicable because the CP targets changed. Since the underlying objective was to help implement
the CP and to phase out ODS, which was as already stated in the legal agreement's GEO, it was
determined that formal revision of the GEO was not required.
1.4 Main Beneficiaries
Primary direct beneficiaries. The primary beneficiaries targeted by the project were the
commercial sectors and enterprises that used ODS in their production processes or services. The
project provided financing to help them transition from ODS-based technology to either non-ODS
technology or to lower-ODP substitutes. In most cases these enterprises were able to produce the
same or even higher quality products without the original ODS. The enterprises included in the
program came from manufacturers of polyurethane (PU) foam, household and commercial
refrigeration equipment, aerosol products, mobile air conditioners, electronics, metal industries
using ODS for cleaning, and manufacturing of halon firefighting equipment. Consumers also
benefitted indirectly by having access to better quality products.
Secondary beneficiaries. The secondary beneficiary group included the local agencies involved
in project implementation. They included the project management unit (PMU) in the KLH and
the financial agent/financial intermediary (FA/FI), which initially was PT UPPINDO and later
became PT Ekofin Konsulindo. The project provided training for these agencies on project
management, procurement and disbursement and the Montreal Protocol rules and procedures (e.g.,
its policies, financing guidelines, MP subproject preparation and approval processes, and
reporting requirements).
Global benefits. Phasing out ODS has helped stop, and begin to reverse, anthropogenic damage
to the ozone layer. This in turn will help reduce negative health effects such as increased skin
cancer, immune system deficiency, and cataracts in humans and animals, as well as other damage
to plastics, crops and marine organisms. A secondary global benefit is that the primary ODS
chemicals are also greenhouse gases. Overall, the phase-out of CFCs and halons in Indonesia
resulted in an estimated net annual reduction of about 29 million tons of C02 equivalent (see
Annex 2, Table 4).
1.5 Original Components
3


﻿The operation was created as an umbrella project in which not all subprojects were identified
during initial preparation. Total estimated cost at appraisal, including both approved and
anticipated subprojects, was US$23 million, of which US$17 million would be financed by the
MLF and the remaining by commercial loans and enterprise funds acquired by the beneficiary
businesses.
Component 1: Investment in Subprojects (US$16.90 million). This component was designed to
finance subprojects in all ODS user industries. The project provided technical and financial
assistance to ODS-consuming enterprises for cost-effective investments to convert to substitute
chemicals as allowed by the MLF through the provision of alternative equipment and introduction
of appropriate substitute technology. At the start of effective implementation of the GA, more
than 20 subprojects had been approved by the Executive Committee of the MLF (ExCom). The
amount of grant under this component include financial agent fee for the services their provided
on which accounted about three percent.
Component 2: Institutional Strengthening/Technical Assistance (US$0.10 million). This
component provided technical assistance to help strengthen (a) the management and operational
capacity of KLH, and (b) the management and technical capacity of PT Bank UPPINDO in the
areas of procurement, disbursement, ODS technology, and project implementation and
supervision, through the provision of consultants' services, training and equipment.
1.6 Revised Components
The original project components were not revised. However with introduction of sectoral plan
after 2002, the component 2 institutional strengthening/ technical assistance was expanded to
cover also provisions for conducting public awareness; establishing system to collect and
monitor import and use of ODS; preparing annual work plans; preparing, implementing and
monitoring sector plans and studies on ODS phase out, through the provision of consultants'
services, training and equipment.
1.7 Other significant changes
Grant amount and closing date. It quickly became apparent that the government's ambitious
plan to meet the MP targets more than ten years ahead of schedule was unrealistic, particularly in
light of the Asian financial crisis, and the phase-out plan was incrementally brought more to in
line with the normal MP timetable. The modification of the overall implementation approach of
the MP in 2002 (see below) also led to changes in Indonesia's CP. As needs and opportunities
changed and the government's program evolved to include more sectors and activities, a series of
amendments (listed in the ICR Data Sheet) to the grant agreement increased the commitment
amount and extended the closing date accordingly.
Shift from subproject to sectoral or national approach. In 2002 the ExCom made changes to
the project implementation modality for all MP projects. Instead of approving a large number of
individual subprojects, ExCom would base new project approvals on either sector-specific or
overall national phase-out plans using a combination of financial incentives, technical assistance,
policy instruments, and consumption limits. Indonesia opted for the sector-plan arrangement.
Implementation arrangements. To manage the large number of subprojects, PT Bank
UPPINDO (and later PT EKOFIN) was selected as Financial Intermediary (FI) or Financial
Agent (FA), to help KLH in subproject preparation and implementation. SUCOFINDO (as
preparation consultant) involved in the preparation of the Country Program Update. To support
4


﻿implementation of sector plan projects, KLH was assisted by Project Management Unit (PMU)
which also took care of the monitoring and supervision of projects, and by the Group
Coordinators who were responsible for assisting implementation of the sector plan projects,
particularly their investment parts.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Lessons, relevance, and realism. Since the MP was a new sector, much of the preparation
depended on sharing lessons, experiences, and strategies between projects being developed
concurrently in many countries, as well as on several country studies that identified consumption
patterns and phase-out strategies. The umbrella program design, as well as incorporating
assistance from a local financial agent, were common strategies for most ODS phase-out projects.
The background analysis was sound, the lessons relevant, and the rationale for the Bank's
involvement strong since it was one of the primary implementing agencies for the Montreal
Protocol. Based on the available information and experience, the project design was the most
relevant and realistic approach to reducing consumption of ODS. Indonesia's target of completed
the main phase-out by 1997 was not realistic, but with the project design allowed it to be easily
adapted and extended in line with the actual Montreal Protocol requirements.
Participation. During development of the project, extensive assessments of ODS-using sectors
were carried out, with extensive direct consultation with and participation by affected private-
sector enterprises under the guidance of national technical team established by KLH. At project
entry, 18 subprojects involving specific sectors has already been approved and agreed with the
beneficiaries.
Risks. Risks included the possibility that private firms would lack interest in ODS phase-out
because of low financial benefits, and that the SME's limited experience implementing
investment subprojects would delay subproject approvals and disbursement requests. To
minimize the risk, KLH contracted a financial agent familiar with Bank operation procedure to
assist in financial administration of subprojects. Moreover the project provided technical training
to the financial agent to familiarize with ODS industries and non-ODS phase out options. In the
same time, the project was providing fund to strengthen capacity of KLH to identify and monitor
sub-projects. In addition, technical audit by independent consultant was arranged to confirm
enterprises meeting technical requirement upon completion of the subproject.
Key Design Elements Umbrella grant agreement provide an over arching legal arrangement in
which the Bank and the country client agree to an indicative amount of funding to cover ODS
phase out activities even though specific sub-projects have not been identified. The umbrella
approach would be the suitable modality to cover this need as the Excom would provide approval
based on individual subproject submitted by the Bank (as one of implementing agencies). The
following is modality for selection and approval process:
a. The ExCom of the Multilateral Fund, not the Bank, approved every subproject. The Bank's
role was to ensure provision of guidance in project design, implementation modality
and arrangements, MP policies and guidelines, conversion technology, and incremental cost
calculation.;
b. All subprojects had to be implemented strictly following an approved project document with
no flexibility. Any change in technology choice had to be resubmitted for approval by
ExCom;
5


﻿c. KLH, was responsible for identifying subprojects and for whether the phase-out targets were
achieved. After identification by KLH, the Bank and the financial agent helped beneficiary
enterprises prepare their project documentation and the Bank submitted the subprojects for
approval. The Bank was also responsible for reporting to ExCom       on subproject
implementation progress on a semi-annual basis;
d. Financial agent was responsible for appraisal all sub-project proposal, endorse disbursement
application of approved sub-projects; review beneficiaries' procurement procedure and
review implementation report from enterprises;
e. Major criteria was designed as a basis to select subprojects on ODS phase out and to evaluate
eligibility and funding. The subproject should be on priority list under the CP and should
demonstrate result in reducing ODS consumption, cost effective and based on
environmentally sound technologies. Enterprise that consume ODS is eligible for the
incremental costs of phase out, taking into account enterprise ownership. In addition, the cut-
off date of July 1995 were introduced later on meant that the enterprise to eligible for funding
should be established prior July 1995.
2.2 Implementation
The main factors affecting implementation of the project are described in the following:
a. The East Asian Financial Crisis brought the program to a halt for over a year. The FA- PT
Bank Uppindo, was liquidated. As a consequence, new contracts and disbursements had to be
put on hold until a new FA was identified and selected. Ultimately former Uppindo staff
involved in the ODS program established a consulting company and was selected as the FA
in 2000. The GA was amended accordingly.
b. Large number of smaller foam companies had limited capacity. The Indonesian foam
industry consists of a large number of smaller enterprises, normally run by a small group of
people. The delays in the implementation of the project mainly due to lack of capacity related
to procurement procedures, including preparation of Procurement Plan and processing the
procurements. In addition, smaller firms found it difficult to cover support costs for
conversion that were not funded by MLF grant fund. Many smaller companies were hit hard
by the financial crisis and closed business. When they re-started again in 2000 and later, they
could not be financed due to Excom requirement of only financing enterprises established
before July 1995.
c. The rigidity of approved grants. Consistent with the MP policies and guidelines, the ExCom
provides funding for the conversion of ODS to non-ODS substitute technologies based on the
baseline situation specific to each enterprise. Once approved, ExCom expected the funds to
be used accordingly, and only allowed limited flexibility. Beneficiaries were expected to
implement the projects strictly according to the approved project document. Any change in
technology choice need to be justified and approved by ExCom again before implementation.
This created some delays.
d. Rigid financial audit and controls on use of funds. Due to the Government commitment to
fight against corruption and misuse of funds, strict procedures were set up for reimbursement
of invoices from enterprises and for disbursements. While the effort was commendable in
principle, it sometimes also resulted in slow disbursements.
e. Strong Financial Agent and National Ozone Unit. The capacity building investment provided
at the beginning of the program resulted in strong commitments and a good understanding of
MLF rules and the Banks operational procedures.
f. Change of modality of the project. In 2002 the ExCom made changes to the project
implementation modality for all MP projects. Instead of approving a large number of
individual subprojects, ExCom would base new project approvals on sector-specific phase-
6


﻿out plans using a combination of financial incentives, technical assistance, policy instruments,
and consumption limits.
g. Update policy and regulation. With implementation of sector plan/national plan approach,
ExCom also emphasized on government action to update policy and regulation to ensure
complete control ODS phase out and sustainability of the program.
The project was assessed under the quality of supervision of risky projects in 2001 due to various
problems including the bankruptcy of the FA and slow action within KLH. Action was conducted
by the team to find effective and practical solutions to the FA problem. In the meantime, the
Bank's local team also worked closely with the HQ-based team to liaise with the MLF Secretariat
to minimize potential problems due to the slow government response in ODS phase-out. At the
end the QAR review confirmed that the supervision of the operation was satisfactory and the
project likely would meet its objective.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M& E Design
Close monitoring and evaluation of the progress for each individual subproject financed
under Montreal Protocol operations were requested by MLF. After approval of each
subproject, implementing agencies are required to report to the Secretariat, on a quarterly
basis, on the progress of each individual activity. Detailed progress reports including
number of beneficiaries, status of signing of agreements, disbursement levels, phase out
levels, and many other data are prepared by the country regularly, compiled by the Bank and
submitted to the MLF Secretariat for scrutiny. All of this information is publicly available on the
MLF Secretariat's database. If projects are non-performing or if targets are not being met, the
Secretariat (on behalf of the Excom) sends official letters to the countries inquiring about
progress and demanding mitigating action plans. In addition to the reporting, implementing
agencies are required to conduct periodic supervision missions and to meet with the government
to discuss issues involving regulatory controls of ODS consumption, and to inspect delivery of
equipment and actual phase out at beneficiary enterprises.
M&E Implementation
Since individual sub-projects were not known at the time of project preparation and grant signing,
performance indicators were linked to project outcome. Information on these indicators was
included in quarterly progress reports, as well as in Project Completion Reports prepared by the
Bank and submitted to the MLF Secretariat after each subproject was completed. Completion
Reports are particularly detailed documents that must be approved by the MLF Secretariat, where
all expenses are reported and all the outcomes of the project are clearly outlined. Any funds that
remain unspent after project implementation has been completed must be indicated in these
reports and must be returned to the MLF.
Given the above requirements, it was therefore absolutely essential for the Bank team working on
this project to keep a close contact with borrower/KLH as well as FA and to be informed, at all
times, of the progress of each sub-project. Supervision missions were carried out twice per year
at first, and then at least once every year. The team also met, periodically, with UNDP and
UNIDO team members for purpose of smooth implementation of the phase out within the
7


﻿country including for the purpose of preparation of the annual report implementation plan of the
ODS phase out project in Indonesia.
Utilization of the indicator and M&E arrangement for the project
The project objective was to protect the stratospheric ozone layer by providing financial
incentives for industrial conversion from ODS to non-ODS technologies and promote measures
which reduce/eliminate emissions of ODS. Performance indicators measuring progress towards
achieving the development objective included: a) number of subprojects adopting alternative
technologies; b) metric tones of ODSs phased out during project implementation; and c)
enterprise compliance with equipment disposal agreements.
For subprojects approved after 2002 of which following the sector plan approach, the
performance of subprojects were verified by the independent consultant. Report on annual
implementation plan for national phase plan were coordinated by the lead agency (in this regard
UNDP) and submitted to ExCom for approval. This report would determine the achievement of
the project implementation plan the year before and submit planning for the upcoming year.
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Safeguards
a. The project was classified as a category B project, because no major negative environmental
impacts were expected. The project itself is an environment project to reduce emissions that
damage the ozone layer. As this project involves only conversion activities, there was no
resettlement, only minor workshop/plant modification to accommodate new equipment,
installation of safety equipment and measures to ensure safe use of flammable substitutes like
hydrocarbons in the aerosol industry. In general, no adverse environmental impacts were
expected from the project. The enterprises followed local environmental requirements,
submitted environmental management plans if required, and obtained approvals.
b. Based on Montreal Protocol guidelines, only mature and proven technologies could be used.
Health and safety issues were addressed during preparation of each subproject. The specific
requirements on post-conversion safety, health and environmental impact followed local
safety requirements and are implemented by beneficiary enterprises. Some new equipment
required certification before sub-grant agreements could be signed.
c. The typical conversion would normally include replacement of some ODS dedicated
equipment with new equipment tailored to the new substitute, e.g. replacement of foaming
machines. Where hydrocarbon was used as substitute, the conversion would include safety
measures as per MLF guidelines, normally including replacement of electrical installations,
ventilations and gas detection systems, training of production personnel and maintenance etc.
d. Discarded ODS equipment were destroyed as per local requirements. As CFC and halons
gases are not toxic, the scrap materials were told as waste metals. Relevant local agencies
were present in the dismantling process and signed appropriate releases for documentation
purposes.
Fiduciary
a. Ex-post procurement and expenditure reviews were conducted regularly or at least annually,
both by an outsource consultants and the Bank procurement and financial management
specialists. Any issues raised in the expenditure and post procurement reviews were clarified
8


﻿and justified by the project. There was a case where two individual consultant contracts were
not procured in accordance with the agreed procedures. However, after clarifications and
justification received by the procurement team, it appeared that there was no major
compliance issues. The expenditure reviews confirmed that management of the project
accounts was sound. It was observed that in some cases, there has been a considerable delay
in submission of the expenditures claims to the Bank. In the overall procurement ex-post
reviews, no major compliance issues were found. Both Financial Agents and KLH
maintained detailed accounts of the project and prepared their respective progress reports.
Annual financial audits were sent to the Bank and no significant issues were identified.
b. Funding for eligible incremental cost associated with the conversion was provided based on
the ExCom polices and guidelines. The subproject project document provided detailed cost
for capital investment, operational and contingency costs and these costs were financed by
MLF. The enterprises had to report any differences between approved amounts and actual
expenditures in regular reports and in subproject completion reports.
c. Like safeguards, the Bank's procurement and financial management specialists ensured that
all relevant procedures were followed. The close involvement and oversight by the Bank
team in all phases of the project cycle helped the counterparts implement the project
successfully.
2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Indonesia opted for an acceleration of the phase-out of ODS (i.e. CFC) by December 2007
instead of January 1, 2010 as allowed by the Montreal Protocol. As CFC would still be required
for maintenance/servicing of existing refrigeration equipment and MAC systems, strict
monitoring and supervision was arranged up to the closure of the project (end of 2010). Earlier,
Indonesia had completed its program to phase out other ODS (i.e. halon by 1998). Licensing
system for import ODS has been developed which include the license system for HCFCs importer.
Other relevant regulation which in operation including ban imports of goods containing CFC and
halons; technician certification and registration of servicing workshop for retrofitting and
recycling refrigerants; and establishment of halon management.
Within the government, KLH has made arrangement that after completion of the operation, the
monitoring and enforcement tasks have been transferred to the sub national/local authorities and
other line ministries. During the last few years prior to the project closure, the NOU/KLH made
arrangement for involvement of the local authorities in the operation of the project for the
purpose of ensuring program sustainability in the future. Institutional capacity building was also
arranged through training, workshops as well as through policy advice and guidance on
implementation of the program. Enhancing capacity in particular the Customs officers had also
been completed which included providing equipments (ODS identifier) for most of
airport/seaport to minimize illegal trade.
In line with the government's policy, KLH will maintain the NOU function to manage the ozone
layer protection program, in collaboration with relevant Ministries and local governments as well
as the private sector. This include maintaining the interagency team and technical working group
to prepare for a future program of HCFC phase out activities.
The Bank has continued supporting the countries on the ODS program through preparation of the
new project HCFC phase out in foam sector and Indonesia chiller energy efficiency which
targeted replacement of CFC chiller and other inefficient chiller. In the meantime, the Bank also
assisting the country in trying to find solution for CFC disposal through voluntary carbon market
scheme.
9


﻿3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The project's global environment objective (GEO) is in line with to the Indonesia's Country
Assistance Strategy/Country Partnership Strategy which states that the World Bank group aims to
help Indonesia to observe international environmental conventions. This project supports
Indonesia's compliance with two such conventions/protocols: the Vienna Convention for the
Protection of the Ozone Layer, and the Montreal Protocol on Substances That Deplete the Ozone
Layer that Indonesia ratified in 1992. As one of the implementing agencies under the Montreal
Protocol, the World Bank implemented this program as well as similar programs in other
countries in the East Asia region.
This project was one of the first MP projects which developed and successfully applied an
umbrella modality. Through this umbrella approach, the project established a framework for
processing a large number of small sub-components under one project.
Lessons learned from the implementation of this project are summarized in section 6. This project
is rated as being fully successful.
3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives
ODS phase-out. The project was able to phase out a total of 6892 MT ODP from its realized
subprojects. These are significant contributions to the global ODS phase-out effort (see Annex 2
for details of the ODS phase-out for each subsector). In addition the project also contributed to
reduction of global warming emissions as most of the ODS have very high GWP. Estimation of
the GWP impact of the project is about 29.24 million tons C02 (equivalent).
Below is the figure of the CFC phase out program of the country which shows that the phase out
status has been achieved 2 years in advance of the MP target (with support of 3 agencies-UNDP,
UNIDO and the Bank). In terms of CFC, the investment project under the Bank contributed to
the phase out of more than 5000 ODP tons (see Annex 2). CFC baseline for Indonesia is 8,333
ODP tons , while halon is 354 ODP tons.
In July 1999, Indonesia's CFC consumption of Indonesia was 5,866 ODP tons which was below
the target of 8332.7 ODP tons. At the target of 50% reduction (January 1, 2005), CFC
consumption reached about 2385 ODP tons, and at target of 85% reduction (January 1, 2007),
CFC consumption is 231 ODP tons. On January 1, 2008, Indonesia declared zero consumption of
CFC.
With the issuance of Minister of Industry and Trade regulation no 229/MPP/Kep/7/1997, the
import of halons was banned starting 2008. Therefore, halons consumption in Indonesia was
declared zero in 2008. However, exceptions still allow for critical use benefiting from recycled
halon.
10


﻿Table 2 Indonesia ODS consumption in ODP tons
Grou
Anx       Name   1992   1993   1994  1995   1996   1997   1998    1999   2000  2001   Baseline
I1       ]CFCs 15,249.01 4,363.4 6,910.0 8,351.21 9,012.0 7,634.81 6,182.8T 5,865.8 5,411.115,003.31 8,332.7
A   1   ]Halons  972.0 1,040.0  822.0  654.0  258.0  150.0  0.0     0.0   0.0    0.0    354.0
1 2002   2003  20041  2005f  20061  2007T   2008[  20091 20101
A  1I  ]CFCs 1        15,506.3 4,829.31 3,925.51 2,385.31 231.01  202.6T  0.01  0.01  0.01
A   II   Halons            0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0   0.0
Figure 1: Phase out CFCs achieved in 2008 through NCFCPP (National CFC phase out plan)
10,000
9,000
8,000
7,000
u 6,000
0
** 5,000
04,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0
1990          1995          2000          2005          2010         2015
-   Control Level -   Actual Consumption *    NCFCPP
3.3 Efficiency
A financial rate of return was not estimated for ODS conversion projects. As noted above, given
the mandatory nature of the phase-out, emphasis was put on cost-effectiveness and not on rate of
return. The ODS phase-out in Indonesia was also very cost-effective. Average cost (including
refrigeration, foam, aerosol, halon and MAC) was $4.41/kg ODP, ranging from less than $1/kg in
the halon sectors to $8.2 in the refrigeration sector. These unit costs are in line with similar
programs in other countries. (see Annex 3).
11


﻿3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory.
The project objective was fully achieved, as evidenced by the following:
* the project completed 50 subprojects vs. a target level of 20-40 subprojects;
*   it led to more than 50% of baseline ODS being eliminated';
* it made cost-effective use of grant funds;
* it helped ensure Indonesia's continuing compliance with its international commitments.
The project achieved its objective by providing financing to enterprises to convert their ODS uses
into non-ODS based technology, the arrangement of various workshops and the implementation
of TA as required.
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The ODS program has successfully raised public awareness of public to protect the ozone layer,
in particular among the student elementary and high school students. Recent introduction of
education display "ozone cluster" built within the technology museum complex is quite
popular among students and has succeeded in reaching society more broadly.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
Through various training activities including annual FA workshops and regular briefings from
international experts in Washington, FA and NOU of KLH have a strong technical knowledge
and have built a sound management team, which was important during project development and
implementation. Beneficiary enterprises were also trained through various workshops prior and
during implementation of the project in particularly on environmentally sound alternative
technology and how to use and maintain the new equipment.
Various trainings for customs officers has strengthened the capacity of the institution to conduct
inspection and the closely monitor the import of ODS and goods containing ODS, as well as
improvement of ODS import data.
KLH initiative to strengthen the capacity of sub-national/local government/ authorities through
various training workshops, involvement in the project monitoring program, provision of relevant
guidelines and the arrangement of regular coordination meetings nationally has allowed them to
monitor the performance of the enterprises who had phased out ODS beyond the closing date of
the grant.
1 ODS baseline under CP (1992) is 7,815 metric ton ODS which equal to 6567 ODP tons, while baseline
for CFC of 8,332.7 ODP tons and halons of 354 ODP tons were established at later time.
12


﻿(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts
The program led to the reduction of GHG emissions by about 29.24 million C02
equivalent.
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
See annex 6
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible to Low
Sustainability (in the sense that ODS consumption phased out under the project will remain
phased out) is rated as highly likely, because:
a. All the ODS beneficiary subprojects have converted to non-ODS substances and have
committed not to revert back to CFCs and halons uses. After converting to non-ODS
processes, it is highly unlikely for beneficiaries to revert, given the cost of re-conversion and
given limited CFC supply after CFC imports were stopped on December 31, 2007. Illegal
supplies might be an issue, but supplies are scarce and prohibitively priced.
b. All ODS-producing countries are parties to the Protocol, and the international market for the
substances - CFCs, halons, carbon tetrachloride, and TCA (1,1,1 trichloroethane) are
expected to be phased out internationally in line with the requirements of the Montreal
Protocol, leading to a near-complete absence of supply post 2010.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
From project identification to appraisal, the Bank maintained a strong team with relevant
experience in Bank operations, financial intermediation, ODS technology, and Montreal Protocol
policy and guidelines. The team worked well with all stakeholders, including the Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Trade, Ministry of Industry, KLH, the FA and enterprises throughout project
preparation. Coordination with other implementing agencies working in Indonesia (UNDP and
UNIDO) as well as UNEP was able to strengthen the program..
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
Supervision efforts. The project required intensive supervision, adequately financed through the
management fee provided by ExCom. There were at least two supervision missions a year
throughout the project period. With the TTL located in Indonesia, the supervision missions were
planned together with ODS supervision missions in other countries in the EAP region for cost
effectiveness. Specific supervision characteristics include:
13


﻿a. Supervision included pipeline development. As required by ExCom, the supervision team
participated in each subproject preparation, including provision of technical consultants to
beneficiary enterprises in the selection of conversion technology, cost calculations, and
preparation of project documents for subprojects. The Bank submitted project documentation
for each potential subproject to ExCom for funding approval.
b. As the implementing agency for the MP, the Bank reported to ExCom on subproject
implementation as per the format provided by ExCom.
c. The nature of the project also required extensive administrative and coordination work with
ExCom, much more than a regular Bank project. The team received strong support from the
Bank's MP coordination unit in the Environment Department.
d. Upon completion of each subproject, ExCom requires a project completion report (PCR).
ExCom provides a standard format which includes detailed project conversion activities with
comparison of cost at project preparation and actual expenditures. This is an exercise which is
extremely time consuming and expensive. The PCRs were prepared by KLH and the FA in
cooperation with the Bank team.
e. The team regularly monitored compliance with the Bank's fiduciary and safeguard policies,
reviewed procurement procedures and disbursement, as well as audit reports.
f. Mission aide memoires and ISRs provided candid and realistic assessments of the
implementation status of the project.
Responsiveness to client needs. Despite the changes of some Bank staff over time, the Bank
maintaining basically the same core team throughout project implementation. Dialogue between
the Bank, ExCom members and external clients was facilitated. The Bank team was also able to
respond quickly to client requests on various technical and technological issues and update
ExCom guideline and decisions.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The project assisted the Government of Indonesia in meeting its ODS reduction targets under the
Montreal Protocol. The involvement of the Bank in all aspects of project implementation has
helped build the capacity of government agencies (NOU in particular) which in the end will
maintain the program.
Even though the project was considered "at risk" with 2 flags in 2001, the assessment of quality
of supervision of risky projects (QSR) shows that the supervision of the operation was
satisfactory overall. Similarly, the QALP assessment in October 2008 resulted in a "satisfactory"
supervision rating. It was considered likely that the project would achieve its development
objective.
5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The Government of Indonesia fulfilled its commitment to achieve the objective of phasing out
consumption of ODS. Under the guidance of the national steering committee and technical
committee, KLH as the executing agency of the program developed an ODS country program to
assure that the phase-out targets at the national level were attained. Development of rules and
14


﻿regulations pertaining to banning the use of CFCs in production and licensing systems to control
import of CFCs into the country have ensured that Indonesia met the required phase-out target
without any material issues that provided negative impact on domestic production using new non-
CFC technologies. KLH was able to develop practical implementation policies meeting the needs
of local industry ensuring compliance with the Montreal Protocol.
The public was made aware of the on-going project products using new non-CFC technology in
Indonesia. Engagement with local/sub national governments/authorities for monitoring activities
will help in ensuring the sustainability of the program.
Reporting requirements and financial administration of the program have been well maintained
with adequate records and proper audits prepared by Government auditors.
Through the leadership of KLH, the 1992 Country Program was revised accordingly in 1999 to
properly adhere to the ODS phase-out schedule of the Montreal Protocol and to ensure that the
pertinent regulation to control imports of ODS was enacted and enforced at the national level. Its
oversight of day-to-day operations by dedicated personnel under the supervision of the Ozone
Unit and technical and financial assistance by qualified professionals under the Project
Management Unit (PMU) became crucial for the successful implementation of subprojects and
also the overall performance of the MP program over the past 16 years.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
See above paragraph 5.2 (a)
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory.
The project was completed satisfactorily due to the satisfactory collaboration between
government (KLH), the financial intermediary/agent (EKOFIN, previously PT Bank UPPINDO),
and enterprises. Enterprises provided significant human resources and counterpart funding to the
project. Many enterprises built on the success of their subproject and were able to maintain or
even improve their product quality after conversion. Support from relevant line Ministries as well
as cooperation with the local/sub-national government also contributed to the success of the
project.
6. Lessons Learned
The following are list the lesson learned identified:
* Unrealistic phase-out date. While the project only became effective in February 1995,
initial target December 1997 for ODS phase-out which was established by the country
was unrealistic despite the Montreal Protocol targeting ODS phase out for developing
country only in 2010. This ambitious target without available capacity to support, both
institutional and human resources, in the earlier years of project implementation had
caused the country to revise its phase out target. Strengthening capacity needs time.
Eventually, Indonesia decided on more realistic phase out target by 31 December 2007
and had successful achieved 2 years ahead of MP target.
15


﻿* Selection modality of subprojects. All subprojects were identified by KLH, but some
were not technically ready. The main selection criteria was simply eligibility and the use
of ODS in the enterprise's production. From the experiences of the early phase of the
program, it was found that arrangement of the sector specific workshop was the most
effective way to reach the enterprises. Suppliers of ODS and substitute chemicals were
also helpful in providing useful information to KLH.
* Sector Plan approach. At the beginning of the project operation, the implementation of
the project was based on sub-project approach by which ODS was eliminated from
enterprises level. However, this individual sub-project approach was not able to answer
the query on how the country could completely phase out the remaining ODS
consumption. The sector plan approach had helped the country to have the overall picture
and to determine appropriate strategy on how to address the remaining consumption
within specific sector.
* Role of Group Coordinator. Appointment of individual professional who has a good
network and relationship with private sector, as a Group Coordinator (GC) had helped the
PMU/KLH achieved the implementation of ODS phase out program effectively and in
efficient manner. Many activities established by KLH or any other government
institutions/authorities sometimes were seen as a burden to the enterprise partners.
Therefore, in addition to providing technical support to KLH, the GC would be able also
to bridge communication and convince those enterprises to join the program.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The task team fully agrees with most of the issues raised by KLH in the lessons learned part of
the summary of borrower ICR. Country ownership plays an important role in determining the
success of the project in achieving its objective. The knowledge and experience of the core staff
of KLH gained during implementation of the ODS 1 project will be soon applicable for future
engagements related to MP and other similar program.
(b) Co-financiers
Not applicable
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
The Bank will continue its role as Implementing Agency under the HCFC phase-out program.
16


﻿Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a) Project Cost by Component
Appraisal      Actual/Latest
Estimate (USD   Estimate (USD    Percentage of
Components                    millions       millions)       Appraisal
1. Subprojects2                  22.93           31.00          135
2. Institutional Strengthening    0.10            1.30         1,300
Total Baseline Cost           23.03           32.30          140
Physical Contingencies            0               0
Price Contingencies               0               0
Total Project Costs           23.03           32.30          140
Project Preparation Facility      0.25            025           100
(PPF)
Front-end fee IBRD                0               0
Total Financing               23.28           32.55          140
Required
(b) Financing
Appraisal Actual/Lates
Estimate    t Estimate  Percentage
Type of       (USD         (USD         of
Source of Funds          Financing     millions)    millions)  Appraisal
Ozone Projects Trust        WB
administered     17.00       28.39        167
trust fund
Project Preparation                      0.25         0.25        100
Facility (PPF)
i  eBeneficiary
Beneficiary enterprises  cotiuin6.03                  3.90        65%
contribution
Total                              23.28       32.55        140
2 /Amount including Agency fee
17


﻿Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Table 1 below shows the output of each ODS sector with funding provided by MLF categorized
under component 1 of the project. This including also technical assistance type of project which
was received approval as individual sub-project, and was not part of specific sector plan. The list
of project listed under the TA activities is showed in Table 2. Component 2 of the project covers
institutional strengthening for KLH/project management, Ekofin/financial agent and
beneficiaries/relevant stakeholders.
Table 1. ODP phase out (by sector) under component 1 and 2 of the project
Component 1       Foam     Refrigeration  Solvent   Tobacco     MA C     Aerosol Halon        TA       Total
No subprojects        23          12           3         1          1         2        1         7         50
(by sectors)
MLF funding
provided (US$)    12,648,530   4,325,400    645,810    607,000  3,406,500  1,547,250  486,370  2,816,740  26,483,500
Co-financing
provided by        3,542,714    376,713        0         0          0       6,306      0         0      3,925,733
enterprises (US$)
Total cost (US$)   16,191,244  4,702,113     645,810   607,000   3,406,500  1,553,556  486,370  2,816,740  30,409,233
ODP reduction
(tons)               2988         572          22        54        915       530      682      1129       6892
US$/ODP kg /*        5.42         8.2        29.35      11.24      3.72      2.93     0.71     2.49       4.41
Note: /* Ratio based on full project cost if known, otherwise based on the MLF funding provided.
Component 2
Institutional strengthening
Project                      Project management office was established to assist KLH in monitoring and supervision of sector
Management                   plan phase-out project. IT dealt with planning, implementation of non-investment activities such as
Office                       technical assistance, capacity building, awareness program and set up policy action activities
KLH
Financial Agent,             The financial agent was equipped with technical, financial, procurement knowledge through series
EKOFIN                       of trainings, seminars
Beneficiary                  Various workshops organized mostly by KLH for enterprises to share experiences, particularly on
enterprises                  Montreal Protocol, the ODS phase-out program, substitute technologies, technology issues and
product quality
Table 2: TA activities approved as individual subproject by the MLF
Technical Assistance Activity  Approved      Disbursed        Date of     Completion
MLF funding      (in USD)        Approval       date
(in USD)
1   Technical support program for                  1,549,352      11/1/1993     Jan 1998
small PU Foam enterprises      1,597,839
2   Technical support to the aerosol  238,000      212,524        11/1/1993     Nov 1998
industry for safe use of
hydrocarbon as propellant
3   Strengthening of the            50,000          47,842         4/1994       Jul 1998
implementation capacity of the
FA
4   MAC recycling demonstration     327,000         266,894       12/1/1994     Sept 1999
project
5   Halon management and banking    498,520        475,124        3/1/1999      Mar 2000
18


﻿program
6   Technical assistance for             110,000          110,000          7/1/2002       Dec 2006
strengthening ODS Export/Import
regulation and enforcement
7   Assistance for development of        155,000          155,000         11/1/2008      12/31/2010
national transition strategy for
CFC to non CFC based MDI
Total                              2,976,359         2,816,736
The following Table 3 describes the number of subprojects approved and completed/realized with
the corresponding ODP MT phased-out and its cost.
Table 3. Subprojects by Sectors
PROJECT COST
ODP Phase-out (Tons)
No       Sctor       Subprojects  Subprojects  Participating                               (In US$ Million)
Approved    Completed   beneficiaries         Phased-          MLF Fund     Fund
out           Approved    Disbursed
A. Individual Subproject
1    Foam               26          22           88         3,159    2,655   86%        15.30      10.37   73%
2    Refrigeration      12          12           10           572      572  100%         4.97       4.33     %
4    Halon               1           1            3           465      682  147%         0.49       0.49  100%
5    Solvent             4           3            3            24       22   91%         0.85       0.65   76%
6    Aerosol             1           1            1           460      460  100%         1.18       1.18  100%
7    Tobacco             1           1            1            90       54   60%         1.21       0.61   50%
Subtotal     45          40          162          4770    4445              24.00       17.61
B. Sector Plan Projects
1    MAC                 1           1           854          915      915  100%         3.69       3.41   92%
2    Foam                1           1           36         333.1      333  100%         2.71       2.28   84%
3    Aerosol             1           1            6            70       70  100%         0.37       0.37  100%
Subtotal     3           3           896        1318       1318              6.77        7.65
C. Technical Assistance  7           7           134         1129     1129   100%        2.90        2.82   97%
TOTAL*          55          50          1136          7217       6892              33.66       26.48
*) Total MLF funding in the table is for subprojects, and it excludes that MLF fund for activities under
Category 2C, Category 4 and Category 3 of disbursement project
Issues specific to each ODS Sector/subsector and MLF funding
50 subprojects which implemented with the funding assistance from MLF were able to phase-out
a total ODP of 6,892 MT of which 5,763 ODP tons reduction obtained from investment project
and 1,129 ODP tons as result of completion of non-investment activities. The program has been
able to drive participation of 1,136 beneficiary enterprises that were directly involved in usage of
ODS in their products and services.
19


﻿The foam sector
*   22 individual subprojects under the foam sector were completed with total cost of US$10.37
million achieving ODS phase out of 2,6550DP. One foam sector plan (SP) project was also
completed with funding of US$2.28 million (see Table 3) able to contribute phase out of 333
ODP. The use of CFC- 11 as blowing agent had completely phased-out in this sector.
Conversion technology in foam sector was using methylene chloride (MC), water-blown,
HCFC-141b and LPG. This sector had contributed to the phase out of 2,988 ODP tons ODS
*   Replacement to new technologies required changes in foam production process, particularly
for MC and LPG due to its safety and health issues. The project supported beneficiary
companies with (i) ventilation to reduce exposure of MC to workers, (ii) fire safety measures
due to the fire hazard associated with MC and (iii) sets of safety equipments such as gas
detection system and alarm for the use of LPG. In addition, to improve better production
process, the project also provided a manual for good production conducts.
*   Under rigid foam sub-sector conversion technology was using HCFC-141b which considered
as transitional substance due to its ODP of 0.11 compared to 1.0 for CFC- 11. This technology
was considered as an interim solution where the substance will later be controlled and phase-
out by subsequent MP program.
Refrigeration sector
*   Ten companies benefited from  12 subprojects, specifically for producing/manufacturing
household refrigeration and commercial refrigeration. A total of US$4.33 million was
disbursed under the sector. This sector contributed to phase out CFC of 572 ODP tons.
*   There were 7 household refrigeration companies successfully converted refrigeration part
from CFC-12 to HFC-134a, while for foam insulation conversion technology was from CFC-
12 to either HCFC-141b or cyclo-pentane (HC-Hydrocarbon). The later was a final option of
zero ODP conversion for selected large companies who have better financial resources (due
to high cost of co-finance need to be provided by this company). On the other hand for small
and medium scale companies, the selection of HCFC-141b was the interim solution.
Consequently, they should plan to phase-out the substance in the near future using their own
fund.
*   Three subprojects were completed under commercial refrigeration. The conversion of CFC-
11 to HCFC-141b in two foam insulation companies and replacement of CFC-12 to HFC-
134a in one company.
Mobile Air Conditioning (MAC) service sector
*   Mobile air conditioning (MAC) is the sector plan project that assisted MAC service shops to
process recovery and recharging of refrigerant using recovery machine as to reduce emission
of CFC- 12 into the air during service.
*   MAC sector phase-out plan project completed its program with participation of 854 MAC
recipients located in most of big cities in the 5 big islands of Indonesia. The program was
completed according to the project design phase-out reduction CFC-12 total of 915 ODP tons.
20


﻿* Each MAC recipient received one unit of 3R machine which functioned to recover, recycle
and recharge R-12 on MAC system in the vehicles. Aside from 3R unit each enterprise was
provided with a set of support items such as manifold, leak detectors and spare part kits.
Aerosol sector
*   There are 2 aerosol investment subprojects approved. One is the aerosol filling center and the
other is aerosol Sector Plan (SP) project. With completion of this 2 subprojects, aerosol sector
contribute to 530 ODP tons.
*   Aerosol industry in the earlier time using CFC-12 as propellant. The project provided aerosol
manufacturing companies with sufficient assistance to convert the use of CFC-12 with
hydrocarbon. The project provided a technical assistance for companies who have initiated
the conversion. Assistance from aerosol expert and safety equipments has helped
beneficiaries improving their safety in the production.
*   With the understanding that a large number of smaller aerosol fillers would not be able to
operate safely with hydrocarbon, an aerosol filling center was financed. Unfortunately, and
despite huge efforts from KLH, the selected company for the filling center apparently lost
interest and this aerosol filling center never went into operation as a contract filling center.
Fortunately, a private financed contract filling center is now operate in Indonesia, so while
the subproject was unsuccessful, the concept was accepted by the industry
*   From the above fact, two issues were identified causing the problem. The company which
should have operated the filing center was in the aerosol business himself, so many other
companies were reluctant to use the center due to commercial reasons (considered as
competitor). The other problem was that many of the small fillers did not have a business
license to operate, or a legal agreement for the products that they were producing (copy
products).
*   While the Aerosol SP project was a combination of investment and technical assistance
program to help aerosol companies with production safety and training. The investment part
which supporting the conversion of aerosol production using CFC-12 to hydrocarbon was
implemented by UNDP. The technical assistance part under the Bank was completed by
assisting 6 small medium aerosol companies in improving safety production standards.
Halon sector
*   There were two subprojects completed under halon sector. A total of 682 MT of halon was
recorded as a phased-out from this sector beyond the baseline set under Montreal Protocol
(354 MT ODP). The subproject was able to support three companies and phased-out
consumption of 682 MT in halon 1211 production for fire extinguisher. Two of the three
companies selected dry powder and C02 as alternative technology and one changed to water
based technology.
*   Another subproject was a TA for halons management and banking which help Indonesia in
managing stock of halons within the country. The Montreal Protocol considered halons as
hazardous substance to the ozone layer as it has an ODP of 10. Thus thru establishment of
halons banking, Indonesia got opportunity to manage stock of halon available in Indonesia
and use it as critical usage. Halons management and banking project was implemented by PT.
21


﻿Garuda Maintenance Facility (GMF) who is managing supply and demand of halons
domestically. The halons critical users are tele-communication, oil services, and aviation
companies. This specific program was considered phasing out ODS around 972MT ODP (as
referred in the approved project document) which contributed to the ODS phase out under TA
programme.
Solvent sector
* Under this sector, three subprojects were completed and one cancelled because the company
was closed. Completion of three subprojects under solvent sector was able to phase out 21.87
MT ODP while original planned was 24.03 MT ODP. Under the solvent project, 1,1,1
Trichloroethane (TCA) was primarily used for metal cleaning process which was then
replaced with aqueous cleaning (water base). While for fluid correction, TCA was replaced
with hexane. TCA ODP value is the same with CFC.
Tobacco sector
*   There was one subproject under the sector which consisted of 2 recipient companies. The
objective of the project was to eliminate the consumption of 90 MT of CFC-1 1 for tobacco
expansion at PT Hanjaya Mandala Sampoema and PT Djarum. On implementation of the
project only Sampoema completed the project by using a carbon dioxide-based system - Dry
Ice Expanded Tobacco (DIET) technology. While Djarum decided (after project was
approved) to change the technology to steam-based STE technology instead of the agreed
technology and this decision was not approved by the OORG. The later perceived that
applying DIET technology will need to absorb high counterpart funding which finally prevent
them to implement the project.
*   With completion of Sampoema, the project was phasing out 54 MT ODP. No technical issues
found in the implementation of Sampoema project.
Technical assistance program
There were 7 subprojects categorized under individual technical assistance (TA) program
approved by ExCom. The following paragraphs are summarized of the TA program and the
Table 2above shows cost of the project.
*   The MAC recycling program was the TA program considered as a pilot project with purpose
to introduce the program to MAC service players; assistance to big MAC service companies
in reducing emission of C02 and receive feedbacks to launch bigger scale MAC recycling
project. There were 54 MAC service companies participating in the program.
*   Small foam enterprises project was also approved under TA program, assisting 50 foam
enterprises in increasing technical capacity about safety and health of using methylene
chloride (MC) for foam production as well as phasing out 100 MT CFC- 11.
*   TA to aerosol sector was able to involve 26 manufacturing companies to enhance safe
production from the use of CFC-12 into hydrocarbon. A set of aerosol safety tools (crimp
gauge, leak detector, fire extinguisher, and exhaust fan) and also standard safety training were
provided by the program.
*   TA for PT Bank UPPINDO was able to equip the financial agent regarding the project
management and procurement procedure knowledge for the purpose of implementation of the
program.
22


﻿*   Strengthening of import/export control TA was a program provided by Ex.Com to do survey
about supply and demand of ODS substances as well as developing import licensing system
for Indonesia. The result of this TA has contributed to the improvement of national ODS
regulation.
*  The TA related to halon management and banking which help Indonesia in managing stock of
halon within the country. Summary of the subproject has been described in previous
paragraphs under halon sector. The last TA approved by ExCom is related to Metered Dose
Inhaler (MDI) which helped Indonesia to prepare transition strategy to CFC free Metered
Dose Inhales (MDI) in Indonesia. With completion of the TA, Indonesia is expected to be
able to achieve a smooth transition nation-wide from CFC-based MDIs to CFC free
alternatives.
ODS phase-out and other benefit.
The project was able to phase out a total of 6892 MT ODP from its realized subprojects. These
are significant contributions to the global ODS phase-out effort on which 5,763 ODP achieved
from investment component while 1129 ODP was achieved with completion of non-
investment/TA component. Due to the nature of ODS which also substances with high global
warming potential, the phase out of ODS has also impacted to the reduction of emission of
greenhouse gases (GHG). Estimation below was calculated from the phase out of ODS from
investment project which equivalent to reduction about 29.24 million tons C02 (equivalent). See
below table for estimation of contribution of ODS phase out to the reduction of global warming.
Table 4. Estimated Permanent Annual Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions after
Completion of the ODS Investment Subprojects
ODS SUBSTANCES                  ALTERNATIVE NON-CFC
ODP    CFC-   CFC- Halon    TCA- HFC-     HC    HCFC-   MC    water   Other
tons    11     12     1211  1.1.1.  134a         141b   etc.
GWP3              4,600  8,500  1,300         1,320  15     700     0      0      0
Refrigeration  572   429    143                  143   280     149
MAC           915           915                  915
Aerosol       530     0     530                         530
Foam         2,988  2,619   369     0             0     369    512   1,546  561
Fire          682     0      0      682                                             682
solvent       22                           22                                22
Tobacco       54             54                                                     54
Total ODP    5,763  3,048   2,011  682     22   1,058  1,179   661   1,546  583     736
t C02 equiv.
(Mio)               14.02   17.09  0.89          1.40  0.02   0.46     -     -
Total t C02 (million)
31.11                                                 1.88
Tons of C02 equiv. (million)      I    (29.24)
3 /GWP IPCC TAR (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Third Assessment Review)
23


﻿Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
As this project was designed to help Indonesia meet its mandatory international obligation to
phase-out ODS, no specific estimate was made of the project's likely economic rate of return
(ERR), net present value (NPV) or financial rate of return (FRR). Rather, the project modality
was to work with each enterprise to agree on the most-cost effective means to achieve CFC
phase-out. Analysis of the unit abatement cost between and within sectors was also used to
prioritize the most cost-effective investments, though in practice availability of financing or flow
of funds was not a significant constraint in terms of which subprojects to finance first, and other
considerations, such as total amount of ODS savings, were probably more important.
The project's underlying principle was to compensate firms for costs driven by an international
agreement that was "external" to their daily business operations. The Montreal Protocol requires
enterprises to pay for the estimated financial benefits of technology upgrading, as distinct from
the external costs associated with ODS phase-out. However, the project was never meant to
generate a positive rate of return.
The average cost of ODP phase-out across the entire project was $4.41/kg ODP (not include the
tobacco and solvent sector). As detailed in Annex 2, the unit costs range from $0.71/kg in halon
sector, to $8.2/kg in the refrigeration sector. These unit costs compare very favorably with
international costs.
24


﻿Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
(a) Task Team members
Responsibility/
Names                        Title                Unit
Specialty
[Lending
Global Env
Jessica Poppele         Ozone Operations Coordinator-Asia C           Team leader
Coordination
Indonesia
Kunrat Wirasubrata              Operation Officer        Resident    Task member
Mission
Environ Unit,
Paul Martin                   Economist/Consultant     Country Dept Task member
III EAP
region
Supervision/ICR
Ozone Operations        Global Env.     Project
Jessica Poppele                                         Coordinatio
Coordinator-Asia            n
Env. Unit,
Paul Martin                                              Country     Task Member
Dept III
Sharon Gustafson                                         EA3DR      Task Member
1            Project
Thomas E Walton              Sr. Environmental Spec.      EACIF      manaemt
management
Kumi Kitamora                  Technical Specialist       SASEN       managet
management
Priya Mathur                  Environmental Analyst       EASES         Project
management
Ellen Tynan                    Technical Specialist      ENVGC      Technical expert
Helen Chan                  Sr Environmental Specialist   EASES     ODS Regional
Coordinator
Technical
Viraj Vithoontien           Sr Environmental Specialist  EASRE        expert/ODS
Regional
Coordinator
Environmental
Farida Zaituni               Environmental Specialist     EASIS       Safeguard
Rizal Rivai                  Sr. Procurement Specialist  EAPCO       Procurement
William Hardi                Procurement Specialist      EAPCO       Procurement
Josef Lloyd Leitmann           Program Manager           LCRRF      Task Member
Steven P. Maber            Sr Environmental Specialist.  EASER        Regional
25


﻿Coordinator
Erik Pedersen                    Consultant           EASRE    Technical Expert
Project
Ina Pranoto               Sr Environmental Specialist.  EASIS    Manaemt
Management
Unggul Suprayitno        Sr Financial Management Spec  EAPFM       Finance
Andry Utama Thamrin            Finance Analyst       CTRDM       Disbursement
Anita Kentjanawati Tuwo     Procurement Specialist.   EAPCO      Procurement
Delly Nurzaman                 Team Assistant         EACIF     Administration
Retno Anna Widiana             Team Assistant         EACIF     Administration
(b) Staff Time and Cost
Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                      USD Thousands (including travel
and consultant costs)
Lending
FY93                                                     43.04
FY94                                                    224.80
FY95                                                     31.62
Total:                            299.46
Supervision/ICR
FY93                                                     11.21
FY94                                                      0.00
FY95                                                     64.85
FY96                                                     62.29
FY97                                                    134.13
FY98                                                    118.53
FY99                                                     73.01
FY00                                  32                 90.49
FYO1                                   3                 90.63
FY02                                   3                162.87
FY03                                  25                256.75
FY04                                  29                162.76
FY05                                  22                114.62
FY06                                  57                122.56
FY07                                  55                105.53
FY08                                  24                 97.23
FY 09                                 30                 86.03
FY 10                                 10                 51.40
FY 11                                  7                 22.80
Total:         297               1827.68
26


﻿Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
No specific survey was conducted, however, representatives of beneficiary participated in the
workshop on "lessons learned from the implementation of ODS phase out project" organized by
executing agency (KLH) in December 2010. A summary of report is available in Annex 6.
27


﻿Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Final ODS workshop was organized on 16 December 2010 by KLH inviting all stakeholders,
including representatives of line Ministries, other government and non-government organizations
and industries. The workshop was arranged with the objective to contribute to the preparation of
the closing project, in particular to have a lesson learned from the implementation of the ODS
phase out project.
Some issues raised and lessons learned that collected from the stakeholders Workshop are
summarized as follows:
1. There have been an effective and efficient systematic and mechanism to technically
implement an international project like Montreal protocol which the Ozone unit of KLH
has developed competencies necessary to implement the same in the future.
2. Cooperation with the World Bank and other relevant agencies/institutions such as UNDP,
UNIDO, UNEP, Government agencies, associations, consultants within the Montreal
Protocol framework have been effective and efficient, that clearly stirred the project
completion into an achievable target. Such mechanism may be applied to other projects.
3. In general, assistance from the Multilateral Fund established under the Montreal Protocol
has motivated enterprises to shift to ODS reduction technologies, but complex and
lengthy procedures for accessing the Multilateral Fund, difficulties in finding appropriate
suppliers of non-CFC technologies, and insufficient financial and technical capabilities of
many enterprises have slowed down this conversion.
4. Development of a good technical proposal which is contextual with technical
requirements would help the project be implemented according to the plan and schedule.
5. Tremendous technical learning and education have been dedicated by the project to
national experts and government officers who are potential benefit to be utilized for
future project, and such technical know-how would have been how appreciated by
enterprises, national authorities and the MLF for continued monitoring and assistance to
the project after completion
6. A written commitment from subproject proponent or participating enterprises with
penalty for delays implementation or cancellation to avoid disadvantage to project
implementation and reporting.
7. The Ozone unit of KLH should ensure a strong arm-length within and assistance from
established national technical team in maintaining sustainability and adaptability on the
applied technology on industry level consuming non-ODS technology more thoroughly.
For example is by supporting the Ozone Unit operation with government budget for
monitoring and supervision post the completion of the ODS phase-out project
8. Implementation performance particularly household refrigeration sector and the foam
sector showed wide difference. The performance of the household refrigeration sector in
reducing ODS consumption had been superior to that of the foam sector, even though
required technology changes were relatively simple for the foam sector. There were two
explanations for this outcome. First, market demand matters. The influence of the global
market, multinational corporations, intense (and occasionally misleading) advertising
about non-CFC products and stiff competition for consumers caused Indonesia's
principal refrigerator manufacturers to adopt non-CFC production technologies. Similar
incentives did not exist for enterprises in the foam sector. Second, industrial structure
matters. The foam sector includes a large number of small enterprises with limited
financial and technical capability and weak access to information and technology, and
these factors obstructed technological change.
28


﻿Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
(a) Borrower ICR summary4
Ministry of Environment (KLH) through the support from the World Bank as the Implementing
Agency of the Montreal Protocol program, has successfully completed implementation of the
ODS phase-out project in meeting the agreed obligation as Article 5 Countries of the Montreal
Protocol. KLH has played major role to assure that the ODS phase-out in enterprise recipients'
had been completed financially and technically.
The financing assistance to Indonesia was established through the signing of the Grant
Agreement of Trust Fund (TF) No. 21982 on 10 November 1994 between the Ministry of Finance
on behalf of Government of Indonesia and the World Bank as the Implementing Agency of the
program with total agreed trust fund of USD 17 million.
In facilitating the ODS phase-out project implementation in Indonesia, the TF Grant Agreement
has been amended several times. Amendment of Grant Agreement on 14 November 2003 referred
to the increase of Trust fund ceiling to US$36,552,596. Last amendment on 26 December 2007
and its subsequent Letter from the World Bank dated 14 September 2009 on approval for
reallocation of TF 21982 to become:
Percentage of
"OTF Grant   Expenditure to
Category               Allocated (USD)  be Financed
(1)   Goods, works, consultants' services,  32,745,181.75      100
training and Incremental Operating
Costs of Subproject Beneficiaries for
Sub-projects under Part A of the Project
(2)   Goods, Consultants' Services and                         100
Training under:
(a) Part B.1 of the Project          50,000.00
(b) Part B.2 of the Project          50,000.00
(c) Part B.3 of the Project       2,221,520.25
(3)   Agency Fee                            1,064,523.00       100
(4)   Incremental Operating Costs under Part  421,066          100
B.3 of the project
TOTAL                  36,552,596.00
4 / The borrower ICR consist of 2 volumes Technical Report and Financial Report of more 100
pages each
29


﻿From the Trust Fund ceiling mentioned above, the total approved subprojects funding by MLF
was US$35.72 million, and disbursement as per 15 December 2010 was US$28.35 million to the
subprojects to address the phase-out of ODS in Indonesia.
The next table described disbursement records to subprojects per 15 December 2010 according to
the categories.
Table 1: Summary of Disbursement of Grant Fund TF 21982 according to Category *)
In Million USD
Utilization of
OTF
OTF Grant     Disbursed by
Category                  Allocated    Subprojects
1   Goods, works, consultants' services, training
and Incremental Operating Costs of
Subproject Beneficiaries for Sub-projects
under Part A of the Project
2   Goods, Consultant' Services and Training
under:
(a) Part B.1 of the Project                    0.05               0
(b) Part B.2 of the Project                    0.05             0.05
(c) Part B.3 of the Project                    2.22             0.88
3   Agency Fee                                     1.06             0.82
4   Incremental Operating costs under Part B.3     0.42             0.16
of the project
TOTAL          36.55            28.35
*) Disbursement records to subprojects per 15 Dec.2010
There were 55 subprojects in 7 sectors (foam, refrigeration, MAC, aerosol, halon, solvent and
tobacco) approved by the Executive Committee of the Montreal Protocol (Ex.Com) for
implementation, with approved grant of US$33.66 million. With grant, it was expected that
Indonesia could phase-out 7,217 MT ODP which total amount of ODP phase out estimated at the
time subprojects were approved
Of total 7,217 ODP MT (planned) to be phased-out in 55 approved projects under Implementing
Agency of World Bank, it was recorded that amounted to 6,892 ODP MT was ultimately phased
out. This amount represents around 95% of total ODP to be phased-out under implementing
agency of World Bank. Detailed calculation of ODP phased out by project is presented in below
table 2 on ODS phase out overview.
30


﻿Table 2: ODS Phase-out Overview
No. of         ODP Phase-out (MT)
No. of     No. of    participating
subprojects subproject  companies in        Phased
No      Sector     approved   completed  the subproject  Plan   -out       %
1   Foam             27         23          124      3,492    2,988       86
2   Refrigeration    13         13          864       1,487   1,487      100
3   Halon             1          1            3        465     682       147
4   Solvent           4          3            3         24      22        91
5   Aerosol           2          2            7        530     530       100
6   Tobacco           1          1            1         90      54        60
7   Tech. Assist      7          7          134       1129    1129       100
TOTAL            55         50         1,136      7,217   6,892
There were 1136 enterprises/institutions participating in the project across the nation with the
total disbursed OTF fund of USD 28.35 million (figure by mid December 2010) as specified on
Table 1 (of this current Annex 7). Majority of beneficiaries were participants from sectors foam
and refrigeration, in particular MAC refrigeration subsector under which involved many service
shop companies.
Five subprojects were cancelled during implementation due to various reason inter alia change
of ownership, bankruptcy, voluntary withdrawal or opted for self conversion. While the other 50
approved subprojects were implemented according to technical requirements designed in the
document. Technical requirements referred to the selection of non-ODS technology,
specifications of non-CFC equipments, provisions of technology transfer and trial run process,
disposal of old baseline equipment. Below table represents summary of technology used of non-
CFC application.
Table 3: Summary of Technology of Non-ODS
No.              Sector             Technology Conversion Non-ODS
FOAM
- Flexible PU Box Foam        Methylene chloride (MC)
- PEPS                        Butane/LPG
- Flexible PU Molded, Integral
Skin & Shoe Sole
- Rigid & Spray               HCFC 141b
REFRIGERATION
HCFC-141b & Cyclopentane for
- Domestic refrigeration      insulation and HFC-1 34a for
2                                  refrigeration part
.                   HCFC- 141b for insulation and
HFC-1 34a for refrigeration part
- Mobile air conditioning     HFC-134a
3    HALON                         ABC Dry powder, C02
SOLVENT                       Aqueous cleaning (Water Based)
4                                  & N-Hexane
31


﻿5    AEROSOL & MDI                   Butane/LPG & HFC/DPI
6    TOBACCO                         DIET Process (Water Based)
The followings are lessons learned from implementation of ODS phase-out project:
1.     The ODS phase-out achieved through financial and technical assistance to subprojects
were following the government efforts to put in place regulation in control and phase-out
ODS imports and manufacturing using ODS. It was imperative to introduce the
regulation and put in force control on ODS supply through strong commitment from
KLH and relevant government offices. Cooperation with the World Bank and other
relevant agencies/institutions such as UNDP, UNIDO, UNEP, Government agencies,
associations, consultants within the Montreal Protocol framework have been effective
and efficient, that clearly stirred the project completion into an achievable target. A
continuous capacity building and technical assistance program had sufficiently developed
staff and officers' capacity within the PMU and Ozone unit.
2.     In addition, assistance from the Multilateral Fund established under the Montreal
Protocol (MP) has strongly helped and motivated enterprises to convert to non ODS
technologies. The MP project was successfully completed according to World Bank and
MP criteria. A few of the noteworthy aspects of this program that has offered insight into
efficient ways of carrying out these operations are listed below:
(i)    The timeframe for these projects is multi-years as to compare with Government
projects which normally on a yearly basis. Since the ODS phase-out project was
included in the Government annual budget, while the implementation of
subprojects were done by recipient beneficiaries, Ministry of Environment had
to make evaluation on the effectiveness of disbursement and implementation
progress of each subproject.
(ii)   Documentation and reporting requirements under the fund are extremely
complex. The procedures set up from project proposal, the implementation until
completion of subprojects require lengthy procedures. In this case, KLH should
fulfill MP reporting requirements. However World Bank, as implementing
agency was able to streamline and simplify procedures to address MP and World
Bank procedures.
(iii)   MP program is considered one of longest implementing project at the Ministry
of Environment. However along with well set-up financial management,
procurement schemes and strong modalities of the project, the Government was
able to implement without any critical problems even-tough some issues rose
during implementation due to high turn-over of personnel at KLH.
3.     Close supervision but more importantly government ownership of these projects was
critical in ensuring successful completion. Some problems with regards to project
procedures were resolved by government oversight.
4.     In 2007, Government through the Ozone unit has developed a strong arm-length within
and assistance from established national technical team and local capacity to maintain
sustainability and adaptability on the applied technology on industry level consuming
non-ODS technology more thoroughly. As an instance, Government has provided internal
financial support for monitoring and supervision post the completion of the ODS phase-
out project.
32


﻿5.     Government should capitalize experience and expertise from the project operation in
continuation of upcoming typical project to come. Continue strengthening project
management and financial management within the unit will enable the government staff
to facilitate similar project in the future.
(b) Comments from Government on Draft ICR
No comment
33


﻿Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Below is summary of the comment/input from PT Ekofin Konsulindo and Group Coordinator
(individual consultant) sent through email communication to the TTL during preparation of the
draft ICR.
As financial agent, PT. Ekofin Konsulindo expressed the view that over many years of project
implementation, the FA was able to comply with its roles and duties successfully. Good
coordination in resolving technical and financial issues and substantial capacity building
provided by the Bank and KLH project team, enabled the FA to keep up its performance in
addressing administration and financial issues.
The Group Coordinator of the MAC sector plan and the Foam sector plan also expressed a
satisfaction with the strong commitment from the World Bank and KLH to complete the project
successfully. A set of project requirements as to meet phase-out compliance target as well as
timely disbursement of grant funds along with strong review and good monitoring of the project
contributed to the success with fine tuning and improvement along the way.
Beneficiary recipients under the Group Coordinator of MAC and foam sector projects expressed
their satisfaction in taking part in the project which allowed them to completely phase-out the use
of CFCs in the sectors.
Additional selected comment from recipients below was collected during stakeholder workshop
in December 2010 as follows:
-  KLH to continue the ODS program emphasizing in dissemination and law
enforcement involving local government;
-  Halon Bank management (under PT GMF) commits to maintain and continue
the halon bank program post completion of the subproject; and.
-  Some beneficiaries participants to the workshop expressed their thanks for
the grant support to phase out CFC and wished that program continued to
phase put HCFC
34


﻿Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide Memoire supervision missions (from 1995 up to 2010)
2. Ozone project Trust Fund Grant Agreement (Montreal Protocol Ozone Depleting Substance
Phase out Investment Project) between Republic of Indonesia and IBRD, dated November
10, 1994, and its amendments.
3. Memorandum and Recommendation of the Director (MOD), East Asia and the Pacific
Country Department III of IBRD to Regional Vice President on a Proposed Ozone Projects
Trust Fund Grant in the amount equivalent to US$17.0 million to the Republic of Indonesia
for a Montreal Protocol Ozone Depleting Substances Phase Out Project, October 21, 1994.
4. Technical Completion Report of ODS TF021982 prepared by consultant for NOU Ministry
of Environment, December 2010.
5. Financial Completion Report of ODS TF02182 prepared by consultant for NOU Ministry of
Environment, December 2010.
6. Summary Assessment Sheet of Quality of Supervision of Risky Project (FY00-01).
7. Summary Assessment Sheet of Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio (QALP-1).
8. Indonesia Country Program for ODS phase-out (original CP and updated CP).
35


﻿95'               100         r-.  105°              110°              115°             120°              125°   This op wos produced by
lhe Map Design Unt of The
World Bnk. The boundare,  l
colors, denominations and
on thr..pd.-t irply, on   CITIES AND TOWNS
the~ part of The World Bank
Group, any judqroeon    ø    PROVINCE CAPITALS
1'legol stotos                                                                                of  o y trio
15                                                                           or eny endorsement or    ®    NATIONAL CAPITAL
acceptance of such
INDONESIA                                                                                    boood""""                      RIVERS
___MAIN ROADS
VIETNAM                                         PHILIPPINES                                       RAILROADS
. >PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
10           --10°                                                                                                                        -  -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
135              140°
Bando Aceh
5                                                                   BRUNB.,                                                                                                5°
Medan                      Natun                                                                    Taud
MelnBeasar                                                f 24   ofarakan
Pematingsia n tar                                                          Tnjung Selor              25
Simeulue                             (       19                                                                           Morotai
SINGAPORE                     .~..Manado.
NisPekanbaru                 Tanjungpinang                            23
3eailcr            Potank          KAIANA                         27    6 --         Ternate Ss Hnimahera                                      0
KALIMANTA                            Gorontalo                   Waigeo                                   0.
0.  3Slin99°ot       Jamb     i      nak    20                        amarinda                                            Manokwari    Biok
/ik Padn.l                                                                                          31                         kwa      Bi.
SiPotda5.Jabiga                a2                                Balikpapan Peeoi°
-oJ30MATERA ~   ,Paingkalpinang   Palangkaraya      o                             Sa            ceramMisool 33         Yapen            Jayapura
6M       Aemng        Bitg                     22    Mamuju,,ý                                Ceran)
6         Palemýbang9  8eliung                       2    28209                                Amahal Fakfa,ko
7                       Bandiarm2in'                    30   Kendari      Buru °u                            34   PAPUA-
Bengkulu                                Baniamosnj                                                                                       i.~
8lParepare                                                                   Am                             ika    PuncA Ja
8                                                                                                      .           ° 4   (5030 m)       z
La ung       JAKARTA                              Makassar.                                                                           <
0     200   400 Kilometers          Serang .                     d *ula
Bidun Serabng  madura
0   100  200  300  400 Miles          10                        Surabaya o6rwe                                        Mo  Babar Tanimbar                           I   U
95               100°               105°               14         Denpasar             a                                                                   Merauke     Z
9 5  C            100 0             1 0 5 't                                 r a t1         8            .  ,  T IM O R - L E S T E
PROVINCES:                                                            W10n°                  nSumba          Timor
1 NANGGROE ACEH DARUSSALAM  12 JAWA BARAT          23 KALIMANTAN TIMUR                                   Kupang
2 SUMATERA UTARA           13 JAWA TENGAH          24 KALIMANTAN UTARA
3 RIAU                     14 D.I. YOGYAKARTA      25 SULAWESI UTARA
4 SUMATERA BARAT           15 JAWA TIMUR           26 GORONTALO
5 JAMBI                    16 BALI                 27 SULAWESI TENGAH
6 BENGKULU                 17 NUSA TENGGARA BARAT  28 SULAWESI BARAT
7 SUMATERA SELATAN         18 NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR  29 SULAWESI SELATAN
8 LAMPUNG                  19 RIAU KEPULAUAN       30 SULAWESI TENGGARA  15°                                                                                              15° U
9 BANGKA-BELITUNG          20 KALIMANTAN BARAT     31 MALUKU UTARA
10 BANTEN                   21 KALIMANTAN TENGAH    32 MALUKU                                                                  AUSTRALIA
11 D.K.I. JAKARTA           22 KALIMANTAN SELATAN   33 PAPUA BARAT        115              120°              125               130°              135              140°
34 PAPUA            l


