Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20060
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
STR UCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 4435 - PAK)
January 18, 2000
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
South Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: Rupees (Rs.)
Official exchange rate: US$1 = Rs. 51.8
FISCAL YEAR
July 1-June 30
LIST OF ACRONYMS
ADB          Asian Development Bank
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
EFF          Enhanced Financial Facility
ESAF         Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GRA          Gas Regulatory Authority
HUBCO        HUB Power Company Limited
IMF          International Monetary Fund
IPPs         Independent Power Producers
KAPCO        Kot Addu Power Company
KESC         Karachi Electricity Supply Corporation
NEPRA        National Electric Power Regulatory Authority
PEPCO        Pakistan Electric Power Company
PSDP         Public Sector Development Program
SAL          Structural Adjustment Loan
UCH          UCH Power Limited
WAPDA        Water and Power Development Authority
Vice President:          Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:       John Wall
Sector Director:        Roberto Zagha
Task Leader:            Ahmad Jamshidi



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan 4435-PAK)
Table of Contents
1.        Project Data ...................................................1
2.        Principal Performance Ratings ...................................................2
3.        Assessment of Development Objective, Design, and Quality at Entry .......................3
4.        Achievement of Development Objectives and Outputs ...............................................5
5.        Major Factor Affecting Implementation and Outcome ................................................9
6.        Sustainability ..................................................                    10
7.        Bank and borrower Performance .............1..................................... 1
8.        Lessons Learned ..................................................                   12
9.        Partner Comments ..................................................                  13
10.       Additional Information ..................................................            19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Los Frame matrix .23
Annex 2. Project costs and Financing .24
Annex 3. Economic costs and Benefits .26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs .27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components .28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance .29
Annex 7. List of supporting Documents              ..30
A. Prior Conditions for board Presentation of SAL .30
B. Adjustment Loan Policy Matrix .31
C. Mission's Aide-Mmoire .34
D. Mission Documents .39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PA KISTAN
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENTLOAN
(Loan 4435-PAK)
1. PROJECT DATA
Report date: December 28, 1998
Name: Structural Adjustment Loan
Country/Department: Pakistan                            L/C Number: 44350
Sector/Subsector: PREM                                  Region: South Asia
Key Dates                        Original               Revised/Actual
PCD:                             7/29/1998
Appraisal:                        12/10/1998
Approval:                        01/21/1999
Effectiveness                    01/22/1999
MTR:                             NA
Closing:                          6/30/1999
Borrower: Government of Pakistan
Implementing agency: Ministry of Finance
Other partners: None
Staff                             Current               AtAppraisal
Vice President                   Mieko Nishimizu        Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director                 John Wall              Sadiq Ahmed
Sector Director                  Roberto Zagha          Roberto Zagha
Team Leader of ICR               Ahmad Jamshidi
ICR Primary Author               Ahmad Jamshidi
Team Leader of Appraisal         John Wall



2. PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS
Outcome: Satisfactory
Sustainability: Likely
Institutional development impact: Moderate
Bank performance: Satisfactory
Borrower performance: Satisfactory
Quality at entry: Fully satisfactory
Project at risk at any time: No



3. ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES, DESIGN, AND QUALITY AT ENTRY
3.1 Original Objectives
3.1.1.   Weaknesses in governance have been the major source of the political and economic problems
Pakistan has faced in the past decade. Since 1990 four consecutive democratically elected governments
have been dismissed, two of them on corruption charges. Governance issues have slowed economic growth,
greatly hampered and distorted development of the private sector, and constrained Pakistan's efforts to
reduce poverty and improve human development. The crisis of governance has been particularly acute in
tax administration, public expenditure management, and the banking and energy sectors.
3.1.2.   Following the dismissal of Benazir Bhutto's government on corruption charges in November
1996, Nawaz Sharif was elected prime minister in February 1997. Mr. Sharif won the elections on a
promise to combat corruption. His governnmnt quickly embarked on an ambitious economic reform agenda
to reverse what it saw as years of economic mismanagement and corruption throughout the economic
system, particularly at the highest levels. In October 1997 the Government reached an agreement with the
IMF and the World Bank on a Policy Framework Paper underpinning its reform initiatives. The program
has been supported by (a) the IMF, with a three-year US$1.56 billion ESAF/EFF arrangement that began in
October 1997; (b) the Bank, with a US$250 million Banking Sector Adjustment Loan (with an equivalent
amount in cofinancing from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan) in December 1997; and (c)
the Asian Development Bank (ADB), through a US$250 million Capital Market Development Loan (with
an equivalent amount in cofinancing from Japan Export Import Bank of Japan) in January 1998. These
reforms paid off: Pakistan's economic indicators through May 1998 reveal signs of economic recovery and
increased stability.
3.1.3.   Events following Pakistan's nuclear testing in May 1998 hampered the reform process and
threatened political stability. The international community condemned the testing, and major industrial
nations imposed economic sanctions, including opposition to any new lending by international financial
institutions beyond that needed to meet basic human needs. Sanctions led to severe balance of payments
problems (reserves fell from US$1.3 billion in May to about US$400 million in early December 1998);
spending cuts; import restrictions; tax increases; and substantial external debt service arrears. In response,
in November 1998, the Government, the IMF, and the Bank agreed on a strengthened program of
macroeconomic stabilization and medium-term structural reforms to be supported under the ESAF/EFF
arrangement, the Bank's Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), and fast-disbursing loans from ADB. The
revised reform program was adopted by the Government to improve governance and efficiency and to
protect the poor.
3.1.4.   The structural reforms supported by the SAL built on the pre-sanctions reform agenda, extending
and deepening actions in a number of key areas of governance, particularly banking, power, taxation, and
public spending. The measures were intended to restore business confidence, improve Pakistan's growth
prospects, and cushion the impact of the May 1998 events on the poor. Over the medium term these reforms
are expected to result in (a) a privately owned and managed banking system supported by external
governance by an effective regulator and supervisor, competitive markets, and well-functioning legal and
judicial systems; (b) a more efficient and financially viable energy sector, in which private investors play an
important role and regulatory authorities are independent; (c) an autonomous, efficient, and equitable tax
administration that improves taxpayer compliance, reduces compliance costs, and broadens the tax base in
order to achieve sustained growth of tax revenues; and (d) an expenditure policy that focuses government
spending on public goods and services, increases the returns to public spending, and improve the
institutional mechanisms that govern public spending.
3.1.5.   The objectives and implementation plans for the SAL were clearly stated and were consistent
with the current Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The 1995 CAS and subsequent CAS progress
reports-discussed by the Board in FY96, FY97, and FY98-put forth a country assistance strategy based



- 4 -
on helping Pakistan achieve macroeconomic stability, improve human development, build a competitive
environment for private sector development and sustainable growth, and strengthen governance. In
November 1998, after indications that the G-7 sanctions would be partially lifted, the Government, the IMF,
and the Bank agreed on an updated Policy Framework Paper and an IMF program to be supported by an
ESAF/EFF arrangement. The newly agreed on reform program-which this adjustment loan also
supports-is much stronger than that envisaged before sanctions were imposed, except for the timing of
privatization (particularly of banks), which has become difficult in the current business climate. To help the
Government implement this new and ambitious reform program, the Bank-in close coordination with the
IMF and the ADB, Pakistan's main multilateral partners-adopted a comprehensive response strategy. The
key feature of this strategy is a series of single-tranche adjustment loans that support actions already taken
in the major areas covered under the updated Policy Framework Paper.
3.2 Revised Objectives
The objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components
3.3.1.   Based on experience in Pakistan and the need to help the Government implement its ambitious
reform program in a politically difficult environment, the Bank decided to tie its support to implementation
of a program of reforms identified in the updated (November 1998) Policy Framework Paper. Within those
reforms, a subset of key actions had been identified as prior conditions for presentation of the SAL to the
Board. (See Annex 7.A and 7.B for a description of the full program of actions supported by the SAL and a
list of conditions for presentation of the loan to the Board). The objectives of these conditions or prior
actions were as follows:
e  Banking sector: (a) Improve financial discipline and reduce stock of nonperforming loans; and (b)
design simpler foreclosure procedures to facilitate recovery of debts in default.
*  Power sector: (a) Improve management of power sector; (b) make necessary changes to legal
environment to facilitate restructuring and privatization of the Water and Power Development Authority
(WAPDA); (c) commercialize WAPDA's operations; (d) improve financial discipline and accelerate
collection of arrears; and (e) use regulatory process to set tariffs.
*  Natural gas sector: (a) Improve financial discipline and reduce arrears; and (b) strengthen legal basis
for tariff setting and collections by legislating new regulatory and enforcement mechanisms.
*  Tax administration: (a) Recover tax arrears; (b) establish a professional tax administration service; (c)
enhance transparency of tax compliance of public representatives; (d) expand the tax net; and (e)
improve the legal framework for tax collections by strengthening and increasing the number of tax
tribunals.
*  Public expenditure: (a) Reduce the size and revise the content of budgetary and nonbudgetary public
development expenditures to reflect available resources and national priorities; and (b) provide
adequate financing to implement the Social Action Program.
3.3.2.   The design of the SAL and the prior actions that preceded its presentation to the Board were
relevant to achieving the Government's objectives. The Government was firmly committed to the
implementation of the prior actions. In some instances (gas bill collection and loan recovery), the
Government exceeded the goals sets.
3.3 Revised Components
The components were not revised.



-5 -
3.4 Quality at Entry
3.4.1.   The project was not selected for review by the Quality Assurance Group. The quality rating of
SAL at entry is satisfactory. The rating reflects the fact that the SAL was a proper response to a very
difficult economic situation in Pakistan. The loan helped Pakistan avoid the short-term adverse social
consequences of a balance of payments collapse. Yet it was part of an overall medium term reform
program under the IMF ESAF/EFF arrangement and other Bank supported programs. The loan benefited
from the lessons learned in implementing Bank programs and the IMF's ESAF/EFF arrangement. The SAL
built on and strengthened pre-sanctions reforms that reflected the Government's development priorities
(which the Government called a "home-grown program of reforms"), and it was consistent with the CAS
objectives of supporting strong reforms with adjustment lending. The lending levels were guided by the
CAS scenarios and triggers and the Bank's insistence on supporting actions already taken rather than
promises of actions to be taken. Prior actions in the SAL were based on rigorous analysis and reasonable
assumptions about the ability of the Government to implement the actions.
3.4.2.   The Bank's resettlement and, environmental safeguard policies were not applicable to any aspect
of the project.
4. ACHIEVEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS
4.1 Outcomes and Achievement of Objectives
4.1.1.   The SAL's main contribution has been to help Pakistan implement a strong program of reforms.
As a result, the Paris and London Club creditors agreed to reschedule Pakistan's debt service, providing the
Government with much-needed breathing space.  The SAL thus helped Pakistan stabilize its
macroeconomic position and strengthen its external position. By strengthening governance and deepening
the reforms in the banking and power sectors, the SAL has helped Pakistan focus on its medium-term
reform program to improve human development and build a competitive environment for private sector
development and sustainable growth.
4.1.2.   At the macroeconomic level, the SAL helped Pakistan avoid a balance of payments crisis. By
December 1998 reserves had fallen to about $400 million (less than two weeks of imports) and external
payment arrears had mounted to about $1.7 billion. There was considerable pressure on the exchange rate,
and import controls were threatening to choke off economic growth. By June 1999 foreign reserves reached
$1.7 billion (9 weeks of imports), debt service payments became current, and current account arrears were
cleared (debt service arrears to the Paris and London Clubs creditors, were subsequently rescheduled). GDP
growth stabilized, rising 3 percent in FY99 and 4 percent in FY00; despite poor export performance, the
current account was contained at 3 percent of GDP; and the fiscal deficit fell from 5.5 percent of GDP in
FY98 to 4.5 percent of GDP in FY99.
4.1.3.   Overall, the objectives of the SAL were achieved and all of the prior actions were implemented
before the loan was presented to the Board. A matrix in section 10 provides a summary of final outcomes
of prior actions and follow-up actions and achievements in the six months following the disbursement of the
loan.
4.2 Outputs by Components
Banking Sector
4.2.1.   The SAL supported a deepening of reforms introduced under the Banking Sector Adjustment
Loan. It improved financial discipline by establishing additional targets for recovery of nonperforming



- 6 -
loans owed to public financial institutions and by putting in place administrative procedures for executing
court-ordered recovery of defaulted loans.
4.2.2.   The Government exceeded the SAL target of Rs.12 billion by recovering Rs. 13.6 billion between
June and December 1998.
4.2.3.   The administrative measures (see Section 10 and Annex 7B, Banking) that improved the process
of implementing court decrees- agreed on following discussions by the Bank, the Ministry of Law, the
State Bank of Pakistan, public sector banks, and development finance institutions-were implemented by
the Ministry of Law in December 1998. As a result, the rate of recovery of court-ordered monies rose from
10 percent of decreed amounts in October 1998 to 24 percent in May 1999. Collections rose from 2 percent
of the total amount filed with the courts before implementation of the SAL measures to 5 percent as of May
31, 1999.
4.2.4.   The actions taken by the new government since the October 12, 1999, military takeover suggest
that improvements in governance will be sustained. The new government made loan recovery from
business leaders and powerful and politically influential figures the focus of its governance improvement
strategy. It established a list of all bank defaulters, giving them a month to settle their outstanding loans or
face prison terms. This campaign brought in about Rs.10 billion between October and December, 1999-a
higher rate of collection than the Rs. 20 billion a year collected in 1997 and 1998.
Power Sector
4.2.5.   The Government and the Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) implemented the
first steps of the medium-term reform agenda for the power sector agreed on under the SAL, including
implementation of the orderly framework to resolve disputes with Independent Power Producers (IPPs). A
major thrust of the reform agenda was to establish an electric power system consisting of 12 autonomous,
financially viable, and efficiently operated entities for generation, transmission, and distribution governed
by an independent regulatory authority, the National Electric Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA).
Toward that end, the Government brought in new management at WAPDA and the 12 corporatized entities.
Seven executive directors of the Pakistan Electric Power Company (PEPCO), the organization established
to manage the break up of WAPDA, were appointed in March 1999. The selection of new management for
the 12 corporatized entities is almost complete, and preparatory work for the transfer of assets, liabilities,
and staff from WAPDA to the corporatized entities is proceeding satisfactorily, albeit more slowly than
anticipated. Amendment of the WAPDA Act, which provides the legal basis for completing WAPDA's
corporatization, was promulgated through an Ordinance by the President in October 1998. License rules
and procedures for NEPRA were issued in December 1998, and the remaining guidelines are being
prepared.
4.2.6.   During the first six months of 1999, WAPDA's management focused on improving the utility's
operational and financial performance. Specific actions taken included (a) implementation of a
comprehensive theft and loss reduction program; (b) intensive efforts to improve billing and collections;
and (c) administrative measures to improve customer service and responsiveness to customer needs. As a
result, bill collection from private customers (except for customers in the Federally Administered Tribal
Area and agricultural customers in Baluchistan) continued to improve, exceeding 100 percent (as a result of
the collection of arrears from previous years) during the first nine months of FY99. Bill collection from
federal and provincial governments continues to be problematic, however. The level of receivables from
government agencies increased from Rs.18.7 billion on July 1, 1998, to about Rs.26.2 billion on June 30,
1999. The rise reflected an increase in receivables from Sindh, Azad Kashmir, and the Karachi Electricity
Supply Corporation (KESC). Other government agencies paid their electricity bills in line with the amounts
billed.



- 7 -
4.2.7.   Measures to restore WAPDA's financial viability were not fully implemented, despite extensive
discussions by the Bank, WAPDA, and the Government. WAPDA's total cash inflow during FY99 was
insufficient to cover its operating expenses, but it was able to reduce its accounts payable to acceptable
levels. WAPDA was unable to fully service its government debt, however. In June 1999 WAPDA proposed
several alternatives for financial restructuring that would enable the utility (and its successor companies) to
restore financial viability. The Government is currently reviewing these (and other) options, and a final
decision on the financial restructuring program, which had been expected by the end of December 1999,
should be reached soon.
4.2.8.   The Government also made significant progress in its attempt to resolve its dispute with
Independent Power Producers. The Government's handling of the dispute (which involves both charges of
corruption and disagreements over the price at which the IPPs should sell power to WAPDA) has damaged
its image abroad and worsened prospects for foreign direct investment in Pakistan. Before it would present
the SAL to the Board, the Bank required that the Government adopt an orderly framework to resolve these
disputes. The Bank continues to monitor the implementation of the orderly framework to ensure a timely
resolution of this costly dispute. With the exception of the HUB Power Company Limited (HUBCO),Kot
Addu Power Company (KAPCO), and UCH Power Limited (UCH), the Government has largely settled its
disputes with other Independent Power Producers, although the revised legal documents that still need to be
finalized. In the case of HIJUBCO, the largest power producer, the new Government has informed the Bank
that while it accepts the right of both parties to international arbitration should ongoing negotiations with
HUBCO fail, it wishes to exhaust other options for reaching new commercial arrangements before resorting
to lengthy and expensive arbitration.
Natural Gas
4.2.9.   The Government met the Rs. 1.6 billion benchmark for collection of gas bill arrears from
government and private consumers between June 12 and December 31, 1998. About Rs. 1.5 billion in
arrears had already been collected between July and November 1998, however, indicating that the
benchmark, which had been set at preappraisal, was reached before the SAL negotiations. The Government
felt that meeting the benchmark did not adequately reflect its success in increasing gas bill collections. As
more and more arrears were collected, it became increasingly difficult to collect additional arrears. To
reflect this challenge, the Government felt that in addition to the total volume of collections, the
benchmarks should include other indicators, such as the number of arrests, prosecutions, and customers cut
off from service.
4.2.10.  In order to allow more autonomy in tariff setting, the National Assembly passed a strengthened
Gas Regulatory Authority Act (GRA) in June 1999. The Act was not enacted, however, because it was not
approved by the Senate before Parliament was suspended after the military takeover in October 1999. The
new Government on January 13, 2000 issued an ordinance establishing GRA. Establishment of the GRA
will facilitate privatization of two public sector gas companies and encourage private sector investment in
exploration and distribution of gas. The GRA will have exclusive powers to issue licenses and to regulate
gas exploration and distribution in the country.
Tax Administration
4.2.11.  In 1998 the Bank and the Government developed a tax reform program comprising both policy
and administrative reforms. The program included actions to establish an autonomous, efficient, and
equitable tax administration run by a well-functioning Pakistan Revenue Authority that broadens the base of
domestic taxes (by extending the general sales tax and income tax base to more taxpayers) and reduces
taxes on foreign trade. The program led to high expectations that the Government would adopt a more
thorough reform that would increase autonomy and transparency of action. These hopes were not realized,
as a result of the indecision or unwillingness of the Sharif government to adopt far-reaching reforms and the



- 8 -
opposition's successful attempts to block that government's legislative   agenda, which slowed
implementation of structural reforms during the second half of 1999. Because of these delays, the Pakistan
Revenue Authority Act, which was submitted to Parliament in December 1998, was never enacted. The Act
would have allowed the conversion of the current Central Board of Revenue into an autonomous revenue
authority that would have been better able to carry out the tax reform agenda.
4.2.12.  These institutional setbacks notwithstanding, targets for arrears collection under the SAL helped
the Central Board of Revenue increase collection rates. Between June and December 1998, the Board
collected Rs. 3.9 billion-30 percent more than the Rs. 3.0 billion target under the SAL. An additional Rs.
4.0 billion in tax arrears was collected between January and June 1999. The SAL helped the Central Board
of Revenue formulate a new strategy for arrears collection that includes (a) setting up more tax tribunals
(which under the SAL reached 15 and are now all operational); (b) increasing the number of arrests and
prosecutions; (c) attaching and auctioning personal property; (d) freezing bank accounts; (e) accelerating
the disposal of confiscated goods; (f) cashing in bank guarantees and indemr y bonds; (g) imposing higher
penalties; and (h) increasing the speed with which court cases involving stay orders are heard.
4.2.13.  The number of taxpayers increased, as targeke-, to 1.6 million in December 1998 and 1.75 million
in May 1999. The target established by the SAL heiped the Government take additional measures to
increase the number of taxpayers, including screening phone bills, examining immovable property
ownership records, and checking automobile ownership. The Central Board of Revenue is planning an
extensive door-to-door survey to identify and increase the number of taxpayers. In addition, the
effectiveness of the tribunals, which remain understaffed, will increase following the enactment of
legislation that allows them to hire their own accountants rather than rely on transfers of accountants from
the Central Board of Revenue.
Public Sector Expenditure
4.2.14.  The SAL continued to support the Governments' efforts to contain,public spending and improve
its allocation. As a result, current spending was reduced to 3.2 percent of GDP, down from 3.3 percent in
FY98. The reduction included cutbacks in defense spending.
4.2.15.  To improve the development impact of the Governments' capital expenditures, the SAL explicitly
focused on the Public Sector Development Program (PSDP). New fiscal constraints made the Rs. 111
billion PSDP approved for 1998/99 unsustainable. Some of the projects and programs included in the
budget were deemed to be of low priority in terms of achieving Pakistan's development objectives.
Moreover, a number of large infrastructure projects were initiated in 1997/98 outside the PSDP framework.
Many of these projects appeared to carry substantial government liabilities in the form of immediate land
acquisition costs, future debt servicing, foreign payment liabilities, and additional government contingent
liabilities.
4.2.16.  A lower total allocation for the PSDP was negotiated in the fall of 1999, consistent with the
macroeconomic framework being discussed with the IMF. In addition, as a prior condition for the SAL, the
Government agreed to withhold approval of new projects sponsored by autonomous public agencies (in
particular, large infrastructure projects outside the PSDP) that involve government direct financing or
contingent liabilities. In order to improve the quality of the PSDP, the Government agreed to prioritize cuts
as a prior action for the SAL, in consultation with the Bank. The Government and the Bank subsequently
agreed on a list of cutbacks.
4.2.17.  Preliminary evidence suggests that implementation of these cuts was uneven and partial.
Although the Government had agreed to cut allocations to some large low-priority projects and programs,
revised expenditure estimates indicate that spending on those projects was close to original allocations.
Meanwhile, spending on the high-priority core program (much of it donor supported) appears to have fallen



- 9 -
short of original allocations by as much as 10 percent. The shortfall appears to have been caused at least
partly by implementation problems (including weak implementation capacity) rather than insufficient
funding. The Government did not initiate new large infrastructure projects funded outside the PSDP, but it
continued its support of ongoing projects.
4.2.18.  Overall, the quality of the PSDP improved as a result of the prioritization of spending reductions
agreed to under the SAL. The SAL's approach of prioritizing public investment spending and improving its
allocative efficiency built on the regular annual reviews of the PSDP the Bank has conducted, in
collaboration with the Government and other donors, since the early 1990s. These reviews and related
efforts to improve the focus, quality, and returns of public spending are continuing, and the objective is
being forcefully pursued in the Bank's policy dialogue with the Government.
4.2.19.  In a follow-up to the SAL, the Government has made a major shift in spending priorities in favor
of pro-poor development programs advanced through the Poverty Alleviation Fund Project, as
recommended by the Bank. This project improves access of the poor to both productive resources and social
services. The new Government has recently made poverty reduction the primary focus of its economic
reform program. Shifts in public spending, including reductions in military spending, will support funding
of small public works in low-income urban and rural areas, including the poorest areas; development of
roads between farms and markets; and other small infrastructure rural projects that will improve the poor's
access to employment opportunities.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return:
Not applicable
4.4 Financial Rate of Return
Not applicable
4.5 Impact on Institutional Development
4.5.1.   While the immediate objective of the SAL was to improve financial governance in a number of
core areas, its medium-to-long-term objective is to help create institutions that provide better service
delivery and governance. Administrative measures that improved the process of implementing court decrees
helped strengthen the effectiveness of banking courts. Reforms in the power sector will help create a well-
regulated and privately managed power sector. Support for the Gas Regulatory Authority will help develop
an autonomous regulatory agency to depoliticize gas pricing and licensing. Support for tax administration
improvement will help strengthen the administrative efficiency of public institutions. The SAL provided
impetus for these reforms-the full benefits of which will not be realized in the short term-to move
forward.
5. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
5.1 Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency
5.1.1.   The conditions for presentation of the SAL to the Board required that the WAPDA Act, the Gas
Regulatory Authority Act, and the law establishing the Pakistan Revenue Authority be submitted to the
National Assembly. As a result of opposition from within the Government and political opposition to the
Nawaz government, which became increasingly unpopular during the second half of 1999, the legislative
agenda was not enacted. All three pieces of legislation were pending approval when the National Assembly
was suspended after the military takeover in October 1999.



- 10-
5.2 Factors Generally Not Subject to Government Control
5.2.1.   The Government made substantial progress toward implementing the measures within its control,
as section 4 indicates. However, political developments at home and abroad (growing domestic opposition
to the prime minister, the Kargil episode and ensuing tensions with India, strained relations with the
international community over Pakistan's support of Afghanistan and its refusal to sign the Comprehensive
Test Ban Treaty) distracted the Prime Minister and his government, slowing the progress of reforms.
5.3 Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
5.3.1.   The implementing agencies could have speeded implementation of reforms in the power sector
and tax administration.
5.4 Costs and Financing
Not applicable
6. SUSTAINABILITY
6.1 Rationale for Sustainability Rating
6.1.1.   The Government recognizes that corruption and poor governance are central problems in
Pakistan, and it understands that without sustained improvement in governance, Pakistan will not reap the
full benefits of other reforms. Grassroots awareness of the problem has also grown, and grassroots
organizations are demanding better accountability from public officials and institutions. Accordingly,
improved governance is now a central element in Pakistan's reform efforts. The core conditionality of the
SAL consisted of implementing concrete, up-front measures to improve financial governance while putting
in place reforms leading to lasting improvement in governance. Important progress was made in
governance, but additional efforts are needed.
6.1.2.   The new government's commitment to reform and the actions it has taken to strengthen
governance in the areas supported by the SAL suggest that the reforms started or deepened under the SAL
are likely to be sustained in the future.
6.2 Transition to Regular Operations
6.2.1.   This single-tranche SAL was developed as part of a medium-term reform program. Additional
reforms in banking, power, and fiscal policy will be supported by ongoing policy dialogue, in coordination
with IMF and necessary lending operations.
6.2.2.   The sustainability of the reforms, implemented under the SAL can be monitored and evaluated in
terms of how well the Government (a) reduces the volume of nonperforming bank loans by increasing
collections of arrears; (b) privatizes the banking system and strengthens the regulatory and supervisory
financial infrastructure; (c) increases the efficiency and equitableness of tax administration; (d) broadens the
tax base, by extending the general sales and income tax, including the agricultural income tax; (d) increases
the volume of taxes collected from tax evaders; (e) eliminates electricity and gas theft; (f) reduces utility
arrears; and (g) passes the three pieces of legislation that were pending when the National Assembly was
suspended.



- 11 -
7. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Bank Performance
7.1 Lending
7.1.1.   The SAL operation was put together during a period of extreme economic difficulty in Pakistan.
To maintain the momentum of the reform process while responding to the deterioration in the balances of
payments caused by the imposition of sanctions by Pakistan's major donors, the Bank processed the SAL in
record time.
7.1.2.   Preparation of the SAL was tailored to fit the special circumstances Pakistan faced in 1998. An
intense policy dialogue, led by the Bank's field-based Country Director, was conducted with the
Government. The appraisal and negotiations were finalized in Islamabad at the end of December 1998, just
two months after the Bank's preappraisal mission. Despite the need to respond rapidly, the Bank specified
conditions to address major areas of reform and withstood attempts by vested interest groups to water down
the program targets.
7.1.3.   The loan was designed as a single tranche to ensure up-front implementation of reform measures
that would establish the borrower's track record. A loan acceleration clause was added to the Loan
Agreements, in consultation with the borrower, to discourage reversal of reforms in the future.
7.1.4.   The Bank and the IMF worked together very closely to ensure that the SAL supports reforms
agreed to under the ESAF/EFF program. The Bank effectively supported the IMF's efforts to stabilize
Pakistan's economy by requiring that the Government reach agreement on an adequate macroeconomic
framework for 1998/99. Strong coordination was also maintained with the ADB.
7.2 Supervision
7.2.1.   The implementation of the reform program was closely supervised and monitored by the field
office, led by the Country Director. The Bank did not exercise its option to request the audit report for SAL.
7.3 Overall Bank Performance
7.3.1.   Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The Bank's response was timely and swift. The
quality of the dialogue, the strength of the reform program, the achievement of up-front requirements, and
coordination among donors helped convince the Board to approve the Loan despite the imposition of
sanctions on Pakistan.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation
7.4.1.   The Government played an important role in designing and implementing the SAL. Cooperation
with the Bank negotiating team during preparation was excellent, and the Government had a clear
understanding of its responsibilities. The negotiation and preparation of the SAL, which was handled by the
Ministry of Finance, was efficiently coordinated.
7.5 Government Implementation Performance
7.5.1.   The Government's commitments, laid out in its Letter of Development Policy, were largely
implemented. Implementation was driven solely by the Government, which was convinced that the



- 12 -
measures supported by the SAL were critical both to strengthen its reform program and to convince the
donor community of its resolve to improve governance and fight corruption. The Government swiftly
implemented the prior actions, meeting a very tight schedule.
7.6 Implementing Agency Performance
7.6.1.   The performance of the implementing agencies was satisfactory. All seven implementing
agencies were willing clients who owned the reforms. The main area of concern is whether the pace of
implementation of power sector and tax administration reforms could have been speedier.
7.7 Overall Borrower Performance
7.7.1.   The borrower's performance, measured by its implementation of the prior actions and its
continued commitment to the reform program, is generally satisfactory. Implementation of the framework
for the resolution of disputes with Independent Power Producers was partial, however.
8. LESSONS 1_ARNED
8.1.1.   Several lessons of experience, some of whiclh may be relevant to operations in other countries,
were learned from this SAL.
8.1.2.    A series of quick-disbursing single-tranche adjustment operations is an effective tool for
managing risks. A quick-disbursing single-tranche loan, prepared within the framework of a medium-term
reform program, in which all policy actions are implemented before the loan is presented to the Board is an
effective way of supporting reforms during a crisis and providing governments with the needed financial
and political capital to sustain their reform programs.
8.1.3.   Close coordination with other international financial institutions can benefit borrowers. The
Bank collaborated very closely with the IMF and ADB in preparing the SAL, requiring the Government to
implement an adequate macroeconomic framework before the loan was presented to the Board. While the
IMF was negotiating an ESAF/EFF program for Pakistan, the Bank, in close coordination with the ADB,
concentrated on Pakistan's structural problems, the root causes of the country's macroeconomic problems.
Joint Bank-IMF positions were reached on both short-term stabilization and long-term structural issues
during preparation of the SAL. These efforts established the basis for a strong partnership among the
Government, the Bank, the IMF, and the ADB, cooperation that helped the Government define its reform
program.
8.1.4.   Adjustment operations can be implemented rapidly when the client has a clear vision and a
strong sense of ownership of the reform program. The Government's clear vision, which had been
announced in June 1998, allowed the negotiating teams to cooperate very closely, facilitating the
expeditious preparation of the loan. As the Government noted, when it is proactive in its adjustment
operations, Bank advice and financial support is not imposed as a conditionality but instead complements
the Government's own efforts. With the Government already committed to reform, the role of the Bank was
to define the program, specify the results, and encourage the reformers.
8.1.5.   Strong field presence greatly facilitated dialogue and response. The fact that the Country
Director worked out of the field office greatly improved the Bank's ability to reach agreement with the
Government on a comprehensive reform program, including up-front actions, while ensuring full donor
coordination. The Country Director's presence in Pakistan facilitated continuous dialogue and monitoring
of implementation of agreed on reforms, and it allowed decisions to be made quickly. It also speeded the
Bank's response to requests for technical assistance.



- 13 -
9. PARTNER COMMENTS
GOVERNMENT OF P
%   9   g  MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOM
(ECONOM4IC AFFAIRS DMSION)
Telegram:    ECONOMIC                   Islamabad 11 December. 1393
Telex:     ECDIV: 0a5-64
Fax:       9210734
Joint Socrsory 9202121
Phone No.
SMJECT: 1BRD LoAN No.4435-PAZ STiRUCtA  A;                           LOA
DWZLENTATONW COPLETION REPORI
Dear Mr.  L.   AJ^
sjindlr refer to World Banks letrer of july 1, 1'99 on the aoove
subn ject
2.         Requisite infornation on tle prescribed proforma. as receved from
the implementiag agencv of the project i.e. Finance Division. is forwvarded
herewith for incorporatlon i the ICR.
Best regcads,
Yowus sincemy,
(SA4fl
Mfr.Jolu  W.  aE                                              /
Country Drrector (Pakcisuan & Afghanistan),
South Asia Regior4
World Bank Islamabad office,
Is lamabad



KEY INDICATORS FOR PROGRAM  IMPl EMENTATION AND OPERATION STRI'CrL A.^L
ADJUSI'MENT LOAN (SAL) LOAN 4435 - PAK
PRIOR ACTION                                     FINAL OUTCOME                             POST OR FOLLOk'. t'p ACTIONSI4
JUL-DEC, 1998                                    JUL-DEC. 1998                             RESULTS BETWEEN .AN-JUN,19R9
Collecl Rs. 12 billion in casih between                   Rs. 13.6 billion were collecied by Ban4s/   lts.S.883'billion have been collected durinig April.
June 12th, 1998 to December 31st, 199B.                   DFIs against the target of Rs.12 bsillion.    1999.
Take a set of adininisirative steps lo
faciliraet recovery by financial institutions
of debt in default and accelerate loan
recovery:-
These include                                                                                      i) Siate Bank of Pakistan provided a
(i)     issuing an appiovaf panel of public                                                          lisT of professional firrms of auctioneers as
auctioneers to banking couris to assists                                                     proposed by Hanks and DFIs to Minisiry of Law and
in tie sale of properties belonging to                                                       Justice for onwards iransmission to the Bankring couiris.
Judemeni debtors: and
(ii)    issuing guidelines for use by Ihe banicng courts                                           ii) Ministry of Law and Justice issued guidlines to the bankiing courts
in restricting the number of times property can                                               on 30-12-1998 for associating sIle firmis wiilh a high level of
be put up for auction in cases where the same                                                 perfessional exparsise in the process of sale of
property becasue of dispute arising over                                                      property on the request of decree holders or judgemens debtors
the value of the bids obtained.                                                               Lo oblain highest prices for the property and also gei
rid of necessiry for repeaLed auclions. They also sent Ilie list
of public auctioners to the banking Courts and designated
Judges for making use of the services of ihese proposed firms.
Executivc Order empowering PEPCO to              Execuuive order empowering PEPCO                   PFPCO lsas been esa3blished to manage ilie corporarized
manage ihe Reform Programent and act as           to manage reforms programme was                   entities resulting from corporauzation of WAPDA
owner's representative in corporatized           issued oD 24-10-1998.
entitles issued.
Introduce amendnment to WAPDA Act into            Amendniemt ini WAPDA Act was made                 Tle bill for 4mentmieuir in WAI'PA Act was introduced in
the National Assembly io allow for the            through issuance of an                            the National Assembly and has been cireared by its Standing
corporatization of ibe Natonal Grid               Ordibance on 23-12-1998.                          Committee.
Company (NGC); and piovide evidence
of dhe legal basis to all (a) transfer
of consumer contracis from WAPDA to tlhe
DISCO's; and (b) transfer of WAPDA staff
to the corporatized entities.



Implement agreed orderly framework for                                                                       Tbe agreed orderly framework is being implemenied
resolving independent Power Produccs IPP's.                                                                  Present saus of resolution o(IPPs issues is atAnnex-l:.
WAPDA to design and begin to implement            WAPDA's new management is implementirig                    Present siatus may be seen in statement at Annex-11
vigorous loss and ilich reducijoin                die loss and let reduction programme
campiigns.                                        vigorously--
Clear up federal and provinicial government       AcemnplisIhe except Sindh.                                 Arbitrato; was appoirted to seittle the dispule between
alteals (federal and provincial governwsient                                                                i WAPDA anti Government of Sindh on WAPDA is
be currenm on WAPDA bills from July 1. onwards).                                                             receivables who has given award in faivour of Siuttl.
Federal/Provincial  Goyernmenis  are  making
payments/at source leduciions being made (where
possible) to keep diem curent on WAPDA bills.
Ensure thai the Ministry of Warer and Power       Ministry of Water and Power                                As in Column 2.
to issue a StateInenL on the GOverrument's        issued the Government policy
socio-and economic policy objertives              objectives reeatding Lariff
regarding tariff setting to NEPRA.                sertling on 3O10-1998.
Ensure that according to NEPRA Act ils Tariff                                                                Ruiles and Sadards rot Itle dererminamionr  modificaiion
Standards and Procedures Rules and other                                                                     or revision of Tariff have been notified.
terms and conditions related ro generation.                                                                  Licence Application Rules have been nonified.
Itransmission and distribudon by licensees.                                                                  Distribution Linceiice Ruels have been notified.
Generationt Licence Rules wvere sent ro
governuiet f1jr approval in February, 1999 and were
duly vented by the Ministry oF Law and Justice in May,
bua are being modified pursuani to revieNs by 4;;e World
Bank during a conference arranged by ihe Privatization
Conimission in June. 1999.
Termns and coidirions related to Transmission
will be finalized after tie NTDC (to be created from
WAPDA) is eslablished as an iridependetit corporatiun.
llere is ongoing discussion berweeji WAPDA and ihe
World Bank regarding tlhe boundary between NTDC
and Disiribution.
WAPDA/DISCOs to submit a comprehensive                                                                       WAPDA submi ired' a petition in December, 
Tariff Filling io HIEPRA.                                                                                     1998 for revision of its tarilT anid a public hearing was
conducted. An inierim deterniination was nade by
NSPRA in Marchi owing to lasi tinuiwe changes in the
pelition l  WAPDA  Following the conclusion of a
resumed htaring. the rinal dcerritinariof, uh die



Authority on ihe petition was notified by the
goveiirneni in May, 1999.
Collcct Rs. 1 .6 billion of overdoes from                                                                     Ministry tl Water and Powet has confirined thai
government and private consumers, between                                                                     recovery of WAPDA is Rs.4308.7 mnilliun. upio 31-05
June 12ih. 1998 and December 31st, 1998.                                                                      1999). of oveldue amoiunis (as at 30-6-1998) ftoni
privaie and public sectors.
W APD-A-  KESC `oi. ciirren_Ion biling of                                                                     WAPDA has no oanly been current on payments to oil
gas and oil comlpanies on A akonto y basis,                                                                   and gas companies bill on monthly basis but has also cleared
a major portion of pending liabilities ftorn own current
re-ources including receipts froin GOP and KESC.
Natural Gas Regulatory Act which strengthen                                                                   lle Natural Gas Regulalory Authority bil was imtroduced
ihe collection of gas tariffs and the de-                                                                    in ihe National Assembly on 11-1-1999 and referred to
politicizamion of tariff sciting to be                                                                        the Standing Committee of Natonal Assembly on Law,
submined to the National Asesenbly.                                                                           Jusuce and Parliamentary Aflbias. TheStanding Comnimuee,
after examining ihe bill in depth recommended for
passage. which has been passed by ihe Nadional
As-rnnly on 2!-7-1999. The Bill is now pending for
app. 'al of the Senate.
Collect Rs.3 billion of tax arrears between                Ifcome Tax collection                              Total collection oldRs.7.888 bialion was made troin aurears
June 2, 1998 and December 31,; 1998.                       of Rs.3.867 billion was maie.                      (Income rax Rs.7.39 I billion and Wealth Tax Rs.0.497
billion).
PRA Act to be submined to the National                     Bill to be examinied by                            ilic Bill on PRA was exauined by die Stuiding Comnmiltee
Assembly by December 31, 1998.                            she Standing Commiitee on                           on Finance and approved subject to proposed amentIments.
Finance.                                          The amended Dill as per recommendations of Staii(ding
Coumittee on Finance was puLt before the lnouse in the
budgei session. Iiowever, die aimienLded bill could not be
taken up [my Ihe tlouse.
Increase numb:rs of iitcoitte xas payers ID                tkeiOnte Tax payers increase.l                    Incontec .-x pa% :- increased Io 1.7 millioit.
i 1.6 million by Deceniber 31, 1998.                      to 1.6. million.
Increase nurnbers of income taxpayers Tax                                                                     Law Division has been requested to make I S Income Tax
Tribunals from 7 to 15 by December. 31.                                                                       Trlbunals fully operaronal. Presenily 12 beaccles are in
place.
Government tcduces the size of the                                                                            The original size of PSDP 1998-99 was Rs. 110.581 billion
budgetary PSDP to rs.9B billion in line                                                                       which was wo be financed through foreign aid of Rs.46.45S
with the macroeconomnic framework, and                                                                        billion, rupee c')mponent of Rs.60.264 billion arid self



4
swcifics llte cfnnposiliou of lhe ltuIelary                                                                       iniancing by Provinces of Rs.3.859 bilhiosi. hlowever,
I'SDP in line wish devekopmcwu prtiriuies.                                                                        ill view of insjiosjiion of sanctions on Pakistan. sec size
of PSDP wAs revised io Rs.981. 13 billion ia he fiamance
IifO5ugb foreign.aid of II.43.827 and rupee coiTiponeiii
of Rs.50.426 billion.
Goverlunen specifics and adjusjs sic and                                                                          GoverunemLhas notagreed any Iinancing throughguarantee
compoSigioa of non-budgegary PSDP In line                                                                         to any new non-budgetary Organization during 1998-99.
with ulacroccopontic siilasion and sectosta
priorities. The Govermnenal agreed so'
wilhhlold aplpsoval iuld cxlendinsie on any
new proiccts by butos inoals public agencies
1tat iWVolvC any goverunment fin 1nAin
Imrougb cash, debt. guarantees or
contingent liabilities.
Providc fedcral and ljravoaiclal funding so                                                                       Educasion and Health ua  SAP related projecis. the
meei agreed levels of 1998.99 eapewliture                                                                         budgeiaty allocaton was providedlrcleased by ihe Federal
and cnsuwr provincial ways andi nkeawu                                                                            projecCs on regular basis to ihe Provincial Governmenus
position. will perrnis substanial non-salary                                                                      as and when required.
eixpenditures (fr educaloo and licalth.
:  )  *  *  *  - * _ _ _ _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN
FINANCE DIVISION
SUMMARY OF IPPs LSSUES- MAIN POINTS
*     SETTLEMENT OF ISSuES WTTH 6 IPPs
Revised Tariff has been agreed with six IPPs namely SEPCOL, Habibullah Coastal,
Japan Power, Power Generation System, SABA Power and Altem Energy. MOUs were
concluded between WAPDA and these companies ECC approved the MOUs subject to
withdrawal of litigation cases. Negotiations for tariff reduction is ongoing with remaining
IPPs including Hubco and KAPCO.
*'    WITHHOLDING TAX ISS_
ECC has decided that withholding tax from IPPs and their direct
contractors/subcontractors will be charged at 4% instead of 8 percent.
UCH GAS
OGDC has made all arrangements for supply of GAS to Uch Power Limited (UPL) but
UPL is not presently in a position to take gas. UPL has to notify the date for starting the
gas supply to the Power Plant and its commissioning schedule.
*   NDEFC FINANCING FOR ROUCH AND SrCOL
NDFC/LTCF have sanctioned the required additional fundig for Rousch Power and
SEPCOL subject to audit of cost overruns by a reputed firm and approval of the World
Bank. Messrs Ferguson have submitted their Endings in respect of Rousch Power.
SEPCOL has yet to fulfil the conditions precedent. World Bank has stated the progress
generally satisfactory.
*   CO
Several rounds of meetngs were held between WAPDA and IUBCO from 6th to
10th August, 1999 in Lahore. Thereafter, Finance Minister convened meetings on 12th
and 13th August, 1999. Various avenues for reduction of tariff were discussed and, as
a result. a proposal was made by HUBCO, for which back-up data and informarion have
now been provided by HUBCO. Consequently,. WAPDA has now invited HUBCO for
futher negotations.
*     NEGOlIATIONS WiTH KAPCO.
Chairmsn, WAPDA had a number of meetngs with KAPCO in July, 1999 and issues
have already been discussed between WAPDA and KAPCO. Next meeting will be
scheduld shordy.



- 19-
10. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Key Indicators for Program Implementation and Operation
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SAL) Loan 4435-PAK
Additional
Outcome                outcomes
Action                    (July-December 1998)       (January-June,       Comments
Macroeco#omkc Fra meWerk
Agree with the World Bank and IMF on    Complied. Agreement with    Most ESAF/EFF
adequate macroeconomic framework for    the Bank and IMF reached    targets met.
1998/99 and beyond                      on Policy Framework Paper
and ESAF/EFF program.
&rnkm g__                                _ _ _  _  _  _
Take a set of administrative steps to   Complied. Target of Rs. 12    Additional Rs. 8
facilitate recovery by financial institutions    billion cash recovery against  billion collected
of debt in default and accelerate loan  nonperformning loans met.    between January
recovery. These include (a) issuing an  Rs. 13.6 billion collected.    and May 1999.
approved panel of public auctioneers to  Administrative measures
banking courts to assist in the sale of  implemented.
properties belonging to judgment debtors;
and (b) issuing guidelines for use by the
banking courts in restricting the number of
times a property can be put up for auction in
cases where the same property is required to
be put up for auction more than once
because of dispute arising over the value of
the bids obtained.
Power
Executive Order empowering PEPCO to     Complied. Executive Order                      Although a Chief
manage the Reform Program and act as    issued October 1998.                           Executive Officer
owner's representative in corporatized                                                 has yet to be
entities issued.                                                                       appointed, PEPCO
is fully operational.
Recruitment of
consultants
underway.
Introduce amendment to WAPDA Act into   Complied. Ordinances                           Formal
the National Assembly to allow for: the  incorporating all three issues                confirmation by
corporatization of the National Grid    issued December 1998,                          Government of
Company NGC); and provide evidence of    reissued May 1999.                            Pakistan of legal
the legal basis to all (a) transfer of consumer                                        basis for
contracts from WAPDA to the DISCO's;                                                   corporatization of
and (b) transfer of WAPDA staff to the                                                 National Grid
corporatized entities.                                                                 Company required.
Implement agreed orderly framework for  Partially complied.        Progress in         Continued progress
resolving Independent Power Producers.  Implementation of orderly    resolving issues  in implementing
framework satisfactory.    initially slow, but    Orderly
much has been      Framework and in
achieved since     resolving issues
October 1999.      with Independent
Disputes with      Power Producers



-20 -
|~~Acif                              ( Jece hiber190            (Jni:^   'X,    =    !b  ....l UTTCom .en. ,t s
HUBCO and          essential for
KAPCO remain       restoring investor
unresolved.        confidence.
WAPDA to design and begin to implement   Complied                  Comprehensive       Focus on loss and
vigorous loss and theft reduction campaigns.                      theft and loss      theft reduction
reduction program    campaign will be
being implemented   maintained for the
by WAPDA.          foreseeable future.
Clear up federal and provincial government  Partially complied     Full program for    Arbitration
arrears (federal and provincial government                         clearing up         proceedings on
to be current on WAPDA bills from July I                           government arrears   Sindh government
onwards)                                                           not implemented.    bills must be
completed as soon
as possible.
Ensure that the Ministry of Water and   Complied. Statement issued
Power to issue a statement on the      to NEPRA December 12,
Government's socio- and economic policy    1998.
objectives regarding tariff setting to
NEPRA.
Ensure that NEPRA has issued under the  Complied. Tariff Rules     Distribution        Remaining rules,
NEPRA Act its Tariff Standards and      issued December 31, 1998.   License Rules      regulations, and
Procedures Rules, and other terms and                              issued April 10, 99;  standards to be
conditions related to generation,                                  Generation License  finalized and
transmission and distribution by licensees.                        Rules approved by   notified.
Government May
1999. NEPRA has
also prepared
timetable for
finalization of
remaining rules,
regulations, and
standards.
WAPDA/DISCOs to submit a                Complied. Tariff submitted   NEPRA approved
comprehensive Tariff Filing to NEPRA.   by WAPDA December          WAPDA's request
1998.                     for tariff increase in
March 1999.
Request included
additional
reductions in cross-
subsidies between
various customer
I categories.
Collect Rs. 1.6 billion of overdues from  Complied                 By July 1, 1999,
government and private consumers, between                          WAPDA had
June 12th, 1998 and December 31st 1998.                            recovered Rs. 4.55
billion for fiscal
year 1999.



-21 -
Additional
Outcome               outcomes
Action                   (July-December 1998)      (January-Junet       Comments
1"5)
WAPDA & KESC to be current on billing    Complied                Complied during
of gas and oil companies on a monthly                            FY1999
basis.
Natural Gas Regulatory Act which       Complied                  Natural Gas
strengthen the collection of gas tariffs and                     Regulatory
the de-politicization of tariff setting to be                    Authority Act
submitted to the National Assembly.                              approved by
Parliament July
1999; enactment
I_____________________ _  I__   pending
Collect Rs. 3 billion of tax arrears between   Complied. Target exceeded,  Rs. 4.0 billion in tax
June 12, 1998 and December 31, 1998.   with Rs. 3.9 billion in tax  arrears collected
arrears collected.        between January
and June 1999. Rs.
7.9 billion in tax
arrears collected
between July 1998
and May 1999.
Pakistan Revenue Authority Act to be   Complied                  Still pending
submitted to the National Assembly by
December 31, 1998.
Increase numbers of income taxpayers ID to  Complied             Number of
1.6 million by December 31, 1998                                 taxpayers reached
1.75 million in May
1999.
Increase numbers of fully operational Tax    Complied            Number of fully     Shortage of well-
Tribunals from 7 to 15 by December 31.                           staffed courts      trained accountants
reached 15         reduces
effectiveness of
tribunals.
Pub& Sector EVitdUeres
Government reduces the size of the     Complied. Program reduced                     Actual expenditure
budgetary PSDP to Rs 98 billion in line with  to specified level. Bank               was lower than
the macroeconomic framework, and       agreed to cuts in allocations.                budgeted
specifies the composition of the budgetary                                           expenditure.
PSDP in line with development priorities.                                            Expenditures
deviated from
agreed on
allocations,
however.
Government specifies and adjusts size and    Partially complied.
composition of non-budgetary PSDP in line
with macroeconomic situation and sectoral
priorities. The Government agreed to
withhold approval and expenditure on any
new projects by autonomous public
agencies that involve any government
financing through cash, debt, guarantees or



- 22 -
contingent liabilities.
Partially complied. Adverse
Provide federal and provincial funding to    fiscal situation in the
meet agreed levels of 1998/99 expenditure    provinces, and the resulting
and ensure provincial ways and means      cash-flow problems, caused
position will permit substantial non-salary    some nonwage expenditures
expenditures for education and health.    to fall short of agreed
allocations.



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:_______________
NOT APPLICABLE
Output Indicators:
.T_X{_ . ..                   F;ja-OXR,SVj.l-
'End of project



10. Additional Information
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
A Appaisal    ActtalLatest  Percentage f
Estimate       Estimate      Appraisl"
Project Cost By Component            :S imillion       US$ million
350.00         350.00          100
Total Baseline Cost                                    350.00         350.00
Total Project Costs              350.00
Total Financing Required               350.00         350.00
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Proc~urement, Mhd
Expenditure Category      iC             CB                                   T        tther2  N.S.F.  Toa Cost
1. Works                      0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                      0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement I4thd
Expenditure Category      IcB           N             ther2       N.8.F.      Total ost NX
1. Works                      0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                      0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)



10. Additional Information
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00            0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                           0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00            0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate             Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank      Govt.       CoF.      Bank       Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
IBRD                      350.00                          350.00                          100.0   0.0    0.0
0.0    0.0    0.0
0.0    0.0    0.0



10. Additional Information
Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
NOT Applicable
-1 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                          Progress          Objective
Identification/Pre
paration                                                             S                 S
September 1998          11      Country Director
Lead Economist
Macro-Economists
Financial Analysts
Energy Specialists
Banking Specialists
Appraisal/Negotiation
November-Dece                                                        S                  S
mber 1998               12      Country Director
Lead Economist
Macro-Economists
Financial Analysts
Energy Specialists
Banking Specialists
Supervision
Monitoring                                                           S                 S
through                  II    Country Director
continuous policy               Operation Advisor
dialogue                        Lead Economist
Macro-Economists
Financial Analysts
Energy Specialists
Banking Specialists
ICR
Juiy, December                                                       S                  S
1999                     7    _Lead Economist
Fiscal Economists
Macro-Economists
Financial Analysts
Energy Specialists
Banking Specialists
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                   19                          109
Appraisal/Negotiation                        38                          153
Supervision
[CR                                           8                           21
Total                                        55                          283



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                                 H  * SU   M        N     NA
Sector Policies                                H  * SU    M       N     NA
K. Physical                                      H    )SU) M        N      NA
] Financial                                     H  * SU C) M       N      NA
; Institutional Development                    ) H    )SU*M      N       NA
Fi Environmental                                )H      SU    M      N     NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction                       H  * SU   ) M      N      NA
Gender                                 H    )SU( 'M      N  *NA
Other (Please specify)
L Private sector development                      H    'SU     M    'N     NA
Public sector management                       H     SU * M    'N       NA
Other (Please specify)



10. Additional Information
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                              Rating
nI Lending                                           HS * S       U    'HU
i Supervision                                      HS   S       U  'HU
. Overall                                            HS   S    'U    lHU
6.2 Borrower performance                          Rating
i. Preparation                                      )HS   S       U     HU
Government implementation performance             HS   S       U    'fHU
Implementation agency performance                 HS * S       U     HU
7 Overall                                            HS   S    )U    lHU



- 30 -
Annex 7
A. Prior Conditions for Board Presentation of SAL
Prior to Board presentation, the Government met the following conditions:
1.    agreed with the Bank on a macroeconomic framework for FY 1998-99 and beyond as described
in the letter of development policy (Attachment 1).
2.    ensured collections in the banking system of over Rs. 12 billion from loan defaulters from June 1,
1998, through December 31, 1998.
3.    issued: (a) an approved panel of public auctioneers to banking courts to assist in the sale of
properties belonging to judgement letters; and (b) guidelines for use by the banking courts in
restricting the number of times a property can be put up for because of dispute arising over the
value of the bids obtained.
4.    issued an Executive Order empowering PEPCO to manage the implementation of the Borrower's
power sector reform program.
5.    submitted to its National Assembly the WAPDA Act to allow for, inter alia, corporatization of
WAPDA into separate entities, including separate generation companies, a National Grid
Company and several Distribution Companies (DISCOs), and furnished evidence satisfactory to
the Bank of the legal basis for (a) transfer of consumer contracts from WAPDA to the DISCOs;
and (b) transfer of WAPDA's staff to the said generation companies, National Grid Company and
DISCOs.
6.    put in place an orderly framework, as agreed with the Bank, to handle disputes with Independent
Power Producers.
7.    had WAPDA prepare a theft, loss and arrears reduction plan satisfactory to the Bank.
8.    ensured that federal and provincial Governments have cleared their past bills with WAPDA and
given an understanding satisfactory to the Bank to stay current on their future reconciled
electricity bills as they become due.
9.    ensured that the Ministry of Water and Power issue a statement on the Government's socio- and
economic-policy objectives regarding tariff setting to NEPRA.
10.   ensured that NEPRA has issued under the NEPRA Act its Tariff Standards and Procedures Rules,
and other terms and conditions related to generation, transmission and distribution by licensees.
11.   ensured that WAPDA has submitted a comprehensive tariff filing to NEPRA.
12.   accelerated cash recoveries in the natural gas sector to achieve for the period June through
December 1998 collections of over Rs. 1.6 billion of overdues from private consumers and
federal and provincial Governments.
13.   submitted to its National Assembly a bill to establish a Natural Gas Regulatory Authority to, inter
alia, regulate tariff setting and strengthen collection.
14.   collected over Rs. 3 billion in tax arrears from June through December 1998.
15.   (a) submitted to its National Assembly a law for the establishment of the Pakistan Revenue
Authority; (b) increased the number of income taxpayers with ID numbers to at least 1.6 million;
and (c) increased the number of fully functioning tax tribunals from 7 to at least 15.
16.   agreed with the Bank on the size and content of the budgetary and non-budgetary public
development expenditures in line with its development priorities and the agreed macro economic
framework. This includes withholding approval and expenditure on any new projects by
autonomous public agencies that involve any government financing through debt or contingent
liabilities.
17.   ensured that federal and provincial Governments have provided adequate funds to meet agreed
levels of expenditure as agreed with the Bank under the Social Action Program of the Borrower
and have allocated adequate non-salary expenditures for the education and health sectors.



- 31 -
Annex 7
B. Adjustment Loan Policy Matrix
Objectives               Reform  Measures                             Prior Actions
Ml-O.                     Ml-R.                            Ml-P.
Ensure macroeconomic   Implement adequate                  Agree with the World Bank and IMF on adequate
balance.                  macroeconomic framework.    macroeconomic framework for 1998/99, and
beyond.
BRanking--
B1-0.                     Bl-R.                           BR-P.
Improve financial         Accelerated cash recovery        Collect Rs. 12 billion in cash between June 12,
discipline and reduce     from stock of classified loans,   1998 to December 3 1st, 1998.
stock of non-performing   preferably from the largest
loans.                    defaulters.
B2.-O.             B~~~~~12-R.                     1B2-P.
Enable simpler            Create a modem and simple        Take a set of administrative steps to facilitate
foreclosure on collateral   collateral foreclosure system  recovery by financial institutions of debt in default
to facilitate recovery of   to facilitate gaining of control   and hence accelerate loan recovery. These include:
debts in default.         of security and recovery of      (i) issuing an approved panel of public auctioneers
debt by financial institutions.   to banking courts to assist in sale of properties
belonging to
judgment debtors; and (ii) issuing guidelines for
use by the banking courts in restricting the number
of times a property can be put up for auction in
cases where the same property is required to be put
up for auction more than once because of dispute
arising over the value of the bids obtained.
power
P1-0' P1-R.                                                P1-P.
Improve Management of  Change management.                  Executive Order empowering PEPCO to manage
Power Sector.                                             the Reform Program and act as owner's
representative in corporatized entities issued.*
P2-0.                     P2-R.                            P2-P.
Improve legal             Provide legal framework to       Introduce amendments to the WAPDA Act into the
environment to facilitate  implement restructuring         National Assembly to allow for the corporatization
restructuring and         program.                         of the National Grid Company NGC; and provide
privatization of                                           evidence of the legal basis to all (a) transfer of
WAPDA.                                                     consumer contracts from WAPDA to the DISCO's;
and (b) transfer of WAPDA staff to the
corporatized entities.
.. ... ..... ..... ..   .......................................     .  ............... ........................................... .
P3-0               P3~~~~~~-R.                     P3-P.
Make use of               Provide IPPs supportive          Implement agreed orderly framework for resolving
independent power         environment.                    Independent Power Producers(IPPs).
producers (IPPs).
..   ........... ......... ... .......   ... ...................-    ............. ...l...... ..     . . ........   .I .      ........  
P4-0..~~~~~~4-.P4P
Commercialize             Embark on and sustain loss       WAPDA to design and begin to implement
WAPDA's operations.    and theft reduction campaign.   vigorous loss and theft reduction campaigns
satisfactory to the Bank.
P5-0.P5-R.                                             P5-.
Improve financial         Accelerate collection of         Clear up federal and provincial government arrears.
discipline and accelerate  outstanding bills (90 days to 2   *   Federal and provincial governments to be
collection of overdues.    years).                             current on WAPDA bills from July I onwards.



- 32 -
Objectives              Reform  Measures                            Prior Actions
P6-0.                    P6-R.                           P6-P.
Use regulatory process    NEPRA to become fully          *   Ensure that the Ministry of Water and Power
lo set power tariffs.    operational as an independent       issue a statement on the Government's socio-
regulator.                         and economic policy objectives regarding tariff
setting to NEPRA.
* Ensure that NEPRA has issued under the
NEPRA Act its Tariff Standards and
Procedures Rules, and other terms and
conditions related to generation, transmission
and distribution by licensees
* WAPDA/DISCOs to submit a comprehensive
l    Tariff Filing to NEPRA.
NGI-0.                   NG-R.                           NG1-P.
Improve financial        Accelerate cash recovery from   *   Collect Rs. 1.6 billion of overdues from
discipline and reduce    stock of outstanding bills.         government and private consumers, between
stock of overdues.                                           June 12th, 1998 and December 31st 1998.
* WAPDA & KESC to be current on billing of
lG2-0 . NG2-R.                       gas and oil companies on a monthly basis.
..~~~~~~~~~~ N                                        2P.-  ...   ....... . . .... ......... ....................  .......  ..      ............  ......    ...........   .......... ...... ........ .. .. .................................
Improve legal basis for    Legislate new regulatory and   Natural Gas Regulatory Act which strengthen the
gas tariff setting and   enforcement mechanisms.          collection of gas tariffs and the de-politicization of
collections.                                             tariff setting to be submitted to the National
Assembly.
TI-0.                   |Tl-R.                           T1-P.
Recover tax arrears.      Embark on tax arrears           Collect Rs. 3 billion of tax arrears between June
campaign.                       12, 1998 and December 31, 1998.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. .... ..........   ....... .. ......cmag ........   ......   .... 1,98anDembr3,98. ...   .............. . ......
EsTab-iOh                T2-R.                           T2-P.
Establish a prof.essional   Give the Pakistan Revenue     PRS Act to be submitted to the National Assembly
tax administration        Service legal standing.         by December 31, 1998.
service.
T4-0.                    T4-R.                           T4-P.
Expand the tax net.      Increase the number of           Increase numbers of income taxpayers ID to 1.6
taxpayers.                      million by December 31, 1998.
175-0.                   T5-R.                           T5-P.
Improve legal            Strengthen and increase          Increase number of fully operational Tax
framework for tax        number of tax tribunals.         Tribunals from 7 to 15 by December 31.
collections.
Pubwc            EitiAire
PSDP-O.                   PSDP-R.                        PSDP-P.
Adjust the size and      Reduce the size and re-          *   Government reduces the size of the budgetary
revise content of        prioritize the 1998/99 and          PSDP to Rs 98 billion in line with the
budgetary and non-       formulate the 1999/2000             macroeconomic framework, and specifies the
budgetary public          public development                 composition of the budgetary PSDP in line
development               expenditures plan to fit within    with development priorities.*
expenditures to fit      the agreed envelope and          *   Government specifies and adjusts size and
resource envelope and    protect the core program.           composition of non-budgetary in line with
national priorities.                                         macroeconomic situation and sectoral
priorities. The Government agreed to withhold
. . ......... .. . .. . ..... . . ... ......... .  .. ............ .......... ....... . . .. .. ... . . . ...................... ............. . .... ... ...... . ...   .. .. .......................... ...-. 



- 33 -
Objectives           Reform Measures                         Prior Actions
approval and expenditure on any new projects
by autonomous public agencies that involve
any govermment financing through cash, debt,
guarantees or contingent liabilities.
SAP-O.                 SAP-R.                      SAP-P.
Provide adequate       Provide funds for SAP as     Provide federal and provincial funding to meet
financing to implement   agreed with provincial     agreed levels of 1998/99 expenditure and ensure
SAP.                   governments, IDA and         provincial ways and means position will permit
donors.                     substantial non-salary expenditures for education
and health.



- 34 -
Annex 7
C. Mission's Aide-Memoire
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
The World Bank Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL), Loan 4435-PAK
Implementation Completion Report
Aide Memoire - July 1999
I.    A completion mission for this project was led by Mr. Ahmad Jamshidi, from the World Bank who
visited Pakistan from July 5-14. Other participants in the mission included Messrs: John Wall, Hanid
Mukhtar and Muhammad Khan Niazi (Public Sector Expenditures), Mudassir Khan (Banking Sector and
Taxation) and Rashid Aziz (Power and Gas). The mission met with Mr. Ghafoor Mirza (Special
Secretary, Ministry of Finance), Mr. Zaheer Sajjad (Secretary, Economic Affairs Division), Dr. Gulfaraz
Ahmed (Seretary, Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Resources), Dr. Muhammad Yaqub (Governor, State
Bank of Pakistan), Mr. Mian Tayyab Hassan (Secretary, Planning & Development), Mr. Irshad Ahmed
(Secretary, Ministry of Law & Justice), Mr. Jameel Ahmed Bhutto (Member Tax Policy, Central Board of
Revenue), Mr. Ibrahim Shah (Senior Joint Secretary, Ministry of Water and Power), Mr. Sajid Hassan
(Joint Secretary, Economic Affairs Division) and Mr. Khalid Munawar-Ud-Din (United Bank Limited,
Chief Special Assets Management & Legal Division). The mission would like to thank all the officials
for their insights and reflections on the reform process in Pakistan in general, and on the SAL in
particular.
2.    This Aide-Memoire reflects the mission's views and has not been reviewed by the World Bank's
management. It provides selected observations and some preliminary conclusions of the mission, to be
confirmed or modified in the full draft of Implementation Completion Report (ICR). The Government
may provide any comments on it via the World Bank Field Office in Islamabad. If appropriate, a
summary of these comments may be attached to this Aide-Memoire, for inclusion in the ICR document.
Such comments will be taken into account in the full draft ICR, which will be sent to the Government for
comments.
3.    A questionnaire listing the range of questions and issues that the mission sought to discuss with
the Government is attached. This includes a table that lists all the Prior-Actions required in the SAL
document prior to the loan approval. The mission requested the Government to complete the table in the
squares provided across each Prior-Action item. Also, it is the mission's understanding that the
Government's own ICR is under preparation and would be provided before long to the mission.
Focus of This Aide-Memoire
4.    This is not a draft ICR. Rather, it focuses on a selected number of mission findings whose
interpretation is important to establishing the ICR ratings and offers a possibility of yielding lessons of
experience and related recommendations for future operations.  In the following, we list both
achievements and shortcomings of this SAL. Listing of shortcomings should not in any way mitigate its
achievements. As always, it is the problem areas that most call for review and interpretation.
SAL Strength and Shortcoming
5.    The SAL was mounted quickly in support of the Government's campaign of instilling a culture of
discipline and respect for due process in public expenditure and public agencies. The loan was prepared
in the fall of 1998, appraised and negotiated in December 1998, approved on January 21, 1999 and was
disbursed immediately, helping the country cope with its balance of payment crisis. It was supported and



- 35 -
complemented by an IMF ESAF/EFF program. The Bank and the Fund had a satisfactory collaboration
in mounting the ESAF/EFF program and the SAL operation.
6.    While pre-appraisal took place in early October 1998, the SAL final document (President's
Report) was sent to the Board for approval by end-December 1998. This was a rather difficult time
period for the Govemment. Due to Nuclear testing in May 1998, economic sanctions had been imposed
on Pakistan by G-7 countries. As a result, large debt service arrears had developed and foreign reserves
had reached a dangerously low level. Simultaneously, the Government was engaged in negotiating an
ESAF/EFF program with the IMF, working with the Fund-Bank on a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) and
carrying on a substantial restructuring of the power sector.
7.    The quick turn around of the loan was possible due to a clear vision announced by the Prime
Minister's June 11, 1998. This allowed the negotiating teams to cooperate on both the Bank and the
Government (spearheaded by the Ministry of Finance). Other contributing factor was strong sense of
"ownership" of the SAL agenda by the implementing agencies, and agreement in principle that "a strong
bill collection" campaign must take place.
8.    The SAL objectives and its implementation were clearly relevant to support the structural reform
agenda of the Government. This is focused on the budget and on restructuring and strengthening of the
financial position of public enterprises. The Prior-Actions (listed in the Appendix and the attached Table)
reflected the comprehensive nature of the project. Overall, the project design avoided a pre-conceived
"blueprint" with arbitrary or over-ambitious targets and gave considerable flexibility to the implementing
agencies for both design and implementation.
9.    One important lesson emerged for the Bank is that when the timing is right and the measures are
home-grown and owned by the borrower, adjustment operations take place quickly with sustainable
results. The Government noted that when the Government is more proactive in its adjustment operations,
Bank advise and financial support is a complementarity rather a conditionality.
10.   The Bank has supported the sectoral reform agenda in Pakistan through a series of adjustment
operations starting from the Banking Sector Adjustment Loan (BSAL) followed by the SAL. It became
evident that the SAL supported a continuation and expansion of the results achieved earlier under the
BSAL and other reforms in the tax administration and power sector. The results achieved under the SAL
lay the foundation for a Tax Administration Reform Project, a PSAL and a BSAL2.
While good progress has been achieved in many fronts, the follow up actions in some parts
have been slower than desirable. However, it seems unlikely that there will be backsliding.
Sustainability seems likely.
11.   Following is a summary status of some of the results that have been achieved as a result of the
SAL:
BANKING SECTOR:
Background/comments. The SAL supported a continuation of reforms earlier introduced under the
BSAL. The SAL improved financial discipline by laying down additional targets for cash recoveries
against non-performing loans of the public financial institutions and facilitating recoveries through courts
by implementing improvements in administrative procedures for execution of decrees.



- 36-
Findings:
*  Government met the targets of cash recoveries against non-performing loans by Public financial
institutions of Rs.12 billion from June to end-December 1998. They collected an additional Rs. 8
billion form January to May 1999. These were confirmed by the State Bank of Pakistan.
*  Administrative measures that were agreed through a consultative process between  the Bank,
Government/Ministry of Law, State Bank of Pakistan, Public sector banks and development finance
institutions, were implemented by the Ministry of Law in December. These measures helped improve
the process of decree executions through the court process. The recoveries which were 10% of
decreed amounts filed for execution in October 1995, improved to 24% by May 1999. They rose
above 5% of total amount filed with courts as of May 31, 1999 from about 2% pre-SAL.
*  While execution has improved with these measures, the mission believes that further improvements
are still needed to sustain progress, including: (a) the process could benefit by appointment of
exclusive high court judges, to deal with bank cases, particularly in Sindh and Punjab, which have the
bulk of the cases. Additional part time judges are needed to deal with other cases in addition to
banking and provide the necessary support at times when the flow increases; and (b) the banking
courts can benefit from additional staff, improved infrastructure, equipment and training.
Lessons Learned:
*  Outcome of the banking component was satisfactory. The SAL served as an opportunity to
strengthen and deepen reforms in the banking sector.
*  Further improvements are needed in the process of recovery through courts to achieve the desired
financial discipline in the banking system.
*  The slow economic activity in the country had slowed the pace of recoveries, making the
achievements of more significance.
POWER SECTOR
*  The power sector's objectives set under the SAL were mostly realized: (i) the Executive Order
empowering PEPCO to manage the Reform Program is issued; (ii) an Amendment on WAPDA Act
is introduced into the National Assembly to allow for the corporatization of the National Grid
Company; (iii) WAPDA has carried out a very successful loss and theft reduction campaign; (iv) the
Ministry of Water and Power has issued a statement on Governments socio- and economic policy
objectives regarding tariff setting to NEPRA; (v) NEPRA has issued its Tariff Standards and
Procedure Rules; and (vi) WAPDA submitted its Tariff filing to NEPRA.
*  Implementation of an orderly framework for resolving Independent Power Producers issues is much
improved over the very disorderly process seen in 1998. However, there is still concern about the
slow speed in resolving the outstanding issues. Motions filed through local courts against H{UBCO
that prevent the company to go to the arbitration and HUBCO's notification of termination are
worrisome signs. These are not in the best spirit of orderly framework. The SAL's effect was to
focus GOP attention on the need to resolve issues pending in 1998.
TAXATION
Background/comments. The Bank and the Govemment in 1998 agreed on a Tax Administration
Reform program. This had the objective of increasing the tax to GDP ratio and broadening of the tax
base. It did this by making tax administration more efficient and effective. These had led to high
expectations for a through-going reform, including more autonomy and transparency of action. There
was a major setback due to a change in leadership and slowdown of structural reforms. In this context,
the SAL served to maintain modest progress. The SAL led to the Pakistan Revenue Authority Act being
placed before Parliament to provide the Central Board of Revenue with the required autonomy,
embarking on a tax arrears collection campaign, increasing the number of tax payers and increasing and
strengthening of tax tribunals.



- 37 -
Findings:
*  Quantitative targets set out by the SAL for arrears collection helped the CBR to achieve higher
collection rates. The CBR exceeded the target of Rs. 3 billion by collections from arrears of income
and wealth tax from June to December 1998. It collected Rs. 3.8 billion from January to May 1999, a
total of about Rs. 8 billion for the period. The SAL helped the CBR formulate a new strategy for
arrears collection. Key elements of this strategy included: (a) arrests and prosecutions, (b) attachment
and auction of personal property, (c) freezing of bank accounts, (d) accelerated disposal of
confiscated goods, (e) encashment of bank guarantees and indemnity bonds, (f) imposition of higher
penalties, and (g) early disposal of court cases involving stay orders.
*  Fifteen tax tribunals were set up which are operational. They are under-staffed with 24 members.
Two members are required where cases involved exceed the limit of Rs. 0.5 million, below which
cases can be heard by a single member (i.e. a judicial member or an accounts member). With total
pending cases of around 5,000 with more then 50% being below Rs. 0.5 million, the Ministry of Law
feels more tribunals are not needed. Legislation was also enacted which allows for hiring of
accountants from the market rather then through transfer from CBR, which has helped in improving
quality and effectiveness of these appellates.
*  The number of tax payers were increased as targeted to 1.6 million by December 1998 and to 1.75
million by May 1999. Again the target laid down by SAL assisted them in taking additional measures
to achieve these targets, including: (a) screening of phone bills, (b) examining immovable property
ownership records and (c) checking automobile ownership. The CBR is planning an extensive door
to door survey for identifying and further enhancing the number of tax payers.
*  The PRA Act was submitted to the parliament in December 1998. The CBR and the Ministry of Law
expect this to come to a vote in the next one to two months.
Lessons Learned:
*  Reform measures with agreed objectives can be continued by a SAL, even after a change in
leadership.
*  In establishing some of the targets e.g. increase in the number of tax tribunals, there should have been
a more detailed review by assessing the actual backlog of cases, actual time spent on disposal of
appeals, number of appeals filed each month, and stay orders granted. This could have resulted in a
better understanding of the required numbers.
NATURAL GAS
*  Setting up Rs. 1.6 billion benchmark for overdue collection of gas bills from government and private
consumers between June 12, 1998 and December 31, 1998 was achieved. However, the GOP felt this
was not an adequate measure of the campaign for gas bill collection. The money amounts of arrears
were almost all collected by the time of the SAL negotiations. By then, extraordinary efforts are
required to collect each extra amount of arrears. The GOP felt the benchmarks should be a
combination of quantitative and qualitative indicators.
*  The Natural Gas Regulatory Act, revised to allow more autonomy in tariff, was sent to the National
Assembly in January 1999 and is under active consideration.
PUBLIC SECTOR EXPENDITURES
Background:
* The 1998/99 Public Sector Development Program (PSDP) as originally approved was unsustainable.
It was budgeted at Rs 111 billion which was too much for the macro and fiscal situation after
sanctions were imposed. This program contained a relatively large number of new projects yet fell
short of the assessed funding needs of the Core Development Program (CDP) by a net margin of
about Rs 1.5 billion. The Tameer-i-Watan Program which had been discontinued in 1997/98, was



- 38 -
revived; substantial allocations were provided for Pakistan Steel Mills and Saindak mineral projects
which were loss-making and were supposed to have been completed in 1997/98. Other low-return
projects such as the Chashma Nuclear Power project carried over into the 1998/99 PSDP. A number
of large infrastructure projects were initiated in the past year or so, largely or completely outside the
PSDP framework. Most of these projects carry substantial government liabilities in the form of
immediate land acquisition costs, future debt servicing, foreign payment liabilities, guarantees, and
possible operating subsidies.
*  During the SAL negotiations it became evident that the overall size of the budgetary PSDP
was inconsistent with the macroeconomic framework. Cutbacks of about Rs 12 billion
became necessary as the composition of spending had some inefficiencies and some major
investments escaped the discipline of economic scrutiny within an overall fiscal framework.
* In order to maintain/improve the quality of PSDP allocations, the government agreed to prioritize
these cuts as one of the prior-actions agreed in the SAL and do it in consultations with the Bank. The
Bank, in agreement with the government, suggested a list of cutbacks which were agreed by the
government.
*  Available, albeit tentative, data indicate that implementation of these cuts was uneven and only
partial. While the government had agreed to impose cuts of the allocations some of the large low-
priority projects and programs (e.g. Chashma Nuclear Power Plant, Tameer-i-Watan, etc.), the revised
estimates of expenditure indicate spending on those projects close to original allocations.
(Unfortunately, revised estimates are unreliable and no firm conclusions are possible.) On the other
hand, expenditure on the core program appear to have fallen short of original allocations by about
10%. Although not enough information is available whether this shortfall in CDP was due to funding
problems or implementation bottlenecks, this presents a worrisome situation.
* The government's view is that a shortfall in the core program is unlikely. Because of the tight foreign
exchange situation, the government has made every effort to increase disbursements of foreign aid,
which comprise a large chunk of budgetary core program. However, the view expressed to the
mission is that the process of prioritizing the cutbacks and defining the core program could have been
better managed if the government would have undertaken these tasks independently. The government
is best aware of the pace of implementation of each project and program and therefore can better
estimate their funding needs. The core program defined by the donors tends to focus more on donor-
financed projects and ignores local priorities. However, the general perception is that the process of
defining CDP or prioritizing PSDP cutbacks has been politicized in the past.
Lesson Learned:
It is obvious that due to lack of ownership, implementation of agreements made by the government
under difficult conditions were at best partial. What is required is perhaps a more substantive and
meaningful (and hence lengthy) dialogue on the issues, before coming to any agreement on them.
This is a necessary ingredient which would not only help to determine government's willingness to
undertakes these actions but also to understand their views and compulsions. This was compromised
due to short time frame available to complete the operation.



- 39 -
Annex 7
D. Mission Documents
Mr. A. Ghafoor Mirza,
Special Secretary,
Ministry of Finance
Government of Pakistan
Islamabad, Pakistan
Dear Mr. Mirza:
Re: Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL): Ln. 4435- PAK
Implementation Completion Report
At the completion of every World Bank Group project, as I believe you know, both the Bank and
the Borrower prepare short evaluation reports on the project, mainly with a view to identifying lessons
that may serve to make future projects more effective. Both the Bank's and the Borrower's evaluations
are put together in an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) and sent to the Bank's Board of Directors
and all member governments.
We are beginning the preparation of the ICR for the recently closed Structural Adjustment Loan.
Mr. Ahmad Jamshidi will visit Pakistan during the period July 5-14 for the purpose of drafting the Bank's
part of the ICR for the project. The main questions that he would like to address during this visit are
listed in Attachment I.
He also would like to discuss with you how best to handle the Government's part of ICR. We
suggest that the Government's part of the ICR address these same questions. The Bank ICR guidelines
state simply that "The borrower completes the evaluation of project implementation and transmits it to the
Bank The evaluation should include an assessment of project objectives, design, implementation and
operation experience, Bank's performance and borrower's own performance (lessons learned)". The
borrower is also requested to identify the measures taken or to be taken after closing to ensure the
sustainability or the project benefits.
The ICR needs to be completed within six months of the SAL closing date of June 30, 1999.
Therefore, we request that the Government's section of the ICR be sent to the Bank by mid-August and
the attached table to be completed during the mission. We will be producing our own evaluation on the
same schedule. Should you wish any further clarifications on this matter, they can be provided by our
World Bank staff at the Field Office or at the Headquarters.
With Best Regards
John Wall
[Acting PREM Manager]
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
South Asia region



- 40 -
EVALUATION OF STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SAL) Loan 4435-PAK
In January 1999, the Board of the World Bank approved Structural Adjustment Loan of Pakistan
(SAL) in the amount of $350 million. The purpose of the loan was to support on-going structural reform
program of the Government. The loan was disbursed in one tranche on January 21, 1999.
The South Asia Region Office of the World Bank is now undertaking preparation of an
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) on this loan. ICRs are required for all completed Bank
projects: One part of this ex post project evaluation is prepared by the World Bank, another by the
Government, which should begin the preparation now. Both parts will be included in the final ICR to be
submitted to the Bank's Board of Directors before end-December 1999.
ICR Objectives and Key Questions
An important objective of the ICR is to identify lessons of experience that may serve to make
future Bank assistance to Pakistan more relevant, efficacious, and cost effective. The ICR will assess in
turn: (i) the SAL's relevance, efficacy, and cost effectiveness; (ii) main strengths and shortcomings in the
performance of both the World Bank and Government at all stages of the project cycle; (iii) prospects for
sustaining the benefits. Towards this end, we would like to get your views on such core questions as the
following:
A. Relevance and Design
e Was the design of the project appropriate to achieve the objectives? (See Attachment I for a
summary of the main SAL objectives and targets).
How demanding the project was for the implementing agencies?
e How complex (in terms of number of institutions involved and political constraints) and risky,
and how responsive to your development priorities was the project?
- Was the SAL geared to treating symptoms or root causes of Pakistan's economic (governance)
issues?
How participatory was the process of identifying and preparing the SAL?
- How broad or narrow was the Pakistani "ownership" of the SAL?
* How adequate was the underlying diagnosis and analysis of the problems addressed by the SAL?
* What were the main strength and the main shortcomings of SAL design?
* Was the timing and size of the project right?
B. Efficacy and Efficiency
* What results did the project achieve (collection, governance, efficiency, institutional building)?
* How do these results compare with original objectives?
* What were the most and least successful aspects related to SAL?
* In retrospect, was the size of the loan ($350 million) appropriate?
C. Bank Performance
* How well did the Bank involve the SAL's stakeholders during preparation and implementation?
* What was the role of the Bank to assist the Government to articulate its policy options, evaluate
proposals for action, redirect priorities, and generally formulate and implement the adjustment
program? Can you give examples? How timely and effective was this assistance?
* How would you rate Bank performance during the various stages of the project cycle
(identification, preparation, negotiation and appraisal)?



- 41 -
*  Was there clarity and consistency in the Bank objectives and lending criteria?
*  How the SAL program was consistent with the objectives followed by other on-going Bank
Reform Programs (Banking SAL and Power SAL)?
*  How was the interaction of the Bank with IMF's ESAF/EFF mission?
*  What were the main strength and shortcomings of Bank performance in the SAL?
D. Borrower Performance
*  What was the role of Government vis-a-vis the Bank in preparing the SAL?
* Did the Government include all the potential beneficiaries?
*  How would you rate the Government's performance in SAL preparation, implementation,
negotiation compliance?
*  What were the main strength and shortcomings of GOP performance?
E. Sustainability and Main Lessons
*  What are the key factors relating to the prospects for sustainability?
*  Which of the measures undertaken by SAL appear most and least likely to be reversed?
*  Has there been any unforeseen factors (i.e. external factors, any political, policy, or
implementation measure) that make the sustainability of results more difficult?
*  What are the main lessons that emerged from SAL?
*  How the Bank would be helpful with the sustainability of the results achieved?



- 42 -
KEY SAL OBJECTIVES
I. OVERALL OBJECTIVES
1.    A banking system that is largely in private hands, operating under banking regulations and
prudential norms that meet international standards;
2.    A more efficient and financially viable energy sector with a growing role for private investors,
with independent regulatory authorities;
3.    An autonomous, efficient and equitable tax administration that progressively raises the tax to
GDP ratio by broadening the tax base and improving enforcement; and
4.    An expenditure policy that subjects public spending to rigorous appraisal and spending ceilings.
II. SECTORAL OBJECTIVES LISTED IN THE POLICY MATRIX
A. Banking
1.    Improve financial discipline and reduce stock of non-performing loans by accelerating cash
recovery from stock of classified loans, preferably from the largest defaulters.
2.    Enable simpler foreclosure on collateral to facilitate recovery of debts in default by creating a
modern and simple collateral foreclosure system to facilitate gaining of control of security and recovery
of debt by financial institutions.
B. Power
1.    Improve Management of Power Sector through change in management.
2.    Improve legal environment to facilitate restructuring and privatization of WAPDA by providing
legal framework to implement restructuring program.
3.    Make use of independent power producers (IPPs) by providing IPPs supportive environment.
4.
5.    Commercialize WAPDA's operations by embarking on and sustain loss and theft reduction
campaign.
6.    Improve financial discipline and accelerate collection of overdues by accelerating collection of
outstanding bills (90 days to 2 years).
7.    Use regulatory process to set power tariffs by making NEPRA fully operational as an independent
regulator.
C. Natural Gas
1.    Improve financial discipline and reduce stock of overdues by accelerating cash recovery from
stock of outstanding bills.
2.    Improve legal basis for gas tariff setting and collections by legislating new regulatory and
enforcement mechanisms.



- 43 -
D. Taxation
1.    Recover tax arrears by embarking on tax arrears campaign.
2.    Establish a professional tax administration service by giving the Pakistan Revenue Service legal
standing.
3.    Enhance transparency of tax compliance of public representatives by publishing tax returns of
public representatives and civil servants.
4.    Expand the tax net by increasing the number of taxpayers.
5.    Improve legal framework for tax collections by strengthening and increasing number of tax
tribunals.
E. PSDP
1.    Adjust the size and revise content of budgetary and non-budgetary public development
expenditures to fit resource envelope and national priorities by reducing the size and re-prioritize the
1998/99 and formulate the 1999/2000 public development expenditures plan to fit within the agreed
envelope and protect the core program.
2.    Provide adequate financing to implement SAP by providing funds for SAP as agreed with
provincial governments, IDA and donors.
TII. PRIOR ACTIONS
1 .    Collect Rs. 12 billion in cash between June 12, 1998 to December 315', 1998.
2.    Take a set of administrative steps to facilitate recovery by financial institutions of debt in default
and accelerate loan recovery. These include (i) issuing an approved panel of public auctioneers to
banking courts to assist in the sale of properties belonging to judgment debtors; and (ii) issuing guidelines
for use by the banking courts in restricting the number of times a property can be put up for auction in
cases where the same property is required to be put up for auction more than once because of dispute
arising over the value of the bids obtained.
*  Executive Order empowering PEPCO to manage the Reform Program and act as owner's
representative in corporatized entities issued.
*  Introduce amendment to WAPDA Act into the National Assembly to allow for: the corporatization of
the National Grid Company NGC); and provide evidence of the legal basis to all (a) transfer of
consumer contracts from WAPDA to the DISCO's; and (b) transfer of WAPDA staff to the
corporatized entities.:
*  Implement agreed orderly framework for resolving Independent Power Producers(IPPs).
*  WAPDA to design and begin to implement vigorous loss and theft reduction campaigns.
*  Clear up federal and provincial government arrears (federal and provincial government to be current
on WAPDA bills from July 1 onwards)
*  Ensure that the Ministry of Water and Power to issue a statement on the Government's socio- and
economic policy objectives regarding tariff setting to NEPRA.
*  Ensure that NEPRA has issued under the NEPRA Act its Tariff Standards and Procedures Rules, and
other terms and conditions related to generation, transmission and distribution by licensees
*  WAPDA/DISCOs to submit a comprehensive Tariff Filing to NEPRA.



- 44 -
*  Collect Rs. 1.6 billion of overdues from government and private consumers, between June 12th, 1998
and December 31 st 1998.
*  WAPDA & KESC to be current on billing of gas and oil companies on a monthly basis.
*  Natural Gas Regulatory Act which strengthen the collection of gas tariffs and the de-politicization of
tariff setting to be submitted to the National Assembly.
*  Collect Rs. 3 billion of tax arrears between June 12, 1998 and December 31, 1998.
*  PRA Act to be submitted to the National Assembly by December 31, 1998.
*  Increase numbers of income taxpayers ID to 1.6 million by December 31, 1998.
*  Increase number of fully operational Tax Tribunals from 7 to 15 by December 31.
*  Government reduces the size of the budgetary PSDP to Rs 98 billion in line with the macroeconomic
framework, and specifies the composition of the budgetary PSDP in line with development priorities.
*  Government specifies and adjusts size and composition of non-budgetary PSDP in line with
macroeconomic situation and sectoral priorities. The Government agreed to withhold approval and
expenditure on any new projects by autonomous public agencies that involve any government
financing through cash, debt, guarantees or contingent liabilities.
*  Provide federal and provincial funding to meet agreed levels of 1998/99 expenditure and ensure
provincial ways and means position will permit substantial non-salary expenditures for education and
health.



- 45 -
Key Indicators for Program Implementation and Operation
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SAL) Loan 4435-PAK
Final Outcome         Post or Follow-up
ACTION                              Jul.-lec. 1998     Actions/results between
Jan.-Jun. 199
Collect Rs. 12 billion in cash between June 12, 1998 to
December 3 1st, 1998.
Take a set of administrative steps to facilitate recovery by
financial institutions of debt in default and accelerate loan
recovery. These include (i) issuing an approved panel of
public auctioneers to banking courts to assist in the sale of
properties belonging to judgment debtors; and (ii) issuing
guidelines for use by the banking courts in restricting the
number of times a property can be put up for auction in cases
where the same property is required to be put up for auction
more than once because of dispute arising over the value of
the bids obtained.
Executive Order empowering PEPCO to manage the Reform
Program and act as owner's representative in corporatized
entities issued.
Introduce amendment to WAPDA Act into the National
Assembly to allow for: the corporatization of the National
Grid Company NGC); and provide evidence of the legal
basis to all (a) transfer of consumer contracts from WAPDA
to the DISCO's; and (b) transfer of WAPDA staff to the
corporatized entities.
Implement agreed orderly framework for resolving
Independent Power Producers(IPPs).
WAPDA to design and begin to implement vigorous loss
and theft reduction campaigns.
Clear up federal and provincial government arrears (federal
and provincial government to be current on WAPDA bills
from July 1 onwards)
Ensure that the Ministry of Water and Power to issue a
statement on the Government's socio- and economic policy
objectives regarding tariff setting to NEPRA.
Ensure that NEPRA has issued under the NEPRA Act its
Tariff Standards and Procedures Rules, and other terms and
conditions related to generation, transmission and
distribution by licensees.
WAPDA/DISCOs to submit a comprehensive Tariff Filing to
NEPRA.
Collect Rs. 1.6 billion of overdues from government and
private consumers, between June 12th, 1998 and December



- 46 -
3 1 st 1998.
WAPDA & KESC to be current on billing of gas and oil
companies on a monthly basis.
Natural Gas Regulatory Act which strengthen the collection
of gas tariffs and the de-politicization of tariff setting to be
submitted to the National Assembly.
Collect Rs. 3 billion of tax arrears between June 12, 1998
and December 31, 1998.
PRA Act to be submitted to the National Assembly by
December 31, 1998.
Increase numbers of income taxpayers ID to 1.6 million by
December 31, 1998.
Increase numbers of fully operational Tax Tribunals from 7
to 15 by December 31.
Government reduces the size of the budgetary PSDP to Rs 98
billion in line with the macroeconomic framework, and
specifies the composition of the budgetary PSDP in line with
development priorities.
Government specifies and adjusts size and composition of
non-budgetary PSDP in line with macroeconomic situation
and sectoral priorities. The Government agreed to withhold
approval and expenditure on any new projects by
autonomous public agencies that involve any government
financing through cash, debt, guarantees or contingent
liabilities.
Provide federal and provincial funding to meet agreed levels
of 1998/99 expenditure and ensure provincial ways and
means position will permit substantial non-salary
expenditures for education and health.
(1) Government's understanding of prior actions included in the SAL document.
(2) Post actual outcome of the prior actions, at the end of December 1998, listed in the SAL document.
(3) Follow-up actions/results during January to end June 1999. If June results are not available, the latest available
date.



