Report No. PID7363
Project Name                     Pakistan-Structural Adjustment Loan
Region                           South Asia
Sector                           Banking, Power, Gas and Tax Administration
Project ID                       PKPE59323
Borrower                         The Government of Pakistan
Ministry of Finance              Islamabad, Pakistan
Implementation agency            Ministry of Finance
Date this PID prepared           February 1999
Appraisal Date                   December 1998
Project Board Date               January 21, 1999
Background
To support its on-going structural reform program and to instill the
culture of discipline and respect for the rule of law, the Government of
Pakistan (GOP) has embarked on its current reform program in 1997 and has been
making substantial progress. In a speech on June 11, 1998, Pakistan's Prime
Minister presented a vision of a people that live up to their obligations,
repay their loans and pay their tax and utility bills, irrespective of their
influence. Since that date, the public agencies concerned have taken steps--
managerial, institutional and legal--to begin to clear up the outstanding
amounts due. Instilling a culture of discipline and respect for due process
in public expenditure is a second area of reform being tackled.
The Government has begun to improve the governance and financial
accountability throughout the economy. These efforts are accommodated through
legislation, Executive orders, Judiciary reforms, amendments and structural
reforms. The Bank is supporting these efforts through a series of Adjustment
Loans, starting with a $250 million Banking Sector Adjustment Loan (BSAL)
approved by the Board in December 1997. Substantial progress has also been
made in the implementation of the reform program, despite a difficult
macroeconomic setting and associated social and political pressures. The
Government has shown a firm resolve to press ahead with reforms, specifically
in areas of: banking, taxation, energy and public expenditures.
Project Objectives
The reforms supported by this operation are part of an agenda the
Government has developed over several years, and extensively discussed with
the Bank. From such reforms, and further reforms expected to be implemented
in the coming 1-2 years, should gradually emerge: (a) a banking system that is
largely in private hands, operating under banking regulations and prudential
norms that meet international standards; (b) a more efficient and financially
viable energy sector with a growing role for private investors, with
independent regulatory authorities; (c) an autonomous, efficient and
equitable tax administration that progressively raises the tax to GDP ratio by
broadening the tax base and improving enforcement; and (d) an expenditure
policy that subjects public spending to rigorous appraisal and spending
ceilings.



Project Description
The Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) of Pakistan will support the
Government of Pakistan in improving governance in the key public sector
activities of banking, tax administration, public utilities, and public
expenditure.
Banking Sector
The Banking Sector reforms supported by the SAL are a continuation of
steps taken under the US$250 million Banking Sector Adjustment Loan, provided
by the World Bank in December 1997. These reforms aim to strengthen banking
system governance, bring in private sector management to the banks with some
public ownership, arrest the flow of bad loans, curtail loss-making, and
conserve assets of the nationalized banks prior to their privatization. They
also aim to strengthen central bank independence and supervisory and
regulatory capacities, and to build the capacity of the legal and judicial
system for loan recovery.
The SAL objectives in the banking sector are to help the government to
collect specified levels of Non-Performing Loans as prior actions to Board
presentation. A committee of banks has agreed with the Government on a set of
administrative steps to facilitate recovery by financial institutions of debt
in default and hence accelerate loan recovery. These include: (i) issuing an
approved panel of public auctioneers available for appointment by the courts
in suits brought by financial institutions and involving the disposal of
property by public auction; (ii) requiring judges to appoint auctioneers
exclusively from the panel established under (i) above; and (iii) issuing
guidelines for use by the courts in restricting the number of times a property
can be put up for auction in cases where the same property is required to be
put up for auction more than once because of dispute arising over the value of
the bids obtained.
Public Utilities (Power Sector)
In the Power Sector, the two main objectives of the SAL are: (1) to
restore financial viability of the Water and Power Development Authority
(WAPDA) and Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) by ensuring that line
losses are reduced, distribution is improved, and cross-arrears between energy
utilities and governments are settled; and (2) to ensure that the National
Electric Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA) becomes fully operational in order
to regulate corporate entities and provide necessary comfort to investors and
consumers.
Over the medium-term, the reform agenda would focus on: (1) completing
the corporatization process and establishing commercially-oriented autonomous
corporations, with NEPRA issuing licenses for the new corporatized entities;
(2) implementing theft and loss reduction programs and introducing other
efficiency improvements; (3) intensifying bill collection efforts from both
public and private customers; (4) implementing financial and other
restructuring measures; and (5) accelerating the privatization program for the
thermal generation and electricity distribution companies.
Natural Gas Sector
The Government has long been committed to the privatization of the Sui
Northern and Sui Southern companies through a strategic sale with management
-2 -



rights and the creation of an independent gas regulatory authority which
promotes competition in the sector and de-politicizes tariff setting.
The future agenda for reform includes further improving the financial
discipline of the gas distribution companies, reducing the stock of overdue
bills and improving the legal basis for gas tariff setting and collections.
The steps include: (1) completion of cash recovery from the stock of overdue
bills from the private sector, reduction in WAPDA and KESC arrears, and
keeping the payment of gas bills by WAPDA and KESC current; and (2) enactment
by the National Assembly of the Natural Gas Regulatory Ordinance and amendment
of the penal code to make tampering with gas meters a crime.
Taxation
The Government has developed a tax reform program comprising both policy
and administrative reforms. It is putting in place a tax administration which
is more efficient and responsive. The program includes actions to reform tax
administration; broaden the base of domestic taxes; further liberalize the
trade regime; and increase tax revenues while these institutional reforms are
being undertaken. The tax enforcement program is being strengthened with a
more effective tax registration program, an information exchange program,
better administration of the taxpayer identification numbers, and a
strengthened tax audit regime. Significant progress has been made over the
last two years in reforming the General Sales Tax into a modern, broadly-based
value-added tax.
The reform agenda for the tax administration envisages that the Central
Board of Revenue (CBR) will be transformed into the Pakistan Revenue Authority
through an act of legislation. The CBR is to increase the number of income
tax payers with IDs to 1.6 million, the Law Ministry is to increase the number
of fully functioning Tax Tribunals from seven to 15; and collect Rs3 billion
of tax arrears.
Public Sector Expenditure
Reforms in this sector focus on adjustment in Public Sector Development
Program (PSDP) allocations by imposing prioritized cutbacks on the low-
priority portion of the PSDP and retaining only the highest-priority projects.
Reforms in this sector also include, (1) addressing the shortfalls in
allocations for high-priority projects and for Social Action Program-related
development activities by appropriately revising and protecting these
allocations against budgetary cutbacks; (2) ensuring adequate and timely
release of funds to all high-priority projects; and (3) strengthening
monitoring and evaluation of development projects.
Project Financing
The SAL is a Single Currency Loan equivalent of US$350 million, with a
twenty year maturity and a grace period of five years. The interest rate on
the loan is LIBOR Base plus LIBOR Total Spread. The proposed loan was
disbursed upon effectiveness.
Project Implementation
The SAL approved on the basis of Pakistan's reform program, the adequacy
of the macroeconomic framework and its balance of payments needs. These three
elements have all been worked out within the context of Pakistan Policy
Framework, with the collaboration of the International Monetary Fund. The SAL
-3 -



contributes much-needed resources within an overall financing plan that
includes additional financing from the IMF and the Asian Development Bank.
The approval of the SAL was based on a number of prior actions. Among
them include:
Banking: (1) collection of specified amounts from loan defaulters; (2) issuing
(a) an approved panel of public auctioneers to banking courts to assist in the
sale of properties belonging to judgement letters; and (b) guidelines for use
by the banking courts in restricting the number of times a property can be put
up for because of dispute arising over the value of the bids obtained.
Power: (1) issuance of an Executive Order empowering Pakistan Electric Power
Company to manage the implementation of the Borrower's power sector reform
program; (2) Submission to the National Assembly, the WAPDA Act to allow for,
inter alia, corporatization of WAPDA into separate entities; (3) preparation
of a theft, loss and arrears reduction plan; (4) Clearance by the federal and
provincial Governments of their past bills with WAPDA; (5) NEPRA issued,
under the NEPRA Act, its Tariff Standards and Procedures Rules, and other
terms and conditions related to generation, transmission and distribution by
licensees; and (6) submission of a comprehensive tariff filing to NEPRA by
WAPDA.
Gas Sector: (1) acceleration of cash recoveries in the natural gas sector; (2)
and submission to the National Assembly a bill to establish a Natural Gas
Regulatory Authority to, inter alia, regulate tariff setting and strengthen
collection.
Taxation: (1) collection of agreed levels of tax arrears; (2) submission to
the National Assembly a law for the establishment of the Pakistan Revenue
Authority; (3) increasing the number of income taxpayers with ID numbers to
at agreed level; and (4) increasing the number of fully functioning tax
tribunals from 7 to at least 15.
Public Sector Expenditures: (1) agreed with the Bank on the size and content
of the budgetary and non-budgetary public development expenditures in line
with its development priorities and the agreed macro economic framework; (2)
ensured that federal and provincial Governments have provided adequate funds
to meet agreed levels of expenditure as agreed with the Bank under the Social
Action Program of the Borrower.
Environmental Aspects
In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental
Assessment (OD 4.01), the proposed operation has been placed in Category "B"
and will require no separate environmental assessment analysis or
environmental management plan.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Mr. John Wall
Tel: (202) 458-5045
Fax: (202) 522-2428
Email: JWALL@WORLDBANK.ORG
- 4 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 19, 1999.
- 5 -



