                  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                           International Development Association
                             International Finance Corporation
                         Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                                     FOR OFFICIAL ["SE ONLY
                                                                                                  86745
                                  CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                    EDS99- IO
                                                                                             Jan jary 20, 1999

 Board Meeting of January 21, 1999
 Statement by Surendra Singh



                              PAKISTAN: Country Assistance Strategy
                                         Progress Report
                                   Structural Adjustment Loan



        We welcome this opportunity to discuss the progress report on Country
                                                                                     Assista nce
Strategy of Pakistan. We compliment the staff and the management
                                                                   for their hard work and tlleir
efforts to reactivate the Bank's lending program in Pakistan and for this
                                                                           comprehensive pa er
dealing with Pakistan's current economic and social situation.

         We are encouraged by the steps taken by the Government of Pakistan to
                                                                                   improve he
country's macro-economic stability and its commitment to the structural reform
                                                                               agenda desr ite
the difficult circumstances. We applaud the Government's success in containing
                                                                                the inflatior at
7.8%.

        We appreciate the steps taken by the Government of Pakistan in the last
                                                                                       two years in
carrying out structural reforms - both in the financial and non-financial sectors.
                                                                                    In the finan ial
sector, we particularly welcome the steps taken by the Government
                                                                           to introduce pruden ial
regulations and disclosure norms matching international standards. However,
                                                                                 we agree with he
Bank that a lasting solution for the problems of Pakistan's ailing banking sector
                                                                                  lies in improv ng
corporate governance through genuine privatization supported by an
                                                                              effective regulat ry
mechanism. In this connection we welcome the Bank's assistance in restructuring
                                                                                     the State B nk
of Pakistan. Since the non-performing assets are increasing, we would like
                                                                              to know whether he
   sdocument     has a restricted distribution and man be used by recipients only
                                                                                     i L the
??CnaThnc-    ot their official duties. Its contents may not otherxise be disclosed wishout
  ,W   Bs
        1. LKS_   .2 . 7Z
                  OO   Ji?n   .
                                                   2

 Bank has done any detailed analysis of bank-wise position
                                                           and how they are planning t make
 adequate provisions.

          On the external front, the estimated financing gap of US$3.5
                                                                        billion in the capital iccount
 is really huge. The successful achievement of the comprehensive
                                                                       rescheduling by the ]ondon
 and Paris Clubs is crucial for keeping the economy
                                                            stable. Is there any contingency plan
 envisaged by the Government or the Bank, in case the
                                                            rescheduling does not come thrc ugh as
 expected? We would appreciate Staff's comments on this.

        The significant progress achieved by the Govermrnent
                                                               in improving the efficiency of the
tax administration and its desire to introduce the agricultural
                                                                   income tax are encou raging.
However, taxation of agricultural income is a very sensitive
                                                               issue in the subcontinent and the
opposition from the rural landlords/farmers' lobby will
                                                          be formidable. At the ground I evel it
would be nearly impracticable. Without taking the consensus
                                                              of the farmers and putting ir place
an adequate institutional mechanism for tax collection,
                                                         introduction of agricultural incoi ne tax
may not yield the desired results. On the contrary
                                                        it may lead to further corrupti n and
harassment of marginal and small farmers.

        No doubt the risks involved in supporting a strong
                                                                 reform program in Pakist n are
significant; but Bank's support is all the more important
                                                          to save millions of people from sl pping
into poverty. The Bank's response should be quick enough
                                                               and adequate enough to pre vent a
worsening of the situation. We extend our full support
                                                        to the Bank's strategy as outlined n this
paper and also to the proposed Structural Adjustment
                                                      Loan.
