                Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                         Intemational Development Association
                           International Finance Corporation
                      NIultilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                                                                                  86746
                                    CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                     EDS99-1 I
                                                                                              Ja uary 20, 1999


 Board Meeting of January 21, 1999
 Statement by Andrei Bugrov

                                                PAKISTAN:
                                Country Assistance Strategy - Progress Report
                                                    and
                                        Structural Adjustment Loan


        We appreciate the work of the Bank staff in preparing the CAS Progress Repoi t for
 Pakistan and the Structural Adjustment Loan. We are also grateful for the technical bri fing
 which contributed to our better understanding of some important issues.

        The Progress Report document provides an objective perspective on the recent pol tical
 and economic developments in Pakistan since the last CAS Progress Report discussion. In 1997
 Mr. Sharif's Government embarked on an ambitious reform program. The initial phase (if its
 implementation was very successful, and there was a considerable improvement in the econ )mic
 performance through most of 1997/98. However, following the nuclear testing in May 1998 and
 imposition of external sanctions, the financial situation in Pakistan significantly deteriorated and,
 as a result, the implementation of many important reform measures was adversely affe cted.
 Despite a number of emergency measures that the Government took to address the balan e of
 payments crisis and sustain domestic economic activity, the threat of an unprecedented finar cial,
 economic, political, and social meltdown remains.

         At the same time it should be recognized that even when financing for structural re form
 program dried up, the Government remained committed to the reform course, and,
 notwithstanding setbacks, the progress achieved in implementation of the current CAS placed
 Pakistan in the High Base Case lending scenario.

         As we see it, the key question of today's CAS discussion is what the Bank's response
 should be in this very complex situation. In our opinion, the Progress Report contains the right
 answer. We appreciate the bold and pro-active stance taken by the Staff and Management and
 strongly support their strategic choice. Of course, the risks involved in stepping up Bank
 assistance to Pakistan are very serious and require careful mitigating efforts, but we agree with
 the Report that a wait-and-see option is fraught with disastrous consequences for the country



_Xs document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only n the'
  -.. ance of their official duties. Its contents may not othervise be disclosed without,.
      a   r n aLthoIll.zlr'   on.
                                                 2


        We endorse the proposed lending program for the period until the consideratior of the
next full CAS. The main components of the program are two one-tranche adjustment ope rations:
the Structural Adjustment Loan and the Power Sector Adjustment Loan. Although they were not
specified as such in the last CAS, we find them fully consistent with the CAS's objecl ives of
supporting strong reform perforrnance with fast-disbursing assistance. As regards the planned
level of IBRD lending, we have no problem in accepting the justification presented in the
Progress Report as well as at the technical briefing prior to the Board discussion.

        The Structural Adjustment Loan is under consideration along with the CAS Frogress
Report. We note with satisfaction that the borrower has met all the prior conditions for its
presentation to the Board. We welcome and approve this operation as a timely and app opriate
Bank response to the request of the Government of Pakistan which has been demonsti ating a
strong commitment to its far-reaching economic reforms. At this critical juncture the S L will
help Pakistan overcome a major external financing crisis, improve its creditworthin ss and
restore investors' confidence. At the same time this operation will support the on-going st ructural
adjustment program initiated by the Government to restore the basis for rapid gro th and
poverty reduction.
