                Ilntemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                         International Development Association
                              International Finance Corporation                              7
                        Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                   CONFIDENTIAL                                          86744
                                                                                            EDS99-9
                                                                                    January 20, 1999

   Board Meeting of January 21, 1999
   Statement by Khalid M. Al-Saad

                                   Pakistan: CAS Progress Report
                                Pakistan: Structural Adjustment Loan

            We commend management for a candid and realistic CAS Progress Report. We have
   benefited from the technical briefing provided by staff two weeks ago, where a convincing
   argument was made for the Bank's support for Pakistan. There is little doubt that Pakistan faces
   difficult social and economic conditions. Without the assistance of the international community,
   a large segment of Pakistan's population would fall below the poverty level.

            Since November 1996, the current Government has embarked on an ambitious economic
   reform in order to put the Pakistani economy on the right track. Initially, considerable suqcess
   was achieved, and the reforms started bearing fruit in terms of acceleration of economic growth
   and development as real GDP grew by 5.4% in 1997/1998. Since mid-1998, however, economnic
   sanctions were imposed, and the Bank has joined forces with others to suspend lending to
   Pakistan, thus resulting in the deterioration of Pakistan's financial situation. The question that
   comes to mind in this regard is: should Bank lending to a client country be affected by a purely
   political event regardless of the serious economic consequences on that country.

           We support the Bank's on-going assistance strategy with a focus on poverty alleviation
   in Pakistan by investing in people, raising productivity, and promoting sustainable economic
   growth. We believe that emphasis on the social sector and economic governance are the key for
   poverty alleviation in Pakistan. Adaptable lending (APL and LIL) can be effective instruments
   in achieving positive results in these areas.

           We agree with staff that a lasting solution to problems of Pakistan's banking sector in
   the long run lie in improving corporate governance through genuine privatization of banks and
   financial institutions and competitive markets with well-functioning legal and judicial system
   as well as effective regulatory and supervisory arrangements. But in the immediate future, the
   timing and the process of privatization, which we often tend to ignore, are extrernely
   important.

           On some specific points, we appreciate the candidness of the report on portfolio
   management where staff takes some of the blame for weak portfolio performance (quality at
   entry, poor design, etc.). It is good to see that strengthening Bank's supervision and portfolio

ThlPis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the.
 performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wsthoutd
 World Bank authorization.                                                                 !
                                                2

monitoring has shown some results, but that does
                                                  not address the issues of quality at entry, and
the poor project design. Intensifying financial
                                                management and procurement oversight by
Bank as a first step toward improving governance                                               the
                                                   and reducing corruption require addressing
the micro and macro factors behind weak governance
                                                     and corruption.
        On the potential risks, we agree with management
involved in supporting a strong reform program                  assertion that while the risks
                                                  in Pakistan are significant, they are less than
the risks of not supporting such a program. We
                                                do believe that Bank's involvement in Pakistan
tends to mitigate the risk of wavering political
                                                     commitment to reforms by the current
government in the face of strong opposition from
                                                 interest groups.
      Finally, we do support the high base case lending
                                                        program as well as the proposed SAL,
and wish the Pakistani authorities every success
                                                    in the implementation of this ambitious
economic reform program.
