                   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                            International Development Association                                        86748
                              International Finance Corporation
                          Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                    CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                     EDS99-13
                                                                                               Janua y 20,1999

 Board Meeting of January 21, 1999
 Statement by Matthias Meyer

                        Palistan: Country Assistance - Progress Report
                            Pakistan: StructuralAdjustment Loan

 We welcome the timely CAS progress report. Our overall assessment of the country's
 performance and its prospects are not as optimistic as those presented in the progress report.
 Nevertheless, we concur with Management that the risks of not supporting Pakistan at this
                                                                                               stag
 are greater than the risks associated with the proposed program. The social and economic
 vulnerability of the country is such, that in the absence of the Bank's support and in
                                                                                        the context
 of the international creditors' and investors' lack of confidence, it might embark on a rapid
 downward spiral with potentially serious consequences. Hence, we support the coordinated
 response as outlined in the report. We have the following comments and questions.

 I.      The lack of data and analysis in the report tracing the impact of the economic decline
                                                                                                     o
the poor is rather surprising. Even if hard data were not available, a qualitative assessment
would have been warranted. After all, poverty reduction is the overarching objective of
                                                                                              the
Pakistan CAS, given the country's high poverty levels and the notorious inequalities
                                                                                          in the
access to economic opportunities and basic services. The statement that the poor have
                                                                                            so far bee
relatively insulated, contrasts with social discontent, described in the report, arising from
                                                                                                the
difficult economic situation. We urge Management, to give high priority to the ongoing
                                                                                              poverty
assessment. We hope it will address causes of poverty, be action-oriented and guide the
                                                                                              CAS
planned for FYOO.

2.       With regard to the fiscal area, we would like to know how poverty has been considered
in prioritizing public expenditures, above and beyond protecting the budgets for the Social
Action Program. Are the expenditure reductions in the public sector development program
(PSDP) equitable with respect to how they affect rural vs. urban areas, poor localities vs.
                                                                                            others
Likewise, we are concerned about the lack of agreement between the Bank and the Government
on limiting spending for large infrastructure programs outside the PSDP framework.

3.      The Social Action Program (SAP) is a cornerstone for poverty alleviation by enhancing
access to education and primary health care. However, feedback from our field mission, contrast;
with the rather positive assessment in the CAS progress report, in two areas:

 » document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only n the
      T:cimance   of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed u thout
    -;,   anB authonizaion.
                                                     2


  -   Education outcomes: Apparently, third party validation
                                                                revealed deficiencies, including that
      of "ghost schools" and absent teachers which puts
                                                          into perspective the increase in primary
      school enrollment. Hence, we support the intended
                                                           focus on qualitative improvements u der
      SAP-II.
  -   Community and NGO participation: The acceptance
                                                             and inclusion of NGOs and comu nities
      as partners of government institutions in design and
                                                            implementation of social services
      programs is still a major challenge. This seems to
                                                         be evidenced by local press reports on
      government action vis-a-vis NGOs (e.g. in Punjab)
                                                           and questioning of NGO motivation4.
 4.       Agricultural taxation is crucial both for fiscal and
                                                                equity reasons. An agricultural
 income tax has been introduced but much remains
                                                      to be done, both in terms of extending
 coverage to all provinces and improving the design
                                                       of the tax which does not comprise an
 adequate land valuation component. We stress this,
                                                       because a fair and well designed agricul 4ral
 tax helps reducing the bias against small farmers, and
                                                          it contributes to the better functioning pf
 land markets. We expect that good progress on this
                                                       front will constitute a key prior action fo] the
 agricultural adjustment operation.

  5.      We fully support the Bank's strengthened focus on
                                                               governance and value highly the
  Government's acknowledgement that poor governance
                                                          is the country's core problem. The
 stronger focus on improved financial governance
                                                   in the power, banking, gas and fiscal areas its
 thus most appropriate. However, we would like to
                                                    highlight the importance of empowering
 communities, and enhancing participation of civil
                                                     society in the development process. As a
 trusted intermediary, the Bank can and should play
                                                     a proactive role in promoting more
 participation as an important ingredient of good
                                                  governance. We trust that the FY00 CAS
 process will be participatory.

  6.       Our chair welcomes the rationale of the SAL to reward
                                                                      prior actions with respect to
  financial governance in key sectors. This is fundamental
                                                               and a prerequisite for successful
  implementation of the strong but ambitious reform
                                                        program, as set out in the PFF. We apprec ate
 that there is evidence for achievements for example
                                                         in the banking sector. The prior actions t en
 are significant given the difficult political and economic
                                                               context. However, they constitute on]Y
 first steps and require decisive follow-up. We question
                                                             the heavy front loading of disburseme t
 and we are not fully convinced that Pakistan's
                                                   track record justifies the move to the high base
 case scenario at this point. We do have a clear preference
                                                                for re-phasing part of the loan whi e
ensuring that the program remains fully funded.
                                                     Moreover, the SAL covers initial reform step in
many areas, most of which are also covered by IMF.
                                                          This raises the question of division of Ia r
between the IMF and the Bank, with respect to policy
                                                           dialogue and monitoring of reform
implementation. We will reserve our final position
                                                       on the SAL and await with interest
Management response.

In conclusion, we stand ready to support the Bank's
                                                    necessary but risky approach to assist
Pakistan. We expect that implementing the program
                                                    and determining levels of lending will
depend on strong policy performance, improved governance,
                                                             programs reaching the poor and
sustained improvements in portfolio performance.
                                                   We expect that staff will focus monitoring a id
policy dialogue on these crucial elements for implementing
                                                           performance-based lending.
