Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4039 CE 
GRANT NUMBER H-147 CE
 
Development Financing Agreement 
 
(Tsunami Emergency Recovery Project 
–
Phase II) 
 
between 
 
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
Dated April 1, 2005 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 4039 CE 
GRANT NUMBER H-147 CE 
 
DEVELOPMENT FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 1, 2005, between the DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST 
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) following the devastating impact of tsunami tidal waves on the 
Borrower’s territory on December 26, 2004, the Association and the Borrower entered 
into an Agreement Amending Selected Legal Agreements or the “Part Z Amendment” to 
finance the first phase of an emergency recovery and reconstruction program by utilizing 
unwithdrawn funds allocated to various existing projects in the Borrower’s territory 
financed by the Association; 
 
(B) 
the Borrower having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which is the second phase of its 
emergency recovery and reconstruction program, has requested the Association to assist 
in the financing of the Project; and 
 
(C) 
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent practicable, that 
the proceeds of the Grant be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the 
Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Credit are made; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit and the Grant to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  4
-
4
-
(a) 
“Affected Area” means the districts of Amparai, Batticaloa, and 
Trincomalee in the East; Jaffna and Mullaitivu in the North; Galle, Hambantota and 
Matara in the South; and Kalutara in the West, and any other districts that the Association 
and the Borrower jointly designate; 
 
(b) 
“Acceptable Assistance Criteria” means the criteria and guidelines, in 
form and substance satisfactory and acceptable to the Association, governing Cash 
Grants; 
 
(c) 
“Cash Grants” means cash payments for livelihood support to affected 
individuals and families under Part B of the Project (as defined in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement); 
 
(d) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, 
consultants’ services, and Cash Grants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Environment and Social Framework” means the Borrower’s 
Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework dated February 6, 2005, 
satisfactory to the Association, including any amendments made to such documents from 
time to time with the Association’s approval, that contain measures to address any 
environmental or social impact arising from carrying out the Project; 
 
(g) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(h) 
“Implementation Plan” means the Borrower’s plan, which is satisfactory 
and acceptable to the Association, that includes operating procedures, financing 
management arrangements, and procurement matters to implement the Project, including 
any updates made from time to time with the Association’s approval; 
 
(i) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan covering 
the initial 18-month-period of Project implementation, as the same shall be updated from 
time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement to cover 
succeeding 18 month periods of Project implementation. 
 
(j) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Financing Accounts referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B.1 of  
Schedule 1 of this Agreement; and 
 
Page  5
-
5
-
(l) 
“Sub-grants” means grants from the Financing proceeds provided by the 
Borrower to beneficiaries for carrying out emergency recovery and reconstruction 
activities in accordance with operating procedures satisfactory and acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Financing 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million two hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 30,200,000) (the Credit); and 
 
(b) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million one 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 20,100,000) (the Grant). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account and the amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account, in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, for expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works, services, and Cash Grants required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Financing.
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2008, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association: (i) a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum; and (ii) a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, such rate not to exceed the rate of one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
Each commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or the Grant 
Account (as the case may be), or canceled; and (ii) at the respective rate set as of the June 
30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time 
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The respective rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
Page  6
-
6
-
(c) 
Each commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
January 15 and July 15 commencing July 15, 2015 and ending January 15, 2045. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 15, 2025, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) Whenever:
 (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
Page  7
-
7
-
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment of the Credit to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III  
 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out, and 
shall cause various implementing agencies (including provincial councils, districts, 
statutory authorities, and government departments), to undertake their respective 
obligations to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, environmental, technical, and public health policies, 
guidelines, practices, rules, regulations, and laws, and shall provide, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services, and other resources required for the Project.  
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
implement the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and the 
Environmental and Social Framework; 
 
(ii) 
make all efforts required on its part to cause various 
implementing agencies (including provincial councils, districts, 
statutory authorities, and government departments) to undertake 
their respective obligations to carry out the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of this Agreement and the Environmental 
and Social Framework; and 
 
(iii) 
take, or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable various implementing agencies (including 
provincial councils, districts, statutory authorities, and 
Page  8
-
8
-
government departments) to perform their respective obligations 
to carry out the Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as these provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan to ensure continued achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources, and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or 
Page  9
-
9
-
such other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Financing Accounts were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 
1
to this Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of
 
statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Financing Accounts was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Schedule 4, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Financing, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
Page  10
-
10
-
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter 
after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, 
each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effectiveness and Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General 
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has established satisfactory and acceptable 
financial management arrangements to carry out the Project. 
 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning, of the Borrower, 
or such other person authorized by the Secretary, is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Planning 
 
The Secretariat 
 
Colombo 1, Sri Lanka 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
    
 
SECMINFIN 
 
FINMIN  2140994-11-449823 
 
FORAID 2123294-11-447633 
 
Page  11
-
11
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Colombo, Sri Lanka, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA 
 
By /s/ P.B. Jayasundera 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Peter Harrold 
 
Country Director 
Sri Lanka 
 
Page  12
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
A.
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Financing, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit and the amounts of 
the Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
(SDR Equivalent)
(SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods, works,  
 
consultants’  
 
 services 
 
 
(including audits)  
 training, 
 
 Sub-grants, 
and 
 
operating costs           25,350,000               15,250,000 
 
100% 
 
(2) 
Cash Grants                  4,850,000                 4,850,000 
 
100% 
 
__________             _________ 
 
TOTAL               30,200,000              20,100,000 
 
========== ========= 
 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of: (i) SDR6,040,000 from the Credit proceeds and (ii) SDR4,020,000 from 
the Grant proceeds may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) and on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after December 25, 2004. 
 
3. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Financing Account to be 
made on the basis of statements-of-expenditures for: (a) goods and works under contracts 
not exceeding US$200,000 equivalent; (b) consultants services under contracts not 
exceeding US$100,000 equivalent for employment of consulting firms and US$50,000 
equivalent for employment of individual consultants; (c) training; (d) Sub-grants;  
(e) works procured under force account; (f) operating costs; and (g) Cash Grants, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
Page  13
-
13
-
4. 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount of the 
Financing was used in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association for 
deposit into the Financing Account, an amount equivalent to the amount so used. 
 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Financing Accounts to be made 
on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, such reports to include the Financial Monitoring Report 
and any other information as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first such request submitted to the 
Association before any withdrawal has been made from the Financing Accounts, the 
Borrower shall submit to the Association only a statement with the projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the date of such 
request. 
 
B.
 
Special Account  
 
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its 
central bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Financing Accounts of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements;  
 
Page  14
-
14
-
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Financing Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
 
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend 
in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account or the Grant Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon 
such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further 
deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed 
for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its 
determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account or the Grant Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Financing Agreement. 
Page  15
-
15
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of US$4,300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the Grant Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account or the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
as the Borrower shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account or the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the Grant 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Grant minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the 
Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Grant shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  16
-
16
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account and the Grant Account shall be deposited 
by the Association into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account or the Grant Account under one 
or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit or the 
Grant, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account or the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to 
the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has 
determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to 
such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such reports. 
Page  17
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of this Project is to assist the Borrower in carrying out the second 
phase of an emergency recovery and reconstruction program in the Affected Areas as a 
consequence of the massive destruction and devastation following the tsunami and tidal 
waves in December 2004 and other similar incidents. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Emergency Recovery, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Activities
Carrying out of emergency recovery and reconstruction activities in Affected 
Areas in various sectors including, but not limited to, health, education, infrastructure, 
roads, housing, capacity building, long-term hazard-and-risk management, training, and 
support for small-and-medium enterprises, by providing goods, services, training, 
operating costs, and Sub-grants, and carrying out works required for this purpose. 
 
Part B
:
Cash Grants for Livelihood Support
Livelihood support to individuals and families in the Affected Areas through the 
provision of Cash Grants in accordance with Acceptable Assistance Criteria. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2008.
Page  18
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement, all goods, works, and services 
(other than 
consultants’ services) for 
the
 Project shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall 
be
 procured in accordance with Section I, 
paragraphs 3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV of, and Appendix 2 to, the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” dated May 2004 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in 
the
 Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Procurement 
Guidelines
,
and the 
following additional procedures: 
 
1. Domestic 
Preference
.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto, providing for domestic preference in the 
evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the Borrower’s territory.
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding
.
Goods which the Association agrees can 
only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Limited International Bidding. 
 
2. (a) National 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost 
US$50,000 equivalent per contract or more but less than US$500,000 equivalent per 
contract and works estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and 
the following additional provisions:  
Page  19
-
19
-
(i) 
the Borrower shall only use the country-specific-model bid 
documents for National Competitive Bidding as agreed with the 
Association (and as amended from time to time); 
 
(ii) 
the Borrower shall advertise invitations to bid in at least one 
widely circulated national daily newspaper twenty one days prior 
to the deadline for the submission of the bids; 
 
(iii) 
the Borrower shall make available bidding documents by mail or 
in person to all who are willing to pay a required fee; 
 
(iv) 
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the 
bids; 
 
(v) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders, state-
owned enterprises, and small-scale enterprises in the bidding 
process; 
 
(vi) 
bids shall be opened in public in one location, immediately after 
the deadline for submitting them; 
 
(vii) 
qualification criteria (in case a pre-qualification was not carried 
out) shall be stated in the bid document, and if a registration 
process is required, a foreign bidder, if declared as the lowest-
evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given a reasonable time to 
register, without let or hindrance; 
 
(viii) 
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and within the 
specified period stipulated by the Association; 
 
(ix) 
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an official estimate without prior concurrence of the 
Association; 
 
(x) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest-evaluated responsive 
bidders; 
 
(xi) 
except with the prior concurrence of the Association, there shall 
be no negotiation of price with any bidders, including the lowest-
evaluated bidder; 
 
(xii) re-bidd
ing shall not be carried out, except with the Association’s 
prior concurrence; 
Page  20
-
20
-
(xiii) 
all contractors shall provide performance security as indicated in 
the contract documents; 
 
(xiv) 
a
contractor’s performance security shall apply only to the 
specific contract under which it was furnished; 
 
(xv) 
except in cases of force majeure or situations beyond the control 
of an implementing agency, the following requests for extending 
bid validity shall not be granted without the Association’s prior 
concurrence:  
 
(A) 
the first request for an extension if the extension period 
is longer than four weeks; and 
 
(B) 
all subsequent extension requests irrespective of the 
period; and 
 
(xvi) 
bids shall not be invited on the basis of a percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost without the Association’s prior 
concurrence. 
 
2. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing paragraph, based on 
specific needs, the Association may agree to allow the Borrower to use contract 
documents prepared by its national procurement agency that are satisfactory and 
acceptable to the Association. 
 
3. Shopping
.
Works estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per 
contract, goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, and 
services (other than consultants’ services) estimated to cost less than US$10,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Shopping. 
 
4. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods, which the Association agrees, meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting, such as those of a proprietary nature, software, 
school textbooks, including reprinting, periodicals, small value drugs and spare parts for 
existing equipment, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of this 
procurement method. 
 
5. Force 
Account
.
Works which the Association agrees meet the 
requirements for Force Account may be carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
this procurement method. 
 
6. Community 
Participation
.
Goods, works, and services required for 
housing and small works reconstruction activities may be procured on the basis of 
community participation in accordance with paragraph 3.17 of the Procurement 
Page  21
-
21
-
Guidelines and procedures identified in the Implementation Plan that are approved by the 
Association.
 
Section III
Particular Methods of Procur
ement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of quality and cost in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 
of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost 
less than U.S.$500,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national 
consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association 
agrees meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of quality in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments, which the 
Association agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a fixed budget in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments, which the Association 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of lowest cost in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to 
cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7, and 3.8 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
 
5. Single 
Source 
Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances, which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for single source 
selection, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
6. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the 
Page  22
-
22
-
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis in accordance with the 
provisions of said paragraph 5.4, subject to prior approval of the Association. 
 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts, which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review. If the Procurement Plan provides for prior review of 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants, the record of justification for 
such contracts, referred to in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines, 
shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association. All other contracts shall be subject to 
Post Review by the Association. 
Page  23
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
General Implementation Obligations 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall not undertake, nor shall cause its implementing agencies 
(including provincial councils, districts, statutory authorities, and government 
departments) to undertake, any recovery or reconstruction activities under the Project 
(including any activities financed by Sub-grants) that could cause any environmental or 
social impacts in the absence of an approved Environmental and Social Framework that 
is satisfactory to the Association. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall implement, and shall cause its various implementing 
agencies (including provincial councils, districts, statutory authorities, and government 
departments) to implement, the Project (including any activities financed by Sub-grants) 
in accordance with the Environment and Social Safeguards Framework. 
 
3. 
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing paragraphs (1) and (2), the 
Borrower shall ensure that all civil works under the Project (including any activities 
financed by Sub-grants) to be financed out of the Financing proceeds are carried out in 
accordance with design standards and technical specifications satisfactory to the 
Association and the relevant provisions of the Environmental and Social Framework. 
 
4. 
The Borrower shall not, nor shall cause any implementing agencies (including 
provincial councils, districts, statutory authorities, and government departments) to, carry 
out any reconstruction of houses involving relocation or resettlement of people to new 
areas under the Project without making arrangements, which are satisfactory and 
acceptable to the Association. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall not undertake any involuntary land acquisition using the 
Financing proceeds. 
 
Cash Grants for Livelihood Support 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all Cash Grants under the Project are made 
strictly in accordance with the Acceptable Assistance Criteria and any other procedures 
and arrangements agreed with the Association in writing. 
 
Use of Financing Proceeds 
 
7. 
Without prejudice to the Borrower’s obligations under Section 9.04 of the 
General Conditions to ensure that all goods, works, consultant services, training, 
operating costs, Sub-grants, and Cash Grants financed out of the Financing proceeds are 
used exclusively for the Project, the Borrower shall ensure that, under no circumstances, 
Page  24
-
24
-
any proceeds of the Financing shall be withdrawn, utilized, or made available for the 
payment of any taxes, levies, fees, or any other surcharges collected or levied by any 
group, cadre, entity or other non-governmental organization on goods, works, services, 
training, Cash Grants, and Sub-grants or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or 
supply thereof. 
 
8. 
If any Financing proceeds are used in a manner inconsistent with the provisions 
of this Agreement or for the payment or any taxes, levies, fees, or any other surcharges 
described above, at the Association’s request and without prejudice to any of the 
Association’s other remedies under this Agreement, the Borrower shall promptly, upon 
notice from the Association, take all necessary and appropriate action to recover and 
refund to the Association (in a manner indicated by the Association) an amount 
equivalent to the Financing proceeds so used, withdrawn, or utilized. 
 
Land Mines 
 
9. 
The Borrower shall ensure that no project activities are carried out in high 
security area or areas containing a significant risk of land mines without receiving 
appropriate and necessary clearances from designated authorities. In particular, the 
Borrower shall ensure that no activities to be financed under the Project shall commence 
without appropriate clearances concerning the status of land mines in the areas where 
these activities are to be undertaken. 
 
10. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about February 28, 2006, a report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (a) of 
this paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by March 31, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  25
-
25
-
SCHEDULE 5  
 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions 
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally 
applicable to the Development Financing Agreement to the extent and 
subject to any modifications set forth in such agreement. 
 
2. 
Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
(a) 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“3. 
“Borrower” means the party to the Development Financing 
Agreement to which the Financing is made.” 
 
(b) 
Paragraph 8 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“8. “Development Financing Agreement” means the particular 
Development Financing Agreement to which these General 
Conditions apply, as such agreement may be amended from time 
to time. Development Financing Agreement includes these 
General Conditions as applied thereto, and all schedules and 
agreements supplemental to the Development Financing 
Agreement.” 
 
(c) 
The following new paragraphs are added after paragraph 11 of  
Section 2.01, and paragraphs 12 through 14 are renumbered as 
paragraphs 16 through 18 accordingly: 
 
“12. 
“Grant” means the development grant provided for in the 
Development Financing Agreement.” 
 
“13. 
“Grant Account” means the account opened by the Association 
on its books in the name of the Borrower to which the amount of 
the Grant is credited.” 
 
“14. 
“Financing” means, collectively, the Credit and the Grant.” 
Page  26
-
26
-
“15. 
“Financing Accounts” means, collectively, the Credit Account 
and the Grant Account (or, where the context so requires, either 
of the Credit Account or the Grant Account).” 
 
3. 
The term “Credit”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections of the 
General Conditions, is modified to read “Financing”:  Sections 2.01(3), 2.01(12), 4.01, 
Article V, Article VI (excluding Section 6.05), Section 7.01(d), Article VIII, and Article 
IX. 
 
4. 
The term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the following Articles and Sections 
of the General Conditions, is modified to read “Financing Accounts”:  Section 2.01(6), 
the heading of Article III, 4.01, Article V, Article VI, and Section 12.03. 
 
5. 
The term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, is modified to read “Development Financing Agreement”. 
 
6. 
Article III is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 3.01 is modified to read as follows:   
 
“Section 3.01.  
Financing Accounts   
 
The amount of the Credit shall be credited to the Credit Account 
and may be withdrawn from the Credit Account by the Borrower 
as provided in the Development Financing Agreement and in 
these General Conditions. The amount of the Grant shall be 
credited to the Grant Account and may be withdrawn from the 
Grant Account by the Borrower as provided in the Development 
Financing Agreement and in these General Conditions.” 
 
(b) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” in 
Section 3.05 are modified to read “All amounts required to be paid under 
the Development Financing Agreement”. 
 
7. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 4.02(a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Payments are to be Made
 
(a) 
The Borrower shall pay all amounts required to 
be paid by it under the Development Financing 
Agreement in the currency specified in such agreement 
or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may 
Page  27
-
27
-
from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
paragraph (c) or (e) of this Section.” 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “amounts”. 
 
(c) 
Section 4.06(b) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(b) 
All amounts which the Borrower shall be 
required to pay under the Development Financing 
Agreement shall be paid without restrictions of any kind 
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower.” 
 
8. 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Financing 
Agreement, the proceeds of the Financing may be withdrawn to 
pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on 
the goods or services to be financed under the Financing, or on 
their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. The 
financing of such taxes is subject to the Association’s policy of 
requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of 
its credits and grants. To that end, if the Association shall at 
any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or 
in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Financing is excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the 
Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of 
such item in the Development Financing Agreement as 
required to be consistent with such policy of the Association.” 
 
9. 
Article VI is modified as follows: 
 
(a) The 
word 
“credit” in paragraphs (a)(ii) and (c)(i) of Section 6.02 is 
replaced with the words “credit, grant or financing”. 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03(c) is modified by replacing the words “corrupt or 
fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or 
coercive”. 
 
(c) 
Section 6.05 is modified to read as follows: 
 
Page  28
-
28
-
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, any cancellation of any amount of the Credit shall be 
applied 
pro rata
 to the several installments of the principal 
amount of the Credit maturing after the date of such 
cancellation.” 
 
10. 
Section 7.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
(a) 
The words “principal or interest or any other amount” in paragraph (b) 
are modified to read “any amount”. 
 
(b) 
The word “credit” in paragraph (b)(i) is replaced with the words “credit, 
grant or financing”. 
 
11. 
Section 8.01(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(a) 
All amounts which the Borrower shall be required to pay 
under the Development Financing Agreement shall be paid 
without deduction for, and free from, any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Borrower.” 
 
