                                          Document o f
                                      The World Bank

                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                              Report No: T7650




                                     TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                             FORA

                      PROPOSEDIDA GRANT INTHE AMOUNT OF
                SDR 20.1 MILLION (USD 30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                             AND A

                     PROPOSEDIDA CREDIT INTHE AMOUNT OF
                SDR 30.2 MILLION (USD45 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA

                                              FORA

            TSUNAMI EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROGRAM -PHASE I1

                                       February 14,2005




Energyand InfrastructureUnit
South Asia RegionalOffice


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                         (Exchange Rate Effective January 31,2005)

                                             Currency Unit = Sri Lankan Rupees (LKR)
                                                LKR98.95     = US$1

                                          FISCAL YEAR: January 1- December 3 1

                                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB     Asian Development Bank                                 JICA       Japan Intemational Cooperation Agency
AG      Auditor General                                        LECO       Lanka Electricity Company Ltd.
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                            LTTE       Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam
CDD     Community Driven Development                           MFI(s)     Micro-Finance Institution(s)
CEA     Central Environmental Authority                        MIS        ManagementInformation System
CEB     Ceylon Electricity Board                               MOE        Ministry of Education
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment            MOF        Ministry of Finance
CIGAS   Computerized Integrated Govemment Accounting           MOH        Ministry of Health
        System
CNO     Center for National Operations                         NEERP      North East Emergency Reconstruction Program
CSIA    Continuous Social Impact Assessment                    NEHRP      North East HousingReconstruction Program
DCS     Department o f Census and Statistics                   NEIAP      North East IrrigatedAgriculture Project
DDC(s)  District Coordinating Committee(s)                     NEPC       North East Provincial Council
DFA     Development Financing Agreement                        NGO(s)     Non-Govemmental Organization(s)
EA(s)   EnvironmentalAssessment(s)                             NIRP       National InvoluntaryResettlementPolicy
ECOP    EnvironmentalCode of Practice                          NPA        National Procurement Agency
EIA(s)  EnvironmentalImpact Assessment(s)                      OP         Operational Policy
EMP     EnvironmentalManagement Plan                           PAA        Project Approving Agency
ERC     EmergencyRecovery Credit                               PMU        Program Management Unit
ESSAF   Environmentaland Social Screeningand Assessment        PRS        Poverty Reduction Strategy
        Framework
F M     Financial Management                                   PSR(s)     Project Supervision Report(s)
FMR(s)  Financial MonitoringReport(s)                          RAP        ResettlementAction Plan
FR      Financial Regulations                                  RFP(S)     Request for Proposal(s)
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                                 RIRP       Rapid Income Recovery Program
GEP I1  Second General Education Project                       SDA        Special Dollar Account
GGTP    Guidelines for Govemment Tendering Procedure           SFP        SafeguardsFocalPoint
GIS     Global Information System                              SLAS       Sri Lanka Accounting Standards
GN      Grama Niladhari                                        SPC        Southem Provincial Council
GOSL    Govemment of Sri Lanka                                 SME(s)     Small and Medium Enterprise(s)
HSDP    Health Sector Development Program                      TA         Technical Assistance
IBRD    Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development   TAFREN     The Authority for Rebuilding the Nation
ICR(s)  ImplementationCompletion Report(s)                     TETD       Teacher Educationand Teacher Deployment (Project)
ICTAD   Institutefor Construction Training and Development     UN         United Nations
IDA     Intemational Development Association                   UNDP       UnitedNations Development Program
IDP(s)  Intemally Displaced Person(s)                          UNFPA      United Nations Population Fund
IEEs    Initial EnvironmentalExamination(s)                    UNHCR      UnitedNations High Commissioner for Refugees
ILO     Intemational Labor Organization                        UNICEF     United Nations Children's Fund
IPDP    Indigenous Peoples Development Plan                    us         United States
I T     Information Technology                                 VRC(s)     Village Reconstruction Committee(s)
JBIC    Japan Bank for International Cooperation               WPF        World FoodProgram


                                            Vice President:       Praful Pate1
               Country DirectorProgram Coordinator:               Peter C. Harrold/DeborahA. Bateman
                                Sector ManagedDirector            Sonia HammadVincent Gouame
                            Task Team LeadedAnchor:               ChristoDh PuschiNaresha Duraiswamv

       This emergencyproject was prepared inparallel with a Preliminary Damage andNeeds Assessment which
       was carried out jointly with the Asian Development Bank (ADB) and Japan Bank for International
       Cooperation (JBIC).

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY


                       TECHNICAL ANNEX FORTHE PROPOSED

           TSUNAMI EMERGENCY RECOVERYPROGRAM.                                                                 PHASEI1
         TO THEDEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF S R I LANKA



                                        TABLE OF CONTENTS



I.
I1.     Background.........................................................................................................................  1
                                                                                                                                            2
        Project Objectives ...............................................................................................................
        IDA ResponseStrategy.......................................................................................................
                                                                                                                                             3
IV.
111.    Project DescriptionandComponents.................................................................................. 3
V.      Safeguard andFiduciaryPolicies........................................................................................ 9


Appendices:
Appendix I: Housing ...............................................................................................................         11
Appendix IT:     Roads, Water and Other Infrastructure................................................................                      19
Appendix 111: Livelihoods..........................................................................................................         23
Appendix IV: ImplementationCapacity Building.,....................................................................                          31
AppendixV:       Health...................................................................................................................  34
Appendix VI: Education.............................................................................................................         38
Appendix VII: Environmentaland Social ScreeningAssessment Framework............................                                             41
AppendixVIII: Procurement.........................................................................................................          49
Appendix IX: FinancialManagementandDisbursements.........................................................                                   55
AppendixX:       Statement of LoansandCredits ..........................................................................                    60
AppendixXI: Sri Lankaat a Glance...........................................................................................                 61




 This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmay beusedby recipientsonly inthe performanceof
 their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.


                            TECHNICAL ANNEXFORTHE PROPOSED

                TSUNAMI EMERGENCYRECOVERYPROGRAM-PHASEI1
              TO THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA


                                          PART I-BACKGROUND

1.      Overview. At 0059 GMT, a massive earthquake registering 9.0 on the Richter scale struck off
the coast of Sumatra, Indonesia. This was followed by a series o f more than 67 aftershocks, the largest o f
which occurred approximately three hours after the first earthquake and registered 7.1 on the Richter
scale. The earthquake triggered a series o f tsunami waves that radiated through the Bay o f Bengal at a rate
o f more than 500 kilometers per hour, directly impacting coastal areas o f Bangladesh, India, Indonesia,
Kenya, Malaysia, the Maldives, Mauritius, Myanmar, Reunion, Seychelles, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Tanzania,
and Thailand.

2.      Sri Lanka has been extremely hard-hit in terms o f loss o f life, infrastructure, and economic assets.
The 2004 tsunami i s widely acknowledged as the largest, most devastating natural catastrophe in the
history o f the country. Two hours after the first earthquake occurred, the tsunami waves struck an
extremely long (more than 1,000 km, or two-thirds o f the coastline) coastal area o f Sri Lanka across
thirteen districts, including Jafha in the north, the eastem and southem coast, and parts o f the west coast
as far north as Chilaw. The waves penetrated inland areas up to 500 meters in many places, leaving
behind few intact structures and killing or injuring tens o f thousands o f people. Coastal infrastructure
systems - including roads, railways, power, communications, water supply and sanitation facilities, and
fishingports-have all been severely damaged.

3.      The tsunami resulted in the loss o f an estimated US$1billion (4.5 percent o f GDP) worth of
assets and US$330 million in potential output. Destruction o f private assets in the affected districts was
substantial (about US$700million). The tsunami i s expected to slowdown GDP growth in2005 by up to
1 percentage point (from 6 to 5 percent). The relatively limited impact is due to the fact that the most
affected sectors o f the economy    -  fishing, hotels and restaurants - together contribute only 3 percent o f
GDP. While the impact of the tsunami on the nation's output and national economy i s not as considerable
as the extent o f asset losses, the disaster has affected a large portion o f the population. Available poverty
data for districts in the Southem province affected by the tsunami also show that between one-quarter to
one-third o f the population in these districts live below the poverty line. Although data on incidence o f
poverty inthe North and East are not available, it i s widely thought to be higher than the national average.
The tsunami has increased the vulnerability o f this portion o f the population.

4.      As o f January 25, official figures indicated more than 31,000 dead in Sri Lanka and
approximately 5,600 missing.' Displaced persons are estimated at about 420,000, while the affected
population i s estimated to be around one million, out o f a total population o f approximately 19 million
people. The Government estimates the number o f damaged houses at more than 110,000, o f which more
than 70,000 have been completely destroyed. About 169,000 people are still living in welfare camps,
while approximately 251,000 people have moved in with friends or relatives. However, this number
continues to decrease over time as families retumto their homes to beginrebuilding.




1       These figures will continue to change as bodies are identified. They will also depend upon the public
        healthsituation during relief efforts.


                                                       - 1 -

5.        The tsunami affected a broad range o f economic income and ethnic groups, both rich and poor,
More women and children died as many men were away from their homes at the time. As i s typically the
case with natural disasters, the poorest families - especially those who lost their livelihoods as fishermen
or from cottage industries and the socially marginalized such as lone elderly or single parents - will need
extemal support to recover. They are now struggling to rebuild their lives after losing not only family
members and loved ones, but also their homes, assets, and livelihoods. The high death toll, the speed at
which the tsunami hit the island, and the sheer magnitude o f devastation in coastal areas have all
considerably traumatizedthose who were affected.

6.        It is important to note that the North and East o f the country - still suffering from the effects o f
twenty years o f civil war - were especially hard-hit by the tsunami. A cease-fire has been in effect for the
past two and a half years, during which damaged infrastructure, homes, businesses, health facilities, and
schools were in the process o f being rebuilt. Many o f these assets that withstood the war are now
destroyed or damaged. Many people remained displaced by war when the tsunami struck, and now must
perpetuate their stays in temporary camps and have few prospects for recovery without extemal
assistance.

7.        The pre-disaster situation in the North and East gives some perspective to the additional burden
the tsunami has placed on the population. Duringthe conflict period, approximately 65,000 people were
killedand over 800,000 people displaced. Landmines are still prevalent inthe region. The school drop out
rate i s four times higher than the national average, and even before the tsunami struck, the unemployment
rate was estimated to be double the national average. At the beginning o f 2002, over 40,000 families were
still living in relief camps and more than 350,000 houses needed to be reconstructed. Given these
circumstances, the recovery needs o f the North and East requireparticular focus.

                                 PARTI1-IDA RESPONSE STRATEGY

8.        At the request o f the Govemment o f Sri Lanka (GOSL), ajoint mission comprising staff from the
Asian Development Bank (ADB), Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC), and the International
Development Agency (IDA) o f the World Bank initiated a joint assessment o f the damage and needs
resulting from the December 26, 2004 tsunami. The objectives o f this joint mission        -  which took place
from January 10-28, 2005 - were to conduct an initial damage and needs assessment, in cooperation
among the three agencies and in coordination with the Government at the national, provincial, district and
local levels, civil society, the Liberation Tigers o f Tamil Eelam (LTTE), and other stakeholders, In
parallel, the team was also asked to assess the preliminary needs o f the affected communities in terms of
the medium to longer term reconstruction and recovery phases following the relief period. T h i s coastal
areas damage and needs assessment should serve as a platform for all development partners interested in
contributing to the rehabilitation effort. The assessment process was also coordinatedwith the agencies o f
the United Nations (UN) and bi-lateral donor organizations. The assessment was jointly released by the
three agencies on February 2, 2005 and subsequently distributed to the Bank's Executive Directors
(IDNSecM2005-0040, dated February 7, 2005). A second phase o f the needs assessment that involves
extensive consultation among development partners and the Govemment to prepare district level
implementation strategies for the reconstruction effort will be completed by the end o f April 2005.

9.        Simultaneously, Bank staff prepared a "restructuring operation"   -  Tsunami Emergency Recovery
Program - Phase I- through which seven credits and three grants were amended to make available an




                                                     - 2 -

immediate US$75 million (SDR 48.9 million) for emergency tsunami-related recovery and reconstruction
efforts (IDNR2005-0012, dated February 2, 2005).2

10.      The current operation constitutes IDA'S"Phase 11" support to the recovery and reconstruction
effort - i.e., making available US$75 million (of which US$30 million would be a grant) through an
Emergency Credit/Grant to support emergency recovery efforts over a two to three year period. The
Government o f Sri Lanka's program o f tsunami-related reconstruction i s by definition multi-sectoral and
includes housing, roads, water supply and other infrastructure, livelihood support, and implementation
capacity building. As detailed below, IDA would provide support to activities in these areas, in addition
to making funds available for any financing gaps identified in other sectors, including health and
education.

11.      The final phase o f IDA support - Phase I11- will be considered in the context o f the updated
national Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) and Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). Inthe context o f the
CAS Update - initially envisioned for spring 2005, but postponed due to the emergency         -  and depending
on the refined needs and financing plan existing at that time, there would likely be a tsunami-related
reconstruction andrisk mitigation (see below) element incorporated into the IDA program.

12.      Mitigation and Preparedness for Future Natural Hazards. As indicated, this Phase I1
operation focuses on Sri Lanka's urgent recovery needs after the tsunami. By building local capacities
through its decentralized implementation strategy and technical assistance components, and by improving
the technical standards for housing, education and health facilities and infrastructure, it will improve the
preparedness and reduce the vulnerability o f coastal communities in Sri Lanka to future natural disasters,
such as cyclones or tsunamis.         GOSL is strongly committed to improving its natural hazards risk
mitigation systems at the national level, and there i s considerable interest in the donor community in
supporting this effort, as well as regional early warning systems. IDA has expressed its willingness to
continue supporting GOSL in this critical area, focusing on the "last mile" capacity building at the
community and district levels. Specific gaps not covered by other donors will be identified during the
upcoming CAS Update process (see above), and included inany Phase I11intervention.

                                   PART I11-PROJECTOBJECTIVES

13.      The project objectives are to support the efforts o f the Government o f Sri Lanka to:

(i)      Reduce the immediate suffering resulting from the effects o f the tsunami and restore livelihoods
         destroyed by the tsunami;

(ii)     Restore basic services to the affected population; and

(iii)    Start the recovery and reconstructionprocess.

                      PART IV-PROJECTDESCRIPTIONAND COMPONENTS

14.      As indicated, IDA carried out a portfolio restructuring to release up to US$50 million and
provisionally set aside US$25 million to provide immediate financing for urgent tsunami-related
reconstruction efforts. This proposed follow-up operation - Tsunami Emergency Recovery Operation -


L        These earlier documents describe the tsunami-related destruction, the economic impact of the tsunami, the
         Government strategy, donor activity and the risks o f any proposed program of tsunami-related
         reconstruction, much o f which i s not repeated inthe current document.




                                                          - 3 -

Phase I1- would continue the financing initiated under the Phase Irestructuring. It i s anticipated that
other donors would be identified in the near future to support some of these priority needs. If other
donors were to provide grant funds to finance any activity earmarked for support by IDA credits, IDA
resources would not be used.

15.     The following paragraphs describe several areas o f support that are in urgent need o f financing.
More details on each o f these areas may be found in the Appendices to this report. The amounts
identified at this stage are notional, and the financing available for different sectors i s changing
constantly. IDA, along with ADB, stands as an agency ready to be flexible about the areas o fneed that it
finances, since the primary concern i s that the overall needs should be met on the most favorable terms
possible. For example, with the generous funding for UNICEF and UNFPA through the U N ' s "flash
appeal", it may not be necessary to use IDA funds for education or health. At the same time, there are
significant gaps inavailable funding for livelihoods and infrastructure. Therefore, the notional allocations
will be reviewed regularly with the Government and adapted to the changing financing pattem. Thus,
while notional allocations have been made in the paragraphs that follow, IDA resources would be
available to address any o f the needs described inthe damage and needs assessment.

16.     The Tsunami Emergency Recovery Program would be premised on the need to restore
livelihoods through income transfers to the most affected households, either inthe form o f cash transfer, a
"cash-for-works'' program, support for micro-enterprises, or housing support cash grants.          Proposed
assistance to the road and water sectors would complement this and support the resumption o f livelihoods
in the most remote and poorest tsunami-affected districts. Furthermore, the revival of the public health
and education systems would complement the main project objectives o f improved livelihoods and
poverty alleviation in tsunami-affected areas.       The likely sub-components for these activities are
discussed inmore detail below.

Housing(US$40 million)

17.     This component will have three sub-components: (i)housing reconstruction grant assistance
(US$36.5 million); (ii)capacity building, including training o f construction workers, training of
homeowners for auto-reconstruction, the design and implementation o f a communications initiative,
establishment o f a grievance redressal mechanism at the local, divisional and district levels and land
management issues; and continuous social and environmental monitoring (US$1.5 million); and (iii)
technical assistance (USS2.0 million).

18.     The first sub-component i s intended to finance the repair or reconstruction o f the tsunami-
damaged houses o f the poorest households over a two to three year period. The funds will be apportioned
across the nine tsunami-affected districts and relevant tsunami-affected divisions in keeping with the
share o f damaged houses. A large percentage o f these units fall ina few divisions and the annual targeting
will be based on capacity to implement the program. To reduce vulnerability to future disasters (such as
cyclones or tsunamis), the Government i s considering establishing a coastal reservation zone that includes
plans for a 100 meter setback in the South and West, and a 200 meter setback in the North and East.
However, implementing such a setback would require extensive prior consultation with the communities
affected, and a complex process to acquire and allocate serviced land and ensure service delivery. IDA
funds would be used, first, to rebuild housing on site. IDA social and environmental safeguards would
apply for any housingreconstructionthat involves resettlement.

19.     The second sub-component will focus on capacity building and will support the establishment of
an equitable and transparent grievance redressal mechanism at the divisional, district and program levels.
Issues related to beneficiary identification and to the loss o f land documents and property titles will need
to be addressed at the district level. An engineering agency or technical firm will be hired to ensure


                                                     - 4 -

quality control in civil works. IDA funds will be usedto train masons and carpenters on low-cost housing
technologies to meet the increased demand o f construction labor given the upsurge o f construction
activity anticipated inthe next two years. A continuous information dissemination campaign at the district
level will ensure transparency and accountability in implementation. This i s intended in part to inform
communities on material use, price variation, and alternate construction methods and technical options. In
addition, continuous social and environmental monitoring will be outsourced to consultants to ensure the
appropriate handling o f social issues and environmental safeguards inthe implementation o f the project.

20.      The third sub-component o f technical assistance will consist o f (i)   technical quality control and
auditing; (ii)the undertalung o f a housing damage assessment and social verification survey by the
District Task Forces; (iii)facilitation o f the building materials market to allow for rapid purchase o f
materials by community organizations and village rehabilitation committees; and (iv) support for partner
organizations that will assist homeowners duringthe reconstruction process, ifrequested to do so.

21,      The district units o f the recently approved IDA-financed North East Housing Reconstruction
Program (NEHRP) will implement the program in the North and East. District units will be set up in the
South and West to implement the program there.

22.      Land Management. Rights to the use o f land are essential for any program o f housing
reconstruction. Land-related activities will therefore be scheduled as a matter o f high priority among
other urgent emergency measures. Land tenure rights must be secured on the ground and in the books, as
early as technically feasible by re-establishing physical and legal evidence.         It is a public duty to
safeguard the rights o f displaced people, with a particular attention to the most vulnerable: widows,
orphans and intemally displaced persons (IDPs). In addition, land-based activities, that are primarily for
relocation and settlement o f victims, will be initiated under a clear policy framework to establish common
principles o f compensation that satisfy the objectives o f equity and regional and ethnic balances.

Roads,Water Supply and Other Infrastructure(US$15 million)

23.      This component will finance the repairheconstruction o f priority infrastructure systems in
tsunami-affected areas. These include roads, water supply and sanitation, debris removal, and electricity
connections to houses, if needed. It will finance consultancy services associated with infrastructure
reconstruction, such as detailed needs assessments, feasibility studies, environmental and social analyses,
preparation o f engineering designs and bid documents, construction supervision and monitoring. A
limited amount o f office and communication equipment will be financed to support project
implementation.

24.      Inthe roads sector, IDA will support the financing o f a feasibility study, the packaging o froads,
and the preparation o f bid documents for the project proposals currently being developed. The Matara-
Batticaloa section o f the A-2 highway         - i.e, the road between Colombo, Amparai and Batticaloa
traversing the southem and south eastem coastline - would be subject to a feasibility study. The
Government will assess the short and long term constraints in raw materials, machinery, capacity o f
contractors and address these through necessary policy changes.

25,      This component will be implemented either through existing local administrative arrangements
(district offices, local governments, etc.), or through private or community contracting. However,
implementation arrangements for this component should be flexible, depending on the capacity o f
regional and local authorities and the types o f infrastructuretargeted for reconstruction. Particularly in the
North and East, it i s essential to devise an institutional mechanism acceptable to all parties concerned.




                                                       - 5 -

Livelihood Support(US$15 million)

26.      Addressing the objective o f rebuilding livelihoods and reviving the local economies o f affected
areas necessitates a multi-pronged approach that rebuilds assets to generate income and employment and
at the same time protects the most vulnerable members o f the community.

27.      The first sub-component - namely, pure cash transfers for a duration o f four months - will focus
on the tsunami-affected families who have lost their capacity to earn a li~elihood.~           Inthe first instance,
this will consist o f all who are di~placed.~       This i s easily verifiable and a powerful indicator o f
vulnerability. The government will apply greater slectivity in the four month period and the number of
beneficiaries will be reduced to focus on the most needy. It i s also expected that the especially vulnerable
among the affected families may need extended support in the form o f continued cash assistance for a
longer period. Eventually, however, such beneficiaries will need to be integrated into the regular public
sector social welfare programs.

28.      The GOSL has set the grant amount at a maximum of LKR 5,000 per month per household (LKR
2,500 per single-headed household). This amount is actually higher than the food (or extreme) poverty
line, which in Sri Lanka i s about LKR 1,083 per person, per month.

29.      The second sub-component - namely, public works to build community infrastructure - i s
intendedto provide income to those who are able and willing to work, but are unable to find employment
inthe affected areas. The design will ensure that the selected public works are labor-intensive, basedon
the needs o f specific communities, andproduce infrastructure that i s owned and managedby communities
or the Government. This will entail a "cash-for-work" program consisting o f largely unskilledwork for
activities such as debris removal, repair o f community water supply and sanitation schemes, repair or
construction o fpublic buildings(e.g., community centers and schools), and minor road repairs.

30.      For public works to benefit the intended target group, the most important principle i s for such a
program to be "self-targeted", where wages are not set above the prevailing market wage for unskilled
labor to ensure that those who are able to work and have lost their livelihoods among the affected
communities "self-select" into the program. Sri Lanka currently does not have a public works program
that can be adapted to address the post-tsunami situation. For this reason, a smaller scale program i s
proposed at the outset with scope for expansion as necessary. A complete implementation plan will be
drawn up based on a model o f community-based management, which i s feasible due to the extensive
presence o f community organizations in the country. Assistance will be provided to communities in the
identificationo fpublic works, ifneeded.

31.      Given the urgency o f the situation and the need for swift disbursal o f cash grants to affected
families, implementation arrangements for both the cash grants and public works must be flexible. This i s
particularly important since the impact o f the tsunami may have resulted in fragmentation o f communities
and social networks, which in turn may make it difficult to implement community-based arrangements
from the very beginning.



3        As in other cases involving cash payments, a partial waiver o f Operational Policy (OP) 8.50 was obtained
         inconnection with this sub-component. This partial waiver was required because some of these payments
         may be used to purchase items that might be construed as humanitarian assistance under OP 8.50 on
         Emergency Recovery Assistance.

4        "Displaced" includes all those inwelfare camps, living with friends or relatives, or intemporary shelters.


                                                      - 6 -

32.      The third sub-component      -  micro-finance - will complement initiatives by other donors,
Government and the chambers o f commerce by allocating resources to micro-enterprises (self-employed
and small, family businesses) in the tsunami-affected areas, helping them resume their business
operations interrupted by the disaster. The program could also include training and business services to
selected borrowers, so as to maximize their business success. It i s foreseen that the component will
provide grants and/or loans to different types o f institutions providing financing to micro-enterprises,
including cooperative (thrift and savings) societies. To improve long term credit capacity o f these
institutions, the resources collected by these institutions as repayments will be used to expand their
revolving credit funds.

33.      It is envisaged that grants would be provided to micro-finance institutions (MFIs), which would
on-lend the resources to end-borrowers, including fishermen. It i s proposed that loans will have an overall
upper limit o f LKR 100,000 to ensure targeting o f micro-enterprises without resources being spent on
large loans. Apart from that, the participating institutions will, based on their own client assessments and
criteria, select end-borrowers, and determine loan amounts and their terms and conditions. This will not
only simplify program administration, but will also enable a rapid injection o f badly needed financial
resources. Participating institutions will, in turn, be encouraged to consider expanding their membership
and areas o f services, while adhering to sound long term planning and careful selecting o f new members
and areas to instill the necessary trust between the lender and the client. Group loans will be allowed for
certain categories o fborrowers, especially with regardto fishing cooperatives.

34.      In designing the component, several guiding principles about MFI good practice should be
followed, including: (i)the intimate knowledge by MFIs o f their activity areas will be exploited to
provide information about the financial needs o f their members; and (ii)MFIs will not be asked to
provide loans at a lower interest rate than what they use for their regular product, as such a practice would
impair credit discipline and could have disastrous consequences for the whole industry.

Support for Implementation CapacityBuilding(US$5 million)

35.      This component would include: (i)the provision of human resources and consultancy inputs at
the central and district levels; (ii)
                                    a continuous social impact assessment; (iii) design and delivery o f
                                                                                   the
training programs for district administrators on financial management and streamlined implementation
processes; (iv) the provision of information technology connectivity and the establishment o f
management information systems (MIS); and (v) the supply o f basic office supplies and infrastructure and
urgentlyneeded vehicles.

36.      It i s envisaged that the Task Forces chaired by the District Secretaries will implement a large
portion o f the emergency reconstruction program. These Task Forces need to be strengthened by qualified
personnel and technical expertise at the district level and at the central level within the Authority for
Rebuilding the Nation (TAFREN) to administer and monitor reconstruction programs at the national
level. To meet this need, IDA will support the recruitment o f district directors, implementation specialists,
financial management specialists, MIS specialists, and support staff on a contractual basis as necessary in
each o f the affected districts and at the central level to build immediate capacity. In addition,
environmental engineers and social experts will be hired to ensure proper social and environmental
management actions are taken during reconstruction. Staffing arrangements will be fine-tuned according
to implementationneeds.




                                                     - 7 -

ContingencyArrangements for SocialSectors

37.     It is anticipated that the reconstruction and recovery needs for health and educationwill be mostly
financed by other development partners. If gaps are identified, the following activities would be eligible
for IDA financing.

Health

38.     There would be financing for three types o f activities: (i)strengthening existing, undamaged
health care delivery services; (ii)supporting additional preventive, promotive and rehabilitative health
needs; and (iii)reconstructing and re-equippingpartially or fully damaged institutions.

39.     The first activity would support the provision o fhealth services inundamaged healthcare centers
identified by central, provincial and district health authorities in the tsunami-affected areas. IDA funds
would be used to strengthen those health care centers not covered by other international agencies.

40.     The second activity would help to meet preventive, promotive and rehabilitative health gaps
identified in affected areas. This would entail: (i)support for a Logistics Unit to coordinate the
reconstruction o f all health care centers in the tsunami-affected areas; (ii)support for a Bio-medical
Engineering Unit to coordinate the procurement and maintenance o f essential medical equipment; (iii)
strengthening o f the Medical Supplies Unit to restore the supply o f urgently needed drugs in the affected
areas;  (iv) support for the rabies control program; and (v) strengthening the Epidemiology Unit to
improve disease surveillance, emergency preparedness, and disaster mitigation activities.

41.     The third activity would support central, provincial and district level health authorities to
reconstruct and re-equip partially and fully damaged health care centers not identified for support by other
donors inthe affected areas.

Education

42.     This would assist the efforts to rebuild, equip and upgrade the quality o f schools affected by the
tsunami either through damage caused by the tidal waves or through their use as shelters for displaced
persons. This might provide financing for: (i)support for architectural, engineering and consultancy
services and the monitoring of education outcomes; (ii)civil works; and (iii)equipment, technology,
machinery and tools, books and reading materials, and essential school furniture. The objective i s to
reinstate the tsunami-damaged capital stock o f the education system with quality upgrading so that
equitable access to basic, secondary, and tertiary education i s restored to pre-tsunami levels.

43.     The Government is considering a plan that would involve the relocation o f some schools inland.
Schools should only be relocated in keeping with the relocation o f the coastal population from which
these students are drawn and will factor in ethnic sensitivity. If there i s no relocation o f the coastal
population, care would be taken to ensure that existing students are not denied access to schools. The
Government would attempt to utilize state-owned land for new schools sites to eliminate the involuntary
acquisitiono fprivate landand reduce costs. IDA will not finance land acquisition.

ImplementationArrangements

44.     The Govemment plans to transform the Task Force for Rebuilding the Nation into a Statutory
Authority called the Authority to Rebuild the Nation (TAFREN). TAFREN, with a lifespan o f three to
five years, would set priorities, policies, and guidelines for the overall tsunami-related reconstruction
effort. It would have broad overarching responsibility to ensure timely implementation, financial



                                                     - 8 -

reporting and review o f procurement progress. The proposed TAFREN i s not intended to be an
implementing agency, but will coordinate all reconstruction efforts that are the responsibility o f the
central administration - i.e., major roads, railways, telecommunications, energy, national schools and
teaching hospitals. A national secretariat would be set up to help it coordinate the implementation o f
central government-led reconstruction efforts.

45.      IDA funds would be routed through TAFRENto the nine most affected districts- i.e., Amparai,
Batticaloa, Galle, Hambantota, Jaffna, Kalutara, Matara, Mullaitivu and Trincomalee              -  or to the
appropriate sectoral implementing agency.

46.      The Chief Secretary o f the Provincial Council will help supervise implementation o f
reconstruction efforts in the different districts under hisiher purview. This would include procurement
review, fiduciary oversight of district level activities, and compliance with social and environmental
guidelines at the provincial and district levels.

47.      District Steering Committtees   -  chaired by the relevant District Secretary - will be established in
each affected district in the North, East, South and West. These would include relevant political and
ethnic stakeholders. Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and UN Agencies would participate in
steering committee deliberations as observers. The prioritization, design, and coordination o f the
implementation o f tsunami-related reconstruction efforts would be the responsibility o f the District
Steering Committees when it comes to the livelihood support cash grants, housing reconstruction cash
grants, district health plans, and district level education inputs. The Deputy Provincial Directors o f
Health Services and the Zonal Directors o f Education would be part o f the District Steering Committees
to coordinate health and education sector recovery efforts at the local level. The capacity o f the District
Secretary would be supplemented by the appointment o f dedicated experienced project managers.

48.      Day-to-day implementation of tsunami-related reconstruction would be decentralized to the
district level in all instances where feasible. However, actual implementation arrangements will vary
across sectors with central, provincial and district level authorities playing a defining role as the case may
warrant. The Government i s in discussions with the LTTE with respect to the possibility o f setting up a
mechanism for financing reconstruction activities. If such a mechanism i s developed, our approach to
allocationof fundingwould clearly have to be adapted to take this into account.

                         PART V - SAFEGUARD AND FIDUCIARY POLICIES

Environmental and Social Safeguards

49.      An Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF; the "Framework")
has been prepared to undertake environmental impact assessments (EIAs) for all rehabilitation and
reconstruction activities and ensure that adverse environmental and social impacts are minimized, and
appropriate mitigation measures are included in sub-project design. The Framework will assess the
institutional capacity to undertake environmental and social assessments, the Government's system for
review and approval o f EIAs, and the capacity to monitor the implementation o f environmental mitigation
and social safeguard measures. Neither the GOSL, nor its implementing agencies (including provincial
councils, districts, statutory authorities, and government departments), shall undertake any reconstruction
or recovery activities that could cause any environmental or social impacts in the absence o f an
environmental assessment conducted inaccordance with the ESSAF that i s satisfactory to IDA.

50.      The need for involuntary resettlement or landacquisition in specific sub-project areas will only be
known duringproject implementation, when site-specific plans are available. Therefore sub-projects will
be screened for applicability o f the resettlement policy. Any resettlement will be undertaken following the


                                                      - 9 -

Sri Lanka National Involuntary Resettlement Policy (NIRP). In view o f the emergency nature o f the
operations, IDA will, in applicable instances, require a draft resettlement plan within two months after
identification o f sub-projects and in advance o f any resettlement. The voluntary donation or compensated
contribution o f land for sub-project activities will be guided by the "Guidelines for Land and Asset
Acquisition, Entitlements and Compensation" included inthe framework (Attachment 4).

5 1.     The principles goveming social and environmental management will be applied according to the
Framework and are applicable to all activities financed by IDA, including: (i) policy principles for
                                                                                   key
social and environmental management; (ii)tools to screen sub-projects for significant social/
environmental impacts and mitigate such impacts; (iii)    procedures to ensure that these principles and tools
are appropriately applied; and (iv) guidelines for capacity building and monitoring. The Framework will
be operationalized through the proposed implementation, capacity building, and monitoring arrangements
o f the project.

52.      All proposed sub-projects will be screened to ensure that the environmental and social risks are
adequately addressed through the application o f standardized guidelines and codes o f practice. The
emergency nature o f the proposed relief and reconstruction operations and the related need to provide
immediate assistance i s recognized. At the same time, the Framework will ensure due diligence in
managingpotential environmental and social risks.

53.      A continuous social impact assessment (CSIA) will facilitate the articulation o f community
perceptions, grievances and feedback vis-a-vis identification o f beneficiaries for the housing and
livelihood components and the mobilization o f resources. The CSIA will help monitor the social
dimensions o f the program and flag potential risks. Through direct interaction with beneficiary
communities it will carry out an independent evaluation o f program implementation and distribution o f
program benefits. The CSIA will monitor the impact o f the program and help to initiate necessary
mitigation measures.

Procurement and FinancialManagement

54.      In both the preparation and implementation of this program, it will be ensured that proper
management and fiduciary arrangements are in place. Bank experts have been closely working with the
implementing agencies to develop procurement and financial management arrangements. For more
details on these arrangements, see Appendix VIII: Procurement and Appendix E:Financial Management
and Disbursements. Evidence of satisfactory and acceptable financial management arrangements has
beenestablished as an effectiveness condition.




                                                     - 10-

                                         APPENDIX I-HOUSING


A.      OVERVIEW OF DAMAGE

1.      The tsunami damaged nearly 110,000 housing units in 13 coastal districts' o f the country
affecting nearly 2 percent o f the total national housing stock. According to the 2001 housing census, the
affected districts shared around 55 percent o f the total national housing stock and the damaged housing
units constitute nearly 4 percent o f the affected district's total housing stock (see Table 1). Field
observations indicate that, in general, maximum damage was inflicted on housing units which were
poorly constructed.

2.      Available information shows that around 70,000 houses were fully destroyed while another
40,000 houses were partially damaged. Three districts (Amparai, Batticaloa and Tricomalee) in the East
and two districts (Mullaitivu and Jaffna) in the North were the hardest hit, bearing around 74 percent of
the total damage to housing. In these provinces, the tsunami has caused multiple displacements,
compounding the already severe impact to housing in this part of the country during the past 20 years o f
civil conflict.

                                Table 1:Distributionof DamaeedHousineUnits
                                Housing             Number Damaged                    Percentage of
         Province/District         Stock       Fully     Partially       Total      Damage to Stock
                East             339,341      39,746       18,128       57,874              17.1
          Batticaloa             112,778      15,939        5,665       21,604               19.2
          Ampara                 145,184      18,977        8,628       27,605               19.0
          Trincomalee             81,379       4,830        3,835        8,665               10.7
                 North           163,542      11,959        1,514       13,473               8.2
          Mullaitivu              26,617       5,033          400        5,433              20.4
          Kilinochchi             26,322         246             0         246               0.9
          Jaffna                 110,603       6,680        1,114        7,794               7.1
               South             599,765      10,635       13,932       24,567               4.1
          Hambantota             148,516       2,303        1,744        4,047               2.7
          Matara                 197,552       2,362        5,659        8,021               4.1
          Galle                  253,697       5,970        6,529       12,499               4.9
               West            1,352,446       7,562        6,496       14,058                1.o
          Kalutara               270,147       3,100        3,668        6,768               2.5
          Colombo                570,678       4,170        2,521        6,691                1.1
       I  Gampaha                511,621         292          307          599               0.1
          North Western          192,295          23           72            95              0.1
          Puttalam               192,295          23           72            95              0.1
               Total          2,647,389       69,925       40,142      110,067                4.2

3.      Even before the tsunami struck, poverty in the affected districts was already above the national
average (See Appendix 111). The disaster increased the vulnerability o f large portions o f the affected
population. Field observations indicate that it i s the housing settlements o f the poorest sections o f the
coastal populationthat have been impactedthe most.


5       The affected districts include Amparai, Batticola and Trincomalee in the East; Mullaitivu, Kilinochchi and
        Jaffna in the North; Hambantota, Matara and Galle in the South; Kulutara, Colombo and Gampaha in the
        West; and Puttalam inthe North Western Province.


                                                      - 11 -

4.       A general picture of a typical house along the affected coast would be as follows: generally one
floor, on the ground structure using shallow foundations, with walls made from cement or burnt brick,
and mostly with wooden roof support structures usingtiles or cement asbestos roofing sheets. However, a
large part o f what are commonly called "temporary" or "fishermen's houses" were more modest, with
unfinished floors, wattle and daub (mud), wood plank or palm leaf walls, simple roofing, and without in-
house toilets, water, and/or electricity. In terms o f tenure, the situation i s considerably varied with
localized pockets of freehold owners side by side with developed land parcels which have occupancy and
development permits as well as areas with moderate to large numbers o f squatters and or tenants.

B.       CRITICAL ISSUES

5.       The aftermath o f the tsunami presents the following set o f critical issues which need to be
addressed:

(i) AssigningResponsibilities: SriLankadoesnothavethenecessarycapacitytoundertakesucha
geographically dispersed and massive housing reconstruction program on its own through public sector
institutions. However, the country does have the experience to manage the process o f homeowner-driven
reconstruction through provincial and district level governments. It i s therefore important to establish an
institutional framework that builds on existing experience and capacities within government by clearly
assigning the coordination and facilitation role to the government while placing the responsibility for
managingreconstructionon the affected communities/households.

(ii) PublicSafety andRiskMitigation:GOSLisrightlyconcernedaboutpublicsafetyandtheneedto
put inplace coastal land use regulations to minimize risks from any future tsunami and cyclone damage.
To reduce vulnerabilities to future disasters, such as cyclones o f tsunamis, the GOSL i s considering
establishing a coastal reservation zone that includes plans for a 100 meter setback inthe South and West,
and a 200 meter setback in the East and North. However, among others, the main areas o f concern with
this issue are: (a) the status o f fishing communities that have lived for decades close to the beach and
whose livelihoods depend on this location; (b) the economic and financial costs, as well as feasibility, o f
implementing and sustaining a "100 meter housing restricted zone" policy; and (c) the political,
administrative, legal, and management implications o f adopting such a policy. To be effective, the
implementation of a blanket "100 meter housingrestricted zone" policy would require intense preparation
and extensive public consultations with local communities along the entire 800 kilometer coastline. Both
activities would require considerable time and resources. Housing reconstruction cannot wait for full
resolution o f this issue. Therefore, during the immediate recovery phase, efforts should be targeted at
locations not impacted by the "housing restricted zone." This will provide an opportunity for the both the
GOSL and the affected communities to gain much required reconstruction experience and, upon
resolution o f this issue, the entire process can be appropriately scaled up; and

(iii) Targeting the Most Vulnerable: Immediate attention is required to support the housing
reconstruction efforts o f the poorest segments o f the coastal communities. Households at very low income
levels are extremely sensitive to their housing location because this directly affects their livelihoods and
income.

C.       HOUSING     RECOVERY      STRATEGY

6.       The housing component i s designed to address the three critical issues highlighted above. In this
phase of the recovery process, the initiative will support the most vulnerable households through a
homeowner-driven reconstruction process in locations not impacted by the "100 meter housing restricted
zone", and hence not affected by the resettlement issue. This will be facilitatedby the existing provincial,
district, and local community structures. Based on lessons learned and experience gained in this initial


                                                      -12 -

phase, and upon resolution of the public debate on the "housing restricted zone," a possible next phase to
appropriately scale up housingreconstruction using a similar process may be undertaken and may include
very selective relocation ifand where deemed critically necessary.

7.       Homeowner-driven Housing Reconstruction Model: Experience with post-disaster reconstruction
inIndiaand Turkey (rural) as well as Colombiaand Mexico indicatethat, to the extent possible, the most
feasible and sustainable option i s in-situ reconstruction managed by the affected households that were
provided with assistance in the form o f cash grants and/or loans. Sri Lanka's own experience with
housing reconstruction after the large scale flooding in the Southem Province, and the lessons learned
duringthe preparationofthe IDA-supportedNorth East Housing Reconstruction Project (NEHRP) and its
related pilot project, support the rationale and the feasibility for adopting this approach. The affected
families in selected locations will be provided with a phased payout o f cash grants. The timing, pace,
content, and extent o f reconstruction will be managed by individual families that will be given relevant
information on altemative house type plans, construction costs, and techniques and available
demonstration units. Locally-based civil society organizations will be invited to facilitate the
reconstructionprocess and to serve as a link between and among the affected families, local governments,
building material suppliers, and locally-based micro- and small-scale building contractors. With
household-drivenreconstruction, local economies are expected to be revived through the creation of jobs
for locally based skilled and unskilled labor on time schedules best suited to the pattem o f local labor
demand. In addition, at the household level, becoming actively involved in and having control over the
reconstructiono f one's own home i s in itself an important part o f healing for the traumatized families in
the affected areas.

8.       Public-private Partnership Model: Past experience in post-disaster reconstruction indicates that
there will be a sizeable number o f households who will not have the means required to manage housing
reconstruction on their own. For such households, it will be necessary to establish partnership
arrangements either with public or civil society organizations. The structure o f partnerships will differ
according to the nature o f the partner organization and the specific needs o f the communities.

D.       PROPOSEDPROGRAMCOMPONENTS

9.       The housing reconstruction component will consist o f three sub-components: (i)      housing support
cash grants for reconstruction; (ii) capacity building; and (iii) technical assistance.

HousingAssistance(US$36.5 million)

10.      Tsunami-affected households who: (i) a monthly income criteria o f less than LKR 2,500;
                                                    meet
(ii) officiallypermittedtobuildand/orrepairtheirhousing;and(iii) confirmedtoberesidents,will
    are                                                                     are
be eligible to receive LKR 250,000 if their house was completely destroyed or LKR 100,000 if their
house was partially damaged (up to 40% o f the replacement cost). The final beneficiary selection will
follow a Housing Damage Assessment and Social Verification survey conducted jointly by a team
consisting o f a village representative, a technical officer o f the govemment, and a locally selected NGO.
This financial assistance will be provided on the basis o f the progress made by the beneficiaries, and each
district will target the allocated units on a rolling plan format. Since the North, East, South and West have
different levels o f institutional capacity and community-based organizational structures, altemative
models o fproject implementationoperational modalities may be necessary to implement the program,

11.      Using a notional distribution o fhousingreconstructionefforts based on the damage ineach o f the
major nine tsunami affected district indicates that it will be possible to assist a total o f around 16,600
housing units- Le., 13,280 fully damaged and 3,320 partially damaged units (see Table 2).



                                                      - 13 -

         Table 2: Notional Distribution of Housing Units Supported Based on Damage Ratio
                                    No. of Fully       No. of Partially        Total Units           Percentage
          Province/District DamagedUnits               DamagedUnits                                 Distribution of
                                      Assisted             Assisted               Assisted          Units Assisted
                East                    8,096                1,616                 9,712                 58.5
              Batticaloa                3,247                  505                 3,752                 22.6
               Amparai                  3,865                  769                 4,635                 27.9
             Trincomalee                 984                   342                 1,326                  8.0
                North                   2,386                  135                 2,521                 15.2
              Mullaitivu                1,025                  36                  1,061                  6.3
                Jaffna                  1,361                  99                  1,460                  8.8
                South                   2,166                1,242                 3,408                 20.5
             Hambantota                  469                   155                  625                   3.8
                Matara                   481                   504                  986                   5.9
                Galle                   1,216                  582                 1,798                  10.8
                West                     631                   327                  958                   5.78
               Kalutara                  631                   327                  958                   5.78
                Total                  13,280                3,320                 16,600                100.0
      Note: The total number of cases is distributed across districts based on their share of fully damaged and partly
      damaged houses. The notional number of units financed by the project is estimated by assuming 80% of the
      targeted units for reconstruction of fully damaged units and 20% for partly damaged units.

Capacity Building (US$1.5 million)

12.      District level capacity to manage large-scale reconstruction will need to be strengthened, given
that some o f the districts located in the North and East will also implement the housing program under
NEHRP. To this end, the programwill support the following activities:

(i) SkillsTrainingfor ConstructionLabor: Oneofthemainchallengesfacedbytheprojectisthe
shortage o f skilled construction labor, particularly in the North and East. The project will support the
training o f traditional masons and carpenters on low-cost housing technologies and will train new workers
on other trades related to house construction. According to a rough estimate, the project will require about
12,000 masons; 2,000 carpenters; 19,000 workers for preparing steel frames; and nearly 2,000 painters.
The shortage o f skilled workers will be acute in those areas where both the tsunami emergency program
and the NEHRP will be implemented.

(ii) Communications Initiative: The project will support a continuous information dissemination
campaign and on-going media relations with respect to housing recovery to ensure transparency and
accountability during implementation. The communication strategy will increase local awareness o f
alternative materials and their use, price variations, alternative construction types and methods. These
activities will be outsourced to a communications firmwith requisite experience.

13,      The following related activities will be assisted through other components o f the current project
or through other current or inthe pipeline IDA-supported initiatives:

(i) Grievance Redress Mechanism: This activity will include the establishment of a formal and
transparent grievance redress mechanism at the divisional, district, and program levels to expedite
resolutions o f complaints and grievances by affected families concerning, for example, the delayed
release o f financial assistance and erroneous housing damage assessment.




                                                             - 14 -

(ii) Continuous Social and Environmental Impact Assessments: The overall project will appoint
consultants to undertake continuous social and environmental impact assessments as a concurrent
evaluation o f the program. If needed, the project implementation team will undertake a mid-course
correctionusingfeedback from these assessments.

(iii) LandManagement: Activitiesmayinclude:(a) therestorationandrestitutionofboundariesand
landiplot rights and titling in situ, on an emergency basis; and (b) land-related policies and mechanisms to
facilitate voluntary relocation and settlement in an equitable, efficient and socially accepted manner; as
well as surveying, mapping land use zoning and demarcation. Issues related to loss o f documents, the
reconstruction o f records and Registry Offices where needed, and the implementation o f an emergency
expedited titling program are priority items within the program. An improved management information
system (including GIs) and an overall actionplan will be prepared to address and execute all land-related
activities.

TechnicalAssistance(US$2.0 million)

14.      The following Technical Assistance (TA) activities will be funded under the housing component
o f the project:

(i)       Technical Quality Control and Auditing: This sub-component will be outsourced to competent
NGOs, technical agencies, and/or an engineering firmto ensure quality control inhousingreconstruction.

(ii) Housing Damage Assessment and Social Verijkation Survey: The DistrictTask Force will
sponsor a housing damage assessment and social verification exercise to survey all damaged houses, and
list and prioritize the beneficiaries for assistance. It will mobilize government engineers at the district and
divisional levels, which will be supported by community level committees for this purpose.

(iii) FacilitatingtheBuildingMaterialsMarket: Effortswillbemadetoestablishdirectlinkswiththe
private sector at the local and national levels to facilitate the flow and purchase o f building materials by
village rehabilitation committees and other community-based organizations. The District Task Force will
disseminate information on alternative buildingpractices and recommend ways and means to improve the
supply chains.

(iv)     Support for Partner Organizations: Beneficiaries will have the option to outsource construction
to pre-identifiedpartner organizations with proven track records. Organizations identified to partner inthe
implementation o f the program will be trained inproject and financial management. Partner organizations
assisting the construction process through a beneficiary-partner organization agreement shall enter into a
service contract with the District Secretary for this purpose.

ImplementationArrangements

15.      The program will be implementedthrough the DistrictAdministration. The DivisionalSecretaries
will be responsible for project implementation and monitoring supported by the District Task Forces. The
program will include local NGOs, village committees (Village Rehabilitation Committees in the North
and East and similar community-based organizations in the South and West) in the processes o f housing
damage assessment, beneficiary selection, physical progress certification, resolution o f land related
issues, and the establishment of the community based grievance redress mechanism. This initial phase o f
the housing recovery program will assist around 16,600 affected units spread across nine affected
districts.




                                                      -  15-

16.      Under each District Task Force, a housing reconstruction office will be constituted that will
implement the emergency housing recovery program and in the North and East, NEHRP. Additional
project directors may be appointed based on case loads. Both the emergency housing recovery program
and the NEHRP will be implemented through separate accounting and reporting systems. The district
level project director will oversee implementation and will report regularly to the task forces constituted
both at the district and central levels.

17.      Once selected, beneficiaries will receive the first tranche o f the housing reconstruction grant for
mobilization. Subsequent transfers will be made to them upon verification of the constructionprogress by
the village/community level monitoring committee supported by the technical supervision team. Grants
for repairs will be transferred in two stages: fifty percent upon mobilization and the balance after
completion. The process will follow a quality control and supervision mechanism, which i s already in
place for the North and East and will be establishedby TAFREN for the South and West.

Project Risks and EnablingFeatures

18.      Conflict and Regional Sensitivities: Two major risks need to be addressed. First, the tsunami
housing reconstructionproject should not undermine the on-going conflict-related housing reconstruction
program in the North and East. Since both projects (the post-tsunami and post-conflict projects) will be
implemented in parallel, the project design and financial assistance package should be along the same
lines to avoid potential conflicts between beneficiary families. This i s extremely important, since nearly
20 to 25 percent o f the beneficiaries overlap between these two projects. Second, since multiple actors
will participate in the recovery program, there i s a need to ensure uniformity inbeneficiary entitlements
across varied programs inthe same areas.

19.      BeneJiciavy Identzjkation: The preparation o f an accurate list o f reconstruction beneficiaries,
following a rapid but thorough housing damage assessment and social verification, i s an urgent task. The
beneficiary selection process will follow the methodology adopted in the NEHRP. In order to fully
consider the social and political sensitivities within the concerned districts, village/community
participation inthe selection and prioritization processes i s crucial.

20.      Coastal Conservation Zone: Acknowledging the needto reduce risks from tidal waves and storm
surges and to protect the coastal ecology, it is imperative to bring a quick resolution to the question o f
"housing restrictedzones" along the coast. Left pending, this issue poses the single most critical hurdle to
the entire recovery and reconstruction process. Among others, the main areas o f concem are: (i)
implementing different zone limits (100 meters in the South and West, and 200 meters in the North and
East); (ii)the time lag in formulating a differential zoning regulation; (iii)the issue o f continued
ownership o f private lands in the "housing restricted zones"; (iv) the feasibility o f effectively managing
the political, legal, administrative, and logistical requirements o f such a policy; and (v) the modalities of
identifying localized areas deemed too risky for development and the enforcement o f specific but clearly
demarcated and publicly accepted "no development zones".

21.      Transparency and Accountability in Reconstruction: Reconstruction plans, as well as
implementation modes and procedures, will have to be as widely publicized and disseminated as possible.
The absence o f such transparency will affect the success o f all reconstruction efforts. Of particular
concem are the listing o f beneficiaries, arrangements for and actual disbursement o f reconstruction
assistance, and the monitoring o f progress inreconstruction. To ensure accountability for each component
o f the reconstruction process, clear roles and responsibilitiesshould be assigned and made widely known.
Financial accounting and auditing should also be undertaken.




                                                      -16-

22.      Construction Material ResourcePlan: Reconstruction and repair o fnearly 110,000 dwelling units
would demand a large amount o f timber, sand, cement, and roofing materials. While the Southem districts
experience acute shortage o f sand, the unavailability o f timber i s a major constraint inthe North and East.
The shortage o f buildingmaterials resultedfrom the overexploitationo f local resources and unsustainable
increase in construction costs. To mitigate this shortage, free movement o f building materials should be
ensured. Environmental and resource management plans should be prepared at the district level to guide
the administration and the private sector in managing the material supply chains. Alternative, affordable
technological solutions, such as the use o f reinforced concrete frames for rafters, windows, and doors,
should be provided, promoted, and widely publicized through demonstration, information dissemination,
and cost incentives.

23.      Urban Management and Development Assistance: In all affected coastal locations, local and
municipal councils historically have not had adequate institutional capacity and the wherewithal to
effectively manage growth. The tsunami disaster has compounded the problem. As part o f the recovery
process, these local govemment units will be assisted to develop and mainstream participatory recovery
strategies, including the preparation o f local area redevelopment plans. Resources for the design and
rehabilitation and/or reconstruction o f local infrastructure, such as intemal minor roads, pathways, solid
waste management, and street lighting, will also have to be mobilized.

24.      Streamlining Legal and Administrative Procedures: Three issues are critical: (i) are very
                                                                                                 there
high chances that a considerable number o f affected families may have lost their official documents
proving their ownership/tenure status. This situation may be compounded by the fact that insome districts
(e.g., Matara) the land registry buildings and records have been destroyed. In such cases, a mechanism
should be put in place to ensure that this does not unduly delay reconstruction; (ii)       clear, concise, and
simplified building codes applicable to the reconstruction process should be developed, adopted, and
widely disseminated; and (iii)an accelerated process for issuing building permits should be
institutionalizedat the appropriate local, district, andprovincial levels.

25.      Quality Control: As noted earlier, the tsunami mostly damaged houses which were poorly
constructed. If the proposed homeowner-driven reconstruction approach i s not adequately supported, it
may face the risk o f rebuilding earlier vulnerabilities. Therefore, it i s critical to incorporate supportive
mechanisms for quality control through buildingtechnology information inputs.

26.      SupportingDecentralization: Reconstruction over the dispersed locations provides an opportunity
for Sri Lanka to deepen its on-going decentralization efforts and implement the principle o f subsidiarity in
governance. This will allow for locally appropriate solutions and enable a range o f sub-national structures
to channel and monitor funds and ensure that they are used to the best local advantage. The emergency
recovery program should not undermine the progress already made in the decentralizationprocess in the
country.

Monitoring and Evaluation

27.      Monitoring of construction (Le., program outputs) and its impact would be done through several
mechanisms, including a continuous social impact assessment (CSIA), technical progress reports o f the
District and Divisional Secretaries, a follow-up environmentalmonitoring, and a third-party audit o f civil
works. The consultants to be hired to conduct some o f these activities will also support the project
management team in monitoring the performance o f the project engineers and community organizations
inthe technical supervision andprogress certificationprocess. The progressreports to be submittedbythe
District Task Force to TAFREN, as well as the review reports submittedby the social and environmental
consultants and quality assurance teams, will support the project implementation agency to effectively
monitor and evaluate project performance.


                                                     - 17-

28.     The project management team will use the following key performance indicators: (i)                          percentage
of eligible families assisted by the program; (ii)             percentage o f (fully and partially damaged) houses
reconstructed; (iii)    number o f masons and carpenters trained; (iv) number o f community based housing
societies established; and (v) percentage o fbeneficiary grievances and complaints redressed.

IDA Contribution

29.      The total housingprogram component is estimated to cost US$40 million. The housinggrant sub-
component will cost about US36.5 million to assist nearly 16,600 partially and fully damaged houses
(see Table 3). The capacity building sub-component i s expected to cost about US$1.5 million, and the
technical assistance sub-component will cost US$2.0 million over the two years (see Table 4).

Other Donor Contributions

30.      Since the housing reconstruction process cuts across several sectors, such as livelihoods,
community infrastructure, skill development, resettlement and protection, social mobilization and
community participation, temporary shelter assistance, and debris removal, coordination with
development partners involved in these sectors i s essential. An important forum for inter-sector
coordination i s the periodic review meeting o f the Task Force set up for the management and supervision
of the tsunami emergency recoveryprogram.



                                     Year 1                                 Year 2                             Total
                        Amount                    Total      Amount per
     Assistance        per house     No.                                    No. o f    Total costs     No. o f    Total costs
                                         Of       costs        house
                        ( L W        Units      (L")           (LKR)         Units      (LKRm)          Units      (LKRm)

  Assistance for fully damaged houses                       I                                        I
                         250,000        4,648    1,162.00       250,000         8,632      2,158.00       13,280     3,320.00

  Assistance for repair o f partially damaged houses
                         100,000        2,988       298.80       100,000          332          33.20       3,320        332.00

   Total                                7.636 . 1.460.801                       8,964      2,191.201      16,600     3,651.00

  Total (US$ million)                                 14.2                                      22.3                      36.5
   Notes:
   A. Costing assumes that the program will finance only 20% of the major repairs (up to 40% of the replacement cost) in the
      immediate term.
   B. Due to limited institutional capacity at the district and divisional administration levels, reconstruction of fully damaged
      units is assumedto be 35% in the first year and 65% in the second year. 90% of the repair works are assumedto be funded
      inthe first year, and the balanceinthe secondyear.
   C. The annual distribution of the total number is notional. The District Project Management Unit will implement the total
     number of cases on arolling plan format, and funds will be disbursed on the basis of physical progress.

                                   Table 4: TotalCost of the HousingComponent
                                                        (US$ millions)

    Sub-component                                                           Local            Foreign              Total

    Housing support cash grants                                              36.50                0.00             36.50
    Capacity building                                                         1.25                0.25               1.50
    Technical assistance                                                      1.50                0.50               2.00
    Total Housing Component Costs                                            39.25                0.75             40.00



                                                              - 18 -

          APPENDIX I1-ROADS,WATER SUPPLYAND OTHER INFRASTRUCTURE


A.      OVERVIEWOFDAMAGE

1,      The tsunami o f December 26,2004 severely damaged infrastructure systems in 13 districts o f Sri
Lanka's coastal areas. Prior to the tsunami, infrastructure systems in many o f these areas were already in
poor condition, especially in the North and East due to the 20 years o f conflict. The tsunami devastated
infrastructure systems that were even in the process o f being reconstructed. A brief overview o f the
damage in each sub-sector is discussed below.

2.      Inthe water sector, it is estimated that approximately 62,000 wells (mostly dug wells and some
tube wells) were destroyed or damaged by the tsunami in coastal villages, most o f which have been
abandoned due to highly contaminated water sources. Similarly, 30,000 sanitation facilities, including
latrines and septic tanks, were washed away or damaged. As far as urban water schemes, distribution
pipelines andpumpingstructures innine coastal towns were damaged.

3.      Inthe road sector, the national roads network in the coastal regions suffered the most significant
damage. A total length o f 690 km o f national roads was damaged, though this damage i s in spot locations
or in discrete sections and does not extend throughout the entire length. Compared to the national roads,
damage to the provincial roads and local government roads was less severe. It i s estimated that a total
length of 300 km o f provincial roads and 1,180 km of local government roads were affected by the
tsunami and need repairshehabilitation. Several bridges in the Southern and North East Provinces were
damaged by the tsunami and are now passable due to the erection o f temporary bailey bridges.

4.       Inthe power sector, the number o f households to which electricity supply was interrupted was
approximately 62,500 in Ceylon Electricity Board's (CEB) operating area (about 2 percent o f CEB's total
household customers) and above 7,800 in the Lanka Electricity Company Ltd.'s (LECO) operating area
(above 2 percent o f LECO's total household customers). About 48 km o f medium voltage distribution
lines (11kV and 33kV) and 405 km o f low voltage distribution lines (400V and below) are destroyed and
needed to be replaced. About 70,000 sets o f meters and service wires connected to households are also
damaged, as the tidal wave washed away houses, distribution poles and wires. A total o f 88 sub-stations
located inthe distribution networks were also damaged.

B.       OTHEROBSERVED       IMPACTS

5.       The extent o f debris, waste material, and rubble requiring disposal poses a huge issue because
of the sheer volume and associated costs involved.         Emergency clearance efforts have resulted in
haphazard disposal o f rubble along roads, in open fields, into drainage ditches, low lying lands and
waterways, and along beaches.        The issue o f removing and properly disposing of debris must be
addressed during the reconstruction phase, particularly in connection with housing and infrastructure
reconstruction. Reuse and recycling of some construction materials should be explored when rebuilding
housing and infrastructure systems. The internal roads that provided adequate connectivity during
debris removal activities that used the coastal roads have now further deteriorated due to inadequate
design for handling such high levels o f usage. The rehabilitation o f these roads also needs to be
addressed.




                                                    - 19-

c.       RECONSTRUCTIONRECOVERYNEEDS
                              AND

6.       Many people in the affected areas are living under temporary arrangements, including emergency
camps. Those who opted to return to their original locations are facing a lack o f basic infrastructure
facilities. Obviously, basic infrastructure services such as water supply and sanitation, roads, and power
supply will need to be restored as soon as possible to support the lives of the affectedpeople and to help
them resume economic activity.

7.       In the water sector, restoring water supply systems in rural areas is potentially a serious
challenge, due to the shortage o f good water sources. Therefore, finding alternative water sources i s an
issue requiring urgent and careful attention in the coastal villages where people want to return.
Conjunctive use o f multiple water sources, such as rainwater, surface water, and groundwater must be
explored wherever appropriate. For example, rainwater could be harvested for drinking and cooking
purposes, and groundwater or surface water could be used for washing and bathing. Whenever possible,
appropriate sanitation facilities need to be provided together with water supply schemes. For the proposed
new townships that GOSL is contemplating building for resettlement o f affected communities,
availability o f sustainable water sources should be an important factor in deciding the location o f such
new townships. The short term needs for the reconstruction o f the tsunami damage i s estimated to be
US$64 million, while the long term recovery needs are estimated to be approximately USS53 million.

8.       Inthe road sector, there is an immediate needto address bridge repairs and roadrehabilitation to
avoid further deterioration o f road conditions that have been compounded by the effect o f tsunami. The
reconstruction o f bridges must be addressed as soon as possible, giving due consideration to the length o f
time for reconstruction, as well as weather patterns. The hydraulic capacities o f culverts and bridges
would be checked, and where deficient, larger culverts and higher, longer span bridges would be
constructed. The short term needs for the reconstruction o f roads and bridges i s estimated to be USS21
million, while the longer term reconstruction needs are assessedat US$157 million.

9.       Inthe power sector, recovery and reconstruction needs and improvements for the next three years
include:


     0   Emergency procurement of tools, materials, vehicles, equipment, and office furniture to
         reestablish the operational capability at regional CEB offices, including replacement o f material
          already used from other projects; and
     0    Rehabilitation and emergency repairs to the damaged power infrastructure, in particular the
          distribution system.

 10.      The short term needs are estimated to be USS27 million, with medium to long term needs for
reconstruction and improvements at U S 4 0 to 50 million.

D.       PROPOSEDPROJECT        COMPONENTS

11.      This component will finance repairs/reconstruction o f priority infrastructure systems to help
rebuilddevastated communities as quickly as possible. It i s important that selection o f target communities
and sub-sectors be done ina fair and transparent manner based on reconstructionneeds.

 12.      Eligible sub-sectors under the component include water supply and sanitation, roads, power, and
debris removal. The component will also finance consultancy services associated with infrastructure
reconstruction, such as feasibility studies, environmental and social analyses, preparation o f engineering
designs and bidding documents, construction supervision, and monitoring and evaluation activities, A



                                                    - 20 -

limited amount o f office and communication equipment can also be financed to support project
implementation.

13.      Interms of the road sector, assistance could be provided for the financing o f feasibility studies,
packaging o f roads, and preparation o f bid documents for the project proposals currently beingdeveloped.
The Matara-Batticaloa section o f the Colombo-Matara-Kataragama-Batticaloa highway could be
identified for further review.

14.      Careful selection mustbe made between buildinghighstandard infrastructure ina limitednumber
of communities and building infrastructure o f upgradable standards in as many communities as possible.
Communities' inputs with regard to technological options and infrastructure designs are critical. It i s also
important that infrastructure reconstruction i s well-coordinated with other reconstruction and recovery
activities, especially housing reconstruction. With respect to infrastructure falling within the purview o f
the central government, efforts should be channeled towards immediatereconstructionwith consideration
of modest future needs and a clear view of the demand needs within a well coordinated strategy.

Key PerformanceIndicators

15.      Key performance indicators include:


    0    The number o f water supply and sanitation facilities repairedheconstructed;
    0    The number o fkilometerso froads rehabilitatedreconstructed;
    0    The number o f households that have regained access to power; and
    0    The number o f tons o f properly disposed debris.

PolicyIssues

 16.     The most important policy issue i s the GOSL's consideration o f a plan that would establish
coastal non-construction zones, hence, requiring relocating tsunami-affected townships to inner areas.
Infrastructure reconstruction will obviously be affected by any decision on this issue.

 17.     Another important policy aspect i s a compromise between the rapid reconstructionby a top-down
approach and a slower, more sustainable bottom-up approach. This choice will need to be made
depending on the types o f infrastructure targeted during the reconstructionphase. For community-based
(tertiary)  infrastructure, it i s essential that communities actively participate in planning and
implementation o f reconstruction activities. Community members should be encouraged to provide
unskilled labor during the construction phase whenever possible. Also, communities must be responsible
for operations and maintenance o f the infrastructure assets after the reconstructionphasehas ended.

ImplementationArrangements

 18.     The primary consideration for the design o f the implementation mechanism would be governed
by whether the development o f a particular type o f infrastructure has been devolved under the thirteenth
amendment to the Constitution. Implementation arrangements for this component should be flexible,
depending on the capacity o f regional and local authorities and the types o f infrastructure targeted for
reconstruction. Particularly in the North and East, it i s essential to devise an institutional mechanism
acceptable to all parties concerned.

 19.     Affected provincial and local authorities should identify priority sub-projects for inclusion inthis
component. Depending on the types o f infrastructure, feasibility studies will be conducted by hiring



                                                    -21 -

consultants or NGOs, and designs for infrastructure reconstruction will be prepared in consultation with
communities. Implementation can be done through community contracting or private contractors. The
sequencing o f the reconstruction efforts should take into account the constraints in the capacity o f
contractors to undertake such work.

20.     For the types o f infrastructure with potential negative environmental and/or social impacts,
environmental and social analyses will be undertaken as part o f the feasibility studies, and necessary
mitigation measures will be incorporated into the reconstruction designs.

Monitoringand Evaluation

21.     Baseline information needs to be established for the target communities during the needs
assessment/feasibility studies, including the socio-economic conditions o f the community members and
infrastructure conditions. ProvincialAocal authorities will monitor the progress during the design and
implementation stages. Communities and other stakeholders should be given an opportunity to provide
their own evaluation ofthe concemed sub-project. For sub-projects with potentialnegativeenvironmental
and social impacts, environmental and social auditing will be arranged to ensure that mitigation measures
are properly incorporated into project implementation.

IDA Contribution

22.     IDA will potentially contribute US$15 million through the proposed operation to infi-astructure,
tentatively broken down by category inTable 1.


                    Item                                   Allocated Amount (US$)
                   Goods                                           500.000
                   Works                                          9,500,000
                   Services                                       5,000,000
                 I Total                            I             15.000.000              I

    (Goods include office and communication equipment, and services include consultancies for detailed
    needs assessment, feasibility studies, environmental and social analyses, preparation o f engineering
    designs and bidding documents, construction supervision, and monitoring and evaluation activities.)

Other Donor Contributions

23.     At this time, it is not yet clear which donor agencies will finance the various sub-sectors ineach
of the affected districts. However, it i s expected that ADB, JBIC, and IDA will be key players, along with
other bi-laterals, inthe reconstruction o f damaged infrastructure. Before the end o f February, coordination
meetings led by GOSL will have been held on the roads and water sectors, which will identify available
resources for these two sectors and permit IDA to identify specific investments that may be needed.




                                                      - 22 -

                                                APPENDIX I11-LIVELIHOODS


A.     OVERVIEW OF DAMAGE BROADER            AND                  RELATED IMPACTS

1.       The widespread destruction caused by the tsunami brought a heavy toll on livelihoods in the
affected areas. Job losses are particularly heavy inthe large informal sector inaffected areas due to loss o f
productive assets and markets, especially in fisheries, tourism and small retail businesses. The catastrophe
has resulted inacute vulnerability in a large segment o f the population that depends on the informal sector
for livelihoods, because these people are among the least protected by any form o f safety net typically
available to the formal sector.

2.       About 200,000 job losses
are estimated in fishing and rural
industries, tourism, and agriculture
(see Table 1). The heaviest losses
were recorded by fisheries with
94,000 jobs lost. Total job loss in
tourism i s estimated at 27,000 and
i s concentrated in the South and
West. An estimated 21,000 jobs
were lost by small businesses,
with losses higher inthe South and
West. Approximately 40,000 jobs
were lost by own-account workers
engaged in activities such as
trading, ago-business, and food
and beverages. Agricultural job
losses amounted to 16,000 and
were concentrated in the Eastern                    Total                   1198.71 94.41   19.61 8.01 21.01 40.01  15.7
province. The districts that were
hardest hit in terms o f overall iob
losses are Amparai, Batticaloa, and Galle, which together account for 41 percent o f the total jobs lost (see
Fig. 1). Disaggregating by province, the North and East account for 54 percent o f the totaljobs lost, with
the Southern and Western Provinces accounting for 25 and 17percent, respectively.

            Fig. 1: Estimated share of total jobs lost by district      3.     Material damage to the livelihoods sector
      200                                                               exceeds US$140 million (see Table 2). The
           ~




                                                                        damage suffered by fishermen amounted to about
                                                                        US$84 million, o f which just over one-half is
                                                                        damage to fishing gear. Damage borne by
                                                                        guesthouses i s estimated at US$20 million, by
                                                                        small businesses at US$17 million, and by own-
                                                                      , account workers at US$20 million.
                                                                      I




                                                                   -23 -

4.       Beyond the job losses and
material damage, the tsunami tragedy
has had a profound social impact in       nTable 2: Estimated       :  amage to the Livelihood Sector (1,000 US$)




affected      areas.    The      affected  ProvinceDistrict
communities are yet to overcome the Northern Jaffna                       13,977    11,685              0     1,074      1,218
loss o f over 31,000 o f their members,                                                                 0                1,317
injuries to more than 15,000, and the                Killinochchi          4,454     2,587                      550

displacement     o f   around    105,000             Mullaitivu            4,272     3,244              0       407        621
families (around 419,000 individuals) Eastern Trincomalee                 14,214     9,945           628       1,504     2,138
(see Table 3).     A large number o f
orphaned children, along with widows,                Batticaloa           16,000     8,436            78      2,887      4,599

single-headed households, elderly, and               Amparai              14,636     5,283           235      4,568      4,549
disabled people are especially prone to    Southern Hambantota            10,471     6,613        2,387          800       671
psycho-social distress and may lack
basic means necessary for subsistence.               Matara               10,887     6,344        2,387        1,111      1,044

Many o f the displaced families are still            Galle                16,982     5,060        9,257        1,280      1,386
living in camps        under especially    Western Kalutara               10,589     3,782        4,628        1,110      1,069
difficult circumstances, while many
others    have   left  camps    to   live            Colombo                2,562     1,493             0        498        572

temporarily with friends and relatives.6             Gampaha              12,984    11,195              0        993        795
                                           North
5.       It is important to note that      Western Putalam                  8,154     8,105             0         291        211

before the tsunami, poverty in the worst ITotal                          140,182    83,771        19,600     16,811     20,000
affected districts was above the national Source: Estimatespreparedinconsultationwith the ADB.
average, and the catastrophe has likely    Notes: *Includes damage to boats and fishing gear;     **  70 percent o f rooms were
increased their vulnerability.    Among    assumed to needed repair, at the averagecost of repair of $2,000; ***Small businesses
                                           were assumed to suffer an average damage of $4,000; ****Own-account workers were
districts in the South for which poverty   assumed to suffer an average damageof $500.
estimates are available (DCS; 2002),
poverty headcounts for        the Galle,      Table 3: Statistics on Affected and DisplacedPopulationsby District
Hambantota and Matara districts are        I   District     I No.of Affected     I  No. of Displaced       I No. of Displaced   I
much higher than the national average                             Families               Families                 Persons
(excluding the North and East for which     Jaffna                       13,652                   12,631                39,907
estimates are not available) (see Fig. 2).  Killinochchi                  2,295                       318                 1,603
These three districts are also among the
worst affected in the South in terms of
job losses, accounting for about 60
percent o fjob losses in this region. For
the affected districts in the North and
East,    other   economic    and    social
indicators suggest that the poverty rates
would have been likely higher than the
national average as well, due to the        Colombo         I             9,647   1                 5,290   1           31,239
social    and    economic    deprivations   Gampaha                       6,827                       308                 1,449
brought about by a long history o f         Puttalam                        232                         18                    66
conflict.     This situation would be       Total                       202,742                  105,474                418,961




                                                     - 24 -

districts (Amparai and Batticaloa) are among the worst affected inthe country.

6.       The fact that some o f the poorest districts in        Fig. 2: Pre-tsunami poverty headcount (2002 data) in
                                                                             affected districts of the South
the country have been worst affected in terms o f
livelihoods lost implies a significant risk o f sharp
increases    in poverty      and   the  already    high
geographical inequality in the country. To mitigate
such risks, a timely and effective livelihood support
program i s urgently needed for reviving economic
activities and protecting the most vulnerable in the
immediate aftermath o f the disaster.

B.     RECONSTRUCTION AND RECOVERY           NEEDS

7.       With regard to livelihoods, the estimated damages suffered are so large (see Table 2) that the
assistance provided through this operation i s inadequate to address all the needs. A disaster o f this
magnitude - that has affected all types o f public and privately-owned assets critical for economic activity
and employment - calls for not only assistance in the form o f resources, but also a multi-sectoral
approach. The livelihood support suggested below - which i s targeted towards the most vulnerable
households and enterprises in the affected communities - will be effective if complementedby adequate
investments in rebuilding public infrastructure (e.g., roads, ports and railways) and provision o f housing
for affected families. For example, viability o f certain types o f interventions like public works may need
to await provision o f temporary shelters because some communities rightly perceive this as their most
urgentneedand the first step towards theirrehabilitation.

8.       Given the resource needs, the coordination o f different donor-supported projects and alignment
with Govemment strategy for reconstruction are essential to ensure that available resources are utilized
efficiently for maximum impact. The proposed livelihood support components will fill the gaps in the
broader efforts by donors and Govemment. The components o f livelihood support proposed below and
the institutional arrangements for their implementation are consistent with the broader strategy being
proposed in the Rapid Income Recovery Program (RIRP) - a multi-donor effort by the ILO, UNDP and
the World Bank currently in progress. The RIRP will assist TAFREN to coordinate reconstruction
activities by outlining a strategy focused on livelihood rehabilitation.

9.       In addition, the different components will be structured to ensure flexibility in implementation
and the activities will be sequenced to address the specific needs o f the affected areas.

C.       PROPOSED    COMPONENTS

10.      Addressing the objective o f rebuilding livelihoods and reviving the local economies o f affected
areas necessitates a multi-pronged approach that rebuilds assets to generate income and employment, and
at the same time protects the most vulnerable members o f the community. The program design would
need to address the overlapping needs across these different instruments in relation to the targeted
communities and the heterogeneity o f the population within these areas. Since the impact o f the disaster
i s not uniform across affected districts and communities within districts, the overall support for
livelihoods will ensure broad consistency with needs across communities as guided by the diagnostics in
the damage and needs assessment.         Furthermore, targeting o f the different components will ensure
minimumexclusion o fthose who are the neediest among the affectedpopulation.




                                                     - 25 -

11.     The livelihood support will consist o f three sub-components: (i)cash grants provided as
temporary social protection for affected families; (ii)     public works to generate temporary employment;
and (iii)financing o f micro-enterprises affected by the disaster.

Cash Grants

12.     The first sub-component - namely, pure cash transfers - will focus on the tsunami-affected
families who have lost their capacity to earn a livelihood. This category will consist o f all who are
displaced. This i s easily verifiable and a powerful indicator o f vulnerability.'

13.     The cash grants will be paid to the target group described above for aperiodo fup to four months,
after which it i s expected that economic activity will pick up resultinginpeople finding employment, for
example inthe reconstructiono f major infrastructure and revived enterprises. A beneficiary will exit from
the program before four months if he/she finds employment. The program will begin with the list o f
beneficiaries drawn up by the govemment, which according to the govemment consists o f all displaced
families. Additional criteria to identify the most needy among the displaced will be developed and agreed
upon with the government, and the number o f beneficiaries will be adjusted on applying such criteria
during the four-month period. The beneficiary lists will be validated through a community validation
process and periodic monitoring. It i s also expected that the especially vulnerable among affected
families - i.e., those headed by widows or elderly people, with disabled members, orphans, etc. - may
need extended support in the form o f continued cash assistance for a longer period. After four months -
when the cash grant program terminates - such beneficiaries will need to be integrated into the regular
public sector social welfare programs.

14.     The GOSL has set the grant amount at a maximumof LKR5,000 per monthper household (LKR
2,500 per month for a single-headed household).8 This amount i s actually higher than the food (or
extreme) poverty line, which inSri Lanka i s about LKR 1,500 per person, per month.

15.      The implementation plan will be based on community participation, where community
organizations will play a key role in identifying beneficiaries. At the same time, the implementation
arrangements will have to be flexible, since the impact o f the tsunami may have resultedin fragmentation
of communities and social networks.            T h i s may make it difficult to implement community-based
arrangements from the very beginning, and the community's role may be initially limited to validation of
existing lists o f beneficiaries. An independent verification system o f beneficiaries will be established,
similar to the method that involved UNHCR for the identification o f IDPs in the North and East.

Public Works

16.      The second sub-component o f livelihood support - namely, public works to rebuild community
infrastructure - i s intended to provide income to those who are able and willing to work but are unable to
find employment inaffected areas. Thisprogramis scheduled to beginafter the cash grants programends
-i.e., afteraperiodoffourmonths. Thedesignshouldensurethatthemenuofpublicworksselectedare
labor-intensive, based on the needs o f specific communities, and produce infrastructurethat i s owned and
managed by communities or the Govemment. This program will pay a cash wage to participateinlargely


7        "Displaced" includes all those inwelfare camps, living with friends or relatives, or intemporary shelters.

8        According to a circular from MOF (issuedon 1/17/05) to the District and Divisional Secretaries o f tsunami-
         affected areas, the Divisional Secretaries have been asked to identify grant-eligible families/persons, so that
         the funds canbe disbursedthrough commercialbanks.



                                                         -26-

unskilled work activities, such as debris removal, repair of community water supply and sanitation
schemes, repair or construction o f public buildings (e.g., community centers and schools) and minor road
repairs.

17.      The key design features of the public works program will be guided by a few basic principles
derived from internationalbest practices. The most important o f these principles i s for such a program to
be "self-targeted", where wages are not set above the prevailing market wage for unskilled labor to ensure
that those who are able to work and have lost their livelihoods among the communities "self-select" into
the program. In Sri Lanka, the wages for unskilledworkers will be set above the minimumwage but
below the district market wage for such work (expected to be inthe range o f LKR 200 to 300). Other key
guidingprinciples include: (i) share o fthe wage bill intotal cost should be as highas possible; and (ii)
                                 the
the budget o f the program protects resources for asset maintenance, at least for the duration of the project,
after which it i s expected that the Government or the community will take responsibility.

18.      Sri Lanka currently does not have a public works program that can be adapted to address the post-
tsunami situation. This i s indeed the reason to start on a smaller scale, for scope for expansion as
necessary. The public works component will rely on communities and NGOs for the identification o f
feasible projects to support under this program. Administrative arrangements will be firmed up in the
coming weeks, incoordinationwith other stakeholders, notably the ILO.

FinancingMicro-Enterprises

19.      Complementing initiatives by other donors, Government and the chambers o f commerce, this
component will consider allocating resources to micro-enterprises - self-employed and small, family
businesses - in the tsunami-affected areas, helping them resume their business operations interruptedby
the disaster. The program could also include training and business services to selected borrowers, so as to
maximize their business success. It i s foreseen that the component will provide grants and/or loans to
different types o f institutions extending credit to micro-enterprises, including cooperative (thrift and
savings) societies. To improve the long term credit capacity o f these institutions, the resources collected
bythese institutions as repayments will be usedto expand their revolving credit hnds.

20.      Itis envisaged that grants would be provided to MFIs,which would on-lend the resources to end-
borrowers, including fishermen. It i s proposed that loans will have an overall upper limit o f LKR 100,000
to ensure targeting o f micro-enterprises without resources being spent on large loans. Apart from that, the
participating institutions will, based on their own client assessments and criteria, select end-borrowers,
and determine loan amounts and their terms and conditions. This will not only simplify program
administration, but will also enable a rapid injection of badly needed financial resources. Participating
institutions will, in tum, be encouraged to consider expanding their membership and areas o f services,
while adhering to sound long term planning and careful selecting of new members and areas to instillthe
necessary trust between the lender and the client. Group loans will be allowed for certain categories o f
borrowers, especially with regardto fishing cooperatives.

ImplementationArrangements

21,      Cash Grants. The cash grants will be implemented usingthe existing list o f beneficiaries drawn
up by the Divisional Secretaries (to distribute the LKR 5,000 grant) as the starting point. This list will be
validated through a series o f steps explainedbelow.

22.      First, a simple cross-check of the list will be conducted against the electoral list (that clarifies the
domicile o f each beneficiary inthe relevant Grama Niladhari (GN) division) o f the affected communities
and any other relevant list, to minimize exclusion and leakage. Community-validation o f the beneficiary


                                                     - 27 -

lists will take place by mobilizing communities to form representative committees that will include
representatives o f affected members, community elders (such as religious leaders or teachers), and
representatives from cooperatives and community-based organizations. Initially, these committees will
validate existing lists o f beneficiaries, but over time they are expected to play a more pro-active role o f
identifying beneficiaries and updating the lists. This committee should be facilitated by Government
officials like GNs by providing necessary information and operational assistance. Where such committees
already exist, the project will build on existing frameworks; for instance in the North and East, existing
Village Rehabilitation Committees (VRCs) set up under the North East Emergency Reconstruction
Project (NEERP) could be adapted to suit the needs o f this program.

23.     A specific set o f criteria for candidates for the cash grant (displaced, loss o f an earning family
member, and criteria to minimize duplication with other public sector cash relief programs) will be
provided as guidelines to these committees. The committee's role will be to identify the beneficiaries to
whom these criteria apply and distribute the cash grants. Before payments are made, accounts for each
beneficiary family will be opened in financial institutions or possibly post offices. During that process,
temporary identity cards to beneficiaries will be issued - for those who have lost their formal
identifications - to facilitate and track payments to each beneficiary. Validation mechanisms using the
previously mentionedUNHCR model will be established.

24.     It is calculated that a cash grant program that targets displaced families for four months will cost
around US$20 million, but the final cost will depend on the application o f a more selective criteria which
will reduce the number o f beneficiaries over the period.     Financing by IDA o f the cash grant program
will be contingent upon verification o f benefits actually reaching the beneficiaries - through auditing o f
the special window created for this purpose in commercial banks - against the lists o f beneficiaries
submittedby the relevant authorities. It was agreed that a unitunder TAFRENwill be created to facilitate
preparations for program implementation and targeting. Staff will be in place within this unit by the end
o f February 2005. Eligibility criteria developed will also ensure that the largest benefits go to the worst
affected communities.

25.     Public Works. The public works component will be implemented through direct financing o f
communities, represented by the community committees as described above, whose role will be to select
and propose the sub-projects to be financed, and organize the public works sub-projects in their
communities.

26.      The disbursement for public works to affected communities will take place against an accepted
sub-project proposal from the community committees for various public works.              Specific community
interventions will first take the form o f a sub-project proposal to be carried out by the community and will
identify objectives, timing for implementation, resource requirements and design parameters. Acceptance
and implementation o f the sub-project proposal will be summarized in a simple contract signed between
the community and the Government and will provide a basis for disbursement against a community grant.
Grants to communities will be allocated against a menu o f public works and only include investments for
community and Government-owned or managed infrastructure. Cash will also be provided to finance
additional materials needed to enable sub-projects to address a broad range o f community needs, provide
supplemental labor payments, or to contract intechnical assistance.

27.     For the reasons described above      - namely, the impact o f the tsunami on communities - in some
cases it may be necessary to assist communities in identifying appropriate public works. One way to
address this will be to have the district level committees actually identify works for communities in
coordinationwithrelevant provincial line ministries.




                                                      - 28 -

28.       Financing Micro-Enterprises. In designing the component, several guiding principles about
MFI good practice should be followed: (i) intimate knowledge by MFIs of their activity areas will be
                                             the
exploited to provide information about the financial needs o f their members; and (ii) will not be
                                                                                          MFIs
asked to provide loans at a lower interest rate than what they use for their regular product, as such a
practice would impair credit discipline and could have disastrous consequences for the whole industry.In
cases where providing grants i s considered as boosting creditworthiness, the payment channels o f grants
will be different to those used regularlyby MFIs.Inaddition, it will be made absolutely clear that this is a
one-time, temporary activity, due to exceptional circumstances. The project will also avoid setting targets
for disbursement or number o f clients served.

D.        INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS         FORIMPLEMENTATION

29.       Implementation o f the overall program will be managed through a committee system functioning
at the national, district and community levels, which will bring together key Govemment departments,
with technical assistance from intemational and non-governmental agencies as needed. While being
govemed by the same institutional processes, the loan part o f the micro-finance component will only rely
on the apex and district structures. Given the community-based approach in implementation, most o f the
operational decision-making and facilitation will be coordinated at the district level. Accordingly, District
Coordination Committees (DCCs) will be set up and will assist the District Task Forces in evaluating
public works proposals from communities and monitor beneficiary lists by applying the program
guidelines. The D C C will comprise technical and administrative staff from the district administration as
well as provincial line ministries. The representatives o f the provincial line ministries in the DCC will
provide technical guidance and coordination across public works projects proposed by communities. This
i s particularly important since many of the activities that may be identified as candidates for community-
basedpublic works are actually implementedby the provincial governments.

30.       Oversight o f the overall livelihoods program will reside in a Steering Committee set up by
TAFREN, which will be responsible for policy direction, broad budgetary allocations (across affected
districts), and the establishment o f project approval guidelines. The Steering Committee will comprise
representatives from relevant central line ministries and Provincial Councils, and will be supported by a
Program Management Unit (PMU). The P M U will be responsible for coordination o f operations,
provision o f technical advice, production o f the necessary operational guidelines, capacity building o f
DCCs and community committees, monitoring and evaluation o f community projects and cash grant
program, and the contractingof relevant intemational and NGO expertise to support the above-mentioned
activities as necessary. The P M U will also be responsible for reporting regularly to the relevant
intemational donors and Govemment regulators on the progress o f the program.

3 1.     Financial Arrangements. Since both the public works and the cash grants programs will largely
be managed by the communities, the flow o f funds to the beneficiaries will occur in the following
manner: the community committees will submit sub-project proposals and the list o f beneficiaries to
DCCs, which will review and validate the eligible lists and proposals. The funds will then be transferred
to the accounts created for beneficiaries ina local bank or post office.

E.       KEY INDICATORS, MONITORINGEVALUATION
                                            AND                 ARRANGEMENTS

32.      For intermediate indicators, monitoring arrangements will comprise: (i)the managerial
monitoring by the PMU; and (ii)   operational spot-checks. For managerial monitoring, the PMUwill have
program monitors who will visit the communities to check the functioning o f the delivery mechanisms.
The operational spot-checks will be conducted at regular intervalsby an independent agency to check the
effectiveness o f the delivery mechanism. The independent monitors will produce periodic reports every
three months that will inform the P M U to adjust the operation o f the program as necessary. For long term


                                                    - 29 -

impact indicators, Sri Lanka conducts regular household, labor force and demographic surveys to track
the suggested indicators. In addition, the DCS i s conducting a baseline census o f affected areas that
records various measures of vulnerability and losses post-tsunami. Follow-up surveys that are planned
will provide the data to measure the impact o f the program. A logframe summarizing the objectives, key
performance indictors, and data collection strategy i s provided below


Hierarchy of Objectives       Indicators                     Means of Verification        RisksandAssumptions
Goal; To protectthe           Sustainableemployment and      Laborforce surveys and       Broader economicrecovery
vulnerable andrebuild         resumptionof economic          householdsurveys,            andrebuildingof major
livelihoodsintsunami-         activity in affectedareas      reportsof participatingMFIs  infrastructure
affectedareas
                                                                                                                    ~
Objectives:                   9 Improvementsinpoverty        P Household and               P Communitycapacityto
9To transfer resourcesto      measures,and childand          demographic surveys;          implement;management
maintainminimumbasic          women's healthand              investment climate surveys    capacityofthe PMU
needs; to rehabilitate        nutritionindicators;           (subject to follow-upo f 1''  9 Providinggrantswithout
communal assets               reductionin the levelsof       roundof these surveys)        damagingthe credit culture
9To rebuildproductive         displacement                                                 9 Ensuringrepaymentof
assets for sustainable        9Increaseinownershipof                                       loans
employment                    productiveassets; reduction
                              in levelsof indebtedness
Output from each component:   9No. ofhouseholds              9ProjectreportsfromMIS        9 Operationfails to follow
P Cash transferredto the      benefited;amount ofmoney       9Reportsofparticipating       guidelines andmanuals, or
beneficiaries;participationin transferred;no. of completed   MFIs                          trainingis inadequate
publicworks; basic            projectsapprovedand
infrastructurerehabilitated;  completed; no. of person-
M&E progressreports           days of employment
produced and shared           generated;no. of community
9Assetsofmicro-enterprises    infrastructurerehabilitated
restored andtheirjobs         9No. ofjobs created;
recreated                     amount o f loans and grants
9Long-termgrowthpotential     extended; amount of loans
o f MFIs strengthened         repaid




                                                         - 30 -

                    APPENDIX I V-IMPLEMENTATION CAPACITY BUILDING


1.      As Sri Lanka prepares to implement major tsunami reconstruction and recovery activities with
various development partners, it i s essential that existing implementation capacity i s enhanced and
augmented to meet the heightened demand for project management and oversight. Thus, IDA will provide
US$5 million to finance a capacity strengthening program for major reconstruction efforts. Although
implementation arrangements are still in the process o f being finalized, costs and activities have been
determined based on the anticipated implementation structure reflecting the current status o f discussion.
The proposed component for implementationcapacity buildingintends to expand current capabilities both
at the central government level and within the affected districts to plan, implement, and supervise
reconstruction activities across all sectors. Individual capacity building exercises that relate to specific
sectors are listed inthe technical annexes as project sub-components.

2.       This component would support: (i) provision o f human resources and consultancy inputs at
                                                the
the central and district levels; (ii)continuous social impact assessment; (iii) design and delivery o f
                                     a                                             the
training programs for district administrators on financial management and streamlined implementation
processes; (iv) the provision o f information technology connectivity and the establishment o f
management information systems (MIS); and (v) the supply o f basic office supplies and infrastructure and
urgentlyneededvehicles.

HumanResources

3.       It i s envisaged that the Task Forces chaired by the District Secretaries will implement a large
portion o f the emergency reconstruction program. These Task Forces need to be strengthenedby qualified
personnel and technical expertise at the district level and at the central level within TAFREN to
administer and monitor reconstruction programs at the national level. To meet this need, IDA will support
the recruitment o f district directors, implementation specialists, financial management specialists, MIS
specialists, and support staff on a contractual basis as necessary in each o f the affected district? and at the
central level to build immediate capacity. In addition, environmental engineers and social experts will be
hired to ensure proper social and environmental management actions are taken during reconstruction.
Staffing arrangements will be fine-tuned according to implementation needs. Attached i s a chart that
outlines the structure o f TAFREN and corresponding District Task Forces that will be supported by this
component.

Social ImpactAssessment

4.       To address social issues raised during the recovery period, a continuous social impact assessment
(CSIA) will be undertaken to facilitate the articulation o f community perceptions, grievances and
feedback. The CSIA will help monitor the social dimensions o f the emergency recovery program and flag
potential risks. Through direct interaction with beneficiary communities, it will carry out an independent
evaluation o fprogram implementation and distribution o f program benefits. The CSIA study will monitor
the impact o f the program and help initiate necessary mitigation measures, with a special focus on ethnic
and religious equity among all affected communities.

5.       TAFREN will contract an independent research institution to undertake the CSIA. The CSIA
reports will be submittedto the Steering Committee, which will distribute the report to the national and
local partners for necessary action as well as to fundingpartners and to the public.

9        Direct capacity building will be providedto Task Forces in the nine most affected districts inthe North,
         East. SouthandWest.


                                                     - 31 -

TrainingPrograms

6.      In order to develop the skills of existing and new staff within each of the task forces, IDA will
finance training programs on topics such as procurement guidelines, information technology and MIS,
implementation arrangements, operations management, environmental and social safeguards, and
financial management at the central and district levels. In addition, the National Procurement Authority
(NPA) will conduct several programs to enhance the procurement capabilities o f the implementing
agencies and the decision-making authorities.

InformationTechnology and ManagementofInformationSystems

7.      Information technology (IT) systems must be put in place for communication among various
levels o f government, as well as for knowledge sharing and monitoring o f on-going programs. An MIS
must be put in place to provide a platform for collecting and disseminating information on program
implementation across the districts. This information technology/MIS sub-component also aims to
strengthen information management capacity and knowledge-sharing both horizontally and vertically
among TAFREN and the Provincial and District Task Forces.                The M I S will also allow for
standardization o f program reporting and monitoring between sectors. To facilitate this information
technology program, IDA will provide fundingfor IT staff costs, software and database management, and
IT hardware. Govemment accounting systems generate expenditure information along the lines o f the
expenditure classification in the public sector budget. However if further classification o f expenditure i s
required to meet reporting requirements o f the various stakeholders, IDA will also finance the
establishment o f a simple computerized accounting system within TAFREN. This component also covers
overhead expenses related to information technology, such as Internet connections and phone lines,

OfficeSupplies andInfrastructure

8.      Alongside the soft components needed for implementation capacity building,hardware - such as
office supplies and furniture, computers, software programs, vehicles, and other office infrastructure - are
urgently needed to allow the Task Forces to begin working efficiently and effectively with one another.
This component encompasses overhead expenses, including rent, utilities, and other routine operating
costs.

                       Table 1: EstimatedCostsof Capacity BuildingActivities

            Category                                          Amount Allocated (US$)
            Staffing                                                    3,000,000
            Information technology                                      700,000
            Office equipment and vehicles                               700,000
            Social impact assessment                                    300,000

          I Training programs                                           300,000
            Total                                                       5,000,000




                                                   - 32 -

.-E
a,
a,
Y




u
g
.-M
E
.-aE
Y

z
-s.-x
0


d
.-tEl
a
w"c,
Y
v)




8
L        a,
         u
         L




I
               I
               m
               m
               I

                                          APPENDIXV - HEALTH


A.       OVERVIEW OFDAMAGE

1.       Damage to the health sector caused by the tsunami has been substantial, including the loss of
health infrastructure and health personnel, and has created a breakdown o f the health system in the
affected districts. Physical infrastructure losses include at least 92 partially or fully damaged health
institutions. These included hospitals, drug stores, cold rooms, preventive health care offices, health staff
accommodation facilities, and district health offices. Inaddition, a large number o f vehicles (ambulances,
lorries, vans, double cabs, and motorbikes) and the majority o f the medical equipment and office
equipment in the affected areas were totally destroyed. The loss o f health personnel includes medical
officers, nurses, midwives, and other support staff. Furthermore, a large number o f health staff were
injuredand traumatizedby the event, as many lost their families, belongings, and homes.

2.       These losses have resulted in a virtual breakdown o f the health system. This encompasses the: (i)
inability to deal with the main curative and preventive activities, including mental health; (ii) breakdown
of the medical supply collectiodstorage/distribution system; and (iii)    disruption o f community channels
and networks for community care, health promotion, and prevention. This lapse in the health care system
affects both the displaced and non-displaced populations living in coastal areas.

3,       The estimated cost o f replacing damaged and destroyed physical infrastructure is approximately
US$59 million. T h i s estimate does not include the short and medium term costs required to address
transitional arrangements that need to be put in place to restore health services. Furthermore, it does not
include the cost o f loss o f health personnel or the traumatized health staff who survived the ordeal, or the
additional service needs required by the majority o f affected and displaced people (such as for psycho-
social support, additional drugs and supplies, additional expenses related to epidemic preparedness, and
disease surveillance).

B.       OTHEROBSERVEDIMPACTS

4.       The health sector losses also impacted other social and environmental sectors. In terms of the
social sector, special support systems are needed for the vulnerable groups o f people following the loss or
breakdown o f family support systems available prior to the disaster. Among the new groups o f vulnerable
people that need specialized care are newly-orphaned children, adults who lost family members, the
elderly, chronically illpatients who were receiving regular health care prior to the disaster, and the
survivors o f the tsunami who have been traumatized by the disaster.

5.       Environmental impacts to the health sector following the tsunami include the threat o f epidemics
due to the accumulation o f waste and garbage in temporary housing facilities and due to delayed
collection and disposal o f debris in affected areas. These conditions can create an environment conducive
to the spread of vector borne diseases, including Filariasis, Dengue fever, as well as food and water borne
diseases like typhoid, dysentery, hepatitis, and cholera.

c.       RECONSTRUCTION RECOVERY
                               AND              NEEDS

6.       The immediate need is to make basic health care services available to affected people (including
the displaced). Measures need to be taken to provide clean water into the welfare camps and to health
facilities. It i s also essential to address the prevention of communicable diseases (especially vaccine
preventable and vector borne diseases) among the affected. The tsunami caused considerable trauma to
those affected, and a holistic program addressing the psycho-social needs o f the affected should be


                                                      - 34-

implemented to address these issues. In addition, existing undamaged health institutions need to be
equipped to provide expanded curative services. Temporary facilities that can provide care to additional
patients must be established during the recovery period.        In the medium term, it is necessary to
reconstruct and re-equip the health institutions damaged due to the disaster. The estimated total cost o f
rehabilitating the health sector, including the provision o f medical equipment and vehicles, i s
approximately US$84 million.

D.      PROPOSEDPROJECTCOMPONENTS

7.      Following the tsunami disaster, the health sector has been supported by many other donor
agencies, including bi-laterals and multi-laterals, such as the UNAgencies. In addition, many local and
intemational NGOs and private sector companies are providing support. It i s not clear whether IDA
resources will be needed to finance the recovery of the health sector. If it does become necessary to
utilize such resources, health sector support will be comprised o f three main activities: (i)
strengtheninghenovating existing health care delivery services; (ii)supporting additional preventive,
promotive and rehabilitative health needs; and (iii)  reconstructing and re-equipping o f partially or fully
damaged health institutions.

StrengtheningRenovating ExistingUndamaged Health Care Delivery Services

8.      This activity would support the strengtheninghenovation o f existing undamaged health care
delivery services to absorb the service capacity o f damaged facilities. The health institutions considered
under this component will be those institutions that have been not identified by other donors for support,
but have been recognized as needing strengthening or renovation by the provincial and district health
authorities inconsultationwith the Ministryo f Health (MOH).

Supporting Additional Preventive, Promotive and Rehabilitative Needs

9.       Inthis area, the MOHand the affected districtsthrough the respectiveProvincial Councils would
be able to meet other preventive, promotive, and rehabilitative health gaps identified during the recovery
period. Furthermore, the MOH will be able to support the: (i)Health Education Bureau in order to
strengthen health education measures required inmany o f the affected districts; (ii)Logistics Unit to hire
consultant services to coordinate, monitor, and support the construction o f hospitals funded by other
donors; (iii)Biomedical Engineering Unit to coordinate, procure and maintain essential medical
equipment requirements; (iv) Medical Supplies Unit to improve its facilities and restore the drug supplies
for the affected areas; (v) rabies control program to improve activities in affected districts; and (vi)
Epidemiology Unit to improve monitoring o f disease surveillance, emergency preparedness, and disaster
mitigation activities.

Repair, Reconstruction and Re-equipping of Partially or Fully Damaged Institutions

 10.     Under this support, the MOH, provincial, and district health authorities would reconstruct, re-
equip, and provide equipment and medical supplies to partially or fully damaged health facilities not
supported by other donors.

Key Performance Indicators

 11.     The objective of supporting the health sector i s to re-establish a better performing health care
delivery system by strengthening the preventive, promotive, rehabilitative and curative health care
services provided to the population living inthe tsunami affected areas.



                                                    - 35 -

12.      Key performance indicators include both overall performance and district-specific perfonnance.
With reference to the indicators below: (i) curative health care delivery system i s defined as the total
                                             the
number o f curative health care facilities that were non-functional after the disaster; (i)a district that has
reestablished curative care services would be a district that has re-established all units that were non-
functional after the disaster; (iii)the preventive health care delivery system i s defined as the total number
of preventive health care facilities that were non-functioning following the disaster; and (iv) a district that
has re-established preventive health care services would be a district that has re-established all preventive
healthunits that were non-functional after the disaster.

13.      Overall performance indicators include:


    0    Percentage o f districts withre-established curative health care delivery system; and
    0    Percentage o f districts withre-established preventive health care system.

14.      District-specific perfonnance indicators include:


    0    Percentage o f health institutions re-constructed by district (from the identified number o f health
         institutions damaged in each district);
    0    Percentage of health institutions re-functioning (re-established) by district (from the identified
         number o fhealth institutionsnot functioning in each district); and
    0    The percentage o f existing health institutions strengthened by district (from the identifiednumber
         o f institutions ineach districts).

PolicyIssues

15.      The curative health sector i s usually delivered through a range o f public sector health care
institutions, ranging from central dispensaries to teaching hospitals, with each level providing a higher
level o f care. Duringthe recovery process, it i s necessary to maintain the MOH policy related to the re-
establishment o f various levels o f hospitals in different areas in order to avoid an unplanned, ad hoc
selection o f hospitals for upgrading.

ImplementationArrangements

16.      The implementation o f the proposed activities will be carried out through the central M O H and
the provincial and district health authorities inthe relevant provinces.

17.      The provincial component o f the project will be implemented by the North East and Southern
Provincial Councils. The activities that need to be addressed under this component will be preparedby the
respective Deputy Provincial Directors o f Health under the Direction o f Provincial Director Health
Services and in consultation with the MOH as a Tsunami Recovery Health Sector Plan. The plan will be
submitted through the regular channels in the Provincial Council to the Finance Commission and to the
MOH. The Finance Commission will then recommendto the Ministryo f Finance the release o f resources
for these activities to the two provinces.

18.      The central component o f the project will be implemented by the MOH. The activities that need
to be addressed under this component will be prepared and submitted to the Ministry o f Finance by the
Secretary o f Health inconsultationwith the respective unitso f the MOH.




                                                     -36 -

Monitoring and Evaluation

19.     The provincial and centrally managed sub-components will be monitored by using the key
performance indicators presented above. The required data for measuring these indicators will be
extracted from the existing health information system. The progress will also be assessed by an
independent team o f specialists at the end o f a six month period and thereafter.




                                                      -37 -

                                       APPENDIX VI -EDUCATION


A.       OVERVIEW OFDAMAGE

1.       The tidal waves that swept over the coastal areas o f Sri Lanka on December 26, 2004 damaged
168 schools, 4 universities and 18 vocational training and industrial training centers. About 80,000
students, 330 teachers and 50 principals were directly affected by the tsunami. In addition, many more
children, teachers and principals in the coastal areas have likely suffered psychological trauma, although
this is more difficult to measure and quantify. Also, welfare camps were set up in about 275 schools to
provide temporary shelter for displaced individuals.

2.       The total cost o f the damage to the education capital stock, according to preliminary estimates, i s
approximately USS25.8 million. The major proportion o f damage has been to primary and secondary
schools, which account for over 90 percent o f institutions damaged and about 92 percent o f the estimated
cost. Buildings inabout 59 schools have been completely destroyed. Further, according to the Ministryo f
Education (MOE), around 91 schools which have been destroyed or damaged and are located too close to
the seashore may have to be relocated and reconstructed. The damage to schools includes buildings,
equipment, machinery and tools, fumiture, books and other library resources, and consumable teaching
materials such as chemicals, chalk and white-board pens. Universities have suffered damage to lecture
halls, administration buildings and hostels. Vocational training and technical education institutions have
experienced damage to lecture halls, workshops, equipment, machinery and tools, and residential
facilities.

3.       The regional pattem o f destruction shows that the largest number o f damaged schools are located
in the Amparai district (38 schools), followed by Batticaloa (33 schools), Trincomalee (27 schools), and
Galle (22 schools). Also in terms of costs, the Amparai district i s the worst affected, with about US$6.7
million worth o f damage, followed by Batticaloa with US$3.9 million o f damage, then Galle with US$3.6
million, and Trincomalee with U S 2 . 7 million. Nearly all public schools operate in a matrix management
structure between the MOE and the Provincial Councils.

4.       Universities located in the districts o f Matara, Batticaloa, Amparai and Jaffna have also suffered
damage, with Jaffna University suffering the worst damage in terms o f cost. These universities have
played a key role in fostering academic excellence in regions with a history o f conflict. However, it
should be noted that these universities are mapped to the central universitygrants commission and do not
report to any regional administration.

5.         Additional information regarding the damage to the Sri Lankan education system and its
infrastructure i s available in the joint ADB/JBIC/IDA preliminary damage and needs assessment released
on February 2,2005.

B.       OTHEROBSERVED         IMPACTS

6.       Other impacts o f the tsunami can be observed, but are hard to measure and quantify. Students,
teachers, principals, university academics and education administrators have clearly suffered serious
psychological trauma, and physical and social losses. Over the short and medium term, considerable
counseling will be required, especially among students who have lost family members and in schools
which have suffered large losses. In addition, the special leaming needs o f such children will have to
studied and appropriate remedial teaching introduced to schools, which will require training o f teachers in
the special leamingneeds o f traumatized children.



                                                     - 38 -

7.       The loss o f time spent in classroom leaming i s also an important loss o f output. This i s especially
serious in grade 11 and 13, where students are preparing to sit the General Certificate o f Examinations
Ordinary Level (GCE O/L) and the General Certificate o f Examinations Advanced Level (GCE NL).
These are certifying examinations, as well as selection examinations for various types o f vocational
training, technical education and, at the GCE AIL stage, for university entrance. The damaged schools, as
well as schools used as welfare centers, have not been able to commence the academic year on schedule,
which places students inthese schools at a clear disadvantage intaking these exams.

c.       RECONSTRUCTION RECOVERY
                               AND              NEEDS

8.       Clearly, the most urgent need i s to repair schools, universities, and vocational training and
technical education institutions wherever possible. All universities can be repaired immediately, as the
extent o f damage i s fairly minor. In addition, undamaged schools being utilized as welfare centers for
displaced individuals need to be cleared and so that classes can recommence as quickly as possible.
Where reconstruction o f other education institutions i s likely to be delayed, either due to the extent o f
damage suffered or the need to relocate the schoolkraining institutions to new locations, altemative
arrangements need to be made to accommodate such students in other institutions. Where this i s not
possible, temporary shelters to conduct lessons should be provided.

9.       Over the medium term, the destroyed or badly damaged schools need to be rebuilt with due
regard to ethnic balance in the identification o f candidate schools. T h i s will involve reconstructing or
building new classrooms, science laboratories, libraries, aesthetic units, administration blocks, and
furnishingand equippingsuch facilities with appropriate technology, machinery and tools, andbooks and
providing basic services, such as electricity, water and sanitation. Schools will also need basic protection,
such as gates and walls. Repairing vocational training and technical education institutions would involve
rebuilding lecture rooms, workshops, administration buildings. In addition, fumiture, equipment,
machinery, and tools would have to be supplied to these facilities. The cost o f reconstructing schools and
vocational training and technical education institutions with quality upgrading, and restoring the damaged
universities, i s estimated to be about US$50 million.

D.       PROPOSED     PROJECT COMPONENTS

10.      Resources for the reconstruction o f the education sector will come from several donors, including
the ADB, JBIC/JICA, donors in UN system, and bi-lateral partners. The MOE has currently signed
memoranda o f understanding with several donors, including civil society organizations, to reconstruct all
of the damaged education institutions. The IDA funds would be kept in reserve to fill any funding gaps
that arise in education reconstruction. If necessary, the IDA support would assist the Govemment to
rebuild, equip and upgrade the quality of schools affected by the tsunami, either through damage caused
by the tidal waves or through their use as shelters for displacedpersons. IDA assistance would potentially
support: (i)architectural, engineering and consultancy services and the monitoring o f education
outcomes; (ii)civil works; and (iii)equipment, technology, machinery and tools, books and reading
material, and essential school furniture. The development objective i s to restore the tsunami-damaged
capital stock o f the education system, with quality upgrading, so that equitable access to basic, secondary,
and tertiary education and training i s restored to pre-tsunami levels.

Policy Issues

11,      An important policy issue arises regarding the Govemment's consideration o f a plan that could
lead to the relocation o f schools. Schools should only be relocated in line with predicted enrollment
pattems flowing from the relocation o f the population. If such population relocation does not occur,
relocation o f schools should be undertaken with great caution so that children are not denied access to


                                                     - 39 -

education. Further, ifnew land i s required for relocated schools, as far as possible the Government should
utilize state-owned land for construction in order to forestall the need for social and environmental
assessmentsprior to donor financing o f school reconstruction activities.

                        Table 1: 1
Development Objective             Outcome Indicators                      Use o f Outcome Information
Restore equitable access to          Net enrollment and retention by      Outcome information will be used
education and training to pre-       education and training institution.  to determine whether modifications
tsunami levels, and improve          Learning levels and examination      to the program strategy are required
quality inline with the rest o f     success rates education and training  and to adjust fundingappropriately.
the country.                         institution.
Intermediate Results              Results Indicators                      Use o f Results Monitoring
Complete rebuilding o f all          Number o f target schools fully      Below target achievement will
damaged education and training       functional.                           signal potentially serious delays and
institutions, with suitable          Number o f target universities fully  shortfalls inprogram
quality upgrading o f facilities     functional.                           implementation, which will point to
and services.                        Number o f target training           the needfor urgent corrective
                                     institutions fully functional.        action.

ImplementationArrangements

12.       The proposed national authority for tsunami reconstruction - TAFREN - will coordinate with
MOE and relevant Provincial Education Authorities on reconstruction efforts related to the education
sector. The repairs o f schools and procurement o f equipment and materials will be the responsibility o f
the MOE and the provincial education authorities, with large contracts handled at the central and
provincial levels, medium-sized purchases made through the zonal education offices and small purchases
at the school level. The repairs o f universities will be undertaken by the institutions themselves, with
funds channeled through the MOE. The funds made available through this operation will be routed
through the Ministry o f Finance (MOF) either to MOE or directly to the Provincial Ministries o f
Education o f the affected areas, depending on their purpose. The direct transfer o f funds will expedite
disbursements and ensure fiduciary oversight at the central andprovincial levels.

MonitoringandEvaluation

13.       The progress o f education and training reconstruction activities will be monitored by the MOE
and provincial education authorities. The monitoring arrangements set up by TAFREN will also be
utilized for monitoring purposes, especially to identify implementation bottlenecks and strengthen
program implementation. In addition, resources are available to assess the impact o f reconstruction
activities on student enrollment and retention, follow up of out-of-school children and attract themback to
school, evaluate leaming levels in tsunami-affected schools and develop policy initiatives to address any
special leaming needs o f children. The MOE and provincial education authorities will be responsible for
assessments and evaluation activities.




                                                      - 40 -

                         APPENDIX VI1-ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL
                           SCREENING AND ASSESSMENT FRAMEWORK


A.       OBJECTIVES

1.      The Environmental and Social Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF) provides general
policies, guidelines, codes o f practice and procedures to be integrated into the implementation o f the IDA-
supported emergency reconstruction operations in Sri Lanka. The emergency reconstruction operations
will be supported in two phases: (i)   Tsunami Emergency Recovery Program - Phase I;and (ii)         Tsunami
EmergencyRecovery - Phase 11.

2.       The ESSAF has been developed to ensure compliance with the World Bank's safeguard policies
under the current conditions in Sri Lanka and i s applicable to Phase Iand Phase I1o f the Emergency
Recovery Program. The Emergency Recovery Program (Phase Iand 11) has been prepared in accordance
with the Bank's OP 8.50 for Emergency Recovery Assistance. The objective o f the ESSAF is to ensure
that activities under the proposed reconstruction operations address the following issues:


    0    Protect human health:


    0    Prevent or compensate any loss o f livelihood;


    0    Minimize environmental degradation as a result o f either individual sub-projects or their
         cumulative effects;


    0    Minimize impacts on cultural property; and


    0    Enhance positive environmental and social outcomes.

B.       GENERALPRINCIPLES

3 ,      Recognizing the emergency nature o f the proposed recovery and reconstruction operations, and
the related need for providing immediate assistance while also ensuring due diligence in managing
potential environmental and social risks, the ESSAF i s based on the following principles:


    0    The proposed operations will support multiple sub-projects, the detailed designs o f which may
         not be known at appraisal. To ensure effective application o f the World Bank's safeguard
         policies, the ESSAF provides guidance on the approach to be taken during implementation for the
         selection and design o f sub-projects and the planning o f mitigation measures;


    0    Although environmental category `A' sub-projects are eligible for financing, it i s not expected
         that there will be such sub-projects in the first year.      In case any do occur, Environmental
         Assessments (EAs) for specific sub-projects will be prepared during implementation o f the
         emergency operation, instead o f before appraisal. Corrective measures in the form o f an
         Environmental Management Plan (EMP), as described in Section H, will be built into either the
         emergency project or a future lending operation. The above i s in accordance with paragraph 13 o f
         OP 4.01 andparagraph 5 o fBP4.01;


    0    In view of the emergency nature o f the operations, IDA will, in applicable instances, require a
         draft resettlement plan, in conformity with OP 4.12 o f the World Bank, within two months after



                                                    - 41 -

          identification o f sub-projects and in advance o f any resettlement. The voluntary donation or
          compensated contribution o f land for sub-project activities will be guidedby the "Guidelines for
          Land and Asset Acquisition, Entitlements and Compensation" included in the present framework;


     0    The proposed emergency reconstruction operations will finance feasibility and detailed design
          studies for these subsequent investments, which will include environmental assessments and
          social studies as requiredby World Bank safeguard policies;


     0    Sub-project design and sub-project selection will aim at maintaining regional balance and local
          equity among ethnic and religious groups. Employment opportunities within the sub-projects will
          be available on the basis o f equal opportunity and professional competence, irrespective o f gender
          or ethnic or religious group.       In all sub-projects which require consultations with local
          communities or beneficiaries, consultations will be conducted to elicit the views o f the male and
          female population; and


     0    Consultation and disclosure requirements will be simplified to meet the special needs o f these
          operations. This ESSAF will be disclosed in the sector ministries, Divisional Secretariat Offices
          in the affected divisions, relevant Provincial Councils, the Central Environmental Authority
          (CEA), the World Bank Infoshop, and in other public places in Sri Lanka in English, Tamil, and
          Sinhala.

C.        ENVIRONMENTALAND SOCIAL SCREENINGAND ASSESSMENT                   FRAMEWORK      (ESSAF)

4.        This ESSAF has been developed specifically for these proposed operations (Section A above) to
ensure due diligence, to avoid causing harm or exacerbating social tensions, and to ensure consistent
treatment o f social and environmental issues by all donors and the GOSL. The purpose o f this Framework
i s also to assist the Project Implementing Agencies in screening all sub-projects for their likely social and
environmental impacts and in identifying documentation and preparation requirements, and prioritizing
the investments.

5.        OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment. Most o f the proposed sub-projects are likely to focus on
the repair, rehabilitation, reconstruction and upgrading (where necessary) o f damaged houses, buildings,
roads, railways, bridges and infrastructure o f critical importance.      Support will also be provided for
mitigation measures related to reversing the adverse impacts o f the tsunami on coastal ecosystems and
reef systems. While the work in these areas will be done under OP 4.01, it i s anticipatedthat OP 4.04 on
natural habitats may be triggered as well.

6.        Considering the nature and magnitude o f potential environmental impacts from the relatively
limited scale and magnitude o f reconstructionworks, the proposed operations are likely to be classified as
category `B'. The requirement to carry out an Environmental Analysis as part o f project preparation can
be waived, but for sub-projects with potential adverse impacts, a limited Environmental Analysis will be
conducted duringproject implementation. At the same time, prior to appraisal the implementing agency
will agree to apply the following minimum standards during implementation: inclusion o f standard
environmental codes o f practice (ECOP) in the repair and reconstruction bid documents o f all sub-
projects; review and oversight o f any major reconstruction works by specialists; implementation of
environmentally and socially sound options for the disposal o f debris; and provisions for adequate budget
and satisfactory institutional arrangements for monitoring effective implementation.

7.        OP4.12 Involuntary Resettlement. The need for involuntary resettlement or land acquisitionin
specific sub-project areas will only be known duringproject implementation, when site-specific plans are
available. Therefore sub-projects will be screened for applicability o f the resettlement policy. Inview o f


                                                     - 42 -

the emergency nature o f the operations, IDA will, in applicable instances, require a draft resettlement plan
within two months o f the identification o f sub-projects and implement the Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP) in advance o f sub-project implementation. The approval o f the resettlement plan is subject to
approval by IDA. Several issues will increase the complexity o f land acquisition - the loss or destruction
of ownership documents during the tsunami, the disappearance o f physical markers o f land boundaries,
and the huge death toll resulting in inheritance issues involving vulnerable persons like widows and
orphans. Furthermore, in the North and East some IDP groups may be experiencing a secondary
replacement. The safeguards framework will therefore include procedures for identifying eligible project-
affected people, calculating and delivering compensation, mechanisms for land dispute grievance redress,
and for protection of the inheritance rights o f vulnerable groups.

8.       Although land disputesbetween private parties and refugees from war or natural disasters are not
covered by OP 4.12, the policy does cover those displaced by the project's activities. Even for those not
covered by the policy, to ensure effective poverty reduction, it i s good practice for the borrower to
undertake a social assessment and implement measures to minimize and mitigate adverse social impacts,
particularly on poor and vulnerable groups. Well-documented consultation mechanisms will be required
to establish eligibility for compensation. Absent refugees who later claimcompensation will require clear
legal remedies to resolve or adjudicate disputes.

9.       OD 4.20 IndigenousPeoples.While OD 4.20 does apply to a number o freasonably well-defined
groups in the interior, the issue o f ethnic and religous affiliation i s a larger factor in determining
vulnerability at the national and local levels in the present Sri Lankan context. Inthe present post-conflict
environment, special attention should be paid to avoid confounding inter-group conflict and animosities.

10.      It is not expected that stand-alone Indigenous Peoples Development Plans (IPDP) will be
required, as the Indigenous Groups, living mainly in the interior, are not affected by the present disaster.
In light of the above situation, a potential vulnerability assessment o f all affected groups is planned to
ensure effective consultations and culturally appropriate benefits for each group, instead o f focusing only
on groups defined as "indigenous peoples". As part o f this analysis, sub-project preparation will assess
the vulnerability o f different ethnic groups in particular project contexts (in terms o f potential exclusion
from project benefits, negative project impacts, and the need for specific culturally compatible
mechanisms for participation), and will incorporate adequate measures to address such vulnerability in
project design.

11,      OPN 11.03 Cultural Property. The emergency operation may pose limited risks of damaging
cultural property, assuming they will not include large-scale excavations, movement of earth, or
demolition. Nevertheless, in Attachment 2, a list i s included that outlines attributes that will render sub-
projects ineligible for support under the proposed emergency reconstruction operations. Furthermore,
projects and sub-projects will be reviewed for their potential impact on cultural property, and clear
procedures will be required for the identification and protection o f cultural property from theft, and
treatment o f discovered artifacts, These procedures will be included in standard bidding documents.
While not damaging cultural property, sub-project preparation may later identify and include assistance
for preservation o f historic or archeological sites.       If these opportunities occur, cultural property
management glans would be prepared for those sub-projects.

12.      OP 4.37 Safety of Dams. There are no large dams that have been affectedby the tsunami, since
it affected a narrow coastal strip, even though it extended across about 80 percent o f the coastline.
However, there may be a few small irrigation schemes affected, particularly in the North and East o f the
country. These schemes may be associated with small earthen dams which are no higher than 5 meters.
If suchdamsmayneedreconstruction. Becauseoflocalsiteconditions,evenrestoringsmaller,
   affected,
earthen dams and linked irrigation infrastructure (partly damaged or destroyed by the tsunami) will


                                                     - 43 -

require application of standard engineering safety codes, inspection and evaluation o f their safety status,
and preparation and implementation o f operation and maintenance procedures. Decisions on dam safety
requirements will be made with the concurrence o f the World Bank.

13.      OP 4.04 Natural Habitats. The reconstruction of housing outside the proposed setback of 100
meters (yet to be decidedby GOSL) from the coastline will need large amounts o f additional land. Due to
the present population density in the coastal areas o f Sri Lanka, identification o f suitable land may be a
problem. Considering that the South, North and East regions o f Sri Lanka are endowed with large tracts
of environmentally sensitive natural habitats, the conservation o f such habitats i s essential. The fact that
areas where natural resources such as mangroves, sand dunes, and reefs were degraded or destroyed
generally suffered more from the tsunami compared to areas where the natural barriers were intact, which
highlights the importance o f conserving natural habitats. Since the World Bank will not support sub-
projects that involve conversion o f critical natural habitats in areas such as Declared Forest Reserves,
Wildlife Reserves and National Parks and Sanctuaries, an EA i s requiredprior to initiation o f the specific
sub-project that may involve the conversion o f natural habitats. Decisions on actions and requirements
will be made with the concurrence o f the World Bank.

D.       SAFEGUARDSCREENINGAND MITIGATION

14.      The selection, design, contracting, monitoring and evaluation o f sub-projects will be consistent
with the following guidelines, codes o f practice, and requirements. The North East Provincial Council,
Sri Lanka Army and the LTTE will confirm that areas to be accessed for reconstruction and rehabilitation
activities have been de-mined. The safeguard screening and mitigation process will include:

         Overall guidelines for environmental and social aspects o f the Tsunami Emergency Recovery
         Program (Attachment 1). This provides guidelines for addressing potential environmental and
         social issues that are eligible for funding under Phases Iand I1 o f the Emergency Recovery
         Program, Typical activities envisaged to be financed are listed in the Attachment, with typical
         environmental and social concerns and opportunities, as well as identification o f typical
         environmental and social mitigation measures to be included in the sub-projects. There i s a
         possibility that small and medium enterprises (SMEs) affected by the tsunami may be provided
         loans to purchase productive assets. An upper limit to the SME loans will be determined by IDA
         ifthis sub-component is included inthe program. The checklists prepared for each sub-project
         will enable the preparationo f detailed Environmental ManagementPlans;

         List ofnegative sub-project attributes (Attachment 2);

         A proposed checklist of likely environmental and social impacts to be filled out for each sub-
         project or group o f sub-projects (Attachment 3);

         Guidelines for land and asset acquisition, entitlements, and compensation (Attachment 4);

         Procedures for the protection o f cultural property, including the chance discovery o f
         archaeological artifacts, unrecorded graveyards, and burial sites (Attachment 5); and

         A sample Environmental Safeguards procedures for Inclusion in the Technical Specifications o f
         Contracts (Attachment 6).




                                                    -44   -

E.       ENVIRONMENTAL       ASSESSMENT    CLEARANCE     PROCESS

15.      The composite GOSL environmental clearance process, in principle, i s consistent with World
Bank environmental and public disclosure requirements. It has been agreed with GOSL that in view o f
the emergency situation, the Bank's and GOSL environmental assessment clearance procedure will be
harmonized. Therefore, CEA will ensure that the implementing agencies o f sub-projects will adhere to
the ESSAF. The CEA will beresponsible for the GOSL review and clearance o f the ESSAF.

16.      Although the GOSL's clearance procedure i s adequate and fairly reliable, IDA will still review a
samples o f the EAs prepared under each sub-component and provide necessary concurrence for the
approval o f disbursements o f funds.

E.       RESPONSIBILITIESFOR SAFEGUARDSCREENING AND MITIGATION

17.      The Government plans to transform the current Task Force to Rebuild the Nation into a Statutory
Authority (TAFREN). This Authority would formulate the policies and act as the regulatory institution
for all future disaster risk mitigation and emergency response activities. As a policy, this Authority will
require that the ESSAF be adopted by all implementing agencies. This authority will coordinate all
reconstruction efforts that are the responsibility o f the central administration, i.e., major highways,
railways, telecommunications, power and energy, national schools, and teaching hospitals.             T h i s
Authority will ensure that all reconstruction activities undertaken by the central agencies conform to the
requirements o f the ESSAF. The Authority will also ensure that all reconstructionactivities implemented
by sub-national agencies adhere to the requirements of the ESSAF. Adequate technical capacity in the
form o f Environmental and Social Development Specialists will be available in TAFREN and relevant
implementing institutions.      Each implementing agency will therefore be responsible for applying the
ESSAF to its own sub-projects. Within each implementingagency, a Safeguards Focal Point (SFP) will
be identified with the responsibility for overseeing the implementation and monitoring o f the Framework.
The CEA i s the environmental regulatory body with the statutory responsibility for evaluating and
approving EIAs and initial environmental examinations (IEEs) with the assistance o f respective Project
Approving Agencies. CEA has demonstrated technical capacity to ensure the regulatory functions are
effectively carried out.

F.       CAPACITY BUILDINGAND MONITORINGSAFEGUARD FRAMEWORK
                                                    OF                             IMPLEMENTATION

18.      As part o f the capacity buildingto be provided for implementation o fthe proposed operations, the
Safeguards Focal Points and relevant staff o f the concemed implementing agencies will also receive
training inESSAF's application.

19.      To assist in this capacity building, and to provide subsequent guidance and review o f the
ESSAF's application, the World Bank and subsequently the GOSL will contract specialist services for
environmental and social safeguards, as required. Duringsupervision o f these operations, the World Bank
will assess the implementation o f the ESSAF and recommend additional strengthening, if required. A
comprehensive review o f ESSAF's application will be undertaken 18 months after effectiveness. At this
stage the World Bank would make a decision whether to continue safeguards assessments under the
ESSAF or revert to its normal safeguardprocesses.

G.       CONSULTATIONAND DISCLOSURE

20.      This ESSAF is based on a strong participatory framework in undertaking all key activities inthe
emergency recovery phase. The GOSL will make all reasonable efforts to consult with relevant
stakeholders (including the affected communities and NGOs, especially for sub-projects with potentially


                                                   -  45 -

significant environmental or social impacts) in the implementation o f the emergency recovery activities,
to incorporate local community needs, and to resolve conflicts. ESSAF will be shared by GOSL, with
concemed nongovemmental organizations, civil society, and other development partners. It will be
disclosed in Tamil, Sinhala and Englishby TAFREN on behalf o f the GOSL, and it will also be made
available at the World Bank's InfoShop. Relevant sub-project specific safeguard documents/mitigation
plans prepared subsequently will also be disclosed to the public. All ESSAF related documentation will
be affected in the respective Divisional Secretariat Offices and Provincial Councils and other
implementing agencies inthe affected areas.

21.      The proposed operations may support a number o f feasibility and detailed design studies for
future infrastructure investments, for which World Bank safeguard policies on consultation and disclosure
will apply,    In particular, for environmental Category A and B investments" proposed for future
operations, the implementing agency will consult project-affected groups and local nongovernmental
organizations on the project's environmental and social aspects, and will take their views into account.
The implementing agency will initiate these consultations as early as possible, and will provide relevant
material in a timely manner prior to consultation, in a form and language(s) that are understandable and
accessible to all groups being consulted.

22.      For Category A projects, the implementing agency will consult these groups at least twice: (i)
shortly after the environmental screening and prior to finalization o f the terms o f reference for the
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA); and (ii)once a draft EIA report i s prepared. For the initial
consultation, the implementing agency will provide a summary o f the proposed project's objectives,
description, and potential impacts. For both Category A and B projects, the implementing agency will
provide these groups with a summary o f the EIA report's conclusions. In addition, the implementing
agency will make the draft reports publicly available to project-affected groups and local
nongovemmental organizations.

H.       GUIDELINES FORPREPARATIONOFENVIRONMENTAL                 MANAGEMENT       PLANS

23.      Having identified the potential impacts o f the relevant sub-component, the next step o f the EA
process involves the identification and development o f measures aimed at eliminating, offsetting, and/or
reducing impacts to levels that are environmentally acceptable during implementation and operation o f
the project via an EMP. EMPs provide an essential link between the impacts predicted and mitigation
measures specified within the EA and implementation and operation activities. World Bank guidelines
state that detailed EMPs are essential elements for Category A projects, but for many Category B projects,
a simple EMP will suffice. While there are no standard formats for EMPs, it i s recognized that the format
needs to fit the circumstances inwhich the EMP i s being developed and the requirements it i s designed to
meet. EMPs should be prepared after taking into account comments from both the Project Approving
Agency (PAA) and IDA, as well as any clearance conditions. Given below are the important elements that
constitute an EMP.

a.       Description of Mitigation Measures

24.      Feasible and cost effective measures to minimize adverse impacts to acceptable levels should be
specified with reference to each identified impact. Further, it should provide details on the conditions
under which the mitigation measure should be implemented @e., routine or inthe event o f contingencies).
The EMP also should distinguishbetween type o f solution proposed (structural and non structural) and
the phase in which it should become operable (design, construction, and/or operational). Efforts should
also be made to mainstream environmentaland social opportunities as reasonable.

I O      As defined inWorld Bank Operational Policy 4.01, Environmental Assessment.


                                                    - 46 -

b.      Monitoring Program

25.     In order to ensure that the proposed mitigation measures have the intended results and comply
with national standards and donor requirements, an environmental performance monitoring program
should be included inthe EMP. The monitoring program should give details o f the following:


    0   Monitoring indicators to be measured for evaluating the performance o f each mitigation measure
        (for example national standards, engineering structures, extent o f area replanted, etc.);


    0   Monitoring mechanisms and methodologies;


    0   Monitoring frequency; and


    0   Monitoring locations.

C.      Institutional Arrangements

26.     Institutions/parties responsible for implementing mitigation measures and for monitoring their
performance should be clearly identified. Where necessary, mechanisms for institutional coordination
should be identified, as monitoring often involves more than one institution.

d.      Implementing Schedules

27,     Timing, frequency, and duration o f mitigation measures with links to overall implementation
schedule o f the project should be specified.

e.       Reporting Procedures

28.     Feedback mechanisms to inform the relevant parties on the progress and effectiveness o f the
mitigation measures and monitoring itself should be specified. Guidelines on the type o f information
wanted and the presentation o f feedback information should also be highlighted.

J:       Cost Estimates and Sources of Funds

29.     Implementation o f mitigation measures mentioned in the EMP will involve an initial investment
cost, as well as recurrent costs. The EMP should include costs estimates and identify sources o f funding
for each measure.




                                                   -47 -

   LISTOFATTACHMENTS THE ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL SCREENINGAND ASSESSMENT
                           TO                         AND
                                      FRAMEWORK     (ESSAF)*




Attachment 1:         Overall Guidelinesfor Environmental and Social Aspects o f Tsunami Recovery
                      Program-Phase Iand Phase I1

Attachment 2:         List o fNegative Sub-project Attributes

Attachment 3:         Checklist o f Likely Environmental and Social Impacts o f Sub-projects

Attachment 4:         Guidelines for Land and Asset Acquisition, Entitlements and Compensation

Attachment 4(i):      Land Acquisition Assessment Data Sheet

Attachment 4(ii):     Format to Document Contribution o f Assets

Attachment 5:         Protectionof Cultural Property

Attachment 6:         Safeguards Procedures for Inclusion inthe Technical Specifications of Contracts




        * These attachments are available intheproject documentation and fromthe Infoshop.




                                                - 48 -

                                 APPENDIX VI11-PROCUREMENT


A.      GENERAL

1.      This operation will supplement the activities under the emergency recovery program focusing on
the reconstruction o f schools, support for health care centers, housing constructiodrepairs, provision o f
cash grants for livelihood support, and strengthened implementation capacity in the North East and
Southem Provincial Councils. The program will also strengthen existing non-damaged education and
health facilities to provide emergency recovery services to displaced and affected people inthe districts.

2.      Procurement for the proposed program would be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines:
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated May 2004; Guidelines: Selection and
Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in
the Development Finance Agreement. The broad description o f various items under different expenditure
categories to be financed under the program are provided below. For each contract to be financed under
the Credit/Grant, the Government and IDA will agree upon the procurement method, the consultant
selection method, the need for prequalification (using the existing national system o f registration o f
construction contractors), estimated cost, the requirements for prior review and the time frame. A detailed
procurement plan for the first six months o f the program, excluding the livelihood support cash grants
will be agreed prior to implementation. The procurement plan will be updated every subsequent six
months. A guidance note on simplified and applicable procedures for all procurement actions under the
programwill be prepared.

3.      The procurement o f goods, works and services other than consulting services, to be financed
under the project following Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) and Limited Intemational Bidding
(LIB) procedures will use Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments. Consultants will be selected based on
the Bank/IDA Standard RFP and procurement methods described in the DFA. Sri Lanka-specific Model
Standard Bidding Documents will be used for procurement o f goods and works following National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures already agreed with IDA and, for the selection o f consultants for
small assignments, Request for Proposals (RFPs) documents based on                IDA mandated samples.
Additionally, based on the specific need, IDA may agree for the use o f other standard documents prepared
by the National Procurement Agency (NPA), specifically for emergency operations following natural
disasters.

Procurement of Works

4.      According to the initial damage and needs assessment, 168 schools, 4 universities and 18
vocational training institutes were either damaged or destroyed, 44 health care centers were fully
damaged and 48 health centers were partly damaged. The proposed program would entail civil works for
rehabilitation and reconstruction o f school infrastructure and health care centers. There will be additional
civil works under Roads and Infrastructure. The indicative costs for rehabilitation and reconstructionhave
been prepared and detailed estimates are under preparation. The contracts would be packagedto attract all
levels of contractors registered with the Institute for Construction Training and Development (ICTAD).
Small scale rehabilitation work may be packaged to the extent possible to procure following the national
shopping procedures. Where possible and applicable, community based organizations such as School
Development Societies would be contracted to carry out rehabilitation works. Direct contracting contracts
will be estimated based on the schedules o f rates normally used by public sector agencies - such as
District/Divisional Secretariats, the Department o f Buildings, the Road Development Authority, the
Department o f Irrigation and the National Water Supply and Drainage Board- depending on the nature o f



                                                    - 49 -

the proposed works. Reconstruction o f damaged houses and new housing constructionwill be carriedout
by the beneficiaries following direct contracting or shopping procedures.

Procurement of Goods

5.       Goods procured under the program would include equipment for quality inputs, furniture,
computers and related accessories, medical equipment, drugs, vehicles, surgical equipment and
consumables to cover the short term needs, and for the medium term, water purification facilities, office
equipment such as photocopiers, fax machines, office furniture, communication equipment and software
for the schools, hospitals, the central Statutory Authority designated to manage the reconstructionworks,
Provincial Management Units, District Task Forces, District Health Authorities, Zonal and Divisional
EducationAuthorities, DistrictiDivisional Secretariats and other designated implementing agencies.

Cash Grants for Livelihood Support and Housing Support Activities

6.       Government will provide beneficiaries a one-time cash grant up to LKR 25,000 per family to
commence livelihoodactivities through an existing mechanism. The beneficiary will be fully responsible
for all procurement action usingthe proceeds from the grant.

7.       Government will provide beneficiaries a one-time cash grant up to LKR 150,000 per family to
commence housing repair activities through an existing mechanism. The beneficiary will be fully
responsible for all procurement action usingthe proceeds from the grant.

Selection of Consultants

8.       Consultancies will include beneficiary assessments, review and revision o f building standards te
for design o f structures to withstand natural disasters, design and construction supervision contracts,
studies on natural resource systems in the affected areas, environmental safeguards, social safeguards,
national parks and wetlands, impact o f salinity on the land and water resources, monitoring and
evaluation, public awareness programs and riskmitigation studies.

9.       Depending on the nature and the emergency timing for carrying out consultancy assignments,
Single Source Selection and Consultant's Qualification Selection (CQS) may be considered as preferred
methods.

10.      Shortlists o f consultants for assignments estimated to cost less than US$500,000 equivalent per
contract may comprise entirely o f national consultants inaccordance with the provisions o f Paragraph 2.7
o f the Consultant Guidelines.

B.       ASSESSMENT THE CAPACITY TO IMPLEMENT PROCUREMENT UNDER THE PROGRAM
                        OF

11.      An overall assessment o f procurement capacity in the provinces based on the on-going
procurement performance in the projects under implementation in the two provinces was undertaken by
Deepal Fernando, Procurement Specialist. A summary o f the assessment i s provided below.

Implementation Arrangements

12.      The proposed emergency recovery program will be implemented through the Statutory Authority
at the center and the eight District Secretariats with the participation o f relevant provincial, education and
health officials.



                                                     - 50 -

Exposure to IDA Procurement Procedures

13.      Provincial education authorities in the North East (NEPC) and the South (SPC) are currently
implementing the decentralized components under the two IDA-financed education projects TETD (Cr.
28810-CE) and GEP2 (Cr. 30140-CE) and have been procuring works and goods following NCB and
national shopping procedures for the education sector. Several members o f the provincial staff have
participated in procurement training programs locally and abroad. NEPC i s currently implementing the
North East Emergency Reconstruction Program (NEERP) (amended version o f Cr. 28800-CE; Cr. 30580-
CE; and Cr. 35250-CE), the two North East Irrigated Agriculture Projects (NEIAP-1; Cr. 33010-CE and
NEIAP-2; Cr. 39350-CE) and the North East Housing Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 40140-CE). NEPC
initially obtained the services of a procurement agent to assist in the implementation of NEERP. The
procurement agent was responsible for building procurement capacity within NEPC including at the
district level.   In addition, more than 20 staff belonging to various agencies have attended the
Procurement Training Program conducted by ASCI, Hyderabad, India. Authority has been given to the
Deputy Director o f Health Services (DDHS) in each district to undertake the procurement o f works and
goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent following shopping procedures under the recently
approved Heath Sector Development Project (HSDP; Grant H0950-CE) based on the recommendations o f
a procurement capacity assessment in the health sector. There will not be any high value procurement
actions under the proposed program. IDA has already conducted a training program for district level
health sector staff. The central unit shall recruit or reallocate staff within the provincial system to
strengthen the procurement capacity o f the project management units (PMUs). In addition, this unit will
support districtizonalldivisional units as needed in implementation o f the agreed procurementplan.

Existing Systemfor Decision-making on Procurement Matters

14.      The decision-making process regarding the program will be guided by the Authority Levels
indicated in Revised Guidelines on Govemment Tender Procedure (GGTP) for Projects Assisted by
Foreign Financing Agencies (Revised Edition - December 2000) and any other subsequent circulars or
revisions to guidelines.

15.      The authority threshold to decide and award tenders for donor financed projects are:

     0   Contracts up to LKR 100 million (US$l.O million equivalent) by the Project Tender Board
         (PTB); and
     0   Contracts between LKR 100 million (US$l.O million equivalent) and LKR 250 million (US$2.5
         million) by the Tender Board Chaired by the Chief Secretary o f the respective province.

16.      Inadditionunder HSDP, special approval was granted bythe Ministry of Finance (MOF) for the
award o f tenders up to US$50,000 equivalent by the Deputy Directors o f Health Services at the district
level for the implementation o f HSDP.

Actionsfor Improving theAgencies' Procurement Capacities

17.      IDA would conduct at least two training programs at the provincial level to create an awareness
of the new IDA procurement guidelines. In addition, the NPA will conduct several programs to enhance
the procurement capability o f the implementing agencies and the decision-making authorities.

c.       PROCUREMENT PLANSAND SELECTIONMETHODS

18.      The eight districts will develop procurement plans - that include the agreed procurementmethods
-whichwillprovidethebasisforallprocurementactivitiesundertheprogram.


                                                   - 51 -

Methods of Procurementfor Works and Goods

19.     The proposed methods for procurement o f goods and works will follow one of following
procedure:

        Intemational Competitive Bidding [ICB]
        Limited Intemational Bidding[LIB]
        National Competitive Bidding[NCB]
        Shopping
        Direct Contracting
        Force Account
        Community participation inprocurement
        Any other method with prior agreement with IDA (such as GOSL procedures for emergency
        operations issuedby the NPA) for the initial period o f twelve months

20.     The Government and IDA shall agree to comply with the improved procedures for procurement
following N C B as indicated the attachment to this annex.

Methodsfor Selection of Consultants

21.     The selection o f consultants will be made on the basis o f the following methods depending on
appropriateness in each case.


    0   Quality and Cost Based Selection [QCBS]
    0   Quality Based Selection [QBS]
    0   Selection under a FixedBudget [FBS]
    0   Least Cost Selection [LCS]
    0   Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications [CQS]
    0   Single Source Selection [SSS]
    0   Selection o f Individual Consultants as per Section V o f the Guidelines

22.     Considering the emergency situation, most o f the assignments are expected to be procured
following Single Source Selection (SSS) and Consultant's Qualification Selection (CQS) Methods.

D.      PROCUREMENT SUPERVISIONAND REPORTING

23.     Inaddition to prior-review o f contracts by IDA, where required there will be a minimumo f three
procurement review missions in each year that would include field visits, on-site inspections and post-
review o f procurement actions. GOSL shall also conduct an extensive ex-post procurement audit of the
contracts on a sample basis.

24.     Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:


    0   Prompt reporting o f contracts award information by PMUs for the respective components.
    0   Comprehensive quarterly reports by PMUs indicating:
        (i)Revisedcostsestimatesforindividualcontractsandtotalcost;and
        (ii)Revised procurement actions including advertising, bidding and contract award and
        completion time for all contracts.




                                                   - 52 -

E.      THRESHOLDS PROCUREMENTMETHODSPRIORREVIEW
                       FOR                                AND

25,     Thresholds for the various procurements methods are given inthe following table:


Fable P1: Thresholds for Procurement Methods

Expenditure Category        Contract Value Threshold (US$)         -Procurement      Method
1. Works                    For each contract estimated to cost:
                             100,000 and above                        N C B
                            Below 100,000                             Shopping
                            25,000 and below                          Force Account or
                                                                      Direct Contracting including
                                                                      community contracting for the initial
                                                                      period o f twelve months o f the
                                                                      recovery phase withprior agreement
                                                                      with IDA
2. Goods                    For each contract estimated to cost:
                             500,000 and above                        ICB
                            Below 500,000                             N C B
                            Below 50,000                              Shopping
                            Proprietaryitems, software, books         Direct Contracting during the initial
                            including reprinting o f school           period o f twelve months o f the recovery
                            textbooks, periodicals small value        phase with prior agreement with IDA
                             drugs, spare parts for existing
                            equipment, etc.
3. Grants for Livelihood    All                                       Direct by the beneficiary
support
4. Consultant Services       For each contract estimated to cost:
                             200,000 and above                        QCBS [in specific cases, method o f
                                                                      procurement can be other than QCBS,
                                                                      which will be identified inthe
                            Below 200,000                             procurementplan]
                                                                      Any method as per the Credit/Grant
                                                                      Ameement

Prior review requirements will be identified in the procurement plans, which will be regularly updated for
review and agreement with IDA.

F.      OVERALLPROCUREMENT           RISKASSESSMENT

26.     The overall risk for procurement is Medium.

Agreed Proceduresfor National Competitive Bidding

    0   GOSL shall only use the Sri Lanka specific model bid documents for NCB as agreed with IDA
        (and as amended from time to time).
    0   GOSL shall advertise invitations to bid in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper
        twenty-one days prior to the deadline for the submission o f the bids.
    0   GOSL shall make available biddingdocuments by mail or inperson to all who are willing to pay
        the required fee.


                                                    - 53 -

0 There shall not be any restrictions on the means o f delivery o f the bids.
0 Foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference o f any kind shall be given
  to nationalbiddersistate owned enterpriseshmall scale enterprises in the biddingprocess.
0 Bids shall be opened inpublic in one location, immediately after the deadline for submission of
  bids.
0 Qualification criteria (in case a pre-qualification was not carried out) shall be stated in the bid
  document, and if a registration process i s required, a foreign bidder, if declared as the lowest
  evaluated responsive bidder, shall be given a reasonable time to register, without let or hindrance.
0 Evaluation o f bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed in the bidding
  document, ina format and within a specified period agreed with IDA.
0 Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis o f a comparison with an official estimate without
  prior concurrence o f IDA.
0 Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidderjs.
0 Except with the prior concurrence o f IDA, there shall be no negotiation of price with bidders,
  even with the lowest evaluatedbidder.
0 Re-biddingshallnot be carried out except withprior concurrence o fIDA.
0 All contractors shall provide performance security as indicated inthe contract documents.




                                             - 54 -

                APPENDIX IX: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND DISBURSEMENT


Country Issues

1.        The Sri Lanka Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA; June 2003) highlights
several public sector financial management (FM) issues at national, provincial and district levels. One
issue highlighted was timely availability o f counterpart funding. The Government often delays the
allocation o f funds for this purpose leading to implementation delays. However, recently measures have
been introduced to ensure timely availability and smooth flow o f counterpart funds for all donor-financed
projects.

Implementation Arrangements

2.        A Statutory Authority to Rebuild the Nation (TAFREN; the Authority) will be set up for the
overall implementation and monitoring o f the country disaster management program. This Authority will
also be in charge o f the proposed IDA-financed tsunami reconstruction program. IDA funds will be
routed through the Authority to the govemment implementing agencies at the central govemment and the
district level in the North East and Southem Provincial Councils. At the district level, multi-sectoral task
forces set up by the Govemment will be responsible for the design, prioritization and day-to-day
monitoring o f reconstruction efforts. The district task forces and the Authority will liaise closely with the
Finance Commission to obtain budget provision for the district programs. The Authority will set up
secretariats at the district level to strengthen the district task forces.

3.        The overall financial management functions o f the proposed project will be the responsibility o f
the Authority. In the event that all donor funds are channeled via this Authority, IDA will make
arrangements to harmonize its financial management requirements with the requirements o f the rest o f the
donors. The government budgeting and accounting system will be used up to the extent possible, at all
levels. The government accountants at the district offices will maintain the financial records o f the district
programs. However the Authority will fund any an additional accounting staff required at the district
accounting offices. A financing code will be created inthe govemment budget for IDA-financed activities
and project expenditure by each participating district will be tracked.

Strengths

4.        The project has the following strengths from the FMperspective:


0   The districts inthe North, East and the South have prior experience inhandling IDA-fundedprojects;
0   The govemment computerized accounting system is quite robust and is used by government
    implementingagencies at the central and district levels; and
0   The public sector budget, as well as the chart o f accounts, have object codes that facilitates tracking
    o f all project expenditure, ifrequired.

5.        However, the following FMweaknesses have also been identified:




                                                       - 55 -

  Weaknesses                                          MitigatingActions
~




  The Authority has no prior experience in            IDAwill fundthe Authority as well as districtoffices to
  handling financial management activities o f        hire qualified and competent staff. IDA accounting and
  similar operations and the operation i s            reportingrequirements will be aligned with GOSL
  complicated due to their involvement inmulti        regulations andreporting requirements inorder to
  sectors and multi donors.                           simplifyFMarrangements.
  Using the regular government channels might The authority will formulate a resolutionmechanismto
  delay the flow o f funds to the implementing anticipate delays, identify them and take necessary steps
  agencies and the ultimate beneficiaries.            to overcome the problem. Authority will obtain regular
                                                      reports from implementing agencies and introduce a
                                                      feedback system by the beneficiaries.

  Risk Analysis




  Risk                                            Rating    Risk Mitigating Measures
  Complexity inthe fund flow arrangement             H      0    The FM capacity o f the district offices will be
  due to the multi-sector, multi-level nature                    strengthened.
  o f operations.                                           0    A comprehensive FM manual which will be
                                                                 part o f the overall operations manual will be
                                                                 mepared.
  Absence o f a Financial Management                 H      0    A full time accountant willbe recruitedbefore
  Specialist at the Authority.                                   credit effectiveness and a condition to this
                                                                 effect has been introduced to the
                                                                 Development Financing Agreement (DFA).
  Weak government internal audit system.             H      0    An internationalauditing firmwill be
 I                                                               amointed to carry out a continuous audit.
  Overall riskrating                            I    H     I


  7.       As the overall financial management risk of the project is rated as `high', the program will need
  intensive supervision from an FM perspective. The focus during IDA supervision will be to review the
  Authority's FM system and on a sample basis review those o f the Government district offices.

  Project Staffing

  8.       The Authority will have a finance unit with qualified accountants and support staff. The Finance
  Managers will be on board before commencement o f operations.

  9.       The accounting functions at the district level will be carried out by the government accountants at
  district offices. However, the Authority will strengthen the government accounting offices with additional
  staff, ifrequired. The district level FM arrangements will be in place before commencement o f
  operations.

  Accounting Policies and Procedures

  10.      The Authority will be required to comply with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLAS).
  SLAS comply with International Accounting Standards in all material aspects. In addition, the Finance




                                                      - 56 -

Act clearly lays down pertinent financial management requirements for public enterprises including
statutory boards.

11.      Project specific procedures will be laid down in a financial manual which will be part o f the
Operations Manual.

Information System

12.      The Computerised Integrated Government Accounting System (CIGAS) and the Government
Chart o f Accounts will be used by various tiers o f the government implementation structure to record the
financial  transactions of the project. The government accounting systems generate expenditure
information along the lines o f the expenditure classification in the government budget. However, if
further classification o f expenditure i s required to meet reporting requirements o f the various stake
holders, a simple computerized accounting systems will be introducedat the Authority.

Flow of Funds

13.      One Special Dollar Account (SDA), will be opened at the Central Bank. IDA funds will be
deposited in the SDA. New budget allocations will be approved in parliament for tsunami-related
reconstruction work both at the centre and the district level. Based on the provisions in the public sector
budget estimates, the Government will advance from its own funds (counterpart funds, as well as the IDA
portion) directly to the Authority.     Once the funds are transferred to the Authority, they will be
responsible for releasing funds to the government implementing agencies at the central government and
the district offices in the form of an imprest/advance. The government implementing agencies will not
open separate bank accounts. However, using the government accounting system and the government
chart o f accounts, project expenditure can be tracked at all levels. Detailed fund flow arrangements for
each sector will be spelled out inthe FMmanual.

14.      The Authority will submit withdrawal applications to the Central Bank on a monthly basis to
reimburse the Government for the IDA share o f eligible expenditure incurred up to that date, from the
funds available inthe SDA.

15,      The Authority will consolidate financial reports submitted by the central government
implementing agencies as well as the districts and submit withdrawal applications on the basis o f
Financial Management Reports (FMRs), directly to IDA.

Financial Reporting

16.      Central government implementing agencies will provide monthly financial reports and other
required information (reporting requirements will be spelt out in the FM manual) to the Authority on a
monthly basis. In addition, the district offices will submit their monthly reports to the Authority. The
authority will closely monitor to ensure that all reports are submitted on time. The Authority will submit
quarterly FMRs to IDA. The FMRs are consolidated reports that roll up from central government and
district reports. The FMRs are in three sections: (i) Financial Reports; (ii)
                                                                            Physical Progress Reports; and
(iii)Procurement Reports. The FMR Formats will be agreed with the Government at negotiations. The
FMRs will be submitted to IDA within 45 days o f the end o f the quarter. The FM manual will provide
details on the reporting mechanisms (including special requirements in the case o f grantdloans to
communities) that should be adopted by the project.

17.      Inthe event that funds are transferred to community based organizations to carry out community
work, the FM manual will outline the reporting formats and simple accounting procedures that should be


                                                    - 57 -

followed in: (i) preparation; (ii)
                  budget                   recording sources and uses o f funds; (iii) inventory control; (iv)
asset management; (v) intemal controls; and (vi) audits, etc.
Internal Controls

18.      Intemal Controls: Implementing agencies attached to the central government will follow
Financial Regulations (FRs) and the implementing agencies attached to the two provincial councils will
follow Finance rules o f their respective provinces. FRs and Finance rules deal with all aspects o f
procedures and controls necessary for authorizing, approving, executing, recording and reporting
expenditure. Additional intemal control procedures will be specified in the project financial manual to
bridge any gaps and to promote outcomeioutput focused accountability.           The project requires these
additional and improved intemal controls due to the large multi-sector, multi-level flexibly-financed
nature o f the operation.

19.      Performance cum intemal Audit: In addition to the regular financial statement audit, the
Authority and the implementing agencies will be subjected to an on-going audit to assess whether the
funds have been disbursed on a timely basis, reached the intended recipients, used effectively and
efficiently and for the intended purposes. This approach will result in periodic: (i)identification o f
findings and recommendations for enhanced accountability and transparency; and (ii)        corrective actions
bythe Authority and implementingagencies.

External Audit

20.      The audit o f the Authority will be carried out annually by the Auditor General o f Sri Lanka (AG)
or another audit company nominated by the AG. The AG i s the supreme audit institution o f Sri Lanka and
has been accepted by IDA. No separate project audit report will be prepared. IDA will accept the
Authority's entity audit report, with adequate disclosure o f the financed activities at the central and
district levels. The audit reports will be due within six months from the financial year end.

Audit Reports

21.      The following audit reports will be monitored inARCS:

ImplementingAgency           Audit Opinion                                   Auditor
TAFREN                       Continuing Entity's Financial Statements        June 30"
TAFREN                       Soecial Account                                 June 3 0 ' ~

DisbursementArrangements

22.      The project will follow report based disbursement procedures.

23.      A Special Dollar Account (SDA) will be opened at the Central Bank and managed by Treasury.
The SDA will be operated according to terms and conditions acceptable to the Intemational Development
Association (IDA).

24.      The following next steps and financial covenants have been agreed:

Next Steps                                                    Target Dates
1.Agree with the GOSL on the overall implementation           At negotiations
arrangements and related financial management and fund
flow arrangements.



                                                    - 58 -

' 2. Finalize the implementation and fund flow                Before implementation
  arrangements o f sectors funded under the proposed
 project.
  3. Set up the finance unit in the Authority and recruit a   Before effectiveness




  Financia1Covenants


  0   The Authority will ensure that a satisfactory financial management system is maintained throughout
      the duration o f IDA funding.
  0   The Borrower will establish satisfactory and acceptable financial management arrangements to carry
      out the Project-before effectiveness.
  0   The Authority will submit audited annual financial statements o f the entity to IDA no later than six
      months o f the following fiscal year.
  0   The Authority will produce FMRs and submit them to the IDA no later than 45 days following the
      end o f the reporting quarter.




                                                      - 59 -

                                      APPENDIX X STATEMENT OF LOANAND CREDITS
                                                              -

                                                                   (As of February 7,2005)

                                                                                                                                 Difference behveen
                                                                                                                                 Expected and Actual
                                                                             Original Amount in US$ Millions                       Disbursements

Project ID Project Name                                          Fiscal Year    iBRD          IDA         GEF   Cancel.  Undiab.     Orlg.   Frm Rev'd

PO83932    North East Housing Reconstruction Program                2005          000       75.00                         77 89
PO61771    E-Sri Lanka Development                                  2005          0.00      53.00                         55 19       2.43
PO74872    Community Development and Livelihood                     2004          0.00      51.00                         51 21       0.66
PO50740    Health Sector Development                                2004          0 00      60.00                         59 58       0.33
PO86747    North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project ll              2004          0.00      64.70                         67 77       0.97
PO77586    Economic Reform TA                                       2003          000       1500                          10.70       0 37
PO74730    National HIVIAIDS Prevention                             2003          000       12.60                         12.99       5.46
PO50741    Relevance and Quality of Undergraduate Education         2003          0.00      40.30                         41.84      11 56
PO58067   Second Community Water                                    2003          0 00      39.60                         39.75       4.89
PO76702    Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development          2002          000       75.00                         57.47       1.76
PO77761    Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development          2002          0.00                    8 00             3.62      -0.51
P069784   Distance Learning Initiative (LIL)                        2001          0.00        2 00                         080       .1.02
PO71131   Central Bank Strengthening                               2001           0.00      30 30                          574    '   3 19
P050736   Land Tit 8. Re1Serv (LIL)                                 2001          0.00        5 00                         2 13       1.01
PO44609    Legal and Judicial Reforms                               2000          0.00      18.20                         10.29      -9.53
PO58070    North-East Irrigated Agriculture Project                 2000          000       2700                           3.91       2.14
PO10525    General Education II                                     1996          0.00      70 30                 066     1460       14.81        3.63
PO34212    Maweli Restructuring                                     1998          0.00      57 00                          0.76       1.10
PO10517    Private Sector Infrastructure Development                1996          0.00      77.00                15.02     8 99      26.68       11 53
P042266    Teacher Education and Teacher Deployment                 1996          0.00      64 10                          4.96       9.24        6 26
                                                           Total:                          83730           800   1588    53022       77.75       21 44




                                                                                -   60  -

                                                                APPENDIX XI:

                                                         Sri Lanka at a Glance

                                                                                      Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                  Sri     South     middle-
                                                                Lanka       Asia     income         Development diamond'
2003
Population,mid-year (millions)                                    19.2     1,401       2,408                          Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                930         460      1,400     I
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                  17.9        638      3,372                                 -

Average annual growth, 1997-03

Population(%)                                                      1.3         1.8        0.9
Labor force (%)                                                    2.1         2.3        1.2                                               Gross
                                                                                                    per                                    primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                                               capita                              enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulation below nationalpoverty line)                25
Urban population (% of total population)                           21          28         49
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                    74          63         69                                 I
Infant mortality (per 1.000 live births)                           17          68         32
Child malnutrition(% ofchildren under 5)                           33          48          9                  Access to improved water source
Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)                77          84         81
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+j                                  8         44         13
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)               110          95        112     1                Sri Lanka
                                                                                                                  1

    Male                                                          111         103        113                      Lower-middle-income group
                                                                                                            ~

    Female                                                        110          88        111

KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                     1983        1993      2002         2003
                                                                                                 1   Economlc ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                      5.2       10.4       16.5       18.5
Gross domestic investmenWGDP                          28.9        25.6       21.3       22.3
Exports of goods and servicesiGDP                     26.3        33.8       36.1       35.8                               Trade

Gross domestic savings/GDP                            13.8        16.0       14.6        15.7
Gross national savings/GDP                            19.7        20.7       19.9       21.5

Currentaccount balance/GDP                             -9.1       -4.8        -1.4       -0.5
Interestpayments/GDP                                    1.8        1.3         1.2        0.9
Total debtiGDP                                        55.8        66.7       57.8       54.9
Total debt serviceiexports                                         9.6         9.8        7.4
Presentvalue of debWGDP                                                      46.5
Presentvalue of debffexports                                               104.9
                                                                                                                        indebtedness
                                         1983-93  1993-03        2002       2003     2003-07
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                          4.0        4.3        4.0         5.9        6.1     '          -SriLanka
GDP per capita                               2.9        3.0        2.5         4.9        4.9                -Lower-middle-incomegroup
Exports of goods and services               6.8         5.7        6.3         4.8        7.8



STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                     1983        1993       2002        2003         Growth of Investmentand GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                           28.3        24.6       20.5        19.0        30 -

lndustly                                              26.3        25.6       26.3       26.3
   Manufacturing                                      14.0        15.2       15.8        15.5
Services                                              45.4        49.7       53.2       54.7

Privateconsumption                                    78.1        74.8       76.7        76.3
Generalgovernmentconsumption                            8.1        9.2         8.8        7.9
Importsof goods and services                          41.4        43.3       42.9       42.4


                                                 1983-93      1993-03       2002        2003
(average annualgrowth)                                                                               Growth of exports and imports (Oh)
Agriculture                                             1.6        1.3         2.5        1.5      , 2 0-                                         I
Industry                                                5.5        5.0         1.o        5.5
   Manufacturing                                        7.1        5.5         2.1        4.4
Services                                                4.8        5.1         6.1        7.7

Privateconsumption                                      2.9        4.7         7.7        5.3
Generalgovernmentconsumption                          12.4         8.0        -0.3       11.4
Grossdomestic investment                                0.4        4.4         3.1       20.0
Imports of goods and services                           3.3        6.9       11.6        10.4


Note: 2003 data are preliminary estimates. Group data are for 2002.
* The diamondsshow four key indicators in the country (in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing. the diamond will
    be incomplete


                                                                       - 61 -

                                        Sri Lanka at a Glance (Cont.)



PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1983   1993    2002    2003       Inflation (Oh)
Domestic prices                                                                                                                   I
(% change)                                                                 15

Consumer prices                                   11.7     9.6     6.3
Implicit GDP, deflator                     16.9    9.9     8.2     5.0

Government finance
(% of GDP, includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                                  21.3     17.0   16 2     1           98     99       00      01         02     03
Current budget balance                             0.8    -3.9    -2.9                -GDP        deflator  " 0 - C P I
Overall surplus/deficit                   -10.6   -7.1    -8.5    -8.0

TRADE
                                          1983   1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                                Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                              2,864  4,699   5,133      8000 -
 Tea                                              413     660     683
 Other agricultural goods                          272     319    390
 Manufactures                                    1,412   2,424  2,575
Total imports (ci9                               4,011   6,105  6,672
 Food                                              532     696    701
 Fuel and energy                                   309     789    838
 Capital goods                                   1,047   1,170  1,320
                                                                                    97    98     99     00      01       02   03
Export price index (1995=100)                       83     173    184
Import price index (1995=100)                       82     161    159      I                 Exports            Imports
Terms of trade (1995.100)                          102     107     115

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                          1983   1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                                Current account balance to GDP (Oh)

Exports of goods and services                    3,492   5,967  6,541
Imports of goods and services             2,133  4,475   7,080  7,684
Resource balance                                  -983  -1.113  -1,143

Net income                                 -137   -124    -253   -192
Net current transfers                       445    612   1,128   1,234

Current account balance                    -473   -495    -238   -101

Financing items (net)                       466  1,156     576     603
Changes in net reserves                       7   -661    -338   -502

Memo:
Reserves including gold (Us$ milliOnS)           1,675   1,700   2,329
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)           23.5   48.3    95.7    95.0

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1983   1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                                Composition of 2003 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      2,884  6,902   9,556  10,165
  IBRD                                       44     58       4       3
  IDA                                       237  1,222   1,734   2,051

Total debt service                          265    409     718     598
  IBRD                                        5     15       5       2
  IDA                                         3     15      44      49

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                           184    197     116
  Official creditors                        241    266     231     486
  Private creditors                          58    -39     -47      21
  Foreign direct investment                  38    195     242
  Portfolio equity                            0      0       0       0

World Bank program
  Commitments                                57     86      75     180       1A   IBRD                              E Bilateral
  Disbursements                              75    130      91     202        B IDA       D Other multilateral
                                                                                           -                        F Pnvate
                                                                                                                       --
  Principal repayments                        4     15      36      38        C IMF
                                                                               ---                                  G Short-tem
                                                                                                                       .
  Net flows                                  72    115      55     164
  Interest payments                           4     15      13      14
  Net transfers                              67    100      42     151


 Develooment Economics




                                                      - 62 -

