                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank


                                                             Report No: ICR00001105




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
(IDA-28810; IDA-30140; IDA-36730; IDA-37220; IDA-37810; IDA-39350; IDA-39860; IDA-
                 40390; IDA-H0350; IDA-H0950; IDA-H0780; IDA-H1470)

                                        ON

                                      GRANTS

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 20.1 MILLION
                           (US$ 30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                               AND SDR 23.7 MILLION
                          (US$ 35.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    AND CREDITS

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 30.2 MILLION
                           (US$ 45 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                               AND SDR 26.5 MILLION
                          (US$ 39.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                 DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA


                                       FOR A

                   TSUNAMI EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROGRAM

                                    June 30, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Urban and Water Unit
South Asia Region

                                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                               (Exchange Rate Effective June 26, 2009)

                              Currency Unit = Sri Lankan Rupees (LKR)
                                          LKR1.00 = US$0.0086
                                           US$ 1.00 = LKR 115

                                              FISCAL YEAR
                                         January 1 ­ December 31

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB   Asian Development Bank                        MoH         Ministry of Health

BOQ   Bill of Quantity                              NEERP       North East Emergency Reconstruction
                                                                Program

CCD   Coastal Conservation Department               NEHRP       North East Housing Reconstruction
                                                                Program
CSIA  Continuous Social Impact Assessment           NIRP        National Involuntary Resettlement Policy
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                   MoNB        Ministry of Nation Building
DAT   Damage Assessment Teams                       NGO         Non-Governmental Organization

ESSAF Environmental and Social Screening and
      Assessment Framework                          NEHRU       North East Housing Reconstruction Unit

EIA   Environmental Impact Assessment               OM          (Project) Operational Manual
FM    Financial Management                          PDO         Project Development Objectives
GNI   Gross National Income                         PRS         Poverty Reduction Strategy
GoSL  Government of Sri Lanka                       RADA        Reconstruction and Development Agency
GRM   Grievance Redressal Mechanism                 RDA         Roads Development Authority
IFRC  International Federation of the Red Cross     SWHRU       South West Housing Reconstruction Unit

INT   Department of Institutional Integrity (World              Swiss Agency for Development &
      Bank)                                         SDC         Cooperation

ICR   (Project) Implementation Completion and
      Results Report                                SDR         Special Drawing Rights

IDA   International Development Association         TERP        Tsunami Emergency Recovery Program
JBIC  Japan Bank for International Cooperation      TAFREN      Task Force for Rebuilding the Nation

KFW   German Development Bank                       UNOCHA      United Nations Office of Coordination
                                                                and Humanitarian Assistance
KPIs  Key Performance Indicators                    UN          The United Nations
LKR   Sri Lankan Rupees (National Currency)         VRC         Village Rehabilitation Committee
LTTE  Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam              WB          The World Bank


                                      Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero
                                    Country Director: Naoko Ishii
                                      Sector Manager: Junaid Kamal Ahmad
                               Project Team Leader: Toshiaki Keicho
                                   ICR Team Leader: Haris Khan

                                             SRI LANKA
                          Tsunami Emergency Recovery Programme




                                              CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1.   Project Context, Development Objectives and Design........................................ 1 
 2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes........................................ 3 
 3.   Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................... 16 
 4.   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.................................................. 19 
 5.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance............................................... 20 
 6.   Lessons Learned................................................................................................. 23 
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing......................................................................... 29 
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................ 30 
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................ 35 
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........... 36 
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results.......................................................................... 38 
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results.......................................................................... 38 
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.................................................. 39 
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR.................... 41 
 Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 48 
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 49 
 MAP

 Note: The following Annexes are not applicable to this project:
       Economic and Financial Analysis
       Beneficiary Survey Results

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Sri Lanka Tsunami
Country:                Sri Lanka               Project Name:
                                                                       ERL
                                                                       IDA-40390,IDA-
Project ID:             P094205                 L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                       H1470,TF-56712
ICR Date:               06/30/2009              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                       SRI LANKA
Original Total
                        XDR 50.3M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 47.2M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Goverment of Sri Lanka
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/31/2005    Effectiveness:                            04/25/2005
Appraisal:             02/10/2005    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              02/24/2005    Mid-term Review:       09/24/2007         06/13/2007
                                     Closing:               09/30/2008         09/30/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory            Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                             QAG Assessments
       Performance             Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                  Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General public administration sector                            10                10
Housing construction                                            55                55
Roads and highways                                              35                35


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                             25               50
Natural disaster management                                      50               25
Social analysis and monitoring                                   25               25


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:           Isabel M. Guerrero                Praful C. Patel
Country Director:         Naoko Ishii                       Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager:           Junaid Kamal Ahmad                Sonia Hammam
Project Team Leader:      Toshiaki Keicho                   Christoph Pusch
ICR Team Leader:          Toshiaki Keicho
ICR Primary Author:       Haris Khan



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project objectives are to support the efforts of the Government of Sri Lanka to -

  i. Reduce the immediate suffering resulting from the effects of the tsunami and restore
livelihoods destroyed by the tsunami;
  ii. Restore basic services to the affected population; and
  iii. Start the recovery and reconstruction process


                                              ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval          Target        Completion or
                                             documents)          Values        Target Years
               Provide cash grants (livelihood and housing) to the affected people to reduce the
Indicator 1 :  immediate human suffering, to restore livelihoods, and to start recovery and
               reconstruction process
                                          All families living
Value          0 families received        in new/repaired
quantitative or                           homes funded by
Qualitative)   assistance                 the housing cash
                                          grant program
Date achieved 02/24/2005                  03/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value          Values (from                       Achieved at
                                               approval         Revised        Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Targeted assistance provided to the affected population

Value           affected families receivedaffected families

(quantitative   no livelihood support     received up to four

or Qualitative) cash grant                installments of
                                          cash transfer
Date achieved 02/24/2005                  10/15/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Provide homes for affected families
                                          All families
                                          completed housing

Value           0 families received cash  repair or

(quantitative   grant for housing repair  reconstruction

or Qualitative) or reconstruction         with the complete
                                          installments of the
                                          cash grant
                                          assistance program



                                               iii

Date achieved 02/24/2005                  03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  Rehabilitate portion of damaged road system
                                          114 km of road
Value                                     section between
(quantitative  0 km of road rehabilitated Kalutara and
or Qualitative)                           Matara fully
                                          rehabilitated.
Date achieved 02/24/2005                  06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                          IP           Disbursements
                                                                         (USD millions)
  1     06/13/2005   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             15.10
  2     12/22/2005   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory             37.10
  3     06/30/2006          Satisfactory                Satisfactory             58.10
  4     12/23/2006          Satisfactory                Satisfactory             61.80
  5     06/28/2007          Satisfactory                Satisfactory             69.10
  6     12/20/2007          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory         69.20
  7     06/30/2008          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory         69.20

  8     12/29/2008   Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately
                                                      Unsatisfactory             69.20



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               iv

I. Disbursement Profile




                           v

1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

1.1.1 Sri Lanka is an island country with an area of 65,525 sq. km and a population of over 19
million with a literacy rate of 91%. The country has an annual per capita GNI of US$1,540 and
its major industries include rubber, tea, textiles and tobacco. The manufacturing industry has also
seen growth and petroleum products, leather goods and electronic equipment are being exported
to many countries. Agriculture, tourism and fishing also contribute towards the economy.
Remittances from Sri Lankans employed abroad contribute a significant share to the country's
foreign exchange reserves.

1.1.2 In December 2004, a massive earthquake registering 9.0 on the Richter scale struck off
the coast of Sumatra, Indonesia which triggered a series of tsunami waves that directly impacted
the coastal areas of many countries in the Indian Ocean including Sri Lanka. This disaster has
been widely acknowledged as the most devastating natural disaster in the history of the country.
The tsunami wave struck over 1000 km of Sri Lankan coastline and in many places penetrated
inland as far as 500 meters. This adversely impacted coastal infrastructure systems including
roads, railways, power, communications, fishing ports and water and sanitation facilities.

1.1.3 As per the initial government estimates, the tsunami resulted in losses of over US$1
billion in assets and US$330 million in potential output1. Approximately 31,000 people died and
6,000 remained missing. The damage included more than 110,000 houses, out of which 70,000
were completely destroyed. About 250,000 families lost their livelihoods and over 800,000
people initially displaced as a result of the disaster. The situation was compounded by the fact
that the districts that were hit hard by the tsunami, especially in the southern and eastern parts,
had populations well below the poverty line. Therefore, the tsunami particularly increased the
vulnerability of this segment of the population. Furthermore, the population in the north and the
east had already been facing a civil conflict for the past many years and so the tsunami
aggravated the already grave living condition of these people.

1.1.4    The Government of Sri Lanka requested the World Bank (WB), the Asian Development
Bank (ADB) and the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) for assistance in
conducting a damage assessment immediately after the tsunami. The assessment was jointly
carried out by these agencies in coordination with the United Nations (UN) and other bilateral
donors. The assessment report was released in February 2005. The Bank simultaneously
restructured ten ongoing operations and made available US$ 75 million for immediate
emergency recovery needs, which was approved on February 5, 2005. This was called the
Tsunami Emergency Recovery Program I (TERP-1). A new emergency operation of US$ 75
million (out of which US$30 million was a grant) was subsequently approved on February 25,
2005 and this was called the Tsunami Emergency Recovery Program II (TERP-2). Currently,


1 Output losses are defined as the value of goods and services lost as a result of asset losses and other disruption
caused by the tsunami.


                                                       1

IDA is also administering a Trust Fund of US$ 25 million from the International Federation of
the Red Cross (IFRC), specifically financing the housing reconstruction. These are the three
operations related to the tsunami reconstruction in which IDA has been involved. The scope of
this ICR is confined to the closed operations i.e. TERP-1 and TERP-2.

1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

1.2.1 The project objectives listed in the Technical Annex and Agreement Amending Selected
Legal Agreements were to support the efforts of the Government of Sri Lanka (GoSL) to: (i)
Reduce the immediate suffering resulting from the effects of the tsunami and restore livelihoods
destroyed by the tsunami; (ii) Restore basic services to the affected population; (iii) Start the
recovery and reconstruction process and to assist Sri Lanka in carrying out the first phase of an
emergency recovery and reconstruction program in the affected areas.

1.2.2 The Technical Annex for the project contains detailed Key Performance Indictors (KPIs)
for various components listed under the component Annexes. The main KPIs for different
components for which project funds were utilized are: (i) Percentage of eligible families assisted
by the program and percentage of fully/partially damaged houses reconstructed; (ii) Kilometers
of roads rehabilitated/reconstructed; and (iii) Number of households benefited and amount of
money transferred through cash grants program.

1.3     Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

        There was no formal revision in PDOs or indicators.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries

1.4.1 The main beneficiaries were the tsunami affected population of Sri Lanka.

1.4.2 Other beneficiaries were government staff at the central level (the Task Force for
Rebuilding the Nation - TAFREN, the Reconstruction & Development Agency - RADA, and the
Ministry of Nation Building) and district level staff who received training and technical
assistance in such areas as project management, financial management, and procurement.

1.4.3 There were also several indirect project beneficiaries including unskilled workers who
acquired on-the-job construction skills and local builders who learned higher building standards
and new techniques. Local volunteers involved in repair and upgradation of buildings in their
communities also developed their capacity and acquired new skills. Similarly, the involvement
of civil society, particularly homeowners, led to improved community leadership and ownership.

1.5     Original Components

1.5.1 The project was designed to help restore basic services and the lost livelihoods of the
affected population and start the recovery and reconstruction process. It originally consisted of
the following main components, combining TERP-1 and TERP-2:



                                                  2

        (i)    Housing reconstruction (US$ 60 million)
        (ii)   Infrastructure rehabilitation (US$ 33 million)
        (iii)  Livelihood support (US$ 35 million)
        (iv)   Social sector (US$ 8 million)
        (v)    Capacity Building (US$ 10 million)
        (vi)   Contingencies (US$ 4 million)

1.6     Revised Components

1.6.1    There were no formal revisions to the main project components. However, in mid 2005
the International Federation of Red Cross (IFRC) approached IDA for supporting the housing
reconstruction program. Therefore, IDA agreed to administer a Trust Fund of US 25 million
from IFRC. This IFRC funding was earmarked specifically for housing reconstruction in the
former buffer zones called "Phase 2 Housing" (described in more detail under section 2.4.1).
Furthermore, out of the social sectors earmarked for support, only the Health component was
partially implemented.

1.7     Other Significant Changes

        As explained above, the increased IFRC support led to a revised housing target under the
Phase 2.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The overall quality at entry is rated as moderately satisfactory. This assessment is based on the
following.

2.1.1 Rationale for the Bank's Intervention. Immediately after the disaster hit the country, the
communities mobilized themselves and acted as first responders. The government was also quick
to respond and released LKR 93 million the day after the disaster for relief operations. On the
institutional side, a Center for National Operations was established under the President
Secretariat and special Task Forces for rescue and relief, reconstruction and logistics were
established while Disaster Management Authorities were established at the District levels. The
Donor community also swiftly acted with the United Nations through its various specialized
agencies such as United Nations Office of Coordination and Humanitarian Assistance (OCHA)
coordinating the overall disaster response. The international community also rapidly responded
with contributions of around US$125 million. Hundreds of private sector firms also assisted the
Government in relief efforts through their various global networks. Considering the
government's commitment in dealing with the disaster, it's severity being rated as the country's
worst ever natural disaster, the enormity of the required response and subsequent huge
reconstruction task and the fact that the Bank led the joint damage and needs assessment,
stakeholders including the Government were looking toward the Bank for assistance, especially
considering the Bank's wide ranging international experience in disaster management and post
disaster reconstruction operations.


                                                3

2.1.2 Clarity, focus and flexibility of project design. The primary objective of the project i.e.
supporting the government in recovery and reconstruction was clearly defined and all
components contained in the project design supported and focused towards achievement of the
stated objective. Immediate priority was given to restoration of livelihoods and reconstruction of
basic infrastructure, particularly private housing, which was appropriate as these are the two
main immediate challenges faced by people in the aftermath of any disaster. The allocations
under the project components were kept notional and flexible so that there would be the ability to
respond to emerging needs. Centralized policy and strategy formulation with field-based
implementation and monitoring/reporting was an adequate arrangement for meeting the
implementation challenge across a vast affected area.

2.1.3 Adequacy of safeguard policies. Safeguard policies as required under the Bank policy
were adequately incorporated into the project framework. An Environmental and Social
Screening and Assessment Framework (ESSAF) was prepared. The framework was designed to
assist the government in ensuring that safeguard issues were properly addressed. In the case of
environmental risks, this would include an assessment of the Government's review and approval
process for environmental impact assessments (EIAs) and the ability to monitor the
implementation of environmental mitigation measures. In the case of social safeguards, inclusion
of a Continuous Social Impact Assessment (CSIA) in the project design was to facilitate
communication of community perceptions, grievances and feedback, particularly in relation to
beneficiary selection for the housing and livelihood program components of the project. The
CSIA would also help monitor the social aspects of the project and identify potential risks. In
case of resettlement and/or land acquisition issues, the Bank's resettlement Policy, Sri Lanka's
National Involuntary Resettlement Policy (NIRP) and "Guidelines for Land and Asset
Acquisition, Entitlements and Compensation" included in the framework would be applied.

2.1.4 Lessons of earlier operations taken into account in project design. Approaches, which
proved successful in other Bank programs (such as the 2001 Gujarat earthquake response in
India and the 2002 emergency reconstruction program in the conflict-affected areas of Sri
Lanka), were adopted in the project design. These included use of the homeowner driven housing
reconstruction model, training of local builders, tranched payment mechanisms linked with
inspection/certification, conduct of detailed damage assessment and verification surveys,
provision of technical assistance to home owners, 3rd party technical audits, building materials
facilitation for reconstruction, preparation of operational manuals clearly defining roles and
responsibilities of multiple actors, formulation of construction guidelines and requirement of
supervision mechanisms as well as introduction of livelihood cash injection programs. The
various good practices and design aspects from the Sri Lanka's North East Housing
Reconstruction Program (NEHRP) also contributed towards the design of the project,
particularly for the housing component. Mechanisms such as the CSIA, the Third Party
Technical Audit, the Mobile Land Task Forces and the environment safeguards are some of the
examples of how NEHRP helped define the project design. The Part Z restructuring approach
and to a lesser extent the Livelihood Support Cash Grants had its origins in the Sri Lanka's North
East Emergency Reconstruction Program (NEERP).




                                                4

2.1.5 Based on the successful Bank's emergency preparedness and mitigation operations in
other countries in the region such as India and Bangladesh, the appraisal team also included the
provision of a Phase III component to the project which could be finalized based on the strong
commitment of the government in improving its capacity to respond to natural disasters, possible
gaps in funding and the updated Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). This provisional
component was essentially related to possible mitigation and preparedness support measures for
future natural disasters at the community, district and national levels.

2.1.6 Project risks and mitigations. A major risk was the limited implementation capacity to
handle the massive reconstruction activities on the part of government agencies, both at the
central and local levels. The original project design tried to mitigate this risk through a capacity
building component which was added to the project. However, this component was not clearly
defined except for financing operational costs of these agencies. Although the capacity building
component contributed to keeping these agencies up and running, actual capacity building that
took place during implementation was somewhat limited.

2.1.7 Another risk was the very complex nature of the multi-sector approach adopted for the
original project design, which included potential investments in education, health care, livelihood
support, housing, roads etc. This risk was to be mitigated through the built-in flexibility to allow
dropping activities that could prove problematic as the project progressed and shift resources to
more successful components and also have priority areas based on emerging needs. This is why
the project was successful in implementation of the livelihood support, housing, and roads
components with limited investments in the health sector while education was dropped.

2.1.8 The risk of resumption of civil conflict in the tsunami affected areas of the North East
was a real and serious one. Although there was an all inclusive and decentralized implementation
mechanism at the district level, such a situation could lead to break down of the decision making
process and a grid-lock. The project sought to mitigate this risk through appropriate scale down
of the program in case of the intensifying conflict. However, this eventuality did not occur
except for a few areas, and only minor incidents led to some delays in implementation. Another
conflict related mitigation measure was the requirement of the North East Provincial Council, Sri
Lanka Army and Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) to confirm that areas to be assessed
for reconstruction and rehabilitation activities were de-mined.

2.1.9 Governance issues were also identified as possible risks and they were to be mitigated
through introduction of increased accountability and transparency measures. Particularly for the
livelihood cash grant and housing programs, this was achieved through stringent and well
defined eligibility criteria, eligibility surveys and damage assessments, inspections and
certifications, tranched programs, well defined disbursement conditions and funds tracking as
well as 3rd party audits and CSIA.

2.1.10 Adequacy of participatory processes. The IDA response to the disaster was based on a
joint damage and needs assessment which was carried out by the Bank in cooperation with ADB
and JBIC, and the exercise was coordinated with the Government at the national, provincial,
district and local levels, UN, bilateral donors, civil society, LTTE and other stakeholders. All



                                                  5

strategies for the ensuing response and recovery/reconstruction efforts flowed from the platform,
which the assessment provided.

2.2      Implementation

2.2.1 Although the housing reconstruction component in the conflict-affected Northern and
Eastern Provinces had some delays, overall implementation and project management
performance throughout the life of the project is rated moderately satisfactory as the project
outcomes were largely achieved.

2.2.2 TERP-1 became effective on March 11, 2005 while TERP-2 became effective on April
25, 2005. Since both TERP-1 and TERP-2 had the identical objectives and were in essence part
of the same operation and also became effective in succession, funds from both operations were
in fact used simultaneously. Additionally, as part of the amendment to the 10 credits/grants
operationalizing TERP-1 through the Part Z restructuring, new categories were added in the
parent projects (seven credits and three grants) and all expenditures for tsunami related activities
under TERP-1 were incurred from these parent projects2.

2.2.3 The project was not formally restructured at any time. However, some contingent sectors
for funding under the flexible design of the project were dropped. Such dropped sectors included
education and water supply while limited investments were made in the health sector. The task
team leader for the project changed quite early during the implementation cycle but the core
team for housing, cash grants and roads remained consistent. However, procurement team
members did change a few times during the project duration. On the government side, frequent
changes in the implementing agency due to a variety of reasons affected implementation
negatively. The main implementing role was initially with TAFREN which was then changed to
RADA and thereafter transferred to the Ministry of Nation Building (MoNB), when RADA was
absorbed into the Ministry. Therefore, the institutional changes at the central level occurred
twice.

2.2.4 As mentioned above the IDA-financed TERP consists of two operations; TERP-1
(US$75 million) and TERP-2 (US$75 million) covering various recovery and reconstruction
activities including livelihood support, housing, roads, health, and institutional development.
TERP-1 closed on March 31, 2007 with about US$7.9 million undisbursed while TERP-2 closed
on September 30, 2008 with approximately US$4.6 million undisbursed. IDA is expected to
make the final disbursement for TERP-2 soon, and it is expected that most of the undisbursed



2The parent projects and amount of funds reallocated for the new tsunami objective under the Part Z approach
include (i) Second General Education Project (Cr. 3014-CE) US$4 million; (ii) Teacher Education & Deployment
Project (Cr. 2881-CE) US$1 million; (iii) Improved Relevance & Quality of Undergraduate Education Project (Cr.
3781-CE) US$9.5 million; (iv) Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 37220-CE) US$4 million; (v)
E-Sri Lanka Development Project (Cr. 3986-CE) US$5.5 million; (vi) Renewable Energy for Rural Economic
Development Project (Cr. 3673-CE) US$7 million; (vii) Second Community Water Supply & Sanitation Project
(HO35-CE) US$7 million; (viii) Health Sector Development Project (HO95-CE) US$20 million; (ix) Community
Development & Livelihood Project (HO78-CE) US$8.5 million; and (x) Second North East Irrigated Agriculture
Project (Cr. 3935-CE) US$8.5 million respectively.


                                                      6

amount would be disbursed. The government had requested closing date extension of both
TERP-1 and TERP-2. However, the delayed submission of an audit report prevented IDA from
agreeing to the extension of the closing date for TERP-1 in 2007 and, once again, the same
problem prevented the extension of the closing date for TERP-2 in 2008. IDA received the audit
report of TERP-2 for the calendar year of 2007 only on December 22, 2008, almost six months
after the covenanted deadline.

2.2.5 Housing. The housing reconstruction program has been regarded as a success, achieving
the target housing numbers over a relatively short time horizon, considering the unprecedented
scale of the disaster and also the extremely difficult situation where many tsunami-affected areas
were in the conflict. The program could also serve as an international best practice, particularly
the IDA-led homeowner driven housing reconstruction approach which was also subsequently
followed by ADB, SDC, KFW and IFRC. So the program essentially ended up being a multi-
donor initiative financing homeowner driven housing reconstruction. The success of the program
made it a model for similar programs in the region, such as the housing program in Pakistan
which benefited from the lessons learnt from this initiative in Sri Lanka.

2.2.6 It all began with the housing damage assessment done as part of the tsunami housing
reconstruction program in February 2005, which estimated nearly 98,500 units as damaged. The
housing reconstruction strategy formulated by the GoSL was based on the homeowner driven
reconstruction model and the donor driven reconstruction model. For the homeowner model,
there was a provision of cash grants (LKR 250,000 for the fully damaged category in 4
tranches/installments    and   LKR     100,000    for    the   partly damaged    category  in    2
tranches/installments). The government also came up with a buffer zone policy in which
construction was not allowed within 100-200 m from the sea. Therefore, the government initially
went for reconstruction of 55,525 housing units through the homeowner-driven program
financed by IDA and other donors. However, the revision of the buffer zone policy in late 2005
led to migration of cases from donor-driven to homeowner driven reconstruction, and the number
for the homeowner driven program was revised upward to 78,500 housing units. The project
financing of the homeowner-driven program was done through a refinancing arrangement with
two banks, i.e. the Peoples' Bank and the Bank of Ceylon. These banks advanced cash grants
directly to the eligible beneficiaries approved by the divisional secretaries, and IDA refinanced
the approved claims to the Government for its financial settlements with these banks. Under this
financing arrangement, the divisional/district administrations were responsible for the
beneficiary eligibility determination and payment approval and certification processes. The IDA-
assisted housing program was implemented/monitored by the North East Housing
Reconstruction Unit (NEHRU) and the South West Housing Reconstruction Unit (SWHRU) for
the North East and South West Districts respectively. Under the home-owner driven program,
the Bank agreed to finance all eligible units identified for on-site reconstruction outside the
buffer zone, which were referred to as Phase I houses across 24 tsunami affected divisions of the
country. The ICR would only cover Phase I houses under which the Bank supported nearly
47,864 beneficiaries which is 68% of the total houses under the homeowner program Phase I. In
order to determine the eligibility of beneficiaries who were paid under the home-owner driven
reconstruction program the government undertook 100% audit of beneficiaries for both phases.
Under Phase I, the results indicated that 44,944 beneficiaries were eligible leading to an
ineligibility rate of about 6%. One reason for this divergence was poor book keeping by various


                                                 7

agencies involved. Many households that ought to have come under Phase II of the Tsunami
Housing Reconstruction Program were sometimes registered under Phase I instead, which made
it necessary to reconcile the data later on. However, on a positive note, the overall physical
completion rate for Phase I houses was exceptionally high at 94%. The quality aspects would be
covered in detail under Annex 2.

2.2.7 Livelihoods Cash Grants. The livelihoods cash grant program was an overall success and
completed disbursements quite quickly. Over 100,000 families benefited from the program in the
first year which included not only those whose lives were directly impacted by the tsunami but
also those whose livelihood had been indirectly affected e.g. the tourist trade. This program was
directly executed through the department of Treasury Operations, Ministry of Finance (MoF).
Under the program, tsunami affected families were provided a monthly payment of LKR 5,000
per family (and LKR 2,500 for single-member families), for a period of up to four months. The
eligibility criteria included those people who lost their employment/incomes as a result of the
tsunami, and families whose bread winner was lost or injured. The results of the 1st beneficiary
survey conducted in April 2005 found that while the program was successful in reaching more
than 90% of affected households, there were areas that needed improvement - namely, over-
inclusion of beneficiaries outside the target group, especially in certain districts. Taking into
account the numbers reported by the beneficiary survey, it was agreed with the government that
the amounts reimbursed by the World Bank for 3rd and 4th payments would be subject to a
maximum limit. The government took steps to narrow down the list of beneficiaries by the time
the 3rd and 4th payments were issued. Overall, the program was implemented in a timely way and
based on an analysis of the first beneficiary assessment, has had little problem with exclusion of
needy families into the program. Payments for all 4 installments of the cash grant have been
completed by MoF. The financial audits for all 4 payments / tranches have been completed. The
audit reports show that the number of beneficiary households was 255,761 for the 1st tranche and
267,829 for the 2nd, for total disbursements of around US$12.1 million and US$14.6 million
respectively. For the 3rd tranche, the coverage was reduced to 184,407 beneficiary households,
with a total disbursement of around US $8.3 million. The 4th and final tranche was initiated on
October 5th 2005 and covered 175,629 households with a total disbursement of about US$8.5
million. The Bank reimbursed the Government for the pre-agreed ceiling of US$7.2 million for
the 3rd tranche/payment, and also advanced the same amount of funds for the 4th payment. The
beneficiary audit for the 4th tranche was finalized in July 2006 and confirmed the total
beneficiaries as of March 31, 2006 as 191,293.

2.2.8 Roads Component. This component focused specifically financed the rehabilitation of
the nearly 114 KM of tsunami-damaged southern coastal road from Kalutara to Matara. The
Government's decision to use the same Project Implementation Unit (PIU) that was being used
for the ongoing Roads Sector Assistance Project (RSAP) allowed for effective implementation of
the component as the existing unit was already geared up and had experience in undertaking
similar road rehabilitation projects. The civil works for rehabilitation of this road were broken
down into three packages to avoid having one big contract which would require a single firm
with larger resources. Such a huge contract would not have been without its inherent risks where
a delay on any execution aspect would have jeopardized the whole roads component. Therefore,
to avoid such complications and risks, GoSL and IDA agreed to have three separate contracts
awarded to three different contractors. This component was divided as follows:


                                                 8

     Package I (Kalutra ­ Ambalangoda)
     Package II (Ambalangoda ­ Unawatuna)
     Package III (Unawatuna ­ Matara)

2.2.9 The GoSL's decision to go with the existing design/supervision consultant involved with
RSAP also reduced risks and led to the smooth implementation of the works under the
component. All of the three contracts were completed by June 2007. However, project cost for
all three packages were revised upward on account of BOQ variations/additional work and cost
escalation. There was an average price increase of about 23% on all three contracts. The
government has provided an amount of LKR 240 million for these increased payments to
contractors, but a total amount of LKR 225,072,973 still remains outstanding, excluding any
interest payable to contractors on overdue payments. It is expected that these outstanding
payments would be made once the variation orders are submitted/approved and the final
disbursement under the project is made. Any remaining funding gap would, however, be borne
by the government from their own resources. The quality of these roads upon completion was
satisfactory, but it has been observed that certain sections of the roads have been dug up by
utilities and are yet to be restored to their original state. This is mainly due to the lack of
coordination between road maintenance and the utilities. The project also undertook construction
of a storm water drain along the Galle Road in Mirrissa to improve the poor drainage conditions
in the local area. Since the completion of these roads and related interventions, the Road
Development Authority (RDA) has taken over these assets.

2.2.10 Health. The Ministry of Health (MoH) had requested IDA in January 2005 to meet a
post-tsunami funding gap of LKR 803 million. Due to the long delay in procurement by MoH,
this component never fully took off and has not been fully completed as originally designed.
However, emergency life saving drugs worth about LKR 120 million were procured under the
project at an early stage. TERP-1 closed on March 31, 2007 and its funds ceased to be available
since. Therefore, it was agreed with the MoH and External Resources Department officials that
only the activities initiated from the originally planned list of activities would be funded from the
TERP-2 savings. The total estimated amount for the Health component at the time was about
US$3.5 million. The outstanding activities included reconstruction of three District Health
Offices in Kalumunai, Galle and Matara, which are estimated to cost around LKR 423 million in
total and procurement of 36 vehicles amounting LKR 209 million (subsequently completed
under the project). MoH completed the necessary procurement processes for the reconstruction
of the offices around March 2007, and the contracts were awarded soon after that. As explained
above, TERP-1 closed in March 2007, and IDA could not agree on its extension due mainly to
GoSL's non-compliance with the project's audit requirement. This situation created a shortage of
funds leading to a delay in the start of the reconstruction of these offices. The government agreed
to finance the pressing requirements of this sector through their own resources so the
reconstruction of these offices and other outstanding requirements were subsequently taken up
by GoSL.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

2.3.1 Since this was an emergency-response project, there was limited provision for assessment
and evaluation of the outcomes or impacts of the project activities. However, there was a clear


                                                   9

monitoring framework, with defined key performance indicators (KPIs), for quantification of
different outputs from the project components. In addition, the periodic surveys and audits,
particularly for livelihood cash grants, and the housing components allowed for generation and
analysis of crucial data.

2.3.2 However, government's capacity constraints in implementation of an effective MIS based
monitoring and evaluation system at all levels posed problems. This was compounded by the fact
that the custodians of the data were frequently changing, which led to computation errors, lack of
clarity in the M&E arrangements, data loss and infrequent reporting from various field entities.

2.3.3 Housing eligibility and verification surveys, third party quality audits, livelihood cash
grant audits, CSIA and independent financial audits generated vital data. Even in the case of
housing, however, there were issues related to determination of target indicators. This
complexity arose as the Bank agreed to fund all eligible units identified for on-site reconstruction
`outside the buffer zone' under Phase I, thereby, targeting nearly 68% of the total caseload
earmarked under the homeowner program under the Phase I. Due to this approach, the project
could not initially determine the definite target in terms of the number of houses to be
reconstructed or repaired since other Development Partners under the homeowner-driven
program, i.e. ADB, SDC and KFW also funded onsite reconstruction within their project areas as
per the IDA-recommended operational guidelines.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

2.4.1   Environmental Impacts and Safeguards.         The post-tsunami period saw a boom in
reconstruction activities across the affected areas of the country. The GoSL declared a policy of
`build back better' and worked towards the urgent need of restoring normalcy in the lives of
those affected. As a consequence, the unique opportunity of effectively integrating cross cutting
ecological and environmental concerns into the sectoral interventions was lost. In the aftermath
of the disaster, the government announced the use of a buffer zone as a disaster prevention
mechanism. This was perhaps based on the need for the government to provide an immediate
response, rather than a well researched technically sound judgment with public consultation.
Applying such a policy to a densely populated coastal belt had profound implications on the
environment, livelihoods and economy. The initial attempts to implement this policy saw the
prohibition of any physical reconstruction in the declared no build zone and clearing of vast
extents of new land in the hinterland (some natural areas) for proposed housing schemes (not
part of IDA financed project). No clear system of environmental assessment preceded the
process of site selection and construction and, as a result, crucial environmental planning took a
backseat. Subsequently, due to many complexities involved in implementation, the GoSL
withdrew the buffer zone policy and resorted to the coastal setbacks which are determined by the
Coast Conservation Department (CCD) through scientific investigation and stipulated in the
Coastal Zone Management Plan.

2.4.2   The Bank provided assistance for reconstruction of houses damaged and destroyed by the
tsunami outside the 100/200m buffer zone declared by the GoSL. Environmental assessments for
the relevant divisions of the Southern and Western provinces were conducted by the University
of Ruhuna while the same for Northern and Eastern Provinces were conducted by the


                                                 10

Universities of Jaffna, Batticaloa and South-East. The assessments were based on a pre-tested
questionnaire designed to capture potential environmental issues of housing reconstruction at
each division in the TERP area.

2.4.3  The key environmental issues directly relating to TERP were those associated with
extraction of natural resources as construction materials. The reconstruction process created a
`building boom' of unprecedented scale in the country. The need for sand, timber, rubble, clay,
which is either directly taken or made from the natural environment, rose sharply in the local
market. This had inevitable consequences for unsustainable exploitation. The EIAs identified
possible sources of material supply for the selected divisions but there was no system in place to
verify such information during or after reconstruction, since housing reconstruction was home
owner driven and it was impractical to verify the origin of construction resources available in the
open market. The EIAs also reported cases of people resorting to illegal sand mining, tree cutting
to meet the local/personal demand. No assessment has been undertaken to identify or quantify
the environmental impacts of increased sand mining, clay mining, tree felling etc either under
TERP or nationally. This is a complex task given the widespread and scattered nature of resource
bases and the difficulty in tracking the materials supply.

2.4.4  There was no demand for new land in the project as houses were built on the same land
as before (in-situ reconstruction). As such, on-site environmental impacts were either none or
marginal. The extent of debris generated from the tsunami, particularly from buildings, was
reported to vary between divisions in the TERP area. By the time the EIAs were mobilized,
removal of debris had taken place and re-used mostly as road/land fill. This, however, had given
rise to various local drainage issues in some areas. Most people in the study area depend on
groundwater and most wells were contaminated by the tsunami, especially in the Northern,
Eastern and South-Eastern coasts. In the aftermath, affected communities were supplied with
safe drinking water in many places (the efficiency of the relief services is evident from the fact
that there were very low instances of diarrhea epidemics). While certain initiatives were
undertaken by the environmental authorities to address the issues of contamination to land and
water, no proper assessment has been done to quantify the impact of remedial action taken on the
living environment. Ecologically, research data suggests that complete natural recovery was
taking place by nature itself.

2.4.5  The project carried out environmental safeguards studies that were required of it.
However, post clearance monitoring and follow up involved issues that went beyond the scope of
the project. These were mostly off-site environmental impacts of resource extraction which were
not exclusively caused by TERP but rather from the whole reconstruction process.

2.4.6  Social issues. The government hired a firm (Green Tech) to conduct the Continuous
Social Impact Assessment (CSIA) for the project. The study also analyzed beneficiaries with
uncompleted houses to understand the background and reasons. In the North and East, 93% of
the beneficiaries with uncompleted houses reported that insufficient funds were the major
obstacle. Indeed, the majority of uncompleted houses belong to poor beneficiaries ­ particularly
in Jaffna and Batticaloa. These households will continue to be assisted under the IDA-
administered IFRC Trust Fund. The slow progress of construction work in the North and East
were attributed to the deteriorating security situation, resulting in both steeply rising costs of


                                                 11

construction materials and restrictions on access and transport of construction materials.
Furthermore, 233 (27%) beneficiaries in Jaffna unable to complete their houses were subject to
repeated displacements due to the conflict, which obstructed their reconstruction efforts. In
Batticaloa, 12% (78 households in Vaharai area) were displaced and thus unable to complete
their house reconstruction.

2.4.7   The top-up mechanism (the housing cash grant was topped up with direct NGO support
either in cash or kind, frequently resulting in a total housing support amounting to LKR 500,000
to 750,000) common in the reconstruction of tsunami-affected housing allowed significantly
higher level of assistance for affected families than was/is the case for conflict-affected families
in the North and East under NEHRP, who receive only the cash grant for reconstructing their
houses. District level distribution of the total beneficiaries supported under the project also
shows that nearly 69% of the caseload in Phase I was located in the North and East Districts.
While more than 97% of the units targeted in the South and West have been completed, about
92% of the total caseload in the North and East has been completed, indicating regional inequity
in outcomes. Furthermore, in the South West almost 77% of housing units received the NGO
top-ups. In comparison, in North and East, where the presence of NGOs and other donors were
more scarce, the top-ups were given to only around 30% of the beneficiaries in average ­ but
with huge variations between districts as only 10% of houses received top-ups in Jaffna and as
few as 5% in Ampara. The result was confusion regarding whether or not families with NGO-
assisted houses are still eligible for the government cash grants, and the government policy in
this regard was implemented differently across the districts. IDA tried to address this issue
through the independent beneficiary eligibility audit.

2.4.8   The redefinition of the buffer zone, i.e. reverting to the coastal protection zone, was
positive in the sense that the issue of resettlement of the coastal population was greatly
diminished. However, the changes of policy, combined with the weakness in communicating
these to the public, had considerable negative consequences, apart from causing delays of the
reconstruction process, as families within the former buffer zone were prohibited from initiating
reconstruction of the house in situ. The changing policies also had differential impact on people,
since all families living within the previous buffer zone were offered a donor-built house
irrespective of land ownership status, the families living outside the coastal protection zone were
eligible for the cash-grant provided they could document land ownership. Additionally, some
poor families inside the buffer zone reportedly sold their land cheaply as they were barred from
reconstructing their houses and needed cash. With the lifting of the buffer zone, the land
increased in value ­ and the tsunami may thus have resulted in a change in ownership pattern in
the coastal areas.

2.4.9   Proper housing sanitation was an issue, particularly in the North but also in the East as
many newly built houses lack sanitation facilities. Part of the problem may have been shortage of
funds, even though the cost of toilets are calculated separately, but the main reason seems to be
that open defecation is socially acceptable, and the house owners don't prioritize a private
sanitation facility. Considering the environmental health issues relating to open defecation,
Government should explore ways to support its sanitation program with a comprehensive
communication campaign related to health hygiene, in order to affect a change in attitude among
the beneficiary communities toward open defecation.


                                                 12

2.4.10 There have been instances of security related relocation. In certain areas, tsunami affected
households have relocated because of security concerns, e.g. in cases where houses were located
next to an army camp. The population of approximately 4,446 families in Vaharai Division in
Batticaloa district had to relocate into camps when the conflict escalated in 2006. Nearly 2,000
of these families were also tsunami affected. In March 2007, the population of Vaharai started to
return, but many TERP houses had been damaged in the conflict.

2.4.11 The project was initially slow in setting up the social monitoring of beneficiary
identification as well as the grievance redressal mechanism. When the grievance redressal
mechanism was in place, it showed that the level of grievances was particularly high in the South
West Housing Reconstruction Unit (SWHRU), but with considerable variation among districts
and divisions in terms of rate of grievances and their approval/rejection. Most grievances were
related to classification of damage as either `fully damaged' or `partly damaged' ­ since some
cracks in houses apparently first developed after water receded. In the North East Housing
Reconstruction Unit (NEHRU), the process was different as the caseload grew dramatically after
the initial assessment (up to 100%), and grievances were far lower, around 10%. Local officials
explained the increase in caseload with reference to: (1) the initial damage assessment not
covering all areas and the Census Department relying upon the population figures from 2001
(Census Department later increased its damage assessment figures); (2) late appearance of
cracks; (3) considerable `social pressures' towards ensuring benefits being apportioned according
to ethnic composition instead of actual damage, which may have resulted in inflated numbers. A
special situation reportedly existed in Ampara, where 10% of appeal cases have to be reopened
as it had been discovered that the Technical Officers registered damaged huts as `partly
damaged' rather than as `fully damaged', thus depriving the very poorest of tsunami victims
assistance to reconstruct their homes as permanent houses. The beneficiary eligibility audits also
revealed that most of the rejected cases were due to two main factors: (a) lack of land ownership
documents; and (b) beneficiaries availing a second home assistance through the donor-housing
program.

2.4.12 In the wake of the tsunami, a range of land ownership issues had to be addressed before
beneficiaries could avail of the housing grant. Joint ownership of land, loss of property
documents, death of the landowner without any succession or will documents, and the loss of
physical demarcation and boundaries of land were some of the issues observed in the South.
Some 10-20% of grievances related to unsettled land issues. In the north east, a mobile Land
Task Force established under the NEHRP dealt with land issues under TERP on a priority basis.
In the south a similar Land Task Force was established, and land issues were dealt with on an ad
hoc basis with considerable variation from division to division.

2.4.13 The CSIA reports have pointed out that the homeowner-driven housing program has
significantly contributed to the empowerment of women among the beneficiary population. Not
only did the project promote joint husband/wife bank accounts for the housing grants, but
women were also empowered to undertake supervision and management of the reconstruction
works. Feedback from beneficiary women indicate that they have benefited from the housing
program in terms of acquiring skills in construction, financial management, team work,



                                                13

leadership ­ and through these, have acquired more acceptance and recognition in the household
and local community.

2.4.14 Fiduciary aspects. The overall responsibility of Financial Management (FM) for the
project rested initially with RADA (TAFREN) and, thereafter, with the Ministry of Nation
Building (MoNB), when RADA was absorbed into the Ministry. RADA / MoNB played a
coordinating and monitoring role albeit weaknesses, while the day to day financial management
related activities were carried out by the implementing agencies of the different programs under
this multi-sectoral project. The project had a high FM risk due to its complexity. FM capacity
issues led to: (i) consistent delays by RADA in meeting the reporting and auditing requirements
of IDA, including the delay in appointing internal auditors for the Tsunami Housing Program;
and (ii) misuse of operating expenses by RADA as observed by the auditors, leading to a request
for a refund by IDA.

2.4.15 As per the country's Auditor General's audit reports received by the Bank prior to June
30, 2008, some potential corruption cases/irregularities were identified in the housing program.
After GoSL's internal investigation, they accepted most of these cases, and the Bank's mission in
May-June 2008 also verified some of the most serious cases in the field. The proven cases would
be treated as ineligible expenditures, and the expenses made for these would be deducted /
adjusted. The Auditor General's Office also questioned the procurement practice for three road
packages, which was also subsequently questioned by the Bank's Department of Institutional
Integrity (INT). IDA management decided to conduct a detailed procurement review for these
packages by an independent party and suspend further disbursements for the component pending
results of the review. However, the recently finalized review concluded that the procurement and
contracting procedures followed for these packages were carried out in accordance with the
Credit/Grant Agreement and that collusion at the time of bidding is not suspected.

2.4.16 Housing reconstruction was one of the key components of the project. Funds were
channeled via the two commercial banks directly to the beneficiary bank accounts. Overall, the
controls exercised at the commercial banks were satisfactory with the audits indicating an
average ineligibility rate of 4% at the bank level. Similar observations were noted in the
supervision activities carried out by IDA. The weak supervisory role played by RADA / MoNB
was further compounded with the decision by the GoSL to close down SWHRU, which
maintained a computerized database of beneficiaries in the South along with payments details to
beneficiaries. MoNB did not maintain a consolidated database of beneficiaries and made no
attempt to cross-verify the accuracy of the disbursement reports generated by the commercial
banks to request for reimbursements. Due to these serious lapses in the control framework, the
only risk mitigation measure for IDA was to adjust disbursement amounts based on the findings
of the third party beneficiary and financial audits. RADA delayed the appointment of auditors
and this resulted in significant delays in transferring IDA funds to the commercial banks. Also,
where internal financial audit was not carried out, mainly due to lack of cooperation by the bank
branches, these divisions were not funded by IDA. It is noteworthy that despite the lack of
oversight by the centre, in general, there were no serious breaches in the internal controls at the
bank branch level.




                                                 14

2.4.17 Procurement. The lack of capacity in public procurement by the central agencies (such as
TAFREN/RADA) was a major challenge in the project. For the road component, GoSL did make
an effort to expedite actions for early procurement, such as in the road sector, where preparation
and issuance of bidding documents was really fast tracked and award recommendations for road
reconstruction contracts were finalized within three months of submission. The international
consultant contract for the construction supervision of roads was finalized within five months of
issuance of Request for Proposals (RFPs). The Government's decision to select the ongoing
consultant under RSAP following Single Source Selection (SSS) through a variation order to the
original design contract proved to be a good decision, which saved time and allowed for early
design of works under the component. Despite these highlights, issues were confronted during
implementation in other sectors which resulted in delayed procurement and mis-procurement.
This particularly impacted progress in the Health sector where implementation suffered due to
procurement delays. Another noteworthy case occurred in July 2006, when IDA declared mis-
procurement of 168 motor-bikes procured under TERP-2 and requested GoSL to refund an
amount equivalent to US$137,391.74. In September 2007, IDA officially reminded GoSL of this
need for refund and subsequently raised this issue with GoSL on many occasions. IDA finally
received this refund on May 21, 2009.

2.4.18 An ex-post procurement review was also initiated in May 2008 by IDA, but has not been
concluded yet due to the difficulties in obtaining some procurement-related documents from the
borrower's agencies. Upon IDA's warning to take an appropriate action against this, the Ministry
of Nation Building finally submitted these documents to IDA in early December 2008.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

2.5.1 Operation and maintenance arrangements. Under the project, houses and roads were
reconstructed with a clear commitment for required maintenance to be provided by the new
owners and relevant government department, RDA. Capacities of communities were also built
through an elaborate training program and technical assistance provided through related
government departments and NGOs. Various illustrative information materials such as posters
detailing housing designs were also widely distributed amongst beneficiaries.               Several
professional masons, carpenters and other skilled craftsman are members of these communities
and so home owners would be in a position to undertake any repairs and maintenance of their
houses. RDA has a well defined operational maintenance cycle under government regulations
for road maintenance.

2.5.2 Since the houses are privately owned, however, Government powers to intervene are
rather limited. It should be noted that while the standard of maintenance of the reconstructed
houses could be improved, it is similar to other housing on the island and reflects the abilities
and resources of individual households, with some buildings being better maintained than others.

2.5.3     Sustaining institutional capacity and reforms. The tsunami although a tragic disaster
has also provided an opportunity to Sri Lanka, to institutionalize all the lessons learned from this
disaster. A lot of government officials at the central and local levels gained experiences in
responding to such a disaster, and a culture of safety and preparedness has invariably been
introduced in affected communities. These gains at the government and community levels need


                                                15

to be consolidated. At present, the Ministry of Nation Building responsible for the tsunami
reconstruction does not assume a function of disaster risk management. For this purpose, the
Ministry of Disaster Management and Human Rights exists and has the appropriate national
mandate. It is important to consolidate all gains made through the tsunami response experiences
under such a suitable institution before the institutional memory of RADA/TAFREN and MoNB
fades away.

2.5.4 Follow on operation. The country should now focus on mitigation and preparedness for
future natural hazards. Presently, the GoSL and the people of Sri Lanka coming out of this
disaster are committed to improving their response capacity to future disasters. There is currently
some appetite for launching such a follow on operation. However, it is also felt that the
government would need to streamline its institutional set-up for effectively undertaking disaster
management before going into the much-needed mitigation and preparedness phase as there are
currently too many ministries with overlapping mandates and responsibilities. In the meantime,
the IFRC Trust Fund that IDA administers will continue to finance the housing reconstruction in
North and East.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

3.1.1 Relevance of objectives. The tsunami hit Sri Lanka during the implementation period of
the previous CAS (2003). The disaster had such a profound impact on the country and a direct
impact on the extent of achievement of the existing CAS pillars and the overall Bank portfolio
that it was decided to add the Tsunami as a new pillar and associate outcomes to this pillar. The
objectives of the project are very much in line with this pillar and the two outcomes associated
with this pillar, i.e.: (i) restored housing in the affected districts; and (ii) restored livelihoods of
the tsunami affected families. Housing reconstruction and livelihood support cash grants
program were two major components contributing to the overall objectives of the project. The
project objectives also remain relevant to the current CAS which was approved last year (2008).
Specifically under CAS Outcome 3.2, Improved Health and Social Protection Services, there is
direct mention of the need to develop capacity for effective delivery of cash transfers in post-
disaster situations in Sri Lanka. Under CAS Outcome 3.3, Strengthening Environmental
Protection there is a direct mention of the need to combat the adverse impacts of environmental
degradation and for the Bank to support the government's response on climate change. These
aspects are indirectly covered under the wider objectives of the project in terms of "building
back better" principle, eco-friendly reconstruction considerations and disaster risk preparedness.
The project objectives are also relevant to the Government's 10 year development framework,
Mahinda Chintana (MC) in terms of supporting cash transfer programs to vulnerable
communities who are most affected when disasters hit.

3.1.2 The project objectives are also consistent with the Government's Poverty Reduction
Strategy (PRS) which calls for reduction of disaster risks through adoption of better disaster
management techniques, better preparedness through flood resistant housing and development of
early warning systems (Chapter 6, part IV: Social Protection), thereby, improving the resilience
of communities to deal with natural disasters.


                                                   16

3.1.3 Design and implementation.         The Project design was relevant to the needs of the
Government and the people who were affected by the tsunami. An implementation approach
with centralized policy and strategy formulation and a field-based implementation contributed
towards relatively smooth implementation. Furthermore, transfer of funds directly to the affected
people helped put them in the driver's seat of reconstruction and contributed to the overall
achievement of most project objectives.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives

3.2.1 ICR rating:      Overall achievement of Project Development Objectives is moderately
satisfactory.

3.2.2 PDO 1. Carrying out the first phase of an emergency recovery and reconstruction
program in the Tsunami affected areas / Reduce the immediate suffering resulting from the
effects of the Tsunami and restore livelihoods. This objective is rated as satisfactory. This rating
is attributed to the single most important outcome associated with the objective, i.e. the success
of the Livelihood Cash Grants Program which was completed ahead of time in 2005 under
TERP-1 with the four installments paid to about 191,293 confirmed beneficiary families. The
success of the livelihood program and its contribution towards the effective recovery of the
affected population warrants this rating.

3.2.3 PDO 2. Restore basic services to the affected population. This objective is rated as
moderately satisfactory.     The original project components and activities, which were to
contribute towards achievement of these outcomes, included various sectors as contingent
components covering basic housing facilities, water and sanitation, electricity, roads, health and
education services to the affected population. Basic services such as shelter and access to
transportation were successfully provided within the scope of the project. Housing facilities
were provided to the affected population and over 94% of the target population under the
program was covered. However, due to the problems in implementation (e.g., on the fiduciary
side) the earlier accumulated housing backlog could not be cleared since the project closing date
could not be extended. Also, there was an uneven picture in the regional distribution of housing
outcomes, with affected communities in the North and East showing a lower completion rate
than in the South and West. Another negative aspect was that around a quarter of the non-
completed houses belonged to Female Headed Households (746 households) ­ which means that
70% of the Female headed households among all Tsunami Housing beneficiaries were unable to
complete their house construction, reflecting the particular poverty and vulnerability of these
households.    The affected roads, which were also targeted under the program, were also
reconstructed (114 km). The education sector was kept as a contingent component and was
never activated due to other priority areas/gaps while there were limited interventions in the case
of health sector on account of other priority sectors. The contingent components were kept due
to the emergency nature of the project and were only intended to be activated if an emergent
need arose.

3.2.4 PDO 3.       Start the recovery and reconstruction process.      This objective is rated as
moderately satisfactory. At a time when the institutional structure required to coordinate and


                                                17

facilitate all recovery and reconstruction efforts was in its nascent stages, the project financed the
initial operational costs of TAFREN and, subsequently, the same costs of RADA, which in a way
helped start the recovery and reconstruction process. This financing included the much-needed
office equipment as well as training of local level staff, such as technical officers, who played an
important role in housing damage assessment and inspection. However, the creation of a totally
new agency (TAFREN) responsible for tsunami reconstruction at the central level faced serious
challenges from time to time due to its lack of capacity in such critical areas as procurement and
public financial management and also because of the lack of effective coordination mechanisms
between TAFREN and various other agencies. Subsequent institutional changes to RADA and
MoNB created the same challenges.

3.3     Efficiency

3.3.1 Economic Rate of Return and Cost Effectiveness
        Not applicable.

3.3.2 The project was an emergency response operation and no economic or financial analysis
was undertaken during appraisal.

3.3.3 Financial rate of return
        Not applicable.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

3.4.1 Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The overall rating is based on the ongoing relevance of
the project to both the Government's national development framework strategy, PRS and the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (see Section 3.1), a review of achievements of the main
project objectives (see Section 3.2). It is difficult to make any assessment based on the efficiency
assessment (see Section 3.3) since this was an emergency project.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

  (a)   Poverty impacts, gender aspects, and social development. In the aftermath of the disaster,
        the program contributed towards prevention of further increase of poverty levels amongst
        the most vulnerable segments of the population through the livelihoods support program
        as well as the housing reconstruction program. The build back better policy also
        improved housing conditions for those who had lived in temporary thatched houses prior
        to the disaster. The homeowner driven housing program also empowered women through
        skills development and recognition as important contributors towards community
        development. The project also promoted opening of joint bank accounts (husband/wife)
        for the housing grants and encouraged women to participate in the construction and
        supervision of their houses. The project also helped build social capital in the tsunami
        affected communities and helped restored the local economy through the livelihood
        support cash grants and the reconstruction of coastal roads.




                                                  18

  (b)  Capacity building of Government entities and institutional development. The government
       entities implementing the project gained invaluable experiences in managing and
       implementing such a large scale disaster response project. The project particularly
       strengthened capacity at the district level. From strategy formulation to resolution of
       complex issues, the on-the-job training of government staff have equipped them with
       skills that would help them better respond to future disasters. However, at the central
       level, the frequent institutional changes and transfer of concerned officials created a
       situation where the full potential of capacity building could not be realized.

  (c)  Other unintended outcomes and impacts. (i) Promotion of a Banking Culture: Under the
      housing program, housing grants were transferred to beneficiary bank accounts. Many
      beneficiaries who did not have bank accounts prior to the disaster had to open them. In
      this way, a banking culture was promoted in many affected areas. (ii) Promotion of a
      culture of safety and preparedness: The disaster had a deep impact on the affected
      population, especially people who had lost someone. This created an atmosphere where
      the affected population was more willing to readily accept the safety guidelines being
      promoted by the Government through the project in the case of the housing program.
      Therefore, the project was able to create and promote a culture of safety and voluntary
      compliance amongst the target population. (iii) Capacity building of the local
      construction industry: The tsunami caused considerable damage to the country's
      infrastructure in all sectors. The project supported part of this reconstruction requirement,
      particularly in housing and roads. Such reconstruction activities helped build local
       contractor capacity. The training of artisans under the housing program of the project has
       also provided a valuable skilled workforce to the industry.

3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
       A formal beneficiary survey was not carried out, but beneficiaries were interviewed
       during ICR preparation. A stakeholder workshop was conducted and lessons learnt shared
       and discussed (Summary of proceedings and discussions attached in Annex 6).

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
       Rating: Moderate

4.1    Risk to Development Outcome. The overall risk to development outcome at the time of
       project closing is rated as moderate, due to the following factors:

   (a) Political risks are significant. Considering the current political situation in Sri Lanka, the
      expanding conflict between the government and the LTTE and the lack of political
      dialogue, the political risks to the development objectives are considered as significant.
       This is especially applicable to the affected areas in the North East where fighting is
       currently at its peak and there is a high risk that all the gains achieved through the project
       could be adversely affected.

   (b) Government ownership and commitment. Risks in this area are Negligible. The disaster
       has reinforced the commitment of the government to be better prepared to deal with
       future disasters. The government seems interested in enhancement of their disaster
       preparedness capabilities and considers the project as a success. It appears that the

                                                 19

       government would like to move forward on the overall disaster management agenda
       rather than undo the gains that have accrued under the project. However, the possibility
       of the contrary cannot be ruled out on account of various factors.

   (c) Institutional risks are moderate. The Ministry of Nation Building is the current agency
       which implemented the project. This ministry is the successor to TAFREN and RADA.
       Considering this history, the institutional risks seem apparent. This is compounded by the
       fact that many government staff that were part of the tsunami response and the project are
       now posted to different agencies within the government or some of them even left the
       government. Additionally, the Ministry of Nation Building does not have a wider disaster
       management role and the inherent clash of this ministry with the Ministry of Disaster
       Management for any future interventions/steps towards consolidation of the gains made
       through this project cannot be ignored.

   (d) Natural disasters risks are moderate. The major disasters faced by Sri Lanka include
       floods, cyclones, droughts and landslides. Since the country is an island with settlements
       relatively close to the coast and, in many cases, across flat lands there is limited response
       time as well as limited shelter options when disasters such as floods and cyclones/storm
       surges do strike. Such incidents and the 2004 tsunami have also led to the thinking within
       the government that they need to be more proactive in promotion of disaster preparedness
       and mitigation measures.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance

(a)    Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Bank's performance in the design stage is rated as moderately satisfactory. During the
design phase, the project team ensured that development objectives and the project scope
conformed to the emergency nature of needs that had arisen due to the disaster. The team also
ensured that the initial project implementation was rapid and responsive to identified priority
needs through a phased approach. Recognizing that the Government had limited capacity and
the central implementing agency (TAFREN) was a newly created organization with limited
knowledge of Bank procedures and guidelines, the project team incorporated a capacity building
component into the project design. While going for the dedicated new agency approach, however,
the team should also have considered the possible contentious relationship such an agency could
have with the existing government agencies/departments. This could have been mitigated
through pre-dominant use of suitable existing government resource persons in the dedicated
agency who would have had better rapport with other government agencies. This institutional
set-up in the center ultimately became a considerable stumbling block in efficient
implementation of the project. For example, since the new institution was in a way outside the
existing government structure (TAFREN/RADA), the other government departments and district
authorities did not have an effective working relationship with TAFREN/RADA. This created
disconnect and difficulties in information flow. Although data was available at the government
departmental level, it was sometimes not accessible to TAFREN/RADA and impeded work of
the two participating banks. Lack of understanding on who was responsible for reconciling the

                                                20

data was creating issues around beneficiary eligibility. It also triggered TAFREN/RADA delays
in meeting reporting and auditing requirements to IDA. The Bank team also took cognizance of
the potential governance issues which could arise due to the scale of the disaster and the required
response under the project, and took appropriate steps to address these issues through
requirements such as, independent reviews, 3rd party technical and eligibility audits, and
continuous social assessment. Overall, the flexibility of the design, the possibility of directing
funds to identified priority areas through contingent sectors/components, and the decentralized
implementation approach allowed for a greater chance of achieving the development objectives.

(b)    Quality of Supervision
       Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank team conducted regular supervision missions, with at least one and sometimes two
missions per year, including a full blown mid-term review mission and additional special visits
on a need basis. In May 2007, the Task Team Leader (TTL) moved from Head Quarters (HQ) to
Colombo which enabled continuous supervision by IDA. This contributed towards the relatively
successful completion of the operations. The task team regularly discussed key issues and the
way forward with the government, stakeholders and counterpart staff through face to face
meeting and audio/video conferencing. The project life saw only two task team leaders thereby
providing a degree of continuity to the Borrower. However, other task team members,
particularly in procurement, changed a few times during the course of implementation, which
caused some problems to both the core task team as well as the borrower. The task team also
regularly reviewed various eligibility surveys, technical and financial audits and discussed
findings and required actions with the government. Supervision missions regularly met with
various stakeholders, periodically inspected physical works in the field and conducted interviews
with beneficiaries, community groups and building materials suppliers.

(c)    Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
       Rating: Satisfactory

Strong supervision by the task team became more frequent during the last years of the project,
which allowed the project to end on a positive note that the development objectives have been
achieved. Considering that the project was designed in a relatively short period of time as an
emergency operation, and given the difficult circumstances where many tsunami affected areas
are also in the conflict, the Bank team did a commendable job both in design and supervision of
the project.

5.2    Borrower Performance

(a)    Government Performance
       Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The tsunami recovery program was a complex and challenging task for the Government to begin
with, considering the scale of the disaster and the compromised existing capacities in the various
affected regions. GoSL did make initial progress in carrying out the needs assessment and
launching the reconstruction phase. However, certain hurried decisions which lacked the


                                                 21

technical analysis required to reach an informed decision adversely affected the implementation
of the reconstruction program, particularly in the case of housing where coastal set backs were
ordered through creation of a coastal buffer zone. Although the Government acted in good faith
with intention of ensuring the safety of the people in the aftermath of the tsunami, it was a
decision taken without proper consultation with stakeholders and technical input. This led to a
reaction from the people and adversely affected the pace of reconstruction which led to the
Government ultimately reversing this policy. The government in this particular case ignored the
work already carried out in this regard under the existing laws and related government entities
such as Coastal Conservation Board (CCB). The Government also did not have a well thought
communications strategy to deal with various project related issues, interventions and associated
impacts. The absence of such a coherent strategy and approach affected the effectiveness of
communicating the reconstruction message and so the potential gains which could have been had
were not fully realized. The Government also constantly delayed submission of audit reports as
required under the legal covenants, which led to the failure to extend the project closing date.

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
        Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The implementing Agency had to face many challenges since its inception. At times the
challenges were external to the agency such as political change. The implementing agency was
initially changed with the change of the political leadership / government in Sri Lanka. The
initial implementing agency, TAFREN was replaced by a new reconstruction authority,
Reconstruction and Development Agency (RADA). This change adversely affected the pace of
implementation as the new agency took time to get its bearings. This was followed by yet
another change in the implementing agency when the Ministry of Nation Building (MoNB) took
over RADA (end of June 2007) and downsized it significantly. MoNB then decided to change its
set up through establishment of a new unit to continue to work on the tsunami reconstruction.
This led to yet another transition period again negatively impacting project implementation
progress and the project pretty much remained at a standstill for almost six months.
Implementation was also fraught with various issues related to procurement and financial
management which led to observations from the Country's Auditor General as already explained
in detail under headings of Fiduciary and Procurement respectively in section 2.4. Despite all of
these challenges, the Agency kept its focus towards the implementation of key components of
the project i.e. housing and livelihood support. This is why, although at times there were issues,
these components did well and the overall objectives were achieved.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
        Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The implementation of the project by the Government was negatively affected by the capacity
constraints leading to weak supervision and monitoring. This was further exacerbated by the
frequent changes in the implementing agency at the central level and a number of hurried
decisions mainly due to political considerations. The ongoing conflict in the north and east also
remained a serious challenge for the Government. Despite all of these circumstances, the project
mostly succeeded in attaining its development objectives through the support of all stakeholders,
especially beneficiaries themselves.


                                                22

6.  Lessons Learned

6.1 Flexibility of project design, particularly in emergency operations facilitates
    implementation and provides a greater opportunity for achieving project objectives:
    The project design was kept fairly flexible in that there were contingent components
    included with the idea that the scope of work and the areas of interventions would be
    adjusted as the project implementation proceeds based on identification and prioritization
    of emerging needs. Since this was an emergency operation it was prepared on a fast track
    basis under emergency procedures and it was not possible to cater for all needs as these
    were changing quite frequently based on the disaster situation. Therefore, the flexible
    approach used by the project worked well and could also be used while designing other
    emergency operations.

6.2 An institutional arrangement, where a central agency develops policy and strategies
    and field-based agencies implement them, works well in large scale emergency
    response and reconstruction programs: Given the unprecedented scale of the 2004
    tsunami damage, the overall needs for emergency response and reconstruction efforts in
    the aftermath of the disaster posed a formidable challenge. The task was exceptionally
    difficult considering the conflict situation in the northern and eastern areas of the country,
    which were hit hardest by the tsunami. In such circumstances, the institutional
    arrangement to implement the key housing component, namely, having a centralized
    policy and strategy formulation at TAFREN / RADA / MoNB with a field based
    implementation agencies i.e. South West Housing Reconstruction Unit (SWHRU) and
    North East Housing Reconstruction Unit (NEHRU), was well conceived and worked
    adequately. However, this ideally should have allowed more rooms for local innovation,
    improvisation and development of localized solutions. During implementation, there
    were incipient tensions between the center and periphery from time to time. RADA at the
    center and the field-based agencies often had differing views, which led to situations
    where the field agencies sometimes used approaches that they felt were more appropriate
    within the confines of the policy. Meanwhile, the province and the local governments
    never really had a large role in the tsunami reconstruction efforts, and their roles will
    have to be defined in the future disaster management and reconstruction.

6.3 Training, continuous social mobilization and effective strategic communications are
    critical for the success of projects and consolidation of gains: The project had a
    provision for technical assistance and training of artisans / homeowners in safe
    construction techniques and guidelines. Such trainings not only built the required
    capacity of the home owners and artisans to the level where the pre-dominantly
    homeowner driven housing reconstruction program achieved its target numbers rather
    also built capacity of the local construction industry through providing skilled labor.
    Social mobilization was not extensively carried out under the program. Although under
    the housing program there was a provision for formation of Village Rehabilitation
    Committees (VRC), there is little evidence to suggest that this happened across the board
    or that these committees significantly contributed toward mobilizing communities. Non
    Governmental Organizations (NGOs) involved in the housing program also did not have


                                              23

    social mobilization as a primary focus area, rather they were committed to reconstruction
    under the donor driven housing program. There was also provision for a continuous
    information dissemination campaign under the housing component; however, such a
    campaign under an overall strategic communications vision did not materialize. There
    were limited housing information products such as frequently asked questions (FAQs)
    and posters, which were developed on a need basis, but lacked an effective dissemination
    plan. Among other impacts, limited strategic interventions in communications led to a
    lack of understanding of the program and its objectives across many quarters which
    translated into lack of commitment in implementation support.

6.4 Development of operational manuals and their official notification by the
    government / implementing agency clarifies the roles and responsibilities of multiple
    players and partners involved in the program and facilitate smooth implementation:
    Detailed operational manuals (OM), particularly for the housing component, were
    developed under the project. The OM was officially notified by the government which
    should have led to a clear understanding of roles and responsibilities by all players and
    partners involved in implementation of the program. In reality implementation posed
    challenges in terms of coordination between different players, especially commercial
    banks and District level set-ups with the center. In such programs, where there are a
    diverse range of players / partners and implementation is across a vast scattered area,
    normally development of such OMs does play a positive role in effective implementation
    serving as a guiding document. Preparation of such manuals under a post disaster
    situation needs to consider:

     Participatory and inclusive preparation of the manual, in the light of international
        practices, tailored to local needs;
     Clear upfront clarification of the roles and responsibilities of multiple players and
        partners, including government institutions, civil society, beneficiaries, e.g., while the
        OM is finalized over a period of time, a set of operating instructions can help in the
        early stages of program implementation;
     A binding implementation framework that mandates official notification of the
        manual and monitoring mechanisms/periodic audits for ensuring compliance; and
     The manual to remain "alive" ­ in terms of being responsive to emerging
        requirements and localized solutions ­ while remaining within the confines of the
        program policy framework.

6.5 Effective planning in the areas of logistics and material supply play a vital role in
    the success of emergency response/reconstruction projects: Most of the houses
    damaged/destroyed by the tsunami were located in relatively accessible areas barring the
    conflict ridden areas of the North East. Therefore, logistics in this particular case in
    relation to transportation of materials to construction sites was not largely an issue.
    However, the huge demand of construction materials owing to the tsunami and ensuing
    construction boom caused a sharp increase in material prices. In such situations, pro-
    active material facilitation measures by the project such as encouragement of bulk
    community procurement on a wide scale and discussions / consultations with leading
    construction material manufacturers and other fiscal measures by the government to


                                            24

    counter rising prices could have further positively impacted the project outcomes. The
    VRCs could also have been utilized in encouraging community led initiatives towards
    material facilitation.

6.6 Third-party technical audits, independent financial audits and eligibility surveys in
    addition to existing government mechanisms are good tools for reducing the risks
    associated with governance issues and increase the transparency and credibility of
    programs: The inclusion of requirements of the 3rd party technical audits, eligibility
    surveys and independent audits, in addition to existing government mechanisms such as
    the Auditor General's Office, played an important role in increasing transparency and the
    credibility of the project. Such audits are especially relevant for housing reconstruction
    and livelihood support programs where grants were given to a target population under the
    certain criteria.

6.7 The home owner driven approach with necessary technical assistance allows
    affected communities to develop ownership of the program and yields results: The
    home-owner approach adopted under the project proved a great success. Many
    beneficiaries preferred this approach to the donor driven program. Home owners under
    this approach had the incentive of constructing houses of their choice and requirements
    under certain safety guidelines. They also received useful training in construction and
    supervision and their participation in the reconstruction of their houses gave strong
    ownership to the program and beneficiaries felt empowered. The program also allowed:

         Ownership by affected communities of housing solutions;
         Greater room for inclusion of beneficiary choices (especially vis-à-vis
            architectural aspects);
         Promotion of safety culture and awareness;
         Skill development of affected communities;
         Pace of reconstruction (interest of beneficiary); and
         Reduction in pressures on materials supply chain through staggered construction
            (especially in post-disaster reconstruction situations, provides supply-based
            controls over material prices).

    In such home-owner driven programs, there is also a need to provide special assistance to
    vulnerable groups such as female headed households and the elderly so that they can
    reconstruct their houses in a timely manner since they are intrinsically disadvantaged in
    achieving similar physical progress and results. The project did not have any special
    arrangements to cater for this particular segment of the affected population. Similar
    programs in the future should be designed to provide greater and extended support to
    such groups - the modus operandi for extending such support should be made a specific
    subject of discussion at multi-stakeholder consultations and policy discourses.

6.8 In the case of emergency operations, the effects of the disaster on government and
    implementing agencies with respect to their capacities should not be underestimated
    and project targets and implementation period should be planned/designed
    accordingly: The project was an emergency project and was rapidly processed under the

                                            25

     Bank's emergency guidelines. Under normal circumstances for routine development
     projects, ambitious targets and deadlines may be achieved with relative ease. However,
     in emergency situations when the government's own capacity is also adversely affected
     by the disaster, a more conservative approach yields better results. Although targets were
     largely achieved in this project, the government machinery was stretched to the limit and
     time extensions were requested which could not materialize due to a variety of reasons.
     Additionally, creation of a new institutional set up in the aftermath of a disaster for
     implementation of the reconstruction effort also raises questions, particularly in relation
     to the ability of such a set up to flourish and take on the reconstruction task in such a
     short period of time and also on the sustainability of such an institution. RADA received
     a large amount of funding from donors but could not build capacity to its optimum level
     and was ultimately prematurely wound up by the government and its functions given to
     the MoNB. In the case of Pakistan, the Earthquake Reconstruction & Rehabilitation
     Authority (ERRA), which was created in the aftermath of the 2005 earthquake did
     exceptionally well in developing capacity and effectively responding to the disaster. This
     was perhaps possible because, as opposed to RADA, ERRA was formed with a time
     bound, yet clear mandate, and was staffed through existing government resources with
     key experts hired in through donor assistance. It was, therefore, seen as a Government led
     donor assisted entity having full support of other implementing government line agencies.

6.9  Joint strategic planning and coordination amongst different donors, especially after
     disasters, allows for a more effective response through avoiding overlaps and
     addressing priority areas to the benefit of the country and its affected population: If
     donors work together, especially in disaster response and coordinate their plans to avoid
     intervention overlaps and gaps, there is a positive impact on the overall response. In this
     project, different donors such as IFRC, ADB, SDC, KFW and UN-Habitat worked
     together as per their comparative advantages. There were joint discussions and planning
     including a joint strategy on program closure.

6.10 Varying approaches in implementation by different players in the same
     reconstruction program in the aftermath of a disaster may give rise to issues such a
     inequity: Although the IDA financed housing component of the project had one
     implementation approach, i.e. home-owner driven reconstruction, there was another
     approach of contractor-driven housing reconstruction under the same wider housing
     reconstruction program financed by other bilateral donors and implemented mostly
     through NGOs. The latter program also had the possibility of "top-ups" which meant that
     some home owners received grants of up to LKR 1 million rather than the normal LKR
     250,000 government housing grant. Additionally, the distribution of these top-ups on a
     geographical level was also disproportionate with the South West receiving more top-ups
     than the North East resulting in inequity issues (See section 2.4, Social Issues for more
     details). Another unintended impact of the varying housing reconstruction approaches
     was that the home-owner driven housing program empowered the client but ran into
     bottlenecks due to the inflated cost of materials partially triggered by the donor driven
     housing program.




                                             26

6.11 Effective Grievance Redressal Mechanisms and documentation are essential for
     addressing the concerns and issues of beneficiaries and allowing for smooth
     implementation of the program: A robust grievance redressal mechanism (GRM) was
     designed into the project with Village, District and Divisional level Grievance Redressal
     Committees established to deal with grievances ranging from land issues to other housing
     related complaints. In order to deal with grievances related to housing damage, special
     District Teams with the required technical skills were formed in order to reassess the
     houses which had genuine complaints against the already undertaken assessment of the
     Damage Assessment Teams (DAT). Both teams comprised of separate officials so as to
     avoid a conflict of interest situation. During implementation, the GRM did not function
     to its full potential as was envisaged mainly due to poor documentation of grievances
     (although beneficiary log books were maintained) and the manner in which the Regional
     Housing Units were wound up. However, the GRM did serve the purpose of increasing
     accountability and providing the beneficiaries with a framework through which to resolve
     their complaints. Setting up effective Grievance Redressal Mechanisms requires:
          Structured documentation, compilation of grievance data.
          Grievance tracking and redressal (Response-Time) monitoring systems.
          Central oversight and control of grievance redressal functions, and decentralized
             grievance resolution arrangements with local participation.

     Such mechanisms help in:
          Speedier resolution of grievances leading to faster disbursements and program
             completion.
          Progressive incorporation of beneficiary and community feedback in the project
             implementation framework and arrangements.
          Reduces reputation risks emanating from lack of beneficiary satisfaction.

6.12 Disaster preparedness component for emergency reconstruction projects: When
     disasters strike, the primary focus always remains on the early recovery and
     reconstruction efforts. This is understandable since almost all emergency projects list
     these as the primary objectives one way or another. However, this does not underscore
     the need for incorporation of disaster preparedness elements in such projects. Such post-
     disaster situations provide unique opportunities to mitigate some elements of disaster
     risks through preparing communities to better deal with them. Communities are more
     willing and focused on disaster management issues in the aftermath of disasters and
     government resources are also mobilized, creating a favorable environment for
     implementation of such disaster preparedness components. In this project 'disaster
     preparedness' elements were never really built into the recovery initiatives. For instance,
     those areas where the mangrove forests and coral reefs remained intact were less
     impacted by the tsunami in contrast to areas where prior environment denudation had
     taken place. Disaster mitigation and preparedness initiatives, such as mangrove
     reforestation, could have provided a unique opportunity to complement the build back
     better approach.




                                             27

6.13    An effective Reporting Monitoring and Evaluation system is essential for enabling
        informed decision making at both policy and operational levels: Reporting and
        monitoring was carried out under the project at various levels. However, it was more
        need-based rather than institutionalized periodic reporting. A comprehensive and
        integrated Reporting Monitoring and Evaluation (RME) system did not materialize under
        the project.   Regular reporting was happening at the regional level, particularly in
        SWHRU, however, the upwards flow of data all the way up to TAFREN/ RADA/ MoNB
        where meaningful evaluation was supposed to take place and resultant downward flow of
        strategic direction was not fully realized. Such a system could have assisted the
        government in an even better implementation of the project. An effective (lean and mean)
        Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation System is essential for:
             Timely identification of problems and issues, through data-based quantification,
                trends analysis ­ and development of informed solutions.
             Enabling informed decision making at Policy and operational levels.
             Mid-course corrections to the program.
             Tracking of project outputs and intermediate outcomes.
             Provide harmonized and comparable data for progressive program monitoring,
                control, and mid-term/final program evaluations.

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

        (a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The actual position is that GoSL has accepted that the refund of US$137,391.74 related to the
misprocurement of motor-bikes will be made. There were procedural delays in collecting the
required information due to the change of institutions which handled this subject since July 2006.
However, in early 2009 all the information required was finally submitted to the Treasury and
IDA received this refund on May 21, 2009.

        (b) Co-financiers

There were no co-financiers involved in TERP-1 and TERP-2. IDA is currently managing a trust
fund of US$ 25 million contributed by IFRC, which specifically finances housing reconstruction
in the former buffer zone (referred to Phase II). The IFRC Trust Fund is outside the scope of this
ICR.

        (c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

None received.




                                                28

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                          Actual/Latest
            Components              Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
                                     (USD millions)      Estimate (USD
                                                           millions)            Appraisal

Housing Reconstruction                     60.00               65.00              108%
Capacity Building                          10.00                8.00               80%
Roads, Water Supply, other
Infrastructure                             41.00               34.60               84%

Livelihood Support                         35.00               32.90               94%


               Total Baseline Cost       146.00               140.50               96%

Physical Contingencies                      0.00                0.00               0.00

Price Contingencies                         4.00                0.00               0.00
               Total Project Costs       150.00               140.50               94%
Front-end fee PPF                           0.00                0.00               00%
Front-end fee IBRD                          0.00                0.00               0.00
         Total Financing Required        150.00               140.50               94%




(b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal    Actual/Latest
            Source of Funds            Type of Co                                Percentage of
                                        financing      Estimate       Estimate
                                                     (USD millions)(USD millions)  Appraisal

Borrower                                            0.00           0.00          0.00
International Development Association
(IDA)                                               120.00         115.20        96%

IDA GRANT FOR NATURAL
DISASTERS                                           30.00          25.8          84%




                                               29

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

All components have been covered in sufficient detail under Section 2.2. However, one of the
main components of the project i.e., housing reconstruction requires more explanation in relation
to quality aspects. These aspects are covered in detail under this section as follows:

A2.      Technical Quality Assessment of the Homeowner Driven Housing Program

A2.1     Background

Under the institutional set up, the technical supervision and physical progress monitoring of the
homeowner driven housing construction program was the primary responsibility of the divisional
secretaries and the project implementation units; South West Housing Reconstruction Unit and
North East Housing Reconstruction Unit. The government engaged Third Party Technical
Quality Assurance Auditors to strengthen the technical supervision and quality assessment
processes as well as to conduct a third party technical audit of the housing reconstruction
program.

As part of the concurrent audit, the methodology used by the third party auditor included a
review of the mid course actions being taken by the project implementation units to rectify the
technical supervision and quality limitations pointed by the technical audit team. This entailed
revisiting some of the houses identified for retrofitting. The audit primarily entailed an overall
technical evaluation of the reconstruction program at the end of each construction cycle. The
technical quality audits for Phase 1 of the housing program were done based on the `acceptable
level of compliance' with the technical guidelines outlined by the project. The technical auditor
established `technical quality control and compliance check lists', for the audit. As part of the
concurrent audit, the consultants identified the `non-starters' so as to enable the project-
implementing units to take necessary steps to bring back these families into the program. Since
repairs of partly damaged houses were underway and in many cases completed, the third party
technical audit focused primarily on the construction supervision and quality auditing of the fully
damaged houses.

The Government engaged the Central Engineering Consultancy Bureau (CECB) as the technical
auditor for the Phase 1 and GreenTech Consultants as the auditor for the final audit for Phase 1
of the housing program. Both these audits have used common methodologies for determining the
technical quality of construction. These are based on the following broad indicators: (a) type of
foundation, construction of plinth beam, construction of column footings for foundation, (b)
construction of tie beam for superstructure, (c) roof anchoring, (d) quality of materials and
workmanship, (e) provision for kitchen, and (f) construction of toilet. Reconstruction of houses
was based on the `core house concept' stipulated by the project3.


3Core housing unit is defined as `Unit that can be separated from the rest of the foundation to have two independent
rooms, a kitchen and a toilet that can be built and completed with one finished room for occupation. The minimum
plinth area is determined as 500 ft2.


                                                        30

A2.2     Scope of the Audits

The concurrent technical audit of the Phase 1 was done from March 2006 to September 2006.
Due to contractual issues, the concurrent audit done by the CECB was terminated after October
2006. Institutional and procurement delays in engaging the technical auditor limited the
effectiveness of the audit as a quality enhancement tool. To determine the overall quality of the
housing reconstruction program, the Government subsequently engaged the GreenTech
Consultants to conduct a one-time/point audit for both phases of the housing reconstruction
program. While the concurrent technical audit for the Phase 1 was based on a monthly sampling
of 5% of the fully damaged units, the second stage one point audit done by the GreenTech
Consultants is based on a 10% of the Phase 1 fully damaged units.

A2.3     Technical Audit Findings

Concurrent Audit

The concurrent technical audit undertaken for the phase 1 from March 2006 to September 2006
established that nearly 60% of the units did not meet the plinth and column footing and roof
anchoring guidelines stipulated by the project during the initial implementation phase of the
project. Most of the technical inadequacies pointed by the auditor have been subsequently
addressed with the direct intervention by the technical staff.

 Table 1            Percentage of Units With Technical Acceptability
                       Plinth and                                                    NGO Supplementary
                    Column Footing   Tie Beam for     Roof          Material and         Assistance
Districts           for Foundation Super Structure  Anchoring       workmanship

Ampara                    7.8            75            27                95                63.7

Batticaloa               14.6            75            73               100                 5.3

Mullaitivu                 2.5           63            56               100                  -

Jaffna                   19.3            100           71               100                  -

Galle                    47.3            88             3                99                81.2

Hambantota               70.1            94            13               100                88.1
Kalutara                 51.7            79             2                99                78.2
Total                    39.1            71            39                90                37.1
Source: Monthly Audit Reports; CECB; RADA, Number of Units Audited: 4640, March-Sept 2006

The audit has estimated that more than two third of the units have met the tie beam requirement.
However, more than 90% of the units used acceptable level of materials and workmanship across
all structural works (Table 1). Interestingly, the cyclonic threats experienced in the North Eastern
parts of the country have increased the awareness of the people to improve roof anchoring. An
important observation made during the concurrent auditing is that the levels of supplementary
assistance provided by national and international non-government agencies have contributed for
a higher technical quality through the application of better construction practices.




                                                  31

Overall Technical Quality of Houses

The overall technical quality of houses was assessed through a one-point sample audit for the
units constructed during phase 1 of the housing program. The audit findings are summarized in
Table 2.

          Table 2               Technical Quality Parameters
                                                                                      Phase 1
                                               Sample Size                             1866
                                                                                Technical Quality
                                                                                Index (%)
        Foundation                                                                     88.8
                  1Core housing elements: Acceptable                                   80.9
                  2Plinth area equals or more than 500 ft2                             96.8
                  3Depth of foundation: more than 1 ft                                 97.6

                  4Width of foundation: equal or more than 1ft                         99.2
                  5Quality of works: average and above                                 98.8

                  6Quality of Rubble used: average and above                           89.4
                  7Use of DPC                                                          58.7
        Super Structure                                                                95.1
                  1Tie beam at Lintel level: Acceptable                                90.6
                  2Quality of masonry works: average and above                         99.7
                  3Quality of materials: average and above                             95.2

        Roofing                                                                        95.3
                  1Slope of roof: acceptable                                           91.9
                  2Anchoring of roof: yes                                              90.2

                  3Eves length Adequate                                                98.2

                  4Quality of works: average and above                                 99.0

                  5Quality of tiles: average and above                                 99.8
        Overall Score                                                                  92.4
       Source: Technical Audit Reports; GreenTech Consultants, RADA, September 2008.
       Note: Total number of completed fully damaged houses in Phase 1 is 18413 units.

The audit covered 10% of the completed new houses (1866 units) in the Phase 1 to determine the
overall technical quality and structural acceptability of the completed houses. Unlike the
concurrent auditing, the one time sample audit has used robust technical parameters consisting of
the quality of foundation, superstructure and roofing to determine the overall technical quality.
The audit has used fifteen critical parameters for this analysis.

The audit has observed that nearly 90% of the newly reconstructed houses completed in the
phase 1 of the program have satisfied acceptable level of technical requirements with respect to
the three structural aspects of construction; such as foundation, superstructure and roofing. This

                                                   32

is true across all structural elements and quality of materials and works used during the
construction. The only issue in which the overall quality is not satisfactory relates to the
inadequate application of damp proof course (DPC). The main reason for a relatively lower level
of technical quality is the cost escalation that occurred particularly during the later part of the
project implementation (Table 3).


          Table 3:   Technical Quality Index (%) (One Time Audit)
        District                     Phase 1
                                           Super
                       Foundation        Structure       Roofing           Total
        Ampara            85.71            95.32           98.86           92.02
        Batticaloa        92.03            96.65           97.23           94.69
        Jaffna            75.09            76.35           90.43           80.46
        Galle              87.8            98.68           92.19           91.43
        Hambantota        96.55            97.7            94.48           96.09
        Kalutara          85.53            89.87           86.58           86.75
        Total             88.78            95.16           95.83            92.4

An important audit observation is that even though the South Western districts have been
supported with higher level of supplementary assistances and relatively improved access to
building materials and labor, these factors did not improve the overall technical quality of the
housing reconstruction in these districts. On the contrary, the overall quality of houses in the
South Western districts, particularly in Kalutara district, has shown higher weakness. The main
reason for the relatively higher quality of houses constructed in the North East, despite of the
security related mobility and uncertainties and consequential price escalations, is the cultural
value to construct better houses supported by a stronger house construction expertise among the
beneficiaries in the North and East.

Other Findings and Lessons

The third party technical audits have concluded that 90% of the houses constructed during the
housing reconstruction program have met satisfactory level of technical quality stipulated for
foundation, superstructure and roofing. However, due to the methodology and data limitations,
the audit could not conclude whether 90% of the completed units satisfy all the technical quality
parameters simultaneously, even though a scientifically randomized sample would indicate such
a conclusion. The audit methodology and application of parametric analyses for developing
composite technical index and variance analysis should be strengthened in future technical
audits.

The overall and final technical audit conclusions should be based on two sets of analyses. First,
the technical auditor should select at random a set of houses, which will be audited periodically
during the various construction stages till they are completed. The second analysis should be
based on the one point audit at the conclusion of the project as part of a post evaluation. Since by
the end of the project, most of the houses would have completed construction, a composite
analysis of these two sets of audits should be basis of determining the overall technical housing

                                                 33

quality. These methodology issues should be addressed during the early stage of the project
implementation process.

An important lesson learnt from the audit relates to the timing of the audit and the feedback
systems established for strengthening the audit effectiveness and usefulness. Since the main
objective of a concurrent audit is to provide valuable feedbacks based on field assessments
related to the quality of technical supervision and compliance with technical guidelines, it is
important to procure the third party technical consultants during the early phase of the
construction. Besides, the project management unit should establish effective feedback systems
to undertake mid course corrections of the technical suggestions provided by the technical
auditor.

Preparation of a technical manual stating the minimum and acceptable technical guidelines and
building specifications within the framework of financial and technical feasibilities should be the
starting point for effective technical supervision. The technical guidelines stipulated in the
technical manual should be basis of the audit, and it is important to agree with the project
implementing and monitoring agencies on the process auditing and technical auditing criteria
during the inception stage of the technical audit.

The audit has reinforced the need to disseminate information to the beneficiaries related to the
minimum technical specifications stipulated by the project while processing and approving
financial assistance as well as for undertaking the technical audit. Since the knowledge base of
the beneficiaries is critical in a homeowner housing program, it is important to implement these
aspects through effective communication and knowledge management activities.

The mismatch between the financial assistance and the minimum technical requirements
stipulated under the project is a serious audit issue in the case of homeowner driven housing
program. This is particularly serious in the case of vulnerable families who cannot contribute
additional resources either in cash or in kind. Consistency between the technical requirements
and financial viability of the construction should be established.




                                                 34

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


Not applicable (emergency response project)




                                            35

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a)     Task Team members

              Names                            Title                   Unit
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Toshiaki Keicho                Senior Urban Environment Specialist
                               (Task Team Leader)                     SASDU

Christoph Pusch                Lead Specialist-Disaster Management
                               (former Task Team Leader)              SASDU

Haris Khan                     Infrastructure Specialist (ETC/ICR
                               Lead Author)                           SASDU

Sumith Pilapitiya              Lead Environmental Specialist          SASDI
Tara Vishwanath                Lead Economist                         MNSED
Naresha Duraiswamy             Senior Operations Officer              SASDU
Miriam Witana                  Procurement Specialist                 SARPS
Deepal Fernando                Senior Procurement Specialist          SARPS
Ambar Narayan                  Senior Economist                       PRMPR
Narayanan Edadan               Consultant                             SASDU
Zafar Iqbal Raja               Senior Highway Engineer                SASDT
Kumari Vinodhani Navaratne     Public Health Specialist               SASHD
Amali Rajapaksa                Senior Infrastructure Specialist       SASDT
Asta Olesen                    Senior Social Development Specialist   SASDI
Jiwanka B. Wickramasinghe      Senior Financial Management
                               Specialist                             SARFM

Samantha Prasada Wijesundera   Procurement Specialist                 SASDU
Lilian MacArthur               Program Assistant                      SASDO
Samantha L. Forusz             Senior Social Development Specialist   SASDI
Priyantha Jayasuriya Arachchi  Team Assistant                         SASDO
Nadeera Rajapakse              Consultant                             SASDI
Sunethra Chandikra Samakaroon  Procurement Specialist                 SARPS
Jaswant Channe                 Consultant                             SASDU




                                              36

(b) Staff Time and Cost



                                    Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                 No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                 46                         259.65
  FY06                                                               0.00
  FY07                                                               0.00
  FY08                                                               0.00
                         Total:        46                         259.65
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                 36                         186.94
  FY06                                 56                         245.30
  FY07                                 39                         147.40
  FY08                                 38                         138.56
  FY09                                 23                         110.46
                         Total:      192                          828.66




                                     37

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Formal Beneficiary survey was not undertaken at the time of the ICR (Core ICR).




                                             38

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Summary of Workshop Proceedings and Discussions

A stakeholder workshop was jointly organized by the GoSL and the World Bank at Batticaloa on
February 25, 2009. The workshop proceedings commenced at 0930 with an opening speech from
the Government Agent (GA) for Batticaloa followed by a speech from the GA for Ampara. Both
officials gave accounts of the losses/damages which occurred in their respective districts as a
result of the tsunami and the reconstruction and rehabilitation progress that was achieved under
various sectors under the project. The officials also gave an account of the various challenges
that they faced and how they were overcome.

This was followed by a presentation by the Task Team Leader for the project, Toshiaki Keicho
who gave an overview of the program, the outcomes that were achieved and the
issues/challenges that were faced during the course of implementation.

The last formal presentation was given by Haris Khan, Lead ICR Author who presented the Main
Lessons Learnt from the project. The presentation was followed by a question and answer
session and a free flowing group discussion which lasted for about 2 hours. During this
discussion, the Bank staff encouraged participants to give their point of view in relation to the
project and share their experiences both in terms of policy and implementation at central and
operational levels.

Following are some of the key points that came out as a result of these discussions:
     An institutional change also usually results in a policy and attitudinal change which
        proves detrimental to the reconstruction pace and confuses beneficiaries;
     In the absence of proper training and clear guidelines, damage assessment by different
        teams from various institutions may give rise to consistency issues;
     After disasters, the efforts of NGOs need to be coordinated by the Government to avoid
        overlaps, gaps and inconsistent implementation approaches contrary to agreed policies;
     There need to be special considerations for vulnerable groups in post disaster situations;
     Formulation of business standards and their wide dissemination leads to more effective
        implementation and allows for more accountability particularly in relation to payment
        delays to beneficiaries in the project;
     It is essential to have peace to guarantee sustainable development and reconstruction;
     Village Rehabilitation Committees and NGOs could have played a more proactive and
        effective role in socially mobilizing people towards timely and safe reconstruction;
     A strategic Information, Education and Communication (IEC) campaign could have
        assisted in clearing beneficiary confusion on policy and communicating the program
        benefits in order to maximize results of the reconstruction effort.




                                                 39

List of participants excluding Bank staff is given below:

Name of participant            Designation
V. Sambasivam                  Deputy Project Director (THRP)
S. Arudchelvam                 Development Officer KPDS Office
T. Selvaratnam                 Engineer NEHRP
C.P. Vinayagamoorthy           UN Habitat
S. Giridaran                   District Secretary/KPN
S. Anverdeen                   Deputy Project Director Ampara
V. Anagaratnam                 District Secretary Shirukkovil
I.H.M. Ansar                   District Secretary Pottuvil
C. Jagarayan                   GA
Mrs. Umar Nrienjanam           ADP MNB&EID
Mrs. Latha Sritharan           DA MNB&EID
V. Varuthevam                  NHDA
N.Thiruvarudshelvan            Additional District Secretary
C.Pathmanathan                 Project Director NEHRP
Eng. Aers.                     Engineer
J. Jeyakumar                   SDS
Fr.T.S.Sylvester               Director ­ CARITAS EHRD
M.F.M. Suhail                  DU MNB&EID
U.L.A. Azeez                   Additional GA - Ampara
I.M. Haniffa                   District Secretary - Ninthavur
S. Thyeegan                    IEC
M.C. Ansar                     District Secretary - Kattankudy




                                                40

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


  TERP COMPLETION REPORT BY MINISTRY OF NATION BUILDING & ESTATE
                             DEVELOPMENT (KEY SECTIONS)

1.      Housing Reconstruction
Housing Policy
At the beginning of 2005, the Government enforced a buffer zone of 200 m in the North & East
and 100m in South & West. The houses damaged or destroyed beyond this buffer zone come
under the phase I of the Home Owner Driven Program. The buffer zone was revised in late 2005
due to scarcity of land for house construction. Following this relaxation Reconstruction and
Development Agency (RADA) issued a Revised Housing Policy in April 2006, after extensive
consultation with the District Secretaries and all stakeholders. The revised policy addresses most
of the housing requirements of the displaced, except for the tenants and extended families. It was
envisaged that the needs of tenants and extended families will be addressed in Phase III of the
housing program. The core objectives of revised policy are:
         A house for a house, regardless of ownership
         All affected shelters to be considered, regardless of location
         Community participation
         Equity between beneficiaries
         All affected people to know their housing solution
         Without affecting houses already built by donors, generalize the use of owner-driven
           scheme supplemented by regulated donor assistance

The revised housing policy gave the authorization to the District Secretaries to assume overall
responsibility for the implementation of all Tsunami Housing projects in their districts, in
consultation and coordination with affected parties, donor agencies, state agencies and relevant
stakeholders. RADA was given the authority to monitor the implementation at centre.

Institutional Arrangement
A consortium of five donors led by an International Funding Institution (IFI) was providing the
financial and technical assistance to the GoSL for implementing the owner driven program. Two
project offices, South West Housing Reconstruction Unit (SWHRU) and North East Housing
Reconstruction Unit (NEHRU) were charged with Implementation respectively for South West
and North East of the Island. At the district level they are coordinated by District Secretaries and
central level By RADA. Before establishment of RADA, by a presidential directive in November
2005, Task force for Rebuilding Nation (TAFREN) was responsible for policy guidance and
monitoring at central level under the direction of Ministry of Finance and Planning finally in
January 2007, RADA was brought under the Ministry of Nation Building & Estate Infrastructure
Development. The two commercial banks nearly Peoples Bank and the Bank of Ceylon release
housing grants installments to the Tsunami beneficiaries' accounts, on the beneficiary list
approved by Divisional Secretariat, which is reimbursed by the donors.




                                                41

Achievement
The table below gives the progress as at end of 2008, on the phase I of Home Owner Driven
housing program funded by IDA as reported by respective district secretaries.

                  The Home Owner Driven Housing Programme ­ Phase I
  S. No      Province /       Damage              Total     Completed Case         Balance
             District         Category            Number    Load                   Case
                              Partly   Fully      of Case   No.        %           Load
                                                  Load
  North
  1          Mullaitivu       -        3,357      3,357     2,234      66.55       1,123
  2          Jaffna           2,040    2,354      4,394     2,994      68.14       1,400
  East
  3          Batticaloa       4,820    9,618      14,438    13,515     93.61       923
  4          Ampara           6,991    3,856      10,847    10,372     95.62       475
  South
  5          Galle            6,760    2,556      9,316     9,129      97.99       187
  6          Hambantota       1,121    364        1,485     1,481      99.73       4
  West
  7          Kalutara         3,402    920        4,322     4,279      99.01       43
  Total                       25,134 23,025       48,159    44,004                 4,155


2.     Road Sector

Beginning of the Project Road is at Km 46.5 south of Kalutara and ends at 161.5 at the outskirts
of Matara. The existing road has a minimum of 7.4 meter width throughout. It has shoulders of
about 1 meter width. The existing pavement generally consists of a flexible bituminous surfaced
one exhibiting varying degree of distress. Substantial lengths of the project road are in an
advanced stage of deterioration and have been identified for reconstruction. With these
exceptions, the pavement has been designed to include a bituminous profile correction course
followed by the construction of strengthening and wearing course overlays to appropriately
designed thickness. Shoulders vary in width and are mixture of earth and gravel with the
majority suffering from erosion and general wear resulting in "drop off" at the junction between
the pavement and shoulders, creating a significant safety hazard. To assure safety and better
pedestrian and cycle traffic, hard shoulders will be provided throughout the length of the road.

The period of consultant contract was extended from 17th May 2007 to end of June 2007 due to
construction contract agreements having to be extended by one month due to various reasons.




                                                42

Contracts for Construction Works
The road was divided into 03 packages for tendering and construction purposes:
 Pack/No Road Section                       Length of Km        Contract Price (Rs.)
 1           Kalutara-Ambalangoda           40 kms              776,982,329.20
 2           Ambalangoda-Unawatuna          40 kms              761,231,230.21
 3           Unawatuna-Matara               40 kms              905,379,968.50
 Total                                                          2,443,593,527.91


Benefits
Improvements of proposed road have created beneficiary impacts at national, regional, district,
and divisional and local levels. This road is one of the most significant national roads
contributing to the various socio-economic connections between Western and Southern
provinces. At present this road is the principal route for the transport of goods and people
between Southern to Western provinces. The government's ambitious development program to
rebuild the tsunami affected areas in the Southern Province.            The impact of this road
improvement had not been confined to Kalutara, Galle and Matara Districts. Its impact had
spread to other districts as well because this road provides transportation up to Hambantota
District in the Southern Province and to Colombo District in the Western Province. This is the
initial step to provide well designed road to connect the capital City of Colombo to the East
Coast in order to promote regional connectivity, amelioration of disparity of economic and other
gains confined to scattered parts of the country. The road length proposed for improvement runs
through several town centers in the Western and Southern provinces including, Kalutara,
Beruwela, Bentota, Balapitiya, Ambalangoda, Hikkaduwa, Galle, Habaraduwa Weligama and
Matara.

3.      Health Sector

The Health Sector component was implemented under the Ministry of Health Care and Nutrition.
Under this component, several activities were to be carried out, such as; Reconstruction and
refurbishment of offices of Deputy Provincial Directors Health Services (DPDHS Offices) in
Kalmunai, Galle and Matara; Improving the transport facilities of the Medicals Supplies Division
and Health Education Bureau; Consultancy services to supervise reconstruction/refurbishment of
all donor funded health institutions; Replenishment of Drugs for Medical Supplies Division and
the reimbursing of funds utilized under Health Sector Development Project on Epidemic
Preparedness Activities carried out by DPDHS Offices, Family Health Bureau and Epidemic
Preparedness Unit of the Ministry of Health Care and Nutrition. The Management Development
and Planning Unit (MDPU) of the Ministry of Health Care and Nutrition which coordinated all
health related tsunami rehabilitation activities had been entrusted to coordinate the above
activities as well. There were several delays encountered entrusting to coordinate these activities
to the MDPU. In addition, delays were encountered in getting concurrence and clearance from
the World Bank side for awarding contracts relating to some activities .Therefore, construction
of DPDHS offices in Kalmunai, Galle and Matara could not be done. Further an amount of US
$ 542,348.15 incurred under IDA funds for the importation of vehicles for improving the
transport facilities of the Medical Supplies Division and Health Education Bureau and the initial
payment made for the construction of DPDHS office in Kalmunai had to be refunded to the IDA
on the basis of that the transactions were occurred after the closing date of the project. As a result,

                                                43

Government of Sri Lanka (GoSL) had to bear such cost under GoSL funds. The funds required
for construction of DPDHS offices in Kalmunai, Galle and Matara are also provided by GoSL.
During the project period the following expenses were met under IDA funds.

                            Activity                  Expenditure SLRS
            1) Replenishment of Drugs for Medical         94,539,939.00
            Supplies Division

            2) Epidemic Preparedness Activities           6,012,505.00


            3) Consultancy services on                    44,841,375.00
            reconstruction /refurbishment of all
            donor funded health institutions
            4) Administrative expenses                     272,058.00
                              Total                      145,665,877.00

4.      Livelihood Support

The GoSL decided in early January 2005 to implement an Immediate Cash Grants Programme to
support the day to day life of affected people in the tsunami disaster areas. In this regard the
Treasury had issued instructions to District Secretaries, Divisional Secretaries, Two Commercial
banks and Regional Development Banks to implement this program on an urgent basis. In the
districts of Jaffna and Kilinochchi this program was implemented through Regional
Development Banks (RDBs) and required funds for these RDBs were released by the District
Secretaries. The procedure adopted for this program was very effective since the affected
families under this program had been identified through the Grama Niladhari and the Divisional
Secretary .Accordingly; payments were made by the banks based on the certified list which was
submitted by the Divisional Secretary to the banks. The widely spread State Bank Net Work was
able to make the payments to the affected families without delay except in the districts of
Kilinochchi and Jaffna. In the districts of Kilinochchi and Jaffna, payments were made to the
affected families through the RDBs. The funds required for the RDBs were released by the
respective District Secretaries. Therefore, the most of the tsunami affected families were able to
satisfy their basic needs at that time where cash would have been urgently required to obtain the
essential goods and services. Further, this program exceeded the initially forecasted number of
affected families as well as the amount required to be paid. As a result, this program ended up
with utilizing Rs.4.12 Bn approximately US $ 41.8 Mn. Out of this amount, US$ 34.4 Mn was
financed by the IDA and balance amount of US $ 7.4Mn was born by the GoSL.

                       Tsunami Cash Grant Beneficiaries Summary
                  1st Tranch           2st Tranch         3st Tranch           4st Tranch
                  No of                No of              No of                No of
 Description      Beneficiaries        Beneficiaries      Beneficiaries        Beneficiaries

 Livelihood Cash Grant

 Total                        258,850           258,634              175,730         187,259


                                                44

Key Factors affecting Implementation of Owner Driven Housing Reconstruction Program

Absence of clear communication strategy
This can be categorized further as follows in the different levels:
         I) Between Donor Agency and the Implementing Agency/Executing Agency.
        II)
Between Executing Agency and District/Divisional Administration.
       III) Between District Administration and the Beneficiaries.
       IV) Between Implementing Agencies and Media.

The Progress report of Ministry of Finance & Planning and RADA for 2006 states that "The
program has suffered due to the absence of a clear communication (beneficiaries' entitlement,
redressal mechanism, and media relation strategy. The Policy and implementation guidelines
were not adequately understood by the Divisional administration that was responsible for
beneficiaries' selection. Therefore, considerable ineligible cases were included in the caseload
and this was detected in the third party audit.

Non implementation of skill training program of construction workers and Information
Communication strategy
In the conflict affected area Housing Program NEHRP implemented effective training program
and Communication strategy among the beneficiaries and this resulted in success story. However
in the Tsunami Reconstruction, District technical unit which was under the District
administration was expected to implement this sub component, but this is not done efficiently.

Absence of regular coordinating meeting at different levels at center, Provincial and District
National Steering Committee in the latest stages did not meet and discuss the issues and
therefore decisions were delayed. Participation of Provincial Council in the implementation is
minimal and therefore the sector which comes under their preview not reviewed on regular basis.

Absence of dedicated PMU for the entire project period of 2005 ­ 2009
During this period, the responsibilities were shifted from one to another, and the Institutional
memory was lost. Ministry of Urban Development, TAFFREN, RADA and finally transferred to
Ministry of Nation Building.

Absence of clear Technical guidelines for beneficiaries of House construction
This deficiency was highlighted in the third party technical audit for which project Management
has no direct answers. Project Director NEHRP responded that the technical guidelines of
conflict affected houses were adopted by the technical officers who supervised the TERP Houses.
However, In the case of SWHRU, the guild lines in the Treasury circulars explained to the
technical officers and they in turn had the training program to explain to the beneficiaries.

Concern over equity issues
Home owner applicants received only Rs.250, 000 Grant where as donor driven houses valued
between Rs.400, 000/= to Rs.900, 000/=. This was observed as a de-motivating factor and
delayed the decision of beneficiaries to join the Home owner Driven program, especially in
Batticaloa.


                                                  45

Shortage of Building Materials and enhanced rates for skilled labor
This is more evident in the North & East where the conflict situation recommenced and transport
restriction was imposed due to security reasons. The program came to a complete halt in
Mullaitivu, one of the most affected districts in the North. This problem was existent in south as
well. Due to simultaneous implementation of several development and reconstruction projects in
the area resulted in a shortage of building materials and skilled labour. Galle District Secretary
cited this factor, as reason for not completing the houses, within the targeted time frame.

Non Materialization of Co-financing
The Poverty Stricken beneficiaries, expected the Co-financing from NGOO sector, to complete
the house, but this was not forthcoming from pledged NGOO, due to change in the field situation.

Insufficiency of decentralized authority to Divisional Secretaries
Although theoretically, District Secretaries were the competent authority at district level, in
practice, Divisional Secretaries felt that the authority given to them by Treasury circular, not
sufficient to deal with the situation. This matter was high lighted in the Southern District.

Failure to Proper guidance of NGO
There was no effective guidance from center or district administration to engage the NGOO for
the Top ­up of the core houses constructed under the Home Owner Driven Program.

Absence of definite case load
As the closing dates for finalization of grievances were extended even up to year 2007, there was
confusion in finalizing the case load and funding arrangement.

Deficiency in co-ordination mechanism at District level
District co- ordination meetings to resolve the issue were not held in the district, thereby the
decision making process was delayed.

Poor information dissemination strategy
It was observed that there were long time gap between the first installment (April 2005) and
actual commencement of project activity in august 2005. Beneficiaries were not properly
educated as to why the mobilization advance was paid. Good percentage of families used this
money for consumption.

Conflict in North & East
Due to recommencing of hostilities in 2006, the closure of land route to North curtailed the
progress. Further damage to reconstructed houses was also reported, especially in Vaharai DS
Division in Batticaloa District.

Buffer Zone Policy
Relaxation of the Buffer Zone delayed the housing program at least by six months. However, we
could acknowledge the positive aspect as beneficiaries were later allowed to returns to their old
locations.



                                                  46

Land Titles
The Process for obtaining clear land titles has been complex and considerable time and effort has
been spent in it. This was one of the main causes, for categorization ineligible cases in Jaffna,
Mullaitivu, Ampara, Galle and Kalutara Districts, as reported by the Third party Beneficiary
audit.




                                                47

Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

There were no co-financiers involved in phase I and II operations under the project. Phase II of
the housing program does have a US $ 25 million contribution from International Federation of
Red Cross (IFRC) through a trust fund being administered by the World Bank, but this has been
extended till September 30, 2009 and is outside the scope of this ICR.




                                              48

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Aide Memoire, January 29-February 6, 2005
Aide Memoire, February 28-March 26, 2005
Aide Memoire, April 18-May 5, 2005
Aide Memoire, August 16-25, 2005
Back to Office Report, September 20-October 6, 2005
Aide Memoire, October 4-20, 2005
Aide Memoire, March 27-April 6, 2006
Aide Memoire, October 14-13, 2006
Back to Office Report, December 2006
Aide Memoire, June 13-July 2, 2007
Aide Memoire, May 8 - June 4, 2008
Aide Memoire, December 11 - 20, 2008

Implementation Status & Results Report (ISR), June 13, 2005
Implementation Status & Results Report (ISR), December 22, 2005
Implementation Status & Results Report (ISR), June 30, 2006
Implementation Status & Results Report (ISR), December 23, 2006
Implementation Status & Results Report (ISR), June 28, 2007
Implementation Status & Results Report (ISR), December 20, 2007
Implementation Status & Results Report (ISR), June 30, 2008

Final Report of Independent Procurement Review for the Sri Lanka Tsunami Road Contracts

Government of Sri Lanka, `Continuous Social Impact Assessment (CSIA)'. Annual Project
Report 2007 prepared by Green Tech Consultants September 2007.

Government of Sri Lanka, `Post Tsunami Reconstruction & Progress 2005'. Joint Report by
GoSL and Partners December 2005.

Government of Sri Lanka., `10 year development framework, Mahinda Chintana (MC)'. Policy
document of GoSL.

Government of Sri Lanka., `National Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS)'. Policy document of
GoSL.

World Bank. 2005. Technical Annex for a Proposed Grant of SDR 20.1 Million and Credit of
SDR 30.2 Million to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for a Tsunami Emergency
Recovery Program ­ Phase II. Report No. T ­ 7650. The World Bank, Washington, D.C.

World Bank February 1, 2005 Memo from the President to the Board of Directors seeking
approval for amendments to seven credits and three grants for undertaking Tsunami Emergency
Recovery Program, Phase ­ I.




                                              49

World Bank 2005, Agreement Amending Selected Legal Agreements (Part Z Amendment) for
Tsunami Emergency Recovery Program, Phase ­ I between IDA and Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.

World Bank 2005, Development Financing Agreement for Tsunami Emergency Recovery
Program, Phase ­ I between IDA and Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.




                                          50

51

