Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14677
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
WEST BENGAL MINOR IRRIGATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1619-IN)
JUNE 26, 1995
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
WEST BENGAL MINOR IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 1619-IN)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of Currency:                             Rupee (Rs.)
Rate of Exchange:
Appraisal (September 1984):                   US$1.00 = Rs. 11 .0
Intervening Years (1985-1994 average):        US$1.00 = Rs. 19.1
Completion Year (1994)                       US$1.00 = Rs. 31.3
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
GOI and GOWB : April I to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AED         Agricultural Engineering Directorate
CCA         Cultivable Commanded Area
CF          Conversion Factor
DOA         Department of Agriculture
DOMI        Department of Minor Lrrigation
DP          Department of Panchayats
DSSC        District Site Selection Committee
ERR         Economic Rate of Retum
GNP         Gross National Product
GOI         Govemment of India
GOWB        Govemment of West Bengal
HDTW       High Capacity Deep Tubewell
HYV         High Yielding Variety
IDA        Intemational Development Association
LDTW        Low Capacity Deep Tubewell
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MDTW        Medium Capacity Deep Tubewell
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
ODW         Open Dug Well
PCR         Project Completion Report
RLI         River Lift Installation
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SCF         Standard Conversion Factor
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
SEB         (West Bengal) State Electricity Board
STW         Shallow Tubewell
SWID        State Water Investigation Directorate
UP          Uttar Pradesh
WBMIP    West Bengal Minor Irrigation Project
GLOSSARY
Aman               Main rice crop transplanted in July/August and harvested in November/December
Aus                Rice crop broadcast in AprilMay and harvested in August/September
Boro               Rice crop grown entirely under irrigation from mid-January (transplanting) to May/June (harvest)



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
)ffice of Director-General                                                       June 26, 1995
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on India
West Bengal Minor Irrigation Project (Credit 1619-IN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on India-West Bengal Minor Irrigation
Project (Credit 1619-IN). Parts I and III were prepared by the FAO/Bank Cooperative Program for
the South Asia Regional Office and Part II by the Borrower.
This project adapted to West Bengal the innovative design of public groundwater irrigation
systems piloted in Uttar Pradesh through Crs. 1004 and 1332. The innovations failed in Uttar Pradesh
but are succeeding in West Bengal. More water has been provided to smaller areas and smaller
groups. Reliable piped delivery by underground ring mains has made possible equitable and efficient
water distribution.
Implementation was slow and difficult. It took time for the Borrower to master IDA
procurement rules. Institutional strengthening of the implementing departments was gradual. The
project operates in all districts, including the hill districts where a Dutch project with similar objectives
competes for sites and resources. Site selection involved extensive irrigator participation and non-
technical factors. During implementation, design evolved into extensive handover of systems to
beneficiaries.
Sixty percent of the credit was cancelled. Physical achievements were far below appraisal
estimates. So were costs. Planned monitoring and evaluation did not materialize. However, the
systems built are working well. The return on investment is good. Hence, the project outcome is
rated as satisfactory. Government withdrawal from operation and maintenance (O&M) of small
systems has improved O&M quality and removed fiscal losses (though cost recovery on larger
Government-run systems is poor). Institutional development is rated as substantial. Because irrigators
now own and maintain smaller systems and Government seems to be moving in that direction for
larger ones, sustainability is rated as likely.
The PCR is factual, concise, and provides a balanced assessment of project achievements. In
Part II, the Borrower stresses the need for early training in procurement and disbursement.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
WEST BENGAL MINOR IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 1619-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ......................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY               .......................... . .............................i
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .....................................
I. Project Identity .
2. Background.                                                                                1
3.  Project Objectives and Description.                                                       2
4.  Project Design and Organization.                                                          3
5. Project Implementation.                                                                    4
6. Project Results.                                                                           9
7. Project Sustainability .11
8. Bank Performance .12
9. Borrower Performance .12
10. Lessons of Experience .13
11. Project Relationships .14
12. Consulting Services .15
13. Project Documentation and Data .15
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ..........                   ................. 16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official dudies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART m. STATISTICAL INFORMATION .........................................           26
1. Related Bank Credits .26
2. Project Timetable .26
3. Credit Disbursements .27
4. Project Implementation .28
5.  Project Cost and Financing           ..30
A. Project Cost .30
B. Project Financing .31
6. Project Results                    . . .32
A. Direct Benefits    ..32
B. Economic Impact .32
C. Financial Impact    ..33
D. Studies   ..33
7. Status of Covenants .34
8. Use of Bank Resources               ..34
A. Staff Inputs .34
B. Missions .35
C.   Costs .........................................                          35
ANNEX 1. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ......................................... 36
TABLES
I.  Net Irrigation Potential Created (Area) .41
2.  Land Use and Cropping Pattern .41
3.    Allocation of CCA to 3 Major Soil Groups and Crops .42
4. Crop Yields .43
5. Input Requirement .43
6.    Incremental Production All Crops-Production Build-Up .44
7.    Incremental Labour Requirement All Crops-Build-Up .45
8.  Number of Benefitting Farm Families .46
9.    Individual Crop Budget at Financial Prices .46
10.   Financial Analysis for Model 1 (Heavy Soil) .47
11.   Financial Analysis for Model 2 (Medium Soil) .47
12.   Financial Analysis for Model 3 (Light Soil) .48
13.   Prices of Internationally Traded Commodities .49
14. Financial and Ecoomic Prices 1994 .49
15. Inflation Factors and Exchange Rates .50
16. Per Hectare Costs and Returns (Economic) .50
17.   Incremental Net Benefit Build-Up (Economic) .50
18. Economic Analysis (30 Years) .51
19.   Capital and Operational Costs for Irrigation Structures .52
MAP IBRD) 18610



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
WEST BENGAL MINOR IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 1619-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the West Bengal Minor Irrigation
Project in India for which an IDA Credit of SDR101.0 million (Credit 1619-IN) to the
Government of India (GOI) was approved in March 1985. SDRO.935 million, SDR29.5
million, and SDR24.2 million were cancelled on December 4, 1987, December 5, 1991, and
May 1, 1993, respectively. The Credit was closed on March 31, 1994, three years behind
schedule. The final disbursement was made on August 24, 1994 and SDR6.2 million was
cancelled.
Parts I and HI of the PCR were prepared by an FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program mission which visited India in June 1994. Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
PCR preparation which commenced in June 1994 was based on a review of the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) and legal documents, supervision reports, project files and
correspondence, field visits and discussions with farmers and appropriate officers of the
implementing agencies, and interview with Bank Staff associated with the project.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
WEST BENGAL MINOR IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 1619-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives and Main Features
1.        The availability of groundwater resources in large tracts of West Bengal, together with
the fact that a large proportion of small and marginal farmers were still excluded from participation
in the utilization of this resource, were the two main conceptual foundations of the project. A third
was the availability of an advanced tubewell irrigation technology that had then only recently been
developed and satisfactorily tested in Uttar Pradesh and was superior to any technology so far
being practiced in West Bengal. Furthermore, the strong panchayat system of West Bengal
favored investment into public groundwater development, since this grass root self-government
system would largely facilitate implementation and sustainability of project works. Thus, the main
objective of the project was to complement ongoing groundwater development in the private sector
with a large scale investment into public groundwater development, targeted to support the weaker
sections of farm communities. With respect to surface water development, the project was to
provide electrical energization to pumps and buried pipe distribution systems for selected, existing
river lift irrigation schemes (RLIs) with the objective of improving their operation and management
capabilities. A further project objective was institutional development to ensure that project works
were effectively implemented and that completed works were properly operated and maintained in
order to sustain predicted benefit generation.
2.        The construction components of the project were: 1,200 high capacity tubewells; 400
medium capacity tubewells; 1,800 low capacity tubewells; 5,400 shallow tubewells; 10,000 open
dug wells; and the rehabilitation of 200 existing RLIs. In addition there were provisions for
agricultural extension, institution building and three studies.
3.        Total project costs at appraisal were estimated at US$141.8 million, equivalent to
Rs. 1,560 million. An IDA credit of SDR 101.0 million (equivalent to US$99.0 million at the time)
was to finance the foreign exchange component and about 67 percent of local costs. Overall
responsibility for project implementation was to rest with the Secretary for Minor Irrigation, with
the Agricultural Engineering Directorate (AED) of the Department of Minor Irrigation (DOMI)
being the main implementing agency. The West Bengal State Electricity Board (SEB) was
responsible for the electrification of tubewells and rehabilitated river lift pump installations. The
Department of Agriculture (DOA) was responsible for the extension component. The agricultural
impact of the project was to be largely in terms of increased production of foodgrains and potatoes.
An additional benefit was expected to be in terms of increased employment. The anticipated
economic rate of return for the overall project was 37 percent.
Implementation Experience
4.        Project implementation was much slower than anticipated at appraisal. Despite three
extensions of one year each, the targets set at appraisal and partially increased at mid-term review,
outnumbered actual achievements in the various types of wells and RLIs substantially (Part III,
Section 4). Identified causes include unfamiliarity of GOWB agencies with Bank procurement



iv
procedures, unfamiliarity with the new pump and distribution technology (by departmental as well
as of contractors), shortage of qualified contractors and slow institutional strengthening. Also,
during the 10 years preceding the project, the DOMI had not implemented any new tubewell or RLI
development scheme and, consequently, younger staff lacked relevant practical training and
experience. Finally, West Bengal has a relatively short construction season and site access has
been a problem in certain areas. Due to the initial implementation delays and the constant fall of the
Rupee/SDR value, IDA disbursement at the end of the originally planned implementation period
was only 24% of the SAR estimate. In anticipation of substantial reduction in financing
requirements, despite the extension of the project period by 3 years, GOI requested and the Bank
agreed to three cancellations of the credit for a total of SDR 54.6 million so as to reduce the credit
amount to SDR 46.4 million, of which SDR 40.2 million had been finally disbursed.
5.        As agreed between GOWB and the Bank, the project and its executing agencies were
to procure works, goods and services, following procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
However, GOWB in its initial tendering basically continued to follow its own procurement
guidelines and thereby created a non-compliance with Bank procedures that seriously hampered
implementation. After 1987, the procurement situation improved and no procurement complaints
were reported since.
6.        Site selection for clusters and individual tubewells was a critical implementation step
which had been addressed in detail in the SAR but which was not always handled entirely
satisfactorily, mainly because of poor survey capacity of the State Water Investigation Directorate
(SWID).
7.        Apart from omission of an automatic level control device in the flow distribution
chamber of tubewells, there has been no change to the tubewell designs as presented in the SAR.
Quality standards of works were difficult to maintain due to the large number of construction sites
and the limited number of qualified field staff. Tubewell energization was a bottleneck throughout
implementation, mainly due to inadequate coordination of construction between AED and SEB.
The maximum capacity that was ever reached numbered 1,400 units per year in 1992/93, which if
it had been attained already in 1986, would still not have sufficed to implement the project in five
years.
8.        The slow implementation of works also had repercussions on the agricultural
extension efforts under the project. These remained far below expectations mainly due to keeping
newly created posts vacant for too long and a correspondingly late start of farmer training and
demonstrations. The innovations in tubewell and distribution technology introduced to West
Bengal by the project have been highly appreciated and were instrumental in facilitating operation
and maintenance (O&M) of tubewells and RLIs. Electrical power supply in West Bengal has
improved over the last decade and a daily supply of 12 to 16 hours is said to be regularly available.
Beneficiaries have responded with quick irrigation adoption rates and acceptance of greater O&M
responsibilities. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) never received the attention it deserved as an
essential service to project management from planning through construction to performance
monitoring, including various important feedback aspects. The requisite staff were not employed,
nor were adequate office facilities made available for the necessary data processing by computer.
Of the three studies to be carried out under the project, one was waived; one was well researched;
and one was superficial with negligible impact.



v
Project Results
9.         Overall, although the project failed to achieve the SAR targets in terms of the numbers
of various types of wells and RLIs developed, it was successful in: (i) achieving higher irrigation
intensities and yields than initially anticipated; (ii) turning over of O&M to panchayats; and (iii)
establishing economically viable tubewell irrigation systems.
10.       The construction of tubewells and open dug wells and the modernization of river lift
installations brought about the development of incremental net irrigated area at full development of
59,500 ha or 43 percent of the 139,000 ha estimated at appraisal. The reason for non-achievement
of the SAR target area is the relatively low number of completed irrigation units (Part III, Section
4).
11.       The yearly incremental foodgrain production (89 percent paddy) at full development is
estimated at 177,000 tons or 48 percent of SAR estimates. Boro paddy alone accounts for 74
percent or 131,000 tons of the estimated incremental foodgrain production. For potato/vegetable
incremental production is estimated at 335,000 tons. Furthermore, incremental mustard production
is estimated at 7,000 tons at full development, whereas incremental jute and sesame production are
rather marginal, i.e. 5,000 tons and 900 tons respectively. These figures are in line with the fact
that the actual incremental net irrigated area at full development would be less than half of the SAR
estimate. Furthermore, it reflects the generally higher yields and tendency towards the cultivation
of higher value crops, particularly Boro paddy and potato, as against SAR assumptions.
12.       The number of 248,000 farm families benefitting from the project at full development
(as against the SAR estimate of 190,000) confirms the achievement of distribution of project
benefits to a much larger number of target families than anticipated. Due to the development of
irrigated agriculture the net on-farm income from agriculture at full development would increase by
around 140 percent and the return per family labour day would increase by 22-65 percent,
depending on farm size and cropping pattern. In addition to the direct benefits of incremental
agricultural production the project would create at full development around 12.2 million additional
agricultural labour days or 48,000 jobs per year. Furthermore, 1,100 tubewell operator jobs have
been created.
13.       The project's ERR is re-estimated at 23 percent or 14 percent below the appraisal
estimate of 37 percent. The lower ERR is mainly due to delayed accrual of project benefits and the
reduced net benefits resulting from a more than 50 percent shortfall in the incremental irrigated
area expected to be developed under the project. These negative influences are not fully offset by
higher than anticipated yields. Due to the complete absence of monitoring and evaluation, ERR
calculations, based to a large extent on agricultural data collected during field visits at project
completion, should be treated with caution and interpreted in relative rather than absolute terms.
14.       Nevertheless sensitivity analysis shows the ERR's relative robustness against reduced
yields and crop value, which is a reflection of the project's substantial increase in cropping
intensities. It thus can be concluded that this project in economic terms was a highly successful
undertaking, well beyond most Bank supported irrigation projects in India.
15.       The analysis of investment, operation and maintenance, and replacement costs for the
main irrigation facilities constructed under the project confirms the finding that even at an irrigation
intensity of 230 percent current water rates would by no means be adequate to cover the costs of
operation and maintenance of the structures. However, the financial analysis and experience with
structures handed over to panchayats show that farmers, once efficient irrigation facilities are
available, are not only financially capable but willing to pay economic water rates to fully recover



vi
O&M costs. This should encourage GOWB to gradually accelerate the handing over of tubewell
irrigation structures to the beneficiaries and to increase the water rates for the remaining state-
operated facilities.
Sustainability
16.       A large number of project irrigation facilities have been handed over to panchayats and
are run by beneficiary committees, and the process of handing over is continuing. The high quality
of irrigation service derived from most installations, including a reliable power supply and
equitable water allocations have made farmers highly motivated, thus providing a sound
precondition for sustainability. However, the larger tubewells and RLIs (40-80 ha) which still
require to be operated departmentally would benefit from raised water charges to remain properly
maintained and managed. Also, the project may have an impact on the quality of groundwater due
to increase in fertilizer and pesticide use. These two parameters as well as project impact on
groundwater levels should be closely monitored by GOWB.
Findings and Lessons Learned
17.       The project succeeded in combining the great need and ample justification for public
groundwater development in West Bengal, with the introduction of innovative concepts for
pumping and water distribution technologies, for O&M of public tubewells and for farmer
participation. The range of project works was well chosen to ensure adequate spread of
investments over differing hydrogeological and agro-ecological zones within the State. However,
the size of the project was too large for a five-year implementation period, considering the various
constraints most of which could have been foreseen at appraisal. What the project lacked was an
up front effort to boost implementation capabilities which could have been initiated before project
effectiveness and would have moderated the severe initial implementation delays.
18.       An unexpected achievement of the project was that it developed the legal and
procedural framework for the complete handing over of irrigation wells to beneficiaries for O&M
and that it succeeded in getting 1,800 tubewells handed over within a time frame of only about two
years. The process is continuing after project closure and further successes are envisaged.
19.       The main lessons learned from implementation experience are as follows:
(i)       The management and coordination of a large investment project with
several implementing agencies requires authority.  This should be
reflected in an adequate rank of the project coordinator in addition to
professional qualification, and he should be available full time.
(ii)       The project has demonstrated that smaller tubewells with command areas
of about 6 ha, benefitting some 15 to 20 farmers, are highly suited to
localized O&M through panchayats. Larger tubewells on the other hand
require a higher degree of technical know-how and operational skill than
can generally be found at panchayat level. It also turned out to be more
difficult to identify suitable contiguous command areas for 40 ha
tubewells. Consequently, future tubewell development in areas where
small farmers prevail should aim at the smaller units, even against a
possibly higher investment expenditure per unit service area, since this
may be more than compensated through the avoidance of new O&M
liabilities to government.



vii
(iii)     The project has also demonstrated that high ERRs in irrigated agriculture,
well above those for most initiatives for extensive irrigation development
in the public sector supported by the Bank in India, are possible when
projects are designed to promote intensive irrigation. Further, the
experience of the project shows that in areas where small farmers are
predominant, the best option would be to assist the public sector to
develop tubewell irrigation for turning over the completed systems to
farmers' organizations, as was done under the project, because the
development of tubewell irrigation cannot be entirely left to the private
sector at least until such time that proper incentives and groundwater
legislation are established to prevent haphazard and inequitable
development.
(iv)      The norms and procedures adopted by the Bank for procurement of
works, goods and services from Bank credits are based on long
established international practices and experience which have stood up to
the test of time. To adopt these procedures fully from the outset will
result in very substantial savings in the process of implementing Bank-
supported projects. In cases with no or limited experience with Bank-
supported projects, the project management should be given ex-ante
training in procurement procedures and operations.
(v)       When adopting project concepts/designs developed elsewhere to a new
situation, a variety of factors have to be considered and weighted
properly. Given the lack of experience with the innovative tubewell
technology and other factors (para 5.1 of Part I), the adopted program for
West Bengal was too large to be implemented in a five year project.
(vi)      The implementation of the project in the northern districts of Cooch
Behar, Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri should have been better coordinated
with the ongoing bilateral project there, in order to avoid underutilization
of resources caused by competing program under limited implementation
capacities of government agencies as well as contractors.
(vii)     A large investment project such as this should not only implement large
amounts of civil works but also be used as a vehicle for strengthening
institutions.  The project had ample provisions for upgrading
groundwater monitoring, investigation and planning capabilities, but little
use was made of this opportunity, although it is already apparent that
West Bengal's groundwater resources require a more sophisticated
management.
(viii)    If the repeated recommendations by Bank supervision missions to
appoint outside private agencies to augment GOWB's implementation
capacity in survey, design and construction supervision had been
followed up, it would have been possible to get considerably closer to
project targets. Therefore, when other means of strengthening fail, the
second best option is to resort to private sector assistance.
(ix)      In medium and large investment projects the establishment of a
monitoring and evaluation system from project start to project completion
cannot be overemphasized. The set up and operation of such a



viii
monitoring system is the backbone of project performance evaluation
during implementation as well as for final evaluation. The monitoring of
physical achievements is of rather limited value, if they cannot be related
to project results, such as incremental production.



1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
WEST BENGAL MINOR IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Credit 1619-IN)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name           West Bengal Minor Irrigation Project
Credit No.             1619-IN
RVP Unit         :     South Asia Region
Country          :     India
Sector           :     Agriculture
Sub-sector             Irrigation
2. Background
2.1        Although the average per capita income in India had increased throughout the 1960s
and 1970s, growth had been too slow to bring about more than a gradual reduction in the incidence
of poverty. Accordingly, GOI's development plans gave priority to alleviating poverty and
creating employment, especially in rural areas. To support agricultural growth, GOI accelerated
both surface and groundwater development for irrigation through modernization of existing
schemes and new constructions, especially small scale, and improved agricultural support services
to optimize the use of land and water resources.
2.2        The State of West Bengal is well endowed with both surface and groundwater
resources for irrigation but only about 29 percent of cultivated area received irrigation in 1985,
which is well below the physical potential. The Government of West Bengal (GOWB) had given
priority to minor irrigation development with emphasis on groundwater utilization. However,
previous program had not achieved expected benefits. Poor performance was caused by
incomplete planning and design which had negative impact on water management and provided an
excuse for inefficient operation and maintenance (O&M). Nevertheless, in the context of West
Bengal, the GOWB considered minor irrigation development by the public sector to be the only
effective way to utilize available water resources while at the same time reaching those farmers who
own or operate small, fragmented holdings. Thus, in 1982, a minor irrigation project was
formulated and prepared by GOWB in cooperation with GOI and in early 1983 Bank assistance for
the project was sought.



2
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1        The project was to complement ongoing groundwater development in the private
sector and be selective in the target group of beneficiaries to be reached. With respect to surface
water development, the project was to provide electrical energization of pumps and buried pipe
distribution systems for selected, existing river lift irrigation schemes (RLIs) with the objective of
improving their operation and management capabilities. A further objective was institution
building to ensure that project works were effectively implemented and that completed works were
properly operated and maintained in order to sustain predicted benefit generation.
3.2        The project was to finance a five year program (1984/85 to 1989/90), incorporating
the following elements:
(i)    construction of 1,200 high discharge tubewells (HDTWs), each of about 200
m3/h capacity and serving about 40 ha; 400 medium discharge tubewells
(MDTWs), each of about 100 m3/h capacity and serving about 20 ha; and
about 1,800 low discharge tubewells (LDTWs), each of about 30 m3/h
capacity and serving about 6 ha;
(ii)    construction of about 5,400 shallow tubewell systems (STWs) of about 30
m3/h capacity and each serving about 6 ha;
(iii)   construction of about 10,000 open dug wells (ODWs) of various designs in
alluvial and rock areas;
(iv)    completion of the water distribution systems and conversion to electric
powered pump units on about 200 existing river lift installations (RLIs),
each of about 400 m3/h capacity and serving about 80 ha;
(v)    provision of equipment and buildings for Agricultural Engineering
Directorate (AED) staff; research and development to test advanced
technologies for public tubewells and RLIs; training and study tours for
project staff; preparation of design and O&M manuals, including technical
assistance; and studies related to project management, cost recovery and an
agro-economic baseline survey for selected project areas; and
(vi)   incremental staff costs and preparation of a comprehensive plan for
agricultural extension services for districts under the project.
3.3        The total project costs were estimated at US$141.8 million equivalent to Rs. 1,560
million, net of taxes and duties. An IDA credit of US$99.0 million' was to finance the foreign
exchange component and about 67 percent of local costs. All expenditures were to be met by
GOWB from its development budget, which was to include a GOI contribution.
3.4        Overall responsibility for project implementation rested with the Secretary,
Department of Minor Irrigation (DOMI). The AED under his jurisdiction was the main
implementing agency. The West Bengal State Electricity Board (SEB) was responsible for the
construction, and O&M of power transmission and transformation under the project. The
1   Corresponding to SDR 101.0 million as per Development Credit Agreement.



3
Department of Agriculture (DOA) was responsible for the agricultural extension component and for
the agricultural development activities after the commissioning of minor irrigation works. The West
Bengal State Water Investigation Directorate (SWID) was in charge of assessing surface and
groundwater resources and for technical clearance of any groundwater development. Finally, the
Department of Panchayats (DP) through village panchayats was involved in the project as
management agents for the AED. The agricultural impact of the project was to consist mainly of
increased production of foodgrains and potatoes with minor increases in jute and sesame
production.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1          The availability of groundwater resources in large tracts of West Bengal, together
with the fact that a large proportion of small and marginal farmers were still excluded from
participation in the utilization of this resource, were the two main conceptual foundations of the
project. A third was the availability of an advanced tubewell irrigation technology that had then
only recently been developed and satisfactorily tested in Uttar Pradesh (UP) and was superior to
any technology so far being practiced in West Bengal. I Furthermore, the strong panchayat system
of West Bengal favored investment in public groundwater development (as well as RLIs), since
this grass root self-government system would largely facilitate implementation and sustainability of
project works.
4.2          However, while there was ample scope and justification for the project, institutional
weaknesses and low initial construction capacity severely hampered the acceleration of minor
irrigation development. Although measures were taken to strengthen the implementing agency
(AED), it appears, in retrospect, that physical project targets were set too high for a project period
of only five years (see para 5.1). The scope of the project, on the other hand, was adequate. The
range of wells, covering high, medium and low discharge deep tubewells, shallow tubewells and
dug wells reflected the hydrogeological as well as socio-economic diversity of the state. Inclusion
of small well units as a public sector operation proved to be a correct decision, since it permitted
benefits to reach marginal and poor farmers without access to credit in vast areas such as the
district of Purulia, where at the same time the groundwater potential is limited to shallow, low
capacity abstraction. There has been no report on negative effects of the public program on private
groundwater development.
4.3         In retrospect it appears that project implementation could have benefitted from  a
higher degree of preparation particularly with regard to the drawing up of a baseline study, a
management study, a work plan for research and development (R&D), a work plan for monitoring
1    The UP technology has been adopted for HDTWs and MDTWs in West Bengal so as to permit a cost
effective and demand-driven flow regulation that also ensures equitable water distribution based on
size of holding. In this technology the tubewell discharge is generally distributed via buried PVC
pipe systems (commonly two) that are arranged in loop form. Each loop generally has 5-6 outlets
distributed over its entire length. Of these only one outlet is operational at any one time, normally
for a full or partial week day. Thus there is a weekly rotation among the outlets. Flow regulation to
each loop is done at the tubewell by means of an elevated tank with one overflow weir for each loop
discharging into a stand pipe for each loop. These pipes are high enough above ground to
accommodate the water head necessary to overcome the friction losses in the loop system. Since
only one outlet is operational at a time, it gets supplied from both ends of the loop simultaneously,
thus reducing required pipe diameter, vis a vis the traditional branching distribution pipe system. An
outlet commonly serves an area of 2 to 4 hectares within which water distribution is organized by the
cultivators themselves, using simple field channels.



4
and evaluation (M&E), and also design and O&M manuals. All these documents were to be
prepared during project implementation rather than prior to appraisal, although some of the
anticipated results and findings could have affected project design.
4.4        The project was prepared in 1982/83 by the AED with Bank participation for the
transfer of innovative tubewell and water distribution technology from Uttar Pradesh to West
Bengal. Two Bank missions pre-appraised and appraised the project in early and late 1984. The
new tubewell technology turned out to be the single most beneficial feature of project design.
Although project organization and management was extensively addressed in the SAR, its impact
on implementation appears not to have been fully understood. The roles of agencies such as the
DOA were clearly defined and agreed upon. However, since half a decade went by since project
start-up without any significant new irrigation potential created, the DOA understandably lost
interest in the project.
5. Project Implementation
5.1        General. Project implementation was much slower than anticipated at appraisal.
Despite three-year-wise extensions, the targets set for wells and RLIs at appraisal and partially
increased at mid-term review were not achieved (Part III, Section 4). Identified causes include
unfamiliarity of GOWB agencies with Bank procurement procedures, unfamiliarity with the new
pump and distribution technology (departmental as well as of contractors), shortage of qualified
contractors and slow institutional strengthening. Also, during the 10 years preceding the project,
the DOMI had not implemented any new tubewell or RLI development scheme and, consequently,
younger staff lacked relevant practical training and experience. Finally, West Bengal has a
relatively short construction season and site access has been a problem in certain areas. Some of
these causes could have been taken better into account at appraisal. An unforseen factor in the 3
northern project districts of Cooch Behar, Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri was the simultaneous
implementation of tubewells, open dug wells and RLIs under a bilateral project', which absorbed
considerable implementation capacity from AED, DOA, SEB and contractors in these districts.
From early 1988, project implementation gained momentum but reached a peak capacity only in the
1993/94 season, too late to meet SAR targets before closure in March 1994.
5.2        Project Costs and Disbursement of Credit. The total cost of the project was originally
estimated at Rs.1,560 million (US$141.8 million; at historical exchange rate of Rs.1 1.0 =
US$1.0) against credit availability of SDR 101.0 million (US$99.0 million). During mid-term
review of the project in July 1989, consequent upon change in the prevailing Rs./SDR exchange
rate, an additional number of 100 MDTW and 1,140 LDTW were included to meet regional
requirements. Concurrence of the Bank was also obtained for taking up modernization of
additional 20 RLI schemes; conversion of 286 diesel operated schemes into electrically operated
ones; system improvements by the SEB to ensure supply of power at the district level as per
agreement; and inclusion of Darjeeling District within the project area. On the basis of revised
numbers, the project costs were re-estimated at Rs.2,932 million and later (1993) at Rs.2,650
million. Actual project costs at project completion amount to Rs.2,096 million (US$97 million; at
historical exchange rates).
5.3        The original IDA Credit of SDR 101.0 million was to cover about 70 percent of total
estimated costs. Due to extended implementation delays, disbursement picked up only in 1988/89
but slipped further due to the constant fall of Rupee/SDR value. This made it necessary to review
the financing plan of the project. The above-mentioned revisions had been designed to bring the
1   North Bengal Terai Development Project (Dutch assistance).



5
committed but undisbursed credit amount in line with realistically assessed financing requirements
for the remaining implementation periods (para 5.2).
5.4        Consequently, in anticipation of substantial overall savings at project completion,
GOI requested and the Bank agreed to cancel the credit limit by SDR 54.65 million (in three
subsequent cancellations in 1987, 1991 and 1993). The reduced credit amount stands at SDR
46.36 million. The final disbursement was made on August 24, 1994 and SDR 6.2 mnillion was
cancelled. The final credit amounts to SDR 40.2 million or about 87 percent of the revised credit.
5.5        Site Selection. Individual site selection resulted from a set of criteria agreed upon at
appraisal as well as a general district-wise allocation of wells and RLIs, which was based on socio-
political equity considerations as well as technical and managerial criteria. The further distribution
of a district's allocation between blocks (representing the next lower administrative unit) was
decided by the District Site Selection Committee (DSSC) headed by the Zilla Parishad and
represented by AED, SWID, SEB and DOA. On the basis of block allocations, the village
panchayats through an application procedure were entrusted with generating actual site proposals.'
The proposed sites were then technically examined by AED and inspected by AED, SWID, SEB
and DOA. The applications, together with the inspection results, were then placed before the
DSSC for approval and ranking towards implementation. The resulting ranking list was then sent
to GOWB for final approval. Generally, the selection process was adequate in that it resulted in a
technically acceptable development that also met the project objectives.
5.6        However, the selection process was lengthy and in some cases affected
implementation, when it did not keep pace with the tendering of civil works. Also, the physical
implementation was lopsided, with faster development in South Bengal and relatively slower
development in the north, where scheduled castes and tribes constitute over 50 percent of the
population, most of whom are small and marginal farmers. Proper siting in technical terms was to
be secured through the preparation of Block Reports by SWID. However, the need for these
reports as a management tool was little appreciated and most reports were done hastily and were
late. On the other hand, GOWB's strategy to involve beneficiaries in the site selection and initial
design process has had a positive impact.
5.7        In a number of blocks, it was found that insufficient contiguous areas were available
to match the initially allocated number of HDTW sites so that numbers were reduced in favor of
more MDTWs and LDTWs.
5.8        With regard to ODWs in hard rock areas, the scientific approach to siting such wells
used by SWID greatly narrowed down the risk of such wells drying up. Reportedly up to 90
percent of ODWs sunk prior to the project have failed to deliver the intended flow.
5.9        No negative effects on yield levels of existing irrigation and/or drinking water wells
in areas adjoining project implemented wells have been reported.
5.10       Procurement. As agreed between GOWB and the Bank, the project and its executing
entities, AED and SEB, were to procure works, goods and services, following procurement
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. However, GOWB, in its initial tendering, basically
continued to follow its own procurement guidelines and thereby created a non-compliance with
Bank procedures that seriously hampered implementation (procurement deadlock) and even led to
the cancellation in 1987 of some US$2.4 million from the credit due to misprocurement.
1   Direct applications from the beneficiaries were also entertained.



6
Procurement over the initial three project years was further hampered by the absence of an efficient
procurement monitoring system and shortage of staff.
5.11       After numerous exchanges between the project and the Bank and holding of
procurement workshops, the project management accepted an emergency program drawn up in
1987 by a Bank supervision mission. Supported by the urgent filling of essential vacancies, the
procurement situation thereafter gradually improved. No procurement complaints were reported
since and the project management has of late openly acknowledged the correctness of the Bank's
procurement procedures and the considerable overall benefits derived from applying them.
5.12       Tubewell Design. A departure from the original design of the tubewell delivery
system was the omission of the level control electrical probe in the distribution chamber. The
probe was intended to permit automatic pump operation in that it activated/shut off power supply
according to the water level in the chamber and in response to irrigation demand. It also was to
enable water distribution at less than the full discharge rate of the pump without spillage. While the
absence of this control device has to some extent curtailed the on-demand quality of the system, it
does not compromise the principle of equitable deliveries. Operators and irrigators therefore
appear to go along with it quite well. No other major design changes in project works have been
reported.
5.13       Ouality Control. As a result of the protracted backlog in implementation of civil
works, increasingly shorter construction deadlines had to be met which somewhat compromised
the set quality standards. Shortage of staff and the large number of simultaneous construction sites
also made quality control difficult. Standardization and appropriate simplification of civil works
(e.g. abolishment of the level control probe in distribution chamber as mentioned above) somewhat
offset poor quality control and no case of premature breakdown of facilities has been reported.
5.14       Energization and Power Supply. The gap between tubewells developed by AED and
those energized by SEB has been excessively large throughout implementation and has even been
carried beyond the project's closure date, when close to 2,000 installations were still lacking
energization. Fortunately, adequate project funds have been advanced prior to project closure to
the SEB for carrying out all the remaining electrification works during FY 1994/95 and 1995/96.
The main reason for the mismatch is vaguely given as "inadequate operational coordination"
between AED and SEB. Another reason identified was that AED was reluctant to install pumps
and controllers prior to electrification in order to forestall widely experienced theft, while SEB
could obviously not energize before the pumps and controllers were installed. This meant that both
AED and SEB had to attend to each tubewell in a staggered fashion which was time consuming and
difficult to manage. Staff constraints in the operational wing of SEB have also delayed
energization, which turned out to be a major bottleneck in project implementation. The maximum
capacity that was ever reached numbered 1,400 units per year in 1992/93, which if it had been
attained already in 1986, would still not have sufficed to implement the project in five years.
5.15       O&M of Tubewells and RLIs. The project was to use the panchayats as "management
agents" to secure adequate O&M and cost recovery and to break the power of government-
employed operators, the single most important cause for inefficient operation in the pre-project
situation. The extent to which beneficiaries would become involved in tubewell operation through
the panchayat system as described in the SAR has been far exceeded. By closure of project, the
O&M situation was as summarized below:



7
O&M                                 Number of Units
Through:
|HDTW & MDTW   LDTW & STW           RLI
Govemnment-employed operators       772                 -               125
Beneficiary committees after hand over t  8           1,782
Panchayats
In process of handover                                             |555151   _ = 
Total Operational Units             780                ,333             125
5.16       As could be expected, the handing over of O&M responsibilities to beneficiaries was
easiest in the case of STWs and LDTWs and operational performance so far has been excellent.
Beneficiaries are readily paying water charges at over twice the normal government rates and are
generally taking keen interest in O&M matters as well as in improving irrigation channels in their
command areas, including lining, without asking for government assistance.
5.17       Encouraged by the experience gained on STWs and LDTWs, the panchayats have
come forward to take over even the more complex MDTWs and HDTWs for O&M. After having
addressed relevant legal and administrative formalities, GOWB has so far transferred some 8 such
installations to panchayats on a trial basis. Experience so far gained is positive. The main obstacle
is the status of the operator in public tubewell and RLI systems. Operators are GOWB employees
that are strongly unionized and, because of their 8-hour working days, are not well suited to serve
farmers' needs. Traditionally. each operator has an assistant employed by GOWB along with him,
but the two do not work in shifts. Against heavy pressure the project succeeded to dispose of the
assistant in most schemes, limiting GOWB involvement to paying one operator per HDTW or
MDTW and providing technical maintenance services.
5.18       The new tubewell technology simplifies operation to the extent that the remaining
single operators could be less qualified than their predecessors. It will therefore be possible to
phase out the present cadre of operators through retirement/redeployment and to ultimately hand
over all installations to panchayats. These would then appoint village level technicians to become
operators after adequate training with the help of AED. The government-operated back-up
maintenance service would be retained but would be more advisory than executive. Regarding the
RLIs, no attempt has yet been made to hand them over to panchayats for O&M, mainly because
beneficiaries are not willing to inherit, with the physical facilities, the liability of the operator and
his assistant. However, since RLIs have a record of heavy subsidy with levied water charges
covering little more than 10 percent of GOWB's O&M expenditures, the incentive to Government
of handing over RLIs is substantial. The matter is on the agenda of the third phase of an ongoing
Dutch bilateral development project in the north of West Bengal. Since the improved pumping and
distribution technology is having the same stimulus on RLI operation as in the case of tubewells, it
is expected that RLIs rehabilitated under the project will be the first to be handed over for O&M
responsibilities to panchayats.-
5.19       Agricultural Development. The project had provisions for a distinct agricultural
extension component to work exclusively for the introduction of effective agriculture practices in
the irrigation command areas created by the civil works component. However, due to the slow
implementation of works, DOA was also slow in recruiting additional extension staff, using the
provision of 94 posts indicated in the SAR. Supervision missions repeatedly agreed with the DOA
on action plans for extension strengthening but DOA responded satisfactorily only during the last



8
two project years when most vacancies of agricultural extension officers were filled and a large
number of agricultural demonstrations and training programs were organized. The observed boost
to agricultural production in LDTW and STW clusters was less a response to a good extension
service than it was a result of farmers and panchayats running their irrigation facilities themselves
and thereby reducing risks and maximizing returns. However, in some cases the sudden rise in
cropping intensity may be sustainable only through appropriate soil management and fertilizer use
for which extension services will continue to play an important role.
5.20       Institutional Development. Under the provisions for buildings to strengthening AED,
the project succeeded in completing ten administrative building and four godowns. By project
closure, several other building constructions were still incomplete and the project's new
administrative building and training center, although designed and sited, was never started.
Likewise, the establishment of the Irrigation Planning and Design Wing of the AED, which was to
be headed by a Chief Engineer, was not implemented. Instead, the project management was
entrusted to an officer of Senior Engineer rank which resulted in a gap of authority vis-a-vis other
participating organizations and thereby became a major obstacle to implementation progress. Only
in 1987 was a Chief Engineer post sanctioned for project management and matters improved
significantly thereafter.
5.21       The intended strengthening of SWID in terms of staff, qualifications, equipment and
facilities remained a problem throughout the project period. It is not known why repeated appeals
from supervision missions were not successful. The resulting weaknesses in groundwater
investigations and development planning have hampered project implementation considerably.
5.22       Training. The SAR made provisions for training and study tours to the tune of
Rs.7.5 million. Actual expenditure is reported to have reached only Rs.0.4 million. Training
efforts included training to professionals and sub-professionals in four two-weeks courses,
totalling 64 person-months. Some 50 trainees were given computer use training in 7-day courses.
Training of operators, selected beneficiary farmers and panchayat staff was also provided by
means of one-day courses for a total of 420 participants. What the SAR considered to be a
prerequisite to a training program, namely the compilation of a Design and O&M Manual, was
completed only in June 1994. It is a comprehensive source book rather than a manual, although
the latter could be extracted from the document with little extra effort. There have been no study
tours undertaken under the project.
5.23       Monitoring and Evaluation. A workable M&E unit was to be established by late
1985.  However, despite regular supervision mission intervention, M&E never received the
attention it deserved as an essential service to project management from planning through
construction to performance monitoring, including various important feedback aspects. Neither
was the requisite staff employed, nor were adequate office facilities for the necessary computer
hardware and software made available. Guidance in M&E was expected by project management
from the AED management study (para 5.24). However, when this was completed in late 1989,
its recommendations and 27 different proforma did little to increase motivation for M&E in AED.
Even SWID who had agreed in principle to establishing a multidisciplinary M&E system to
integrate GW planning data obtained from various sources have made little progress, so on balance
GOWB left unused the chance offered by the project to upgrade and modernize its M&E system in
minor irrigation development and management.
5.24       Studies. The project was to implement three studies. The AED Management Study
was completed in 1989. It turned out to be of disappointing quality in relation to invested efforts.
Coordination must have been poor as well since GOWB accepted only one out of six
recommendations made by the consultants. A very comprehensive Baseline Agro-Economic



9
Survey was completed in 1993 but has so far had little application since performance monitoring
and evaluation of project-built irrigation facilities has barely started. After terms of reference and
invitation of consultant tenders had been agreed upon in 1990 for a Study of Water Charges, the
study was cancelled and the relevant covenant waived in 1991. The reason given is the decision to
transfer all installations to panchayats who would be fixing water rates independently and ensuring
adequate O&M of facilities. This reasoning is of course only partially valid, since thousands of
existing installations, mainly RLIs, remain heavily subsidized and yet underfunded for full O&M.
6. Project Results
6.1         Overall, although the project failed to achieve the SAR targets in terms of the numbers
of various types of wells and RLIs developed, it was successful in: (i) achieving higher irrigation
intensities and yields than initially anticipated; (ii) turning over of O&M to panchayats; and (iii)
establishing economically viable tubewell irrigation systems.
6.2         Irrigated Area. The construction of tubewells and open dug wells and the
modernization of river lift installations brought about the development of incremental net irrigated
area at full development of 59,500 ha or 43 percent of the 139,000 ha estimated at appraisal. The
reason for non-achievement of SAR target is the relatively low number of completed irrigation
units. Depending on the type of irrigation facility on average 50 percent of projected structures are
completed (Part III, Section 4).
6.3         Agricultural Production. Since the project management could not provide adequate
information on cropping pattern and crop yields due to the absence of monitoring and evaluation
data, the mission had to rely on information collected during field visits and secondary data.
However, on the newly developed irrigated area, crop intensity is estimated to increase from 100
percent to 120 percent without irrigation to 200 percent to 230 percent at full development. Without
irrigation, only Kharif rainfed crops are cultivated and land remains fallow during RabifSummer
season. New crops in the cultivable command areas are Boro rice, potato/vegetables and wheat.
Along with varietal development, extension of irrigation facilities, higher input use and
development of hybrid seeds in vegetables, the statewide common trend in increased productivity
of certain crops, particulary paddy HYV including Boro paddy, mustard and vegetables, was
confirmed by observations made on project sites. Therefore, most crop yields at full development
have been revised upwards with respect to SAR estimates. In addition, a shift to more profitable
crops and a decrease of low profitable crops was observed in the prevailing cropping patterns. In
particular, allocation of area to crops in Rabi/Summer season showed a greater awareness of
farmers regarding the profitability of crops grown than anticipated at project appraisal (for details
on agricultural performance analysis see Annex 1).
6.4         The yearly incremental foodgrain production (89 percent paddy) at full development
is estimated at 177,000 tons or 48 percent of SAR estimates. Boro paddy alone accounts for 74
percent or 131,000 tons of incremental foodgrain production. For potato/vegetable incremental
production is estimated at 335,000 tons or 66 percent of SAR estimatel. Furthermore, incremental
mustard production is estimated at 7,000 tons at full development, whereas incremental jute and
sesame production are rather marginal, i.e. 5,000 tons and 900 tons respectively. These figures are
in line with the fact that less than half of the incremental net irrigated area estimated at appraisal will
be achieved at full development. Furthermore it reflects the generally higher yields and tendency
1      Potato/vegetable production estimates at full development exceed SAR estimates due to incorrect
assessment of production development at appraisal. In order to comply with yield and area assumptions
the SAR "with project" estimate at full development should be 497,000 tons incremental production for
potato/vegetables.



10
be achieved at full development. Furthermore it reflects the generally higher yields and tendency
towards the cultivation of higher value crops, particularly Boro paddy and potato, as against SAR
assumptions.
6.5        Benefitting Farm Families and Farm Income. The estimates of SAR and PCR with
respect to the number of benefitting farm families cannot be directly compared as they are based on
different assumptions (Annex 1). Based on the mission's observations 80 percent (in the case of
ODW 100 percent) of the command area of irrigation structures is cultivated by marginal farmers
(average farm size 0.4 ha) assumed to have on average 50 percent of their land within the CCA.
The remaining 20 percent is cultivated by small and medium farmers (average farm size 1.0 ha)
assumed to have on average 80 percent of their land within the CCA. The number of 248,000
farm families benefitting from the project at full development confirms the intended distribution of
project benefits to a large number of target families.
6.6        Due to the development of irrigated agriculture the net on-farm  income from
agriculture at full development is estimated to have increased by around 140 percent from
Rs.5,400-7,400 to Rs.12,600-16,700 for the 1 ha farm and from Rs.2,100-2,900 to Rs.5,000-
6,700 for the 0.4 ha farm. The return per family labor-day is a more accurate indicator of
profitability as labor input increases with cropping intensity. Also, the net return per family labor-
day increased substantially by 22-65 percent depending on the farm model (Annex 1).
6.7        Additional Benefits. In addition to the direct benefits of incremental agricultural
production the project would create at full development around 12.2 million additional agricultural
labor-days or 48,000 jobs per year due to increased cropping intensity (Annex 1). Furthermore
1,100 tubewell operator jobs were created as well as around 34,000 jobs for unskilled labor during
the construction of the irrigation structures. No quantification of indirect benefits has been carried
out, such as the impact of intensified agricultural input utilization and increased production on trade
and the transport sector, the possible improvement of people's diet along with diversification of
production patterns and increased farm income, the additional benefits of assured drinking water
from tubewells.
6.8         Economic Viability. Based on the assumptions detailed in Annex 1, the project's
ERR is re-estimated at 23 percent. This is a decrease of 14 percent with respect to the appraisal
estimate of 37 percent. The lower ERR is mainly due to delayed accrual of project benefits over
almost five years after project start and the reduced net benefits resulting from a more than 50
percent smaller incremental irrigated area created under the project. These negative influences are
not fully offset by higher than anticipated yields.
6.9        In addition to the ERR of the project as a whole the economic viability of the most
important type of project investment has been assessed. The ERRs are on average 10 percent
higher than those estimated at appraisal. The analysis of the individual irrigation scheme obviously
ignores the possibility of delays in the accrual of incremental benefits. This, together with the
absence of the project's overhead costs, explains the higher rates for the individual investments vis-
a-vis the project as a whole. Because of the substantially higher yield assumptions, the ERRs of
individual irrigation systems are higher than those calculated at appraisal (Annex 1).
6.10       Due to the above mentioned complete absence of monitoring and evaluation data the
relatively high ERRs could be a reflection of upwards biased production and take-up figures.
Therefore, ERR calculations based to a large extent on agricultural data collected during field visits
at project completion should be treated with caution and interpreted in relative rather than absolute
terms. Nevertheless, the sensitivity test of the project ERR shows its relative robustness with
respect to possible reduced yields and crop valuation. This is due to the 84 percent share of the net



11
incremental benefits held by "new" crops grown in the Rabi season under irrigation, i.e where the
entire production is incremental, which is a reflection of the project's substantial increase in
cropping intensities. It thus can be concluded that the project in economic terms was a highly
successful undertaking, well beyond most Bank-supported irrigation projects in India. However, a
substantial reduction of irrigated area due to break-down or insufficient maintenance of irrigation
structures would consequently drastically reduce the economic viability.
6.11        Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Costs and Capital Recovery. Investment costs,
O&M costs, and replacement costs for all irrigation structures have been assessed (Annex 1). The
analysis confirms the level of subsidy of irrigation by the state of West Bengal being a substantial
financial burden for the state exchequer. The O&M costs range between Rs.4 10 and 940 per year
per acre of command area depending on the type of irrigation facility. Including capital recovery the
same indicator varies between Rs.1,220 and Rs.2,4 10. The current water rate per acre set by the
state government is fixed at Rs.5/acre inch of irrigation water. Even at irrigation intensity of 230
percent the current water rate by no means covers adequate operation and maintenance of the
structures, let alone capital recovery.
6.12        However, the financial analysis and the experience with structures handed over to
panchayats show that farmers, once efficient irrigation facilities are available, are not only
financially capable but willing to pay economic water rates to fully recover O&M costs. This
should encourage the state government to gradually accelerate the handing over of tubewell
irrigation structures to the beneficiaries and to increase the water rate for the remaining state-
operated facilities.
6.13       The implementation of the project is not likely to create any negative impact on the
still abundant groundwater resources of the State of West Bengal (however, see para 7.5). No
negative impact of the project on private groundwater development or conflict between the two has
been reported.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1         At appraisal, both GOWB and the Bank recognized the project risk of creating new
liabilities for O&M through a large public development program and therefore addressed the cost
recovery issue in several directions. One was to seek direct involvement of beneficiaries in O&M
through the panchayat system. Another was the provision for a cost recovery study on which to
base reforms of the current dissatisfactory system. A third one was the provision of training to
operators and the preparation of an O&M manual. A fourth one was inherent in the innovative
pump and distribution technology (see footnote 2 para 4.1) which was simple to operate and more
reliable and thereby facilitated the localization of O&M as well as reduction in operating expenses.
7.2         Prospects for sustainability are best for the STWs and LDTWs because these can be
entirely managed by beneficiary committees, usually one per cluster of such wells. Experience so
far augurs well also in regard to financial management based on water charges approved and
collected by the committees. Water charges are sufficiently high for routine O&M and savings to
be set aside for future major repairs.
7.3         Sustainability of the 6,300 ODWs constructed under the project appears generally
assured, because of appropriate technology and correct siting and spacing of the wells in relation to
available aquifers and their yields.
7.4        West Bengal is providing its rural areas with a fairly adequate and reliable electric
power supply which is further strengthening the overall sustainability of project facilities.



12
However, if HDTWs and RLIs are to continue to be government-operated it will be necessary to
raise water charges substantially. The better alternative for sustainability would be to invest more
on training and technical assistance towards beneficiary-controlled operation and thus on the
transfer of HDTWs and RLIs to the panchayats.
7.5         The project may have an impact on the quality of groundwater due to the increase in
fertilizer and pesticide use. These two parameters as well as project impact on groundwater levels
should be closely monitored by GOWB.
8. Bank Performance
8.1        The Bank succeeded in combining the great need and ample justification for public
groundwater development in West Bengal, as identified and advocated by GOWB, with the
introduction of innovative concepts for pumping and water distribution technologies, for O&M of
public tubewells and for farmer participation. Thus, it launched a large investment project which
appeared entirely feasible and had a potentially far-reaching positive impact on agricultural and
rural development in West Bengal. With hindsight it is possible to point out however, that the
application of experience from the UP tubewells projects I and II in the design and organization of
the this project was over-optimistic, not paying enough attention to West Bengal realities (para
5.1). What the project lacked most was an upfront effort to boost implementation capabilities
which should have started with retroactively-financed training in planning, design and procurement
matters in advance of project effectiveness. The Bank at appraisal in fact identified considerable
institutional weaknesses and associated project risks but left it to a management study to provide
the basis for institutional reform, which the study failed to do.
8.2        Bank supervision missions during the initial 2 to 3 years were too weak to remove
initial obstacles and generate the required momentum for project implementation. The strength of
Bank supervisions improved significantly in the period 1987 to 1989 when intense exchanges took
place between Bank and project on the procurement issue as well as coordination between
agencies, SWID's role under the project, and other issues. Although success was limited, at least
the agreed emergency action plan accelerated the pace of construction of civil works and thereby
saved the project from a looming Bank withdrawal. After 1989, the attention of project
management and supervision missions was focused on the civil works targets, with little attention
spared for institutions, M&E, quality control, and agricultural performance.
8.3        The Bank's flexibility in fund reallocation helped project implementation and so did
the Bank's concurrence to three project extensions and the cancellation of a total of SDR 54.64
million (in three subsequent steps - 1987, 1991 and 1993) from the credit. The Bank's agreement
at mid-term review to increase the targets for MDTWs, LDTWs and RLIs appears to have had little
justification in view of accumulated implementation delays. Rather the project should have been
scaled down at that point in time or earlier.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1        As mentioned earlier, GOWB's project performance was initially overshadowed by
disagreements over procurement issues.  Once these problems were resolved, the project
management showed a commendable ability to accelerate implementation despite persistent
constraints such as shortage of staff. The Borrower's greatest achievement was that it developed
the legal and procedural framework for a massive program of handing over irrigation wells to
beneficiaries for O&M and that it succeeded to implement the program on a large scale within the
remaining limited time-frame. For larger tubewells and RLIs, the Borrower succeeded in reducing



13
departmental involvement in O&M by disposing of the assistant to the operator and reducing
operator power in favor of better service to beneficiaries at lesser cost to the government.
9.2        The Borrower, as well as the Bank, underestimated the risk of implementation
delays due to coordination problems. Despite clear definition of the roles of AED, SWID, SEB
and DOA, and adequate resources allocation, coordination of activities was weak. Regular inter-
agency meetings from 1988 onwards to some extent improved the situation but lack of
accountability remained.
9.3        None of the two major implementing agencies, AED and SWID, was sufficiently
motivated or had adequate staff and office accommodation to establish and maintain an adequate
M&E service. SWID thereby also lost the opportunity of support for establishing a modern
computer-based data bank for hydrogeological data management as a prerequisite for efficient
future monitoring, investigation and planning.
10. Lessons of Experience
10.1       The main lessons learned from implementation experience are as follows:
(i)        The management and coordination of a large investment project with
several implementing agencies requires authority. This should be
reflected in an adequate rank of the project coordinator in addition to
professional qualification full time availability.
(ii)       The project has demonstrated that smaller tubewells with command areas
of about 6 ha, benefitting some 15 to 20 farmers, are highly suited to
localized O&M through panchayats. Larger tubewells on the other hand
require a higher degree of technical know-how and operational skill than
can generally be found at panchayat level. It also turned out to be more
difficult to identify suitable contiguous command areas for 40 ha
tubewells. Consequently, future tubewell development in areas where
small farmers prevail should aim at the smaller units, even against a
possibly higher investment expenditure per unit service area, since this
may be more than compensated through the avoidance of new O&M
liabilities to government.
(iii)      The project has also demonstrated that high ERRs in irrigated
agriculture, well above those for most initiatives for extensive irrigation
development in the public sector supported by the Bank in India, are
possible when projects are designed to promote intensive irrigation.
Further, the experience of the project shows that in areas where small
farmers are predominant, the best option would be to assist the public
sector to develop tubewell irrigation for turning over the completed
systems to farmers' organizations, as was done under the project,
because the development of tubewell irrigation cannot be entirely left to
the private sector at least until such time that proper incentives and
groundwater legislation are established to prevent haphazard and
inequitable development.
(iv)       The norms and procedures adopted by the Bank for procurement of
works, goods and services from Bank credits are based on long
established international practices and experience which have stood the



14
test of time. To adopt these procedures fully from the outset will result
in very substantial savings in the process of implementing Bank-
supported projects. In cases with no or limited experience with Bank-
supported projects, the project management should be given ex-ante
training in procurement procedures and operations.
(v)        When adopting project concepts/designs developed elsewhere to a new
situation, a variety of factors have to be considered and weighted
properly. Given the lack of experience with the innovative tubewell
technology and other factors (para 5. 1), the adopted program for West
Bengal was too large to be implemented in a five year project.
(vi)       The implementation of the project in the northern districts of Cooch
Behar, Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri should have been better coordinated
with the ongoing bilateral project there, in order to avoid underutilization
of resources caused by competing programs under limited
implementation capacities of government agencies as well as contractors.
(vii)      A large investment project such as this should not only implement large
amounts of civil works but also be used as a vehicle for strengthening
institutions.  The project had ample provisions for upgrading
groundwater monitoring, investigation and planning capabilities, but
little use was made of this opportunity, although it is already apparent
that West Bengal's groundwater resources require a more sophisticated
management.
(viii)     If the repeated recommendations by Bank supervision missions to
appoint outside private agencies to augment GOWB's implementation
capacity in survey, design and construction supervision had been
followed-up, it would have been possible to get considerably closer to
project targets. Therefore, when other means of strengthening fail, the
second best option is to resort to private sector assistance.
(ix)       In medium  and large investment projects the establishment of a
monitoring and evaluation system from project start to project
completion cannot be overemphasized. The set-up and operation of
such a monitoring system is the backbone of project performance
evaluation during implementation as well as for final evaluation. The
monitoring of physical achievements is of rather limited value, if they
cannot be related to project results, such as incremental production.
11. Project Relationship
11.1       The relationship between the Borrower and the Bank was tested repeatedly when
implementation targets slipped excessively and emergency actions had to be agreed upon to save
the project. This has strengthened the relationship and proved important for later agreements on
financial adjustments, extension of compliance dates for covenants and, ultimately, 3 project
extensions from 1991 to 1994. As already mentioned, cooperation between the various GOWB
participating agencies should have been closer coordinated. The project became an important
platform for GOWB agencies to strengthen their relationship with the panchayat system of local
government.



15
12. Consulting Services
12.1      The project had provisions for foreign consultancy services to assist AED in the
preparation of Design and O&M Manuals. However, AED initiated preparation of such manuals
on their own, making use of existing sample material developed under the UP Tubewells projects.
Then, by 1993, AED obtained the assistance of a national consulting firm in finalizing the
preparation of their "O&M Manual for Tubewells and River Lift Irrigation Systems", which was
released in 1994. The agricultural baseline survey was commissioned to a national consulting firm
in late 1991. The same company was engaged for the AED management study. While the former
study was well prepared, the latter appears superficial and thus has been of little use.
12.2      Initially few companies were available for tubewell construction contracts in West
Bengal. When they suddenly found themselves exposed to a large tubewell construction program,
they immediately inflated their bids. This caused much concern to project management who
worked for three years to contain the problem. When companies from other Indian states were
awarded construction contracts in West Bengal, unexpected problems occurred due to unfamiliarity
with site conditions, climate and people.
13. Project Documentation and Data
13.1      The SAR and its supplementary data volume as well as the Development Credit
Agreement and the Project Agreement were detailed enough to provide a satisfactory
implementation framework for the Bank and Borrower.
13.2      While the project's physical implementation monitoring was satisfactory, there has
been no performance monitoring of irrigation facilities completed under the project. All PCR
assumptions related to irrigated crop production are therefore based on mission observations. It is
noted however, that returns on investments into the project facilities are generally so high that the
absence of performance monitoring has in no way led to wrong investment decisions.



16
PART II
.Goverment of- West Bengal
Department of Agriculture
:(Minor Irrigation Wing)
No ________- ____   Dated.'Calcutta the                       1995
To
Mr Ridley Nelson
Chief, Agriculture unit,
Resident Staff in India,
World.Bank,
70 Lodi Estate,
New Delhi - 110 003.
Sub : West Bengal Minor. Irrigation
Project (Credit No 1619-IN):
Project-Completion Report
Dear Sir,
.Kindly  refer  to  your  letter  dated  19th  December' 1994
with which Part  I .and  Part  III  of  the  Project 'Completion
Report (PCR) were enclosed.
The parts have been gon. through and 'Part II of the PCR
which is required to be  prepared  by  the  Borrower  has  been
written and is enclosed herewith in two separate parts.;  Part A
:Oontainz Borrower's analysis of key issues and retrosp'ective
.assessment of project implementation including lessons learned.
Part  B  contains  Borrower's  comments  on  Bank's'. performance.
These two parts have been written on the basis of guidelines
for preparing PCR (June 1989)j -as  sent  through  your  letter
-dated the 9th September 1993.
With kind regards,
Yours f ithfully,
..   . SL k.. C I.Z ;      alry
Enclosure r An stated ,
I      ,,



17
WEST  BENGAL  MINOR IRRIGATION  PkOJECT
( CREDIT NO. 1619 - IN ).
PROJECT  COMPLETONIEPORI.
PARW i A).
A.      Borrower's analysis of key issues, retrospective
assessment of prolect impLementation and lessons
learned.
.(a)    Analysis of key issueo
The following key issues,  related with the project
are discussed below:-
i)   Development of Ground Water for irriiation through
public sector investments to comrlement Private
sector developments.
- It has been seen that there  is  much .scope  as
well  as  necessity  for  public  sector  investments
on ground water for irrigation to complement private
sector development. In fact public sector development
shul   .        .ect
should get priority ever private .oector development
because (a) higher capacity tubewell can-be installed
by public gector investments only,  (b)  by  public
sector  development  target.    group  1eneficiaries
can  be  effectively  reachedv  whereas  in  case  of
private sector development receipients of  benefits
will only be  those,  who  can  avail  institutional
credits., and (c) the former can be done in a pianned and
scientific manner, whereas the latter can be indiscriminate.



18
However,  .there  is  need  of  continuous  monitoring  to
make sure that the resources are not ever exploited.
Economic viability of minor irrigation installation6.
It  has  been  established  that  minor  irrigation
installation can be made economically  viable,  s;o  far
as recovery of 0 a M cost is concerned,  if Qperation
and management are formally entrusted to beneficiaries.
Although  effective  association  of  beneficiaries  is
easier  in  cases  of  low  capacity  tubewell  clusters,
the system can  also  be  extended  to' higher  capacity
tubewells and river lift irrigation  schemes,  although.
gradually.  Performance  of  the  few  higher  capacity
tubewells,  that have been handed over on  experimental,
basis, coroborate that beneficiaries can manage higher
capacity tubewells also economica'lly and efficiently.
iii)    Appropriate technoloqy of ground water development
'in relation to regional geohydrological and social
reqauirements.
It has been  seen  that  it. is  possible  to  adopt.
most suitable ground  water  structures  fron  different
categories ranging from  high  capacity  deep. tubewells
through  low  capacity  tubewells' and . open  dugwells,
depending upon soil, climate and lithology of a particu-
lar area.



19
,(b) .Retrospective assessment of project implementation
and lessons learned.
i)      Although pace of.implementation -had been slow particularly
in  initial  years,  the  project  .has.  been  beneficial
in a number of ways:
1.      Due to inclusion of variety of structures,  appropriate
structure to suit regional requirements could be taken
up.
2.     Due  to  prescribed  site  selection  procedue,   it  has
A
been possible to involve the prospective beneficiaries,
through  the  leadership  of  Panchayat  organisation  at
grass root level, right from the point of site location
through  construction,  watch  and  ward  upto  operation
maintenance and management.
Due to adoption of improved design for water distribution
system,  it ha   been  possible  to  increase  irrigation:
efficiency  and. ensure  equitable  distribution  in  the
entire service area.
4.      Due to emphasis on locating structures to. cover target
group  beneficiaries  it  has  bqen  possible  to  cover
much  larger  number  of  farm  families  than  erwisAged
at the time of apprisal.



20
5.      The most impressive outsome of  the  project  has  been
the 'success of the 8ystem of turning.;rover  management
of LbTW & STW clusters 'to benpficiaries through Panchayat
aaL&ow )IY
Samities,  giving themz,for recovering full 0 a' M  cost
by realising water  charges.  The  system  is  something
more than what was envisaged in' SAR and 'has been triezi
for the first time in India. But  the 'experimenrt  has
met with grand success and has become  an  example  to
be followed by other States.
6..     Activities  under  the  project  were  planned  in  such
a manner that there had been no  negative  effects  Qn
yield  levels  of  existing' irrigation  and/or  drinking
water wells in adjoining areas.
ii)    'The procureiment. procedure prescribed by Bank was foUnd
to be methodical and rational. But in case of scattered
works in remote areas having small financial involvement
at *ach site it was found that,  centrary  to  initial
guidelines  of  Bank,  small  packages  with  simplified
formats can involve  large.r  no.  of  small  contractors
who can work  simultaneourly' to  accelerate'   progress.
Similarly  in  case  drilling  of  HDTW  a  MDTW  smaller
size. of  slices  &  package  attracted -larger  no.   of
of local agencies.  If the above strategy  was  adopted
from the very, beginning achievements  .could  have. been
more.



21
iii)    Due to slippage in physical implementation in the initial
phase and hurry to make up the backlogs in the later phases,
software pgrts of the project e.g. M A E, Training, R & D
etc. could not be attended  saEisfactoEily.  Importance  of
these activities has however been understood and. adequate
importance in this respect will be given in case of future.
projects.
iv)     The project components comprised of variatLesof structures
requiring  numerous  types  of  materials,  equipments  and:
accessories. Procurement of these materials following Bank
guidelines, which were not very much familiar, posed real
Problems  in  initial  years.  nut  once  the  system i was.
understood,  the activity could be boosbed up withuut any
further difficulties.  It would perhaps be better if there
was  some  arrangements  for  pre-project, training  through
retroactive financing.
v)      Training  was  elso  necessary  in  respect- of  disbursements
procedure au paraphernelia for credit. withdrawal had  epen
very much elaborate' and complicated. One of the reasons for
very low credit withdrawal in the initial  part was  that
originally  credit  withdrawal  for  "Civil  Works"  was  not
admissible until structures were "CompIete".in all respeqts.
Subsequently the World Bank agreed on re-imbursement against
phasewl'se completion oF a str*uctuee  and  then  fthe credit
withdrawal rate sarted increasing substantially.



22
vi)     Although it has not been' possible to achieve the targets
in full, GOWE does not think that engagement of private
sector. agencies  for  survey  design'  and  construction
supervision would be  of  much  help,  as  professionals
and  sub-professionals  in  the  department  are  quite
competent in this  respect  and  induction  of .a  third
party might have  invited  complications.  The  enormity ,
of work involvement in resject of numberX variety and
spatial  distribution  required  a  larger  time  frame
thab what Was prescribed.    Barring  initia1  slippages
in the first three financial years '(27 months. in: actual)
the project could be completed in another 8-year period
by 31.3.95, if another year's extension -could be given
by the Bank.
vii)    GOWE does not also think  that  parallel" execution  of
another  bilateral  project  had 'anything, to  do  with',
the lower level of project achievements in  Jalpaiguri
and Coochbehar. In fact the reasons for slower achieve-
ments are :-
- number of smaller categories of structures allocated
for the area was very large, requiring much time' for
site selection.
- limited availability of construction  agency  in  the
area;' posed problem  in  the  init'ial .years,  as  local
ageric'Lo  could not be attracted due. to, l"ck of' flexibi-
lity in the  bidding  document.  The  sit,uation  started
improving. when  simplified  formats  for  smal-l  amounts
were  adopted  and  local  agencies  could  be.'inducted.
,  . X 8 : ' ' ' "'~~..  .:,   '    ,.              i,i:



23
Earlier there was lukewarm response to bids for works
in the areah  For a number of  cases  bids  had  to >be
invited more than once.
- repeated failure of agencies entursted with drilling
of tubewells affected progress.  The defaulting. agencies
were from other  districts  in  the  southern  parts  of
the State. No.  of. bids had to be rescinded fresh bids
invited.'
Now the local agencies have  become  tugned  up.  In  a
recent programme, for sinking 750 'tubewel.lo for combatihg
situation arising out of scarcity in rainfall in *the
above two districts it has  been, observed  that  .local'
agencies were able to sink  all  the  tubewells  within
two months period.
Moreover level of ground water exploitation in the.
two districts i6 still very low (2-3% of the potential).
Hence multiple projects 'can be, taken up -in  the  area,
simultanously and there  will  not  be  difficulties .in
implementation as infrastructural facilities and availa-
bility of working. agencies have now improved substanti-
ally.
viii)   GOWD  is  determined  to  pursue  the  objective  of  the
project and continue the activities till lull development
of the structure for having all the dpsired .benefits.
The lessons lparnid* in  this  project  will . be  usefu'l
in case of future project formulation and implementation.



24
WEST  BENGAL  MINOR  IRRICATION  PROJECT,
(Credit No. 16191N )
Project Completion Report.
PART - II, (1B
B.  Borrower's Comments of Bank's Performance
1.      Government  of  West  Bengal  is. grateful  to  the  Bank
for its assistance, cooperation and guidance throughout,.
the  Project  period.   Without  Bank's  assistance,   it
wouid  nothave  been  possible  to' embark,. upon -su.ch  a
huge project. The project has been greatly  beneficial
particularly for the small and  marginal  farmers,  who
constitute more than 80  of the farming.community.      :
2.      Different  supervision  missions  amply  assisted  GOWB..
in respect of all the aspects of project implementation
with help and  guidance .to  streamline  arnd, accelerate
activities.  It  was  due  to  constant  encouragements
from  ali- the- members  of  supervision, missions   that
the experiment of.turning over of.managment to Panchayet
Ssamities could bq made successful.
3.'     It would have been miuch helpful if pre-proJect trainings
on- procurement  and  dis-bursement  procedures  could  be
organised by makingj provision f or retLroa'ctive f inancing..
GOWB Could avail only one seminar, on  procurement  and.
*       ~~one on diisbursemernt near end  QA  the  pro Ject  period,
*       ~~f or which outcome of the seminars could  not  be 'made
much useful f or thes pr6ject.



25
.4..    Approval to smaller  size  of  sLices  and  package  for
pro.curements and permission for phasewise disbuirsements
helped  a  lot  in  accelerating .project  implementation
and improving credit withdrawal rate.
It may also be mentioned  that  Cavt.  o;f  West  Bengal
has found the bidding format for consultancy engagement.
and  the  paraphernelia   for  claiming   reinbursements
too complicated  . It appeared that there is necessity
of simplication in respect of both,.'
6.      Govt. of West Bengal generally agrees with the findings
in the P.C.R.  and takes note of different deficiencies
pointed out in the report as guidance for future project
preparation and implementation.



26
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Credits
Laan/Credit                Purpose               Year of       Status                Comments
Approval
First UP Tubewell   Financed the construction of 800   1961      Completed  Implementation of well construction
Irrigation Project  public tubewells (between                                programme was satisfactory but
(Cr.8-IN)           September 1961 and March 1964).                          operational problems (conveyance
channels incomplete and poorly
constructed, command area too large,
procedure for water allocation weakly
enforced, systems for O&M of the
wells inadequate) caused benefits
realized to fall short of potential.
West Bengal Agric.  Installation of 18,000 shallow     1975      Completed  Four-year project extended by 11, years
Development Project tubewells, 300 deep tubewells, 600                       due to slow implementation.
(Cr541-IN)          river-lift installations, 200 agro-
service centres and mark-et
development.
UP Public Tubewell  Two-year programme to test and     1980      Completed  Data collected and evaluated
Project I (Cr.1004-IN) demonstrate improved tubewell                         confirmed that the improved wells can
technology through construction of                       be constructed on a wide scale at
about 500 public tubewells.                              acceptable cost and can provide timely,
reliable and equitable water.
UP Public Tubewells  Installation of 2,200 improved    1983      Completed  Large scale development project based
Project 11          tubewells; power connections to                          on UP Tubewells 1. Departmentally
(Cr.1332-IN/IFAD    650 existing tubewells and                               implemented.
Loan 124-IN)        modernization of 100 old
tubewells.
Bihar Public Tubewell Installation of 500 new tubewell  1985     Completed  Largely based on experience gained
Project             systems, modernization of 700 and                        with UP Public Tubewell Project
rehabilitation of 2,800 existing                         (UP I) and Second UP Public
syste.ns.                                                Tubewells Project (UP 11).
2. Project Timetable
Item                      Date Planned            Date RAvised               Date Actual
Identification/Preparation                                                                     1982/83
Preparation Mission                                                                            1983/84
Appraisal Mission                                                                          September 1984
Credit Negotiations                                                                         January 1985
Board Approval                                                                             March 12, 1985
Credit Signature                                                                          September 27, 1985
Credit Effectiveness                                                                      December 20, 1985
Credit Closing                           March 31, 1991          March 31, 1992             March 31, 1994
March 31, 1993
March 31, 1994
Credit Completion                         July 31, 1991                                      July 31, 1994



27
3. Credit Disbursements
Disbursements (in SDR million)
(Cumulative)
FY 85     FY 86      FY 87      FY88      FY 89      FY 90      FY 91     FY 92       FY 93       FY
(85/86)   (86/87)   (87/88)   (88/89)   (89/90)   (90/91)   (91/92)   (92/93)   (93/94)1/    94
Appraisal Estimate       6.5        19.6      37.3       57.4       77.8      95.0       101.0
Actual                    -          -         0.8        5.6       9.1       20.3       23.8       25.8        40.2
Actual as% of
Reduced Credit of
SDR46.36 million 2/                  -         1.7       12.1       19.6      43.8       51.3       55.5        86.7
Credit Closing Date:      31 March 1994
I/     Final disbursement was made on August 24, 1994 and SDR6.16 million was cancelled.
2/      Devaluation of Rupee and protracted project implementation delays made it necessary to review the financing plan of the project. These
reviews had been designed to bring the committed but undisbursed Credit amount in line with realistically assessed financing requirements
for the remaining implementation period.
Reduction/Cancellation of original Credit amount:
(SDR million)
Original Credit Amount                                      101.00
- Cancelled as of 4 December 1987                             .935
- Cancelled as of 5 December 1991                           29.500
- Cancelled as of I May 1993                                24.200
- Cancelled as of August 24, 1994                            6.160
Revised Credit Amount                                       40.205



28
4. Project Implementation
Indicators
Irrigation Structures (No.)                  Appraisal    Revised      Actual      % of SAR
Estimate      Final       PCR
HDIW
- Completed and operational                       1,200                    602              50
- Handed over to Panchayat                                                   6
- Operational after project completion1/                                  (126)            (10)
MDIW
- Completed and operational                         400         500        178              45
- Handed over to Panchayat                                                   2
- Operational after project completion  .  .                              (112)            (30)
LDTW
- Completed and operational                       1,800        2,940       838              47
- Handed over to Panchayat                                                 704
- Operational after project completion11                                  (772)            (43)
STW
- Completed and operational                       5,400                  1,495              28
- Handed over to Panchayat                                               1,078
- Operational after project completionl/                                 (815)             (15)
RLI
- Completed and energized                          200          220        125              63
- Operational2l                                    200          220        157              79
- Handed over to Panchayat
- Operational (electriried) after project completionl                    (28)             (14)
ODW
- Completed and operational                      10,000                  6,681              67
- Handed over to farmers                                                 6,681



29
Appraisal     Final       Actual
Construction of Buildings (No.)               Estimate      Revised      PCR
Staff Training Centre
- Completed                                       1
- In progress
Inspection Bungalows
- Completed                                      2
- In progress                                                             2
Administrative Building
- Completed                                       -                       10
- In progress                                                             3
Cost Total - Construction (Rs million)           4.5         40.0        38.9
Training
- Cost (Rs million)                              6.1          1.0        0.4
- Person-month - professional                                             35
- Person-month - non-professional                                         60
Visits and Study Tours (Rs million)              0.9          0           -
Research & Development (incl. TA) (Rs million)   1.4          0
Monitoring and Evaluation (No.)
- Baseline survey                                 1                       1
- O&M manual                                      1                       1
- Management study                                1                       1
- Water charge system study                      13/          0
Extension Services (No.)
- Additional ADO                                 95           0          n.a.
/i'   Could be completed without further expenditure; estimated completion beginning 1995 to mid-1995; all
expenditures have bec.n met before 31/3/94 (closing date) but works were not completed by then.
2/   Includes 32 RLI completed but not energized (diesel pump).
3/    Later waived.
Comments: During mid-term review of the project in July 1989, consequent upon change in the prevailing Rs/SDR
exchange rate, additional number of 100 MDTW and 1,140 LDTW were included to meet regional requirements.
Concurrence of the Bank was also obtained for taking up modernization of additional 20 RLI schemes; conversion of
286 diesel operated schemes into electrically operated ones; system improvements by the West Bengal State Electricity
Board (SEB) to ensure supply of power at the district level as per agreement and inclusion of Darjeeling District within
the project area.



5. Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost
ApWraisaL Estimate               Revised - Mid-tern (6/89)                   Revised - Final (12/93)                     Actual
(Rs million) (USS milLion) 1/  (Rs million)         (USS million) I/        (Rs million)       (USS million) 1/   (Rs million)  (USS million) 1/
Works
- Deep Tubewells
HDTW                               409.6               37.2              712.1               43.2                   840.0               26.8   )     841.1 2/            36.3 2/
MDTW                                86.5                7.9              213.2                12.9                  275.0                8.8
LDTW                                113.6              10.3              257.7                15.6                  356.0               11.3            102.7                4.6
-  Shallow Tubewells                     242.1              22.0              386.1                23.4                  508.0               16.2            113.8                6.5
- Open Dugwells
Alluvial                             10.7               1.0               14.0                 0.8                   16.0                0.5   )      140.3 31             7.7 3/
Hard Rock                           99.3                9.0              112.0                6.8                   152.0                4.8   )
-  River Lift Installations              109.0               9.9              337.6                20.5                  242.0                7.7            121.3                5.3
-  Energization                        (included in structures)              (included in structures)                  (included in structures)              470.0               21.7
Management Ilproveints
Buildings                               4.5               0.4               11.0                 0.7                   40.0                1.3             38.9                1.5
Equipment                               3.9               0.4                3.9                 0.2                        -                 -                -
Training                                6.1               0.6                6.1                 0.4                     1.0           (0.1) 4/             0.4            (0.1) 4/  ,
Visits and Study Tours                  0.9               0.1                0.9                 0.1                        -                 -                -                   - o
Research and Development                1.4               0.1                1.4                 0.1                        -                 -                -
Monitoring and Evaluation               2.3               0.2                2.3                 0.1    )           220.0 5/             7.0 5/         267.7 5/           13.7 5/
Engineering  Ackinistrmtion             105.6                9.6             195.3                11.8
Extension Services                         8.5                0.8               8.5                 0.5                        -                  -               -
Base Costs                              1204.0              109.5            2262.1               137.1                        -                  -               -
Physical Contingency                      70.6                6.4             130.0                 7.9                        -                  *               -
Price Contingency                        285.1              25.9              540.0                32.7                        -                  -               -
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     1559.7             141.8             2932.1               177.7                 2650.0               84.4           2096.2               97.3
I/   At historical rates of exchange.
2/   HDTW and MDTW.
3/   ALtuvial and Hard Rock 0DW.
4/   = Less than 0.1.
2/   M&E and Engineering and Administration.
Comments: During mid-term review of the project in Juty 1989, consequent upon change in the prevailing Rs/SDR exchange rate, additionaL number of 100 MDTW and 1,140 LDTW were
included to meet regional requirements. Concurrence of the Bank was also obtained for taking up modernization of additional 20 RLI schemes; conversion of 286 diesel operated
schemes into electrically operated ones; system improvements by the West Bengal State ELectricity Board (SEB) to ensure supply of power at the district level as per agreement
and inclusion of Darjeeling District within the project area.  On the basis of revised numbers, the project costs were re-estimated at Rs2,932 million and later (1993) at
Rs2,650 million.



B. Project Financing
(US$ million) *
Plamed (SAR)             Revised (5/93)               ActuaL  (PCR)
IDA     Domestic    Total            IDA             IDA       Donestic    Totat
Civil Works
IA     Deep tubewells                                   27.7        14.6      42.3        15.0                10.8          1.2      12.0
1B      Shallow tubewelLs                               13.5        3.6       17.1        6.3                  2.5         0.3        2.8
IC     Open dugwetls                                     8.9         5.2      14.1        4.9                  3.1          0.5       3.6
ID      River lift installations                         4.2         2.3       6.5        4.2                  1.7         0.2        1.9
Goods
ZA      PVC pipes, fittings, etc.                       11.7         2.9      14.6        10.6                 8.8          0.5       9.3
26      Pump sets and controller                        12.4         3.1      15.5        8.5                  4.5          0.4       4.9
2C      Steel and RCC pipes                             14.5         4.9      19.4        13.4                12.5          2.8      15.3
2D      Other materials                                  0.4            -      0.4         0.6                    -
Ymbngemmt Improvements
3A      Buildings                                        0.2         0.2       0.4        0.3                  0.6          0.1       0.7
36      Training and studies                             LI             -      1.1         0.7                 0.1          0.0       0.1
4   Extension Services                                  0.9            -      0.9         0.9
Engineering & Administration 4/                                   -                    -                     -        13.7      13.7
Other not Reibxwsabte Expenditures 5/                  -           -         -         -                     -        15.2      15.2
Forthcoming Claim up to 31/7/94  6/                   ;            -         -         -                 17.8                   17.8
Total                                             955 I/      46.32/   141.82/      65.43/               62.4        34.9       97.3
At historical rates of exchange.
1/   Includes 23.6 N for power supply;  the Credit amount of USS99.0 (SAR) included USS3.5 of unallocated expenditures.
2/   Includes 9.5 N for power supply.
3/   Includes power supply.
4/   For SAR and Revised Estimates already included in works.
5/   Rs187 million expenditure on energization not eligible for IDA + Rs8O million for inspection charges, sales tax etc.
6/   For expenditures Rs306 million incurred before 31/3/94, converted into current USS equivalent of date of occurrence of actual
expenditures, current 8/94 equivalent USS9.83 million.



32
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits 1/
SAR Estimate  PCR Estimate
Increased Irrigated Area, Net ('000 ha)                                       139.0           595
Increased Foodgrain Production ('000 tons/year)                               367.0       177.0 2/
Increased Potato/Vegetables Production ('000 tons/year)                    140.0 3/          335.0
Increased Mustard Production ('000 tons/year)                                    -             7.0
Increased Jute Production ('000 tons/year)                                     18.0            5.0
Increased Sesame Production ('000 tons/year)                                    5.0            0.9
Directly Benefitting Farm Families ('000 no.) .4/                             190.0          248.0
Generated Farm Employment
M md/year                                                                      47.0           12.2
'000 jobs/year 5/                                                             180.0           48.0
(Agricultural Value Added (Rs million/year)) ./                               (510)          (866)
1/ At full development.
2/ Composed of 89% paddy.
3/ Potato only; SAR estimate not correct, should be 497,620 tons.
./ SAR and PCR use different assumptions regarding number of farmers benefitting from CCA and
percentage of cultivated area of farms located in CCA (see Annex 1).
.5/ Includes operator - jobs at appraisal: 2,900; project completion 1,100.
5/ In respective current prices (SAR 1984; PCR 1994).
B. Economic Impact
SAR                              PCR
ERR 1/                                         37%                              23%
Assumptions
- Discount Periods                              30                               30
- Standard Conversion Factor                    0.8                              0.9
1/ Details in Annex 1.



33
C. Financial Impact
Without Project 1/              With Project (Full Development) 2/
Net On-Farm Income (Rs)
1 ha farm                                                  5,420                                   l 12,630
0.4 ha farm                                                2,170                                      5,050
1/ No irrigation.
2/ 50% of farm size irrigated.
D. Studies
Study                    Purpose as Drined at Appraisal           Status                   Impact
AED Management Study            Evaluate the cadre issues within AED (SAR    Completed   Negligible. AED largely disagreed with
para 5.04) and formulate practical actions to            recommendations which partially came
resolve the problems. Separation of                      too late to have any impact on project
construction and O&M activities. Evaluate                implementation.
changes that can be made given constraints
inherent in existing organization structure,
staffing levels and management procedures,
particularly in relation to construction
programme for new works and related O&M.
Formulate guidelines and identify data
collection required to monitor, evaluate and
compare management performance.
Design and O&M Manuals          (i) Design manual to record planning         Only O&M    Useful source - document for tubeweil
principles and design criteria for the new    manual    O&M, not a manual for the field
tubewell technology together with construction  completed   officer.
practices to implement the works.
(ii) O&M manual covering management of
public groundwater systems; and arrangements
by which AED relates to other agencies
involved in minor irrigation development.
Water Charge Study              SAR proposed introduction of a two-tier system    Cancelled    Continuation of old system except for
of water charges consisting of base charge and            wells handed over to panchayats for
volumetric water charge. Study was needed                 O&M.
because of lack of information needed to
formulate appropriate policy and agree on
timetable for introducing such policy.
Baseline Agro-Economic Survey   Intended as an initial study of the present  Completed   Potentially useful for future M&E, if
situation at project start up for representative          GOWB would support such activities.
sample areas to be developed with each type of
technology under the project. This baseline
survey would then serve as a basis for project
monitoring and evaluation.



34
7. Status of Covenants
cAwenant                                                            Deadline for              Status
Project Agreement               Description of Coveant                   Compliance
Section
3.01             Maintain separate accounts and furnish certified copies of   -               In compliance.
accounts & fin.ncial statements within 9 months from end
of financial year.
3.02             Have accounts audited annually and furnish to Assoc. on      -               In compliance.
finalization of report of the audit.
3.04(a)          Prepare a draft TOR for a water charge system survey.   12/31/1985           In compliance.
3.04(b)          Furnish a proposal for establishment of a water charge   12/31/1986          In compliance.
system.
3.04(c)          Furnish a timetable for applying a water charge system  09/30/1987           In compliance.
and thereafter apply said system.
SCH.2,Ic         Prepare drafts of Design and O&M manuals for tubewells   12/31/1985          In compliance.
and river-lift installations.
SCH.2,le         Provide appropriate staffing facilities, services and other  -               In compliance.
resources required for carrying out agricultural extension
services.
SCH.2,2a         Establish and maintain a Project Coordinating Unit.      12/31/1985          In compliance.
SCH.2,2b         Establish and maintain a Project Accounting Unit.       12/31/1985           In compliance.
SCH.2,3ai        Provide draft work plans for M&E and thereafter carry   09/30/1985           In compliance.
out such work plans.
SCH.2,3aii       Provide draft work plans for R&D and thereafter carry   12/01/1985           In compliance.
out such work plans.
SCH.2,3bi        (i) Review annually the work plans for M&E.             07/01/1986           In compliance.
SCH.2,3bii       (ii) Review annually the work plans for R&D.            07/01/1987           In compliance.
SCH.2,4          Carry out a management study and furnish results to     09/30/1986           In compliance.
findings to thc Assoc.
SCH.2,6a         Carry out a baseline agro-economic study and furnish to      -               In compliance.
Assoc. for review and thereafter carry out recommended
activities.
SCH.2Z6b         Furnish to Assoc. for review results and conclusions of the  07/31/1987      In compliance.
above study.
SCH.2,7          Undertake a joint mid-term review of project with       03/31/1988           In compliance.
Borrower and Assoc.
SCH.2,8          Furnish to Assoc. quarterly reports in acceptable detail.  10/01/1985        In compliance.
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
Fmancal Year       Pre-Appraisal        Appraisal        Negotiations       Supervision           Total
1983               11.9                                                                       11.9
1984               63.4                                                                       63.4
1985               22.6              47.1                5.1                                  74.8
1986               0.2                                                     13.4               13.6
1987                                                                       14.4               14.4
1988                                                                        9.7                9.7
1989                                                                        8.6                8.6
1990                                                                        7.5                75
1991                                                                        95                 95
1992                                                                        6.4                6.4
1993                                                                        4.0                4.0
1994                                                                        2.1                2.1
Total                     98.1               47.1               5.1                75.6               22S9



35
B. Missions
Performane Rating.;/
Stage of Prject   Month/   No. of  Days in     Spedalizationsi/    Aailabe    Project    Dc1c/opmcnt Overaf
C(ce         Year   Persoos   Fied                            AD
Funds   Managemuent   Impact    Status
Supervision       12/1985      3        3          IE. GS, AG           1          2            1          1
Supervision       06/1986      3        6          IE, EP, AG           1          3            1          3
Supervision       02/1987      5        5       IE(2), AG, EP, GS       2          3            1          4
Supervision 3/    04/1987      2        1            IE, AG
Supervision 3/    05/1987      2        4            IE. AG             -          -            -          -
Supervision 3/    07/1987      1        2              IE
Supervision       02/1988      6       4         IE(3), BS, GS, PS      1          2            1          3
Mid-Term Review   12/1988      5       5         IE(2), GS(2), PS       1          2            2          3
Mid-Term Review   07/1989      7       3    IE(2). GS(2), EP, PS, BS    1          2            2          3
Supervision       02/1990      4        5         IE, GS. EP, PS        1          3            3          3
Supervision       07/1990      6        5      I. EP, GS(2), PS, BS    1          2            3          3
Supervision       12/1990      6        4     IE(2), PS. AG, EP, EC     2          1            2          2
Supervision       07/1991      5        4       IE, PS, AG, EP, FA      I          1            2          2
Supervision       01/1992      5        8       IE, EC, PS, AG, SO      1          1            1          2
Supervision        11/1992     2        3            IE, EC             I          1            1          2
Supervision       02/1993      2        4            IL, EC                                      1        1
Supervision 3/    05/1993      1        4              1E
Supervision       01/1994      3       10           IE(2). AG           1          1            1          1
J/ AG = Agriculturalist; EC = Economist; EP = Electrical Power Specialist; GS = Groundwater Specialist;
IE = Irrigation Engineer, PS = Procurement Specialist; BS = Budget Specialist; FA = Financial Analyst;
SO = SociologisL
I/ 1 = Problem-Free or Minor Problems: 2 = Moderatc Problems; 3 = Major Problems; 4 = n.a.
3/ Intermediate SPN missions.
C. Costs
(Not Available)



36
ANNEX 1
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Agricultural Impact and Side-Benefits of the Project
1.        The economic and financial evaluation of the project is based on an
assessment of the relation between estimated benefits and costs actually incurred.
Benefits generated by the project are predominantly agricultural and defined as the
incremental benefits due to the implementation of the project.
2.        Since the project management could not provide adequate data on cropping
pattern and crop yields the mission had to rely on information collected during field visits
and from other sources. As in the SAR, three different soil types (heavy, medium, light)
have been used for the definition of representative cropping patterns for the "without"
and "with project" situation. However, in the absence of readily available data on the
location of project irrigation works according to soil types, the occurrence of soil types
in different project districts was assessed and consequently the different categories of
irrigation works financed by the project were allocated on a proportional basis. After
estimating the number of completed irrigation schemes on the three soil types, the net
irrigated area was estimated based on the command area of the irrigation structure
(HD'W-40 ha, MDTW-20 ha, LDTW-6 ha, STW-6 ha, RLI-80 ha, ODW-0.45 ha) and
compared with data provide by the Department of Engineering. The estimates of net
incremental irrigated area in each year as well as the net total irrigated area in each year
in each soil type are given in Table 1.
3.        The cropping pattern "without project" - based on entirely rainfed agriculture,
predominantly during kharif season - remains unchanged with respect to the SAR
assumptions (Table 2). Except for the "heavy" soil, the "with project " cropping pattern
at full development differs from the SAR assumptions. In the "medium" soil case the jute
area during the kharif season estimated at 20% in the SAR has been re-estimated at
10% and Aman HYV rice increased from 60% (SAR) to 80% respectively. Cropping
intensity increases at full development to 110% (SAR 100%) during kharif due to
diversion of 10% jute land to Aman HYV rice and double cropping of the entire jute
land with Aman HYV rice after harvest of the jute crop. During the Rabi season the
only change in assumption with regard to area allocation is diversification of 5% wheat
(SAR) area to mustard. The cropping intensity in the "light" soil case is the same as the
SAR assumptions. However, allocation of area to crops in Rabi-summer season reflects
the greater awareness of farmers than anticipated at project appraisal regarding the
profitability of crops grown. Generally, a shift to more profitable crops was observed.
Based on the assumed cropping pattern "with project" at full development entire CCA
(in 100 ha blocks) developed each year was allotted to respective crops on a proportional
basis by soil type and season. Both cumulative CCA and net incremental CCA for each
crop by year were estimated as given in Table 3. Incremental net irrigated area at full
development was estimated at 59,500 ha or 43% of the 139,000 ha estimated at appraisal.
The reason for non-achievement of the SAR target is the relatively low number of
completed irrigation units (details in main report).



37
IN'DIA: West Bengal Minor Irrigation Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Analysis
4.         Most crop yields at full development have been revised upwards relative to
the SAR estimates (Table 4). Along with varietal development, extension of irrigation
facilities, higher input use and development of hybrid seeds in vegetables, the statewide
common trend in increased productivity of certain crops, particulary HYV paddy
including Boro paddy, mustard and vegetables, was confirmed by observations made on
project sites. A 4-year build-up period to reach full development of yields and input use
for all schemes was considered more adequate than a 6-year period for tubewells and 3-
year period for RLIs assumed by SAR. In the "without project" situation only Kharif
rainfed crops are cultivated and land remains fallow during Rabi-summer season. New
crops in CCA are Boro rice, potato/vegetables and wheat. For new crops 70% of yield
at full development is assumed in the first year in which they are grown. Labour
requirement for these crops in the "without project" situation is assumed to be 90% of
the requirement "with project" at full development. Input requirements per hectare and
crop are indicated in Table 5.
S.         Total incremental production and labour requirement have been estimated
year-wise and for the individual crops (Tables 6 and 7)1/. For new crops like Boro
paddy, potato/vegetables and wheat, the entire production has been considered
incremental. Incremental foodgrain  production (89%  paddy) at full development is
estimated at 177,000 tons or 48% of SAR estimates. For potato/vegetable incremental
production is estimated at 335,000 tons or 66% of SAR estimate 2/. These figures are
in line with the fact that only 43% of the incremental net irrigated area estimated at
appraisal will be achieved at full development. Furthermore it reflects the generally
increased yield assumptions and tendency towards the cultivation of higher value crops,
particularly Boro paddy and potato, as compared to the SAR assumptions.
6.         The estimates of SAR and PCR with respect to the number of benefitting
farm families cannot be directly compared, since t.hey are based on different
assumptions. The SAR assumes that, on average, each farm family would have 0.7 ha of
their cultivated land within the command area. Based on the mission's observations, 80%
(in the case of ODW 100%) of the command area is cultivated by marginal farmers
(average farm size 0.4 ha) having 50% of their land within the CCA. The remaining 20%
is cultivated by small and medium farmers (average farm size 1.0 ha) having 80% of their
land within the CCA. The number of 248,000 farm families estimated to benefit from the
1/        Tables showing year-wise incremental production and labour requirement build-up related to
incremental irrigated area for individual crops are on-file (FAO-DDC Investment Centre).
2/         Potato/vegetable production estimates at full development exceed SAR estimates due to an
incorrect assessment of production development at appraisal. In order to comply with SAR
yield and area assumptions, the SAR "with project" estimate at full development should be
497,000 tons incremental production for potato/vegetables, not 140,000 tons as reported in
the SAR.



38
INDIA: West Bengal Minor Irrigarion Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Analysis
project at full development (Table 8) confirms the intended distribution of project
benefits to a large number of target families.
7.         In addition to the direct benefits of incremental agricultural production, the
project will create at full development in 1996/97 around 12.2 million additional
agricultural labour days due to increased cropping intensity (Table 7 and Part III "Direct
Benefits"). Furthermore, employment will have been created for 1,100 tubewell
operators'/ as well as around 34,000 jobs for unskilled labour during the construction
of the irrigation structures. No quantification has been made of additional benefits, such
as increased trade and transport, the improvement of people's diet as result of
diversification of production patterns and increased farm income, and the benefit of
assured drinking water from tubewells.
B. Farm Income
8.        In order to assess the impact of incremental production on the financial
return of benefitting farm families a farm income analysis has been carried out for three
representative farm models based on the assumptions defined above. Prevailing financial
prices for inputs and commodity prices available to farmers during 6-8 weeks after
harvest have been applied for the calculation of the financial crop budgets and
incremental net return (Tables 9 and 14). Although the net return from agriculture at
full development exceeds by around 140% the net return "without project" the return to
engaged family labour day is a more accurate indicator, as labour input increases with
cropping intensity. However, net return per family labour day "with project" still exceeds
the "without project" return by 22-65% depending on the farm model (Tables 10-12).
C. Economic Analysis
9.         An economic analysis has been made, assuming a 30-year project life in
constant 1994 Rupee terms. Calculation of incremental agricultural net-benefits is based
on the experience in constructing irrigation schemes and on their resulting incremental
agricultural production value and incremental direct production costs. Costs include
project costs actually incurred as well as estimates of necessary O&M and replacement
costs for the irrigation schemes.
10.        Economic prices of traded commodities have been derived based on World
Bank - Commodity Price Forecast, dated March 1994 (Table 13). For non-traded
/,'       Based on the assumption that H + MDTWs are respectively operated by one operator, LDTWs
and STWs in clusters of six wells operated by one operator appointed by the panchayat, RLIs
operated by one operator, assistant and nightguard.



39
INDIA: West Bengal Minor Irrigation Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Analysis
commodities, a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9 has been used to convert
financial prices into economic values'l. For unskilled agricultural labour a conversion
factor (CF) of 0.65 has been applied based on discussions in the field with concerned
government staff and farmers. Financial prices and economic values are given in
Table 14. In order to arrive at costs in 1994 Rupees terms, year-wise actual expenditure
on the project has been adjusted by the GNP deflator indices and further adjusted to
economic values by use of the SCF. Inflation Factors and Inflation Rates are given in
Table 15.
11.       Net incremental benefits at full development have been calculated per
hectare for individual crops (Table 16). It has been assumed that incremental net
benefits develop over a four year period. Crop area in each year is as set out in Table
3 2/. Total yearly net incremental benefits are presented in Table 17. Based on the
assumptions detailed in the preceding paragraphs, the ERR of the West Bengal Minor
Irrigation Project (WBMIP) is estimated at 23% as shown in Table 18. At appraisal the
ERR was calculated at 37%. The lower recalculated ERR is mainly due to delayed
accrual of project benefits and the relatively lower net benefits resulting from the much
smaller incremental irrigated area created under the project than anticipated at
appraisal. These negative influences are not fully offset by higher than anticipated yields.
12.       In addition to the overall ERR of the project as a whole the economic
viability of the individual irrigation scheme types has been assessed. Based on the same
basic assumptions stated above the ERR for HDTW, MDTW, LDTW, and STW are
calculated at 53%, 35%, 48%, and 59% respectively3/. On average, the ERR is about
10% higher than that estimated at appraisal (respectively 36%, 34%, 36% and 50%). The
analysis of the individual structure obviously ignores the problem of delays in the accrual
of incremental benefits. This explains, together with the absence of project overhead
costs, the higher rates for the individual structures vis-A-vis the project as a whole.
Because of the substantially higher yield assumptions and adoption of more profitable
crops, the ERRs of individual irrigation scheme types are higher than those calculated
at appraisal.
13.       Due to the complete absence of monitoring and evaluation data the relatively
high ERRs could also reflect over-optimistic assumptions on rate of adoption by farmers
and consequent increases in production. Therefore, these ERR, which are to a large
extent based on agricultural data collected during field visits at project completion should
be treated with caution and interpreted in relative rather than absolute terms.
/,        The Standard Conversion Factor for India was increased from 0.8 to 0.9 percent, World Bank
Office Memorandum, May 7, 1994.
2/         Tables showing year-wise incremental net benefit build-up related to incremental irrigated area
for individual crops are on file (FAO-DDC Investment Centre).
3/         Detailed tables on the economic analysis of individual structures are on-file (FAO-DDC
Investment Centre).



40
INDIA: West Bengal Minor Irrigation Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Analysis
Nevertheless, the sensitivity test of the project ERR shows it to be quite robust with
respect to possible reduced yields and crop value. This is due to the 84% share of the
net incremental benefits held by "new" crops grown in Rabi season under irrigation, i.e.
where the entire production is incremental. However, a substantial reduction of irrigated
area due to break-down or insufficient maintenance of irrigation structures would
consequently have a drastic negative effect on the project's economic viability.
D. Operation & Maintenance Costs and Capital Recovery
14.         As indicated in Table 19, O&M  costs are calculated to range between
Rs410 and 940 per acre/year or Rsl,010 to Rs2,350 per ha/year of command area
depending on the type of irrigation facility.11  Including capital recovery the same
indicator varies between Rs 1,220 and Rs 2,410. The current water rate per acre set by
the state government is fixed at Rs5/acre inch of irrigation water. This water rate is
converted for simplicity reasons into a per acre rate based on the crop-wise water
requirement. The water rate ranges from Rs60/acre for Aman rice to Rs240/acre of
Boro rice. Even at an irrigation intensity of 230% the current water rate by no means
covers operation and maintenance of the structures, let alone capital recovery. This
rough analysis confirms the subsidy of irrigation by the state of West Bengal being a
substantial financial burden for the state exchequer.
15.       The analysis uses the current (subsidized) power rate for the calculation of
energy costs, i.e. RsO.61/kWh. If a hypothetical marginal power rate of Rs2/kWh2/ is
used total O&M costs increase by around 65%, e.g. from Rs580 to Rs940 for HDTW or
from Rs940 to Rsl,300 for MDTW. The utilization of a marginal power rate of Rs2/kWh
in the economic analysis reduces the ERR just slightly by 2-4% since energy costs are
small compared to the incremental benefits of irrigated agriculture.
16.       The financial analysis and the experience with structures handed over to
panchayats show that once efficient irrigation facilities are available, farmers are both
financially capable and willing to pay economic water rates to fully recover O&M costs.
This should encourage the state government to gradually accelerate the handing over of
tubewell irrigation structures to the beneficiaries and to increase the water rate for the
remaining state-operated facilities.
l/         Including capital recovery, this would increase to between Rsl,220 and Rs2,410 per acre/year
or Rs3,040 to Rs6,040 per ha.
2/         No official analysis has been carried out to date by the State of West Bengal in order to assess
the economic cost of power.



41
INDIA: West Bengal Minor I[rigation Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 1. Net Irrigation Potential Created (Area)
UNITS                  8-87   87-88   tS-as   as-so    90-91    91-92    9Z-93.   93-941
NET             100 HA    HEAVY                                                 5.8      35.8     76t8     117.0
IRRIGATION               MEDIUMk                                                5.4      392     8a45    13.7
DEVELOPED                UGHT             1.0      4.0       8.0     10J0      2Ss      1132       Mq7     34A.3
Tot&L                                     1.0      4.0       6.0    1Io        390l    188.0    394.0    595.0
NET
INCREMENTAL  100 HA    HEAVY                                                    5.8      29.8      412      402
IRRIGATION               MEDIUM                                                 6.4      323      45J       442
POTENTIAL                UGHT             1.0      3.0      2.0       4.0      a6IB      86.4     119.5    116.6
Toti                               I      '.0      3.0       2.0      '.0      29Jo      490      2^6.0    201.0
1/ ull d"*.."oornert ol rnqued at
Note: uoto 19"-90 onJy 0W  were ovonem .1 In inIgt Sods': after 1989-90 cusabuion of all structures
aesseum.dto be propotoni to3 a  e1or scl groups I2o%/22%i58%1.
Table 2: Land  Use and Cropping Pattern
SOIL    ITOTAL                         SAR                                          PCR
TEXTURE FARM SIZE                                                  1
(HECTARe) WITHOUT PROJECT          WITH PROJECT          WITHOiUJT PROJECT          MTH PROJECT Ar
1/        I-__________________________________            __________________         JULL   OEVELOPMENT
HEAVY   1 1 ,700    KHARIF
(Model 1) (20%)      RICEAMLOC         0.80   RICE AMLOC    0.80   RICEAMLOC          0.80   RICEAMLOC    0.40
PICE AMHW         0.20   RICE AMHYV    0.40   RICE AMHYV        0.20   RICE AMHYV    0560
RAB3 SUMMER             FRICE 30 HW    1.00                             RICE 3OHYV    1.001
CROP INTENSITY   100%                  2CO%                     100%                  200%
MEDIUM- 12.870      KHARIF
(Mode/ 2) (22%)     RICE AMLCC         0.45   JUTE           0.20   RICE AMLOC       0.45   JUTE           0.10
RICE AMHYV        0.55   RICE AMLOC    0.20   RICE AMHW         O.SS   RICE AMLOC    0.20
RICE AM HYV   0.80                            RICE AMHYV    0.80
RA6I SUMMER
GRAM              0. 15   POTATONEGS  0.50   GRAM               0.15   POTATO/VEG    0. 50
RICE 30 HYV   0.45                            RICE 0HYV   02.45
WHEAT         0.05                            MUSTARO        0.05
CROPINTENSTY   115%                    200%                     115%                  210%
UGHT    34.930      KHARIF          
(Model 3) (58%)     JUTE               0.20   JUTE           0.30  : JUTE            0.20   JUTE           0.20
RICE AULOC        0.20   RICE AULOC    0.05   RICE AULOC         0.20   RICE AULOC    0.05
RICE AUHYV        0.10   RICE AUHYV    0.15   RICE AUHYV         0.10   RICg AUHYV    0.20
RICEAMLOC         0.15   RICEAMLOC    0.15  RlICEAMLOC          0.15   RICEAMLOC    0.15
RICE AMHYV        0.35  |RICE AMHYV    0.55  ,RICE AMHYV       0.3   RICE AMHYV    0.501
RABI SUMMER       
MUSTARDI/ULSES  0.20   POTATO/VEGS  0.10   MUSTARD,PULSES  0.20   POTATONEGS  0.201
RICE 30 HYV   0.20                            RICE 3OHW      0.251
WHEAT         0.50                            WHEAT          0.25
GRAM         O010                             GRAM/LENTIL  0.05
MUSTARO       0.10                            MUSTERD        0.30
SESAME        0.10                            SESAME         0.05
CROP INTENSTY   120%                   230%                     120%                  Z3%
NTE.A BA   ON MISSCN S OBSERVATIONS
I/ful develoonit (PCR.



INDIA: West sengai Minor Irrigation Project
Arnnex 1:  Financial anwd EconrKniic Anialysis
Yable 3.   AL Locat ion of CCA to thic lIhree Major Soit Groups3 and Crops
86-i7                a7-as                 58-80                80-00                00-91                 0I-92                02-80                 03-04
HV  MD   LT         HV  MO   LT           HV  MO   LT          Hiv  MD   LT         H-V  MO   LT          HV  MO  LT            HV  MD   LT          lAY  MD   LT
TOTAL NMOM1EI OF 100 HA CCA
UNITS BUILT -UP (CUMULATIVE)
1.00                 4.00                 0.00                 10.00       5.80 0.40 26110O    35.00 39.20113.20    70.00 84.50 232.70    117.0 121) 7 349 3
INCREMIENTAL NUMBER OFI100HACCA
UNITS OPERtATIONAL                               1.00                  3.00                 2.00                 4.00       5800  4:140 10.80    20-8032080 00.40     41.20 48.30 110.50    40 20 44.20 11006
<A>- TOTAL NtUMBER OF 100 HA CCA
DIS1RIBUTEDTO ClOIPS
<B> TOTAL INCFREMEWIAi NUMBER OF
CCA DISTREIBUTED TO CfKPS
<A> AMAN PADDY LOCAL                  0.00 0.00  0.15       0.00  0.00  0.00     0.00  0 00  0.90     0 00  0 00  1.50      2 32  1 28  4 02     14.24 7.84 10 98     30.72 10090 34090    46090 25.74 52.40
<B> AMAN PADDY LOCAL                  0.00  0.00  0.15     0.00  0.00  0.45      0.00 0.00 0.30       0.00 0.00 0.00        2 32  1.28 2 52      11 02  0.50 12.90    18.48 0.00 17.93      10.08 8.84 17.#
<A> AMAN PADDY IHWV                   0.00  0.00  0860      0.00 0.00  2.40      000 0.00 3860        0 00  0.00 0 00       3.48  5.12 18.08     21.30 31.30 67.92    40.08 87.810 130.012  70.20 103 0 209 5
< B> AMAN PADOY HYV                   0.00  0.00  0860      0.00 0.00  1.80      0.00 0.00  1.20      0 00  0 00  2.40      3 48  5 12 10 08     17.88 28.24 51.84    24.72 30.24 71.70    24.12 35.36 88.08
<A> AUS PADDY LOCAL                   0.00  0.00  0.05      0.00 0.00 0.20       0.00 0.00 0.30       0.00 0.00 050         000M  000  1.34      0.00 0.00 5.00       0.00  0.00 11.03      0.00 0.00 17.40
< B> AUS PADDY LOCAL                  0.00  0.00  0.05      0.00  0.00  0.15     0.00) 0.00 0.10      0 00  0.00 0.20       0.00  0.00 0.84      0 00 0.00 4.32        0.00  0.00  5.88     0.00 0.00  5 83
<A> AUS PADDY HYV                     0.00 0.00  0.20      0.00  0.00  0.80      0.00  0.00  1 20     0 00 0500  2.00       0 00 0 00  5.38      0.00 0.00 22.54      0.00 0.00 40.54       0.00 0.00 89116
<B8> AUS PADOY HYV                    0.00 0.00  0.20      0.00  0 00  0.60      0.00 0 00 0.40       000u 0 00  0.80       0.00  000C 3.38      0.00 0.00 1 720      0 00  0 00 23.90      0.00 0 00 23.32
<A> BOFK PADDY HYV                    0.00 0.00  0.25      0.00 0.00  1.00       0.00 0.00  1.50      0 00  0 00  250       SIlO0  2 88  0.70   35080 17.84 28.38    70.80 38.03 50.18     117.0 57.82 87 32
<8B> BORO)PADDY HYV                   000D 0.00 0.25       0.00  0.00 0.75       0.00 0.00 0.50       0.00  UC00  1.01      5.00  2.80 4.20     29 80 14.70 21.60    41.20 20.38 29868     40.20 19809 29.15
<A> WHEAr GFAIN                       0.00 0.00 0.25       0.00  0.00  1.00      0.00 0.00  1.50      0.00 0.00  2.50       000  0.00 0.70       0.00 0.00 28-30      0.00 0.00 50.18       0 00  0.00 8032
<8> WHEAT GRAiN                       0.00  0.00  0.25     0 00  0.00  0.75      0.00 0.00 0.50       0.00 0.00  1.00       0 00  0.00 4.20      0.00 0.00 21850      0.00  0 00 28.80      0.00 0 00 29.10
cA.> GRAW/LENTIL                      0.00  0.00  0.05     0.00  0.00 0 20       0 00  0 00  030      0.00 0.00 0 50        000  0.00  1.34      000  000 58B         0.00  0.00 11864      0.00  0 00 17 40
<B> GRAMLIENTIL                       0.00  0 00  0.05     0.00  0.00  0.15      0.00 0.00 0.10       0.00  0 00  0 20      0 00  000  0.84      0.00 0.00 4 32       0.00 0.00  5.80       0.00 0.00  5834
<A> JUTE                              0.00  0.00  0.20     0.00  0.00  0.80      0.00 0.00  1.20      0 00  0 00  2.00      0 00  0 84  5.30     000D 3.92 22.84      000L 8 45 40 54       0 00 12.87 69 86
<B> JUTE                              0.00  0.00  0.20     0.00  0.00  0060      0.00 0.00 0.40       0.00 0.00 0.80        0.00  0.64  3.36     0.00  3.28 1 7.20    0.00  4.53 23 00      0.00  4.42 23.12
<A> POTATOIVEGETABLES                 0.00  000  0.20      0.00  0.00  0.80      0.00 0.00  1.20      0 00  000C 2 00       0 00  3 20  5 38     0 00 1 08022 54      0.00 42.25 40.54      0 00 54.35 09.08B
<B> POTATONVECETABLES                 0.00 0.00 0.20       0.00  000( 0800       0.00 0 00  0 40      0.00  0 00  0 80      0.00  3 20  3.36     0.00 18.40 17.28     0.00 22.885 23.90     0.00 ?2210 23.32
<A> MUISTARD                          0.00 0.00  0.30      0.00  0.00  1.20      0 00 000(  1.80      0 00  0.00  3.00      0.00 0.32 8 04       0 00  1.00 33006     0.00  4.23 88.811     00 0C 844 104 
<B> MUSTARD                           0.00 0.00 0.30       0.00  0.00 0.00       0.00 0.00 0.80       0 00  0.00  1 20     0 00 0.32  5.0.4      0.00  1864 25.92     0 00  2.23 35 85      0 00  2 21 34 98
<A> SESAME                            0.00 0.00  0.05      0.00 0 00  0 20       0.00 0.00 0 30       0.00  0 00 0 50      0.00 0.00  1.34       0.00  0.00 5885      0 00  0.00 11.04      0.00 0.00 17.47
<B> SESAME                            0.00  000D 0.05      0.00 0.00  0.15       0.00 0.00 0.10       000U 0.00 0.20        0.00 0.00 0.84       0.00 0.00 4.32       0.00  0.00  5.88      0.00  0.00  5.83
NOTE: 100% DtSTRSIBUION OF 00W IN LIGHT SOIL. UPTO 1989-90 BULD UP OF CCA ONLY ON LIGFff SOIL AND
THEREAFTER PROPORrTONATE DISTRIBUTION OF CCA IN 3 MAJOR SOIL GR1OUPS. 20% ON HEAVY,
22% ON MEDIJM AND 58% ON LIGHT SOIL.
HV - HEAVY. MD - MEOAIJM. LT- LIGHT



43
LNDLA. West Beknal Minor IrrigtiOn Project
Annex 1: FLnancial and Economic AnalysLs
Table 4. Crop Yields (in Ton/ba)
SAR                                     PCR
CROPS                                                                          WrTHOLfr         WITH
wrrTFrour          WrrIH                 PRoJEcr PROJECT
PROJECT    PROJECT                                    AT FULL
DEVELO-
u ENT
KHAPJF CROPS
PADDY GRAN  - AUS LOCAL                   1.50           1 50                       1.50       2.0c
sTRAW                                    1 s5           1.50                       1.50       2.00
PADOY GRA' -AUS HW                        2-03          2.00                       2-03        2170
STRAW                                   2.00           2.00                       2.0o        2.70
PAD0Y GFAN  - AMAH LOCAL                  2.00          2.30                       2.0a        2.40
STRAW                                   2.0W           2.30                       2.00        2.40
PADDY GRAiN  - AMAN HW                    2.60          3.00                       2.60        3.00
STRAW                                    2.60          3.00                       2.60        3.00
JiUTE FIBER                               1.40          1 S0                        1.40       2.0z
STICK                                    1.40          1.60                        1.40       2.00
RA.s SUMMER CROPS
POTATONVEG (MED S04Q                                   22.00                                  26.00
POTATONvEO (LIGHT $OIL)                                20,00                                  24.00
WHEAT GRaiN                                              2.20                                   2.20
STRAW                                                  2.20                                   2.20
GRAMALENTIL                               0.70           1.20                      0.70         1.20
STOVER                                   0.70           1.20                      0.70         120
MLtSTAc10                                 0.60           1.00                       0.60        1.20
STOVER                                   0.0o           1.00                      0.60        1.20
SESAME                                                   1.50                                   1.50
STOVER                                                 1.50                                    1.50
PADDY EZRO - HIYV                                       4.00                                    5.00
STRAW                                                  4.0                                    5.0o
NOTE: YIELDS aASED ON MISSIONS ESTIMATES.
Table 5: Input Requirement/Units Per Ha
CHOP  -               ASOSN                   1. OF   r:E..             sEEG      LAdOR    L.A60R    GRi  1 FTNllHC431N  PHObFRAoE   POiASH       GR~Q
I400EL                                       Cci                                  HIPHE    F.AMLUy  ANIMALS                                 CHEMICALSI
|      TAPJHA              K5,A    UOf1HA    -AORHA       SCAHA    XMA         XGfhA     X0.HA      RSHA
MEAVY SOILS (8.4.4.1 tl 
56Z5 AMLC         OIAPJF                     60       2.3       000      Sooo        e        72        se        25
SIZE AMHV         60HAPJF                   .20       2.60              70 00       9         e         3d        35  25
ACE AMLOC         KHAPFF                    .2        2.0               6000                                                                       2 6 s00 zo  20.
viZE AJiF        KHARPF                      5002.                       W000       904       78        s         60          ;0         0 
AICE ACkYf       fSAlISMM                      '03    5.00              70C0        '26       Io        00       102    so              o0         x5
I4EDUM SO0LS 8A04.123
1plTHO1Ir PQCOt16
SIZE AML.OCZ    4KHAXF5                      *5       2.03              Soo0        se        72       32         25                               *60
S6ZEAMHW         KHAPfS                      55       2.50               O0o        60        61        26 95      5                               60
RICE              H2.SN                       0       ZC0                702        14       117        40        *0          Z0         *0        2I0
SIZE AMLOC        KHAP4P                     20       2.40              400 oo       .4       76        26        20          w2                  2sJ3
AICEAAMHW        KHAIFl                      ec       2.0O 7000                    lo3        66        22        so          20         0         27
GOTA1AA EOS       'A6I                       0.2     200 .7                         SO       16         4        .           5 0                  20.0
660Aa 0MW                                     I al   50  2.0          700 00        126      104        20       103         :0          30        500
IUSTAE O         HATS                         5       1 20               83 x        5        78        26        50          4C         40       250
.IORT soiLS (IMOdol 51
U, 1S            lOT SN                      20      1.40               6.co      132       IC5 106    326
5605 ALLOC       KHAA1F                      20       153.0              100        99        dI         e        25         :
R5CE A0HrW        XHAFlf                     10       2.00                 c00     115        35S                                                 25 4  01
SitE ALOC          IAFPf                     II       2.02                00 scoo             72 n       6        25                               60
S6TEAiJW          *140TP                     55       2.6               7000        99         1        26 2s      5                               e
UUSTALL       .  KAFF                        20       0.60              1500        fC         2        26        20                                0
liTE             HOTSN                       20      2.0                 700 o                                    0          2c          o        2C0
SCE AU.OC         1HASF                       5       2.02              7000        86        n         se        2s          2                    125
RICE AML3W       XHA1Fl                       W       2.70              7000         6        6'        26        60          00         20        20
SZE ASTAOR   XHA           P        f             2    .40    X     o    000   7 .            76        26        30  5
RICTE AHYV        HOTA S                     2O       2.02              7000        104       se        30        xo          20         30        270
POTATofiVeOs      SASI                        W0     2400             2030.02      162       16 42               150          20        C02        2
SRCE AUHYV        5A4461SUA                  20        o03              7000        129      104        20       10            0    0         50    0
ACE A?ArOC       KHAPI6                      .5       2. 0              100.02      6         72        s6        2           5Z         50        25
0RAMASMflL    RAS6                                    '70 2000   s 4                          26        26        s0    W      0         25 0       2
'rATO    P       AAl                         250    120          e        .02       5 s       4         2s        8e 0        40         40   2X    0
SESAME             SASfiIukJM                 S           .22      - s000           55        34        20         40         w          20        125
,OTE: l.puTEOuREMENT ArFuLOEVaoP%ENT. HMIEoLA.0RARCOFAMILYLABoS AAEINTHE RAlTO 55.FoRSMALLANo MAFG:NAL  FAs.ERS



INDIA: West Bengal Minor Irrigation Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Analysis
Tahle 6.    Incr-mental Prodrkction All  Crops - Production Build-Up
CROPS                       UNITS___         8___-8               o-              as-11          9-9       9W_V1           9TrI 2               97-93           U3-9494 T95                      95-6 __ 6__          97
100 TON                                                                                                                                                                    AT FULLDEV.
AUS PADDY LOCAL                                      0.01           0.07            0.11           0.20            0.49           1.69            4.14             0.76            7.66            6.45             6.75
MIS PADDFY IWYV                                      0.06            0.38           0 64            1.06           2.67          10 56           23.34            37.51           44.01           47.41            49.04
AL4AN PADUY LOCAL                                    004            0.1o            02s            0.46            2.01          10.03           23.30            3845            44.64           46.27            49.45
AMAN PADDY  HYV                                      0 14            0.62           t.09           1.65            8.64          31 31           69.08           114.48          133.47          143.58            46.75
nono PADaY  ImY  1/                                   1.10           4.46           6 93          11.63          6e 79          364 27          768 Oa          12229           127007          13OO00           131040
TOTAL PAnoy                                           1.37           5.89           9.03          15.02           80 60         418 06          906.72          1417 47         15O025          1547.71          156639
WIIEAT                                                0.49           1.97           306             5.12          1349           5603            117.13          179.05          186.14           189.96          l82.02
GFtAM/LENTIL                                         0.01            0 07          o0l             0.20            049            189              4.16            6.7             7.86            6.45             6.7
TOTAL FOOD G01N                                      1.87            7.73          12.20          20.34           94.57         475.00         103001           180529          1694.25         174514           1767.1U    4'
JUTE                                                 0.07            0.31           0 54           0 92            2.52          10 47           23 46            3848            44.79           46.20            49.66
POT.NVEG  (Mad  Sd4.) 1/                             00 o0 ooo                      000            0 00           73 22         453 44          99975           s550oo          I62000           1656oo          167200
POT.VEG   "hgt SAi  1/                               4.22           I7 to          26 65          44 49          117 00         488 17         102063           156200          162565          165685           18758
Toatl FotafltVegotnbls                               4.22           17.1t          2f.65          44.69          19022          941.61         202058           321100          324505          331585           3348ff
SESAME 1/                                            001            oor.|           n              0 20            0 48          12.9             4.16             6.76            7. e4.45                         6.75
MUSTARD          _                                   0.11           0.47            0.61           I 39            3.55          14.221          31.83          5.1.57            59.971           4.49            e6.7
/1 NOTE: ENTIRE PRonDUCTION As9iMED AS lNCnFMFNTAtL PFIODUCTION



INDIA: West Bengal Minor Irrigation Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Analysis
Taote 7.    Incremental Labour Recjircmerit Al(  Crops - Build-Up
CROPS                      U_NITS B4-a                           B7PI           RR -'49        nq-K           90-9            9t-92           92-93           93-94           94-95           96-9   -        96-97
000 MD                                                                                                                                                                   AT FULLDEV.
AUS PADUY LOCAL                                    -0.10          -03             -0.5           -0 6           -1.9            -7.5           -100             -27            -31.4           -339            -34.9
AUS PADfY IIYV                                     -0.40          -2.93          -2 70          -4 co         -1240           -4530          -ICJoo          -10200          -16900          -203 20         -2t0o20
AMAN PADDY LOCAL                                    0.10           0 40           0 70           1 20           5 00           25 20           58.30           9.10           112.10          120.70         125.00
AMAN PADDY  HYV                                     0.40           1.90           2.70           400           16so             7830           172.70         29 10            333 0          356.90          371.90
nono PADDY  1W  i/                                  5.50          22 20          33 e0          56 20         34 1.0          190920         3981.00         569220          59069o          601L70          e031.50
TOTAL PADDY                                         5.50          22.30          33,90          55.90         349 so         285990          397540          9084901         8194.10         62830           928330
WIFAT                                               3 90          15 50          23.40          39 10         104 30          438 40          905 9          13es70           1301.80        139a70          139850
GRAMILENTIL                                         090            0.70           0 90           1.30           2 10           a63             13.10           20690           24.20           26.00           20.90      .1>
TOTAL FOOD GRAIN                                    9.90          38 50          59i0o          97.00         450.20         230490          4a94.10         7471.40         7e0o10          767200          770570
JUTE                                                0 20            0 on           2.90          310 |            40           34 90            78 20          122 30          149.30          190.           266.30
POT.NrEG  (Med  SoH) I/                             000            0.00           000            000          10t 40          623.20          135240         207400          2101.30         211a90          2123E0
POT./VEG  (Igtd Soil I/                            a630           25so           3no            64 50         171.90          72210           1491.60        225320          2261.90         229s40          230540
Total PoltakVego"bIe                                6 30          25.50          39w0           84.50         273.20    .     34530          2844.00         4327.20         438520          441530          4429.00
SESAME 1i                                           00             0.20_ 020                     040            1.00            3.70            E.30            13.50           1570           1690            27.50
musTAnD           ___                              -020           -0E0           -1.40          -2.30          -5             -2370           -52.70          -65.90          -9990          -107.0          -1I120
TOTAL                                                 2e            64              97            263            733            3615            7772           226s5           22049           1215t           1220
Of NOTE: ENTInE LABOUn nEQtilnEIMENT ASSUMIED As icnEmFNTAX



INDIA:   west BengP   Minor Irrigation  Project
Annex 1: FinanciaL and Economic Analysis
Table 8.    Mlumber of Benefitting  Farm  Families
UNITS    I   83-87    87-88    s8-as    89-9o    90-91             91-92    92-93    33-941              AT rULL
_____________________________ _o DEvELOPuENTI
NUM.BER OF 1 oo HA CCA IN             'NUMBER  |        .r0       4.o0       t.Wo      2.S0      12.00      17.o0    2.03       25.X0             25 ro 
*oow.250
CPERATIONAL
1INCREMENTAL NUMBER                    NUMBER           1.Wo      3.00       2.W0       3.00      3.00       5.50       9.S        3.0o
iCF 100 HA CCA IN
0oWs C'PE4AT,10NAL
!NUMBER OF 1W0 HA C_A IN               'NUM.BER                                         1.r0     27.0r    171.00    372.00      570.r0            j70 oo
+U RLIL5S +                                                                                                                                   5tL
CLUsTERS OCERA CONAL
INCPEENTALNOCF -U                     NUMBER                                           I CO     20.X0    144Wo       201.03    i9e.00
iTUBE',E WELS - RUI
'COJSTE. SOFSERATiONAL                I
TCOTAL                                            _                                                                                     _____        co 
NUMEEROF BENEFITTING  1i               NUMBER          3.50      2.00       3.00       4.50      5.50       0.50      11.50       2501             125WI
FAFRM F-AMILIES IN 100 HA              cm
i0OW OPERArIONAL
IINCR;EMENTAL NO OF                   .JUMSER         3o 50       1.50s     .c0        1.so       1.so      2.50o      2.50       7 s
BENE=!TT:NG F :-=AMIE  IN INJoI
I00 HA Co W CPERAT oNAL                                                                                                               .
iNUMBER OF 3ENEFITTING 2/              NUMBER                                           .43      11 .47     72.7      55. 10    235.5o            2so I0o
!FARM FAMILIES IN 100 HA CCA            0ro                                                                                            I
IOF TUBEWELLS - ALI OPERATIONAU
GINCAE'.ENrAL NOOF BENE=TTING         NUMBER                                          43        110s      51         85         34.5
FARM FAMIL!ES iN  crHA C-A
CO  7UEEWELLS - QLI O'ERAATCNAL
T7-AL                                  o00r                                                                                                       2.C00
I(BASED ON MISS;ON S OaSE.vATrCNs ONE OoW BENEFiTs . AG MARGINAL =ARMERS CWNING I CULT.VATING
50% LANO WITHIN C^A: AVEPAGE SIZE BEING 0 39 hA: BENEFITS io FARMERS IN CNE UN IT OF 100 HA CA
2t BASES  ON MISSION S CBSERVArICN AND ASSUMING 80% CF C_A CULTiVATEO BY MAR^INALFARPERS
AVERAGE SIZE 0 39NA) ANG 50% AREA LN CCA 20% CLLnVA .EO BY SMALLAMEIUM FARM1ErS (AVERAGE SIZE INA)
ANO 40% IN COA: ILE I0WHA CCA BENEFITS 4W MARG:NAL FARMERS _ 25 CrHER FARMERS (-'25).
Table 9:   IndividuaL Crop Budget at Financial Prices/Rupees Per Ha
I2CP               SEASON                   S %OF    YIaLD              VALUE   GOSS    SEECS    LABOR    DFAFT  rERILSEH               AGRO       TOTAL       NEI
MODEL                                       OCA                      BY-PRFO     RETURN               HIFED  ANIMALS               CHEMICALS        COST  RETuRN
TONJHA               RSIHA    RS/A    RSIHA        RStIA     PCUIHA      PStHA      RDIHA       RDMA    FR/IA
(EASY SOLS (Model 1)
Y^THOUTROEC                                                                                                                                iaF      445
ACE AMLOC         KHMRIF                     80      ZO0                 10        9640       420      2440      12r0         150         103       4454     53eb
RBce AMHYV        KHARIF                     20      2zso                100    12792        4AM       2772      12i0         210         10b      4es       730
ICE AMLOC         KHARIF                     40       1 40               1200    11i0         420      2S32      12e0         408        250       4970      8836
RICEAMHYY         KHARIPFs                           350l               1o       14e7W      4S0      212        1203        101O        375       6348      9712
ROE BO-IHYV       MBVWJ                     103 5l     02 2                       20 2X       490      352t      1050         1            o        7253    15247
MEDIUbt SOLS  eMAl 2
WTTHCLT PRCOJECrTS                                                                                                                                    AA      58
RCE AMLOC         KHARIF                     4s      Zoo                 100       8640       420      2404      12r0         150        103       4454      5388
RKE-MHYV           0/KHARIf                  55      1e0                 130      l2798      430      2772       1250         210       10        40e2      7950
GRAM              R,ABI                      15      a                    In       ezs        720       008       770           o         s 
JUITE             HOTSN                      10      z0m                 12S      10200       140      404       145          t20        250        -64      358
RCEAMLOC          KHIRIF                     20      140                 12S     l10J       420       2032      1280        4A8         250       4970      Sam
RCEAMHYV          KHARif                     w0       150                15C      147e0       ASO     2s12       12eD        101         375       t0A8      8712
FOTATO/VE(35      MDI                        o0    28 m                           4102      1oxo      508II    1575          4155        Xo       21328    20274
REA BO HYV        RABI2SUMM                  45      sm                  250s     2s5c       *ao       3=Et   - 1050        l88         Xo        7253    15247
MISTARO            RABI                        5      1.20                3S ... c        o            1540      120o        1340 Z50 4i588                  842
LIGHT SOILD (Mol 3)
WMHU,TF,ROJET  HOTSN                          20       1.40                640      7140       120      3888      1280         l1O         170       5428      74
AuCE /UWC         KHARIP                     20       1.50                750    7T20         5eo      2772      12eO         150        1B0       480       2718
RICE AMILOC       KHARIRIF                  10      zo o9W                       1015oo      510      3         1203         240        100        5440     4720
ROD MLHY          1CM/RIP                    15      150                 190       8840      4am       246       1260         150         ISO      A454      5388
ROCE AMHY         KHARIF                     35                          i3O SO   127S2      4A       2772       1203         210        203       4AM0      79SC
MLISTARD          P ABI                      20      ot03                 150      5680      3S        18s3       910         1S         7T        3110      2440
WITH PRIOJECr                                                                                                     10            2           5A                38
JUTE              HOT SN                     20      1m0                 I20      10DC       1U0       4         14           t20        250        881      3588
RICE AULWC        KRNRIF                      5      zm5                 190      101t0       480     204        120          405        125       4747      5413
ROE AUHIYV        RH/RIPF                    20      170                 1350    13716        480     2772       123         lotl        250        57t3     73
RlCEAbtLOC       RKHARIP                     15      Z40                 I200     Siam       420      21312 1200              40         Zi        4s70      ee30
ROCEAMHO          KHMRIF                     t        10 0    1a0                 14750       480      2812      1250        loll        375       a040      8712
POTATO/VEI35      RABI                       20      24.00                        384C0 iM              08       1575 sloo               5m        21338    17074
ROCE DB-CHYV      MBUSJMM                    25       .0W 2s               m                  480    3as2        1050        law         5X0        7253    15247
WHEAT             RABI                       25       220                1320     101 2       aoo      244       1tam         18825                   34      3788
GPuAMA,l_ENTL_    RABI                        9       1.20                SO      117C0       5'0      132        840         aZ          125       3579      6121
MUSTAPD)          RABI                       30      1.20                 300     1W10         3       140 o     tam         1341        25i0       4580     8542
SESAME            RABSVJMM                    5       1.X                  375    13l25       20        1540       IWO         87        125         3509   9536



47
INDUA: West Bengal Minor Irrigation Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic A.nalysis
Table 10. Financial Analysis for Nlodel I (Heavw Soil)
MOCEL I           CROPPiNG                     NET FETURN         INCREMENTAL      i FAMILY LABOUR
PATTE=N                      (fiS)      !      NET. FN I-A        P1ECEUpENTF%r
CSCPS              WtlTKUT                WITH  WITHOUT    W1TH |   FU               WTaJT   T
?PRCECT            =Q.OEC  _ RC.~ECT PRCWEC71 OE rQCPMENT       I PpC.ECT   OIECT
RICEAMAN LOCAL         0.80               0.40     4309     2735    -1574                57.5     30.4
RICEMAANHr/            0.20               0.60     1560     U27       3647               1t.2      51.5
RABI SUJMMER
PICE aORO HYV                              1.00             15247    15247                         104
TOTAL 1 /                 1                  2     5885   23209    17321                  74       186
PErPN TO FAMLY LAUR CAY                               o0     :25|
CRCP'wTEhsrTry(%)        tco                2001                 |                  I
lit r,e, A2E C...LflVATED AREA
INCOME ANALYSIS FARM AACOEL 1 tHEAVY SOL)
I FAAu SiZE                         WITHOUT PROJECT II/  MTH PFCjECT2/
I HA     RETIU.RN  iRS)      .   .        5889             14549
RETURN TO         iRs)
FAMIL LA3CUR CAY                  50               112_
I         .'ET
10o4      RETURN  MISI                     2356              sa20
1/ hO IRRIGATICN   250% CF FAM 5I ZE PRIGATED.
Table 11: Financial Analysis for MYlodel 2 (Mledium  Soil)
MOOEL2            CRoPcFING                    NET RETURN         INCREMENTAL        FAMILY LABOUR
PATTEAN  jHA                 (RS)              NET PETLFW         RECU1Ff ENTE;r
CROPS              WITHOUT               'WTH  WtTHCUT    WiTH       PULL           WIT-IT WTHI
P ROJECT          PFC.ECrT ?RQCECr P?RCEC. DEVELCPMENT           PRO.ECr PqO.ECT
KHARIF
JUTE                   0.00               0.10        0      359       359                 0       11.7
ICEAMhaLOCAL           0.45               0.20     2424      1368    -1065               32.4      152
RICE AMAN HYV          0.55               0.80     4345     6970      26S                44.6     68.8
RASI SJMMER
MUSTARO                0.00               0.05        0      327       327                0.0      2.3
POTATO(VEG                                 0.*0             10137    10137                        74.0
RICE B0O HYW                              0.45              66S6    6u61                          44.8
GRAA.IEN'L             0.15                0.00     6.42       0      -642                4.4      0.0
TOTAL 1l               1.15                2.1    7410    26021    16611                  85       219
RETUPN TO FAMLY LAUR DAY                             91       119
CRCPWT     ;ASITY(T%    11S                210,
U/ l HECTARC O.LT1VATED AREA
INCOME ANALYSIS FARM MODEL 2 (MEDIUM SOIL)
FARM SIZE                          WITHOUT PFOJECT 1/  WITH PROJECT2/
N-ET
1 HA     RETURN  (RS)                     7410              18716
RETURN TO        (RS)
FAMILY LABCUR CAY                  91               itt
NET
0.4     PETUWN  MS)                       29S4              6a68
if NO IFPIGATION    21 50% CF FARM SIE IRRIGATED.



48
INDIA: West Bengal Minor Irrigation Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 12.  Financial Analysis for lodel 3 (Light Soil)
MOOEL3            CROPPING                       NET RETURN           INCREMENTAL         FAMILY LABOUR
PATTERN  (1lA                 (PS)                 NET RETURN          REQUIREMENT
(RS)                (M0)
CROPS               WITHCUT                  WITH  WITHCL,T      WITH      FU L            WITHOJT WtTH
PROCJECT                       PROJECT PROJECT OEVELOPMENT            PROJECT PROJECT
KH-ARIF
JUTE                     0.20                 0.20      343       717       374                 21.6      23.4
RICE AUJS LOCAL          0.20                 0.05      544       271      -273                 16.2       3.6
RICEAUS HYV              0.10                0.20       472      1587      1115                  9.5      16.2
RICEAMANLOCAL            0.15                 0.15      308      1026       218                 10.8      11.4
RICE AMAN HYV            0.35                 0.60     2765      5227      24S2                 28.4      51.6
RABI SUMMER
MUSTARD                  0.20                 0.30      488      1963      1475                  10       13.5
POTATOtVEG                                    0.20               3415      3415                           29.6
RICE BORO HYV                                0.25                3812      3812                            26
WHEAT                                         0.25                947       947                             18
GRAVtLENTIL                                   0.05                406       406                            1.8
SESANE                                        0.05                477       477                            2.3
TOTALt/                   1.2                 2.3      5419    19846    14427                    96       197
RETURN TO FAMILY LABOUR DAY                              56       101
CROP INTENSITY (%)        120                 230[
1r -ECTARE  jLT,VATED AFREA
INCOME ANALYSIS FARM MODEL 3 (LIGHT SOIL)
FARM SIZE                             WITHOUT PROJECT 1/  WITH PROJECT 2/
NET
1 HA      RETURN  (PS)                       5419               12633
RETURN TO
FAMILY LABOUR OAY                    56                  86
NET
04       RETURN  (RS)                       2168                 5053
1/ NO IRRIGATION    21 50% OF FARM SIZE IRRIGATED.



49
INDIA: West 3engal Minor Irrigation Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Analysis
TabLe 13.   Prices of Internationatly Traded Cornmodities for Econaoic AnaLysis (Per Metric Ton) 1/
Unit          Paddy    Wheat         Jute      Urea        TSP        MP
World Market Price              USS               255       152       290        144        125        107
(year 2000 projectons I 990 prices)
MUV Indx: Aclustment (1990>93/94)                 1.1       1.1        1.1        1.1       1.1        1.1
World Price (constnt 1994)      USS              281        167       319        158        138        118
Quality Adjustment              %                 0.8         1          1         I          I          I
World Market Equialent          USS             224.4      167.2      319       158.4     137.5      117.7
Freight & Insurance             USS                 0         0         0         30         40         40
CIFIFOB Culcutta
in USS                                        224.4      167.2       319      188.4      177.5     157.7
in Rs:   USS 1 =          31.4 RS              7046      5250      10017      5916       5574       4952
Domestic Handling(Transport 2/    Rs              90         90       -90         90         90        90
Processing Ratio/nutient ratio  %                0 65         1        0.8        42         46        60
Processing Cost 21              RS                130         0      -120          0          0         0
IWholesale Rice                 .RS              4769       5340      7821      14299     12312       8403
Local rrarketng/transport 2/    Rs                75         75       -55        75         75        75
Farmgate Price per MT           Rs              4844      5415       7766      14374     12387       8478
per nutrientkg                Rs                                             14.37      12.39       8.48
i/ Source: World Bank - ConnmoCdty Price Forecast. March 1994.
2/ Adjusted by SC  = 0.9
Table 14. FinanciaL and Economic Prices 1994
;OUTPUTS                       Financial Price    Economic Price
rPS/TON            RSITON
PADOY GRFJN -AUS                  458O                4844
STRAW - LCCAL                     Soo                 4SO
STRAW - HYV                       So                  4.50
PADOY GRAN - AMAN                 4420                4844
STPAW - LOCAL                     SdO                 450
STRAW-WHYV                        SoO                 50
PAD0Y GRAIN - 90RO                4000                4844
STRAW                             Soo                 450
.UTE FlBER                        4500                7765
CUTE STICK                         c00                 540
WHEAT GRAiN                       4000                5415
STRAW                             600                 S40
LE.NTIlJGRAM                      9500                8550
STOVER                            250                 225
-MUSTARD GRAJN                     9000                aloo
STOVER                            250                 225
SESAME GRAIN                      850O                7650
STOVER                            250                 225
POTATONEGETAQLES                  1600                1440
INPUTS
RS/KG              RSIKG
SEED
PAOOY - KHARF                     7.00               8.30
PAOOY - BORO                      7.00               6.30
JUTE                             20.00               18.00
WHEAT                             a.oo               7.20
LENTIUGRAM                       18.00              16.20
MUSTARO                          20.00               18.00
SESAME                           20.00               18.00
POTATO                            5.00               4.50
FERTILIERS
N                                 6.00               14.37
P205                             14.40              12.39
K20                               7.30               8.46.
FYM/COMPOST                       0.07               0.06
OILCAKE                           4.00               3.60-
OTHERS
LABOR (pe day)                   26.00              16.20
BULLOCK Pair Iper daY)           35.00              31.50
NOTE: ECONOMIC PRCES
SCF-0.9
CF LAGOUR-0.65
PAFITY PRICES FOR INTERNATIONALLY TRADED COMMOOMES.



50
INDIA: West Bengal Minor Irrigation Project
Annex 2: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 15.  Inflation Factors and Exchange Rates
84-85    95-86    86-87           87-88    88-89    89-90    90-91             91-92      92-93       93-94  1/41199.4
WPI 1/           120.1       125.4      13Z7       143.5       154.3      165.7      182.7      207.5       228.5       247.6          -
Deflar 2t         2.06        1.97       1.87       1.73        1.60       1.49       1.36       1.19        1.08        1.00          -
RSjUSS           11.89      12.24       12.79      12.97       14.48      16.66      17.95      24.52       28.95      31.37       31.30
FIS=SDF          11.94      12.92       15.71      17.36       19.27      21.36      30.71      33.43       40.49      43.78       44.40
US$SOR            0.99         1.1       1.24       1.34        1.31       1.29       1.39       1 37        1.41        1.39       1.40
1/bMinisryof lnousry. Offic oflneEconomrclcAaser: Whnolesale Price Indexseries csedln 1981/82.
a/ t3 corwrS curret to 1554 prices.
Table 16. Per Hectare Costs and Returns (Economic)
DESCRIPTION                                       PRODUCTIONVALUE  DIRECT INPULTCOST    INCREMENTAL
OF CROPS                                                                                                   NET
WITHOUT         WrTH  VWITHOUT           WITH           BENEFIT
PROJECT  PROJECT  PROJECT  PROJECT   (at IdI developmeno
RSta                      RS/ha                    RSAlla
RICE AMAN LOCAL                                        10588       127061        4943        5391         1670 
RJCE AIAN 4)W V13764                                               158821        5514        6896          735
RICE AUS LOCAL                                          7941       10588        5433         51471        2933
RICEAUS HYV                                            10588       14294        6195         65891        3311
RICE BORO HYV                                                      26470                     85531       17918
JJTE                                                   116283      16612        6211         7530         3665
MUSTAMD                                                 499S        99901       3520         5332         3183
GRAMA-ENTIL                                             6143      105301       2574         3776         3186
WHEAT                                                              13101                     7372         5730
POTATONEG (NED SOIL)                                               37440                    22210        15231
POTATONVEG (LiGHT SOIL                                             34560                    22210        12351
SESAME                                                             11813                     406211       7750
Table 17: Incremental Net Benefit Build-Up (Economic)
_UTS        "=-7      8T-0.     8-90       SS-00     90-91      I -92    82-93     82-"       8.-        6 -04      88-
=EDAT AREA
OfVLDP        00004 MA       0       * 0-0O     0 0oo     19000     30 g      8o0 0    I8400      St.0 SW     800 Am  9to SW       900
A1        45       113                  839      4208      972       I057      1872'      201s3      20487
A41V                          2         11        1S9       3o0       1221      07.      124      21 03      24526     204         27230
A-                                      28        8S        i 13       290      1co0      244       282       *80? 7      083        *2-
I48                        40        172       29         810      223        0990    11042     17847      2094       2225       23 S7
*YV l18                              11        20 1      3-49      1779     93450     2 413    341281      421814    458 2       4*"922
8J                             4        9         330       14.      8639      4390      14.334    23500      27302     28436      30407
-d                            7        24        30        73      1813       754S     172,      273735     31912     34205       35838
*101.8n4l  88   184  201     24         447      1336      279       ....a      S1-7      882.        8709
84       372       841       1103      2733      0727     23773 3X60           .,0        48343     S90 1
NI.18.q .2 ~I)-                0         0 0                  0       2824    188OS      4805      78,15     97830     84444       81011
P.8418Nq F                    1.4      842       1112       S03      4713      897      -045      84725      77281     87309       96284
_ 23                                 101       17  2S             738      2S32        33      '0470      272       13097      13310
1lE 438T&LT0T0.  oW                                                                     4
8FT-808840'                  913_     2298       8843g   8473        34.5     178229    484473    80480      7771a01   8244      .8441



INDIA:   West  Bengal  Minor  Irrigation  Project
Annex  1:    Finanrcial  and  Economic Analysis
Tablc  18.        Economuic  Analysis  (30  Years)
(Rs million)
.  .................  ...........................  .................... ................................ ............                         ------------------------------------------.................................................
1986      1987      1988       1989      1990      1991      1992       1993      1994      1995      1996 1997Z99         2000      2001      2002      2003
NET INCREMENIAL BENEFITS
........................
PRCOUCTION                              -      0.8        3.3       5.6       9.5      36.5    176.2    404.5    666.6    717.1    836.5    865.8    865.8    865.5    865.8    865.8
CostS ...
DIRECT PROJECI COSTS               140.3      22.5    160.4    217.3    245.3    381.5    786.3    290.9    621.0                              -         -          -                   -
Or4 COSTS                               -         -       0.4       1.4       2.3        3.6       7.3      27.5      53.7       76.2      76.2      76.2      76.2       76.2      76.2      76.2
REPLACEMENT COSTS                       -         -         -          -         .                    -         -                   -          -         -      0.4        6.0      24.0      35.4
TOTAL COSTS                        140.3      22.5    160.8    218.7    247.6    385.1    795.6    318.5    674.7               76.2       76.2      76.2      76.6      E2.2    100.1    111.6
IOTAL NEI INC.RENEFITS
NET INC.RENEFIT STREAM           -140.3    -21.7   -157.5   -213.1   -238.1   -348.6    117.4               86.1       ft.1    700.9    760.3    789.6    789.2    785.6    765.7    154.2
............................................. ............................................................................................................
9/2/194   16:12
<I) DIRECT INPUI COSTS ALREADo INCLLWIED IN NET INC.BENEFITS PRAOIJCIION
................ ........................ ...................... ................................... .... .... ....... .. .....
2004      2005      2006       2007      2008      2009       2010      2011      2012      2013       2014      2015
NET INCREMtENIAL BENEFITS
.  __... _.. _._.. _..    _.... .
PRCOUCIION 8pf                    865.8    865.a 865.8    86S.8   8a55.8    865.8    865.8    865.8    865.                    a    a6s. a    a65.8    a63.8
COSTS -1'
DIRECT PROJECT COSTS                              -          -         -         -         -
oEM COSTS                           76.2      76.2       76.2      76.2      76.2      76.2       76.2      76.2      76.2       76.2      76.2      76.2
REPLACEMENT COSTS                   25.3       0.8       12.0      59.7      77.0      53.0        0.4       6.0      24.0       35.4      25.3
TOTAL COSTS                       101.5       77.0      88.2    135.8    153.1    129.2           16.6      82.2    100.1    111.6    101.5          76.2
TOTAL NEI INC.BENEH IS
......................
NET INC.lENEfIT STREAM            764.3    788.8    777.6    730.0    712.7    736.7    789.2    783.6    765.7    754.2    764.3    789.6
9/2/1994 16:12
41' DIRECT INPUT COSTS ALREADY INCLUDED IN NET INCRSENEFITS PRJ0UCIION
NETBEN          IRR  = 23.1X



52
INDL-%: West Bengal Minor Irrigation Project
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Analysis
Table 19.  Capital and Operational Costs for Irrigation Structures
Investment Costs  (inm CIS)        HDTW       MDTW       LDTW        STW         RLI     OOW
well                                   190       150         47        30          -         19
ptump unt                              50s.       40         27        20         75         -
pump nouse                             40         40         15        12         60         -
power suppy                           100        100        32         32        200         -
alsnoucon sysem                       320        220         -          -        765         -
Total                                 700        550       121         94      1100         19
Replacement Costs
lo.y5ar:            pimp unit          50         40        27         20         75         _
15.year:            well              190        150        47         30          -
2s year             DumD unit          50         40         27        20         75
Operation & Maintenance Cost            1/        21          /        4/         5/
per year)
Laoour/salary                         29.4       29.4       2.4        2.4      48.4
Energy                                15.7        7.7       1.7        1.7      31.5         -
Maintenance cnarges                   12.5        9.8       2.6       2.0       23.0        1.5
Total C&M                            57.6       46.9        6.7       6.1     10Z9          1.5
per na comarand area                  1.44      2.35       1.12      1.01       1.29
cer ac:e commana area                 0 58      0.94       0.45      0.41       0.51
Capital Recovery 6/                    94         74         18        13        140       n.a.
tper year)
C&M and Capital Recovery              151        121        24         19        243       na.
per yeal
per ra ccmmaic area                  3.79      6.04       4.04      3.25       3.04       n a.
per acrem  rmand area                 1.51      2.41       1.62      1.30       1.22      nra.
I/
Lacourlsaiary:       1 operator (Rs ZZa3/montl);; 1 maintenance saf/releclrician per 1 0 TW=Rs 25CrmonoIrnW.
Energy ;             running nourstyr.=2185;:arrnr=Rs 0.61vwn; unit consumPttion/mr.=12.
Mainterance cna-ges  purmpnouse e:o.4% on cacimle  ppes. valves em.2% on cap;l; well lumpsum Rs. 1000; pump unir erc.7% on capital.
Laoour/salary:       i perator (Rs 2rolmontn); i maintenance srft/eiectrican per la TW=Rs 25amonr1/TW.
Energy              running noursiyr.=2110: tarrir=Rs o.6l/Xwn: unit consumption/hr.=6.
maintenance cnarges  pumcnouse ercS.% on capiai; ppes, valves er.2% on capcil; well lumpsum Rs. 1000; pump unit erc.7% on capital.
3,
LaCour/salary:       nanced over to parnonava 6 czerators for CIuster of6 wells (R3 20Q'montnlwelo;
Energy:              rixed carge Rs I7otuyear.
Mamiterance cnrarges: pmpnouse ttC.4% on caoial: well lumpsum Rs. iSO: pimp unit etc.7% on caplm.
41
Laocur/saiary:      nianoea over to pancnayat 6 ooerators for cluscer ot 6 wells (Rs 20Cmrn:norwell);
Energy:              "ea crnarge Rs 17Ofyear.
Maintenance cnarges: pumpnouse etc.4% cn capitl: well lumpsum Rs. 100: pump ulit etc.7% on capital.
5/
Lacour/salary:       1 operator (Rs 2=C/montn); 1 assisant (Rs 1R3olmontn); 1 maintenance sm,leiecrician per 10 TW=Rs 2s5JmontniJW.
Energy:              running tours/yr.=2150: tarrif=Rs 0.61Awnt; unit consumption,,r. =12: no. co pump sers: 2.
Maintenance cnarges: pumpnouse etc.4% on capital; ppes. valves ec.2% on captal; pump unit etr.7% on capital.
6 tCapital Recovery Fac::r wtn i=i2 aro respeonve oericcs (n)tor recovery or capial ().



IBRD 18610
Th,s rap has been prepared by                                                              IKKIM
The World Bank s staff eacfusIeIf (Y
tor the convemence of the
readers an0 s e.ctusivefy for the                                                                                             B    U A
rifernar use of The World Bank            N        E       P        A       LDARJEELING                                      BHUTAN
and the Inlernahonal Finance                                                L 
Cc'porafon. The denomina tons
used and the boundares shown
on this maip do not rmply on the                                                                                                      77 
part of The Worid Bank and the                                                                                JALPA GURI
Interhaldf Fiiance Corporation.                                                                 /
any 1idgmenf on the legal stats.
of wry territor or any
endorsement or acceptance of
such boundaries
8    /   H    A    R
26'                                                                                                                                                26.,>
I N D IA 
WEST BENGAL                                                   D                                                           /
MINOR  IRRIGATION PROJECT                                            -          WES
PROJECT LOCATION                                                  DINAJPUR
PROJECT  AREA                             i    MA   DA
e        STATE CAPITAL
-  _____ -   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
STATE BOUNDARIES                                                 B  A   N   G    L   A   D   E   S   H
-.    -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-24-                                                                            MURS  IDABAD                                                        24-
BIRI HUM I
B U R DWAN
: .  - :   /                      x                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~A D I A
P Vj RUt  I IA           ;v                                    
-) *   /s  V                  >    HdOG~~HLY    i*
8/HAR                                                                                                    (
HOWRAH  CQkutt
24 PARGANAS
22-                             '                                                                                                                  22--
o     20     40     60    80  KILOMETERS
O 10   20    30   40   50 MILES                                  /
1,6'~~~~ 9 '   --   0. 
86c                                /                                   88         /-                                                           984
OCTOBER 1984









I:        ..;   .     -            ..          ..



