Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
C 4< /       t
Report No. P-3962-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 101 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
WEST BENGAL MINOR IRRIGATION PROJECT
February 26, 1985
This domument hs a reice  distribution tnd may be used by recipients only in the pfonmance of
their official duties. bs ctents may not oerwise se disclosed without Worid Bank anthorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        -  Rs 11.00
Rs 1.00        -  US$0.09
Rs 1 million   - US$90,000
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at
US$1.00   Rs 11.00.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Act-i ans
DAE     -       Directorate of Agricultural Engineering
DOA     -       Department of Agriculture
ERR     -       Economic Rate of Return
GOI     -       Government of India
GOWB    -       Government of West Bengal
ICB     -       International Competitive Bidding
IDA     -       International Development Association
LCB     -       Local Competitive Bidding
M&E     -       Monitoring and Evaluation
O&M     -       Operation and Maintenance
PCU     -       Project Coordinating Unit
v       -       volt
kV      -       kilovolt - 1,000 volts
WBSEB   -       West Bengal State Electricity Board
VLW     -       Village Level Worker



FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
INDIA
WEST BENGAL MINOR IRRIGATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     India, acting by its President (GOI).
Beneficiary:                  Government of West Bengal (GOVE).
Amount:                       IDA Credit: SDR 101 million (US$99 million
equivalent).
Terms:                        Standard.
On-lendina Terms:             From the Government of India to the
Government of West Bengal as part of central
assistance for State development projects on
terms and conditions applicable at the time.
GdI would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Proiect Descriltion:          The proposed project would comprise a five
year program for upgrading and constructing
public tubewell irrigation systems, open
dugwells, and riverlift installations. It
would support construction of about:
vi) 3,400 deep tubevells (DTWs); (ii) 5,400
shallow tubewells; and (iii) 10,000 open
dugwells (ODWs). It would finance also
completion of the distribution systems of
about 200 riverlift installations (RLIs),
improvements to management and agricultural
extension services. The project would raise
agricultural production and the standard of
living of small and marginal farmers in West
Bengal. The level of capacity utilization of
existing minor irrigation works suggests that
there is an apparent risk of inadequate
farmer response. However, the present lack
of demand for irrigation water is primarily
due to the poor quality of the irrigation
service offered. Under the proposed project,
the risk is minimized through the application
of proven designs of works and improved
technology which would ensure the provision
of a reliable, timely and equitable irriga-
tion service.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(US$ Millions)
Estimated Cost /                     Local           Foreign           Total
A. Works
1. Deep Tubewells
a. High Capacity                  31.27             5.97            37.24
b. Medium Capacity                 7.10             0.77             7.87
c. Low Capacity                    9.94             0.39            10.32
2. Shallow Tubevells                 21.22             0.80            22.01
3. Open Dugvells
a. Alluvial                        0.94             0.03             0.97
b. Hard Rock                       8.87             0.16             9.03
4. River Lift Installations            8.14            1.77             9.91
5. Management Improvements
a. Buildings                       0.40             0.01             0.41
b. Equipment                       0.32             0.03             0.36
c. Training                        0.52             0.03             0.55
d. Visits and Study Tours          0.06             0.02             0.08
e. Research and Development        0.10             0.03             0.13
f. Monitoring and Evaluation       0.21                              0.21
6. Engineering and Administration    9.31              0.29             9.60
Baseline Cost                     98.39            10.28           108.68
7. Extension Services                 0.77               -              0.77
Baseline Cost                     99.17            10.28           109.45
8. Physical Contingencies             5.81             0.61             6.42
9. Price Contingencies               23.46             2.46            25.92
Total Proiect Cost                  128.44            13.35           141.79
FinancinR Plan:                                    (US$ Millions)
Local          Foreizn           Total
GOI/GOWB                             42.79              -              42.79
IDA                                  85.63            13.37            99.00
TOTAL             128.42           13.37           141.79
i] Includes taxes and duties which are insignificant.



-iii-
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ Millions)
IDA FY            FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90       FY91
Annual             1.5    10.8    15.1    18.9    20.0    18.6       14.1
Cumulative         1.5    12.3    27.4    46.3    66.3    84.9       99.0
Rate of Return:         About 372.
Appraisal Report:        No. 5355-IN, dated February 1, 1985.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE WEST BENGAL MINOR IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed IDA
credit to India for SDR 101 million (US$99 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms, to finance an irrigation project in order to maximize crop production
and farmers' incomes through implementing the State Government's investment
program for minor irrigation. The proceeds of the Credit would be channeled
to the Government of West Bengal in accordance with the Government of India's
standard terms and arrangements for financing State development projects. The
exchange risk would be borne by the Government of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Situation and Prospects of the Indian Economy -
A Medium Term Perspective" (4962-IN, dated April 16, 1984), was distributed
to the Executive Directors on April 23, 1984. Country data sheets are attached
as Annex 1.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 750 mil-
lion (in mid-1984) and an annual per capita income of US$260. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those who own little or
no land. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has
been slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.3% per annum). As a
resalt, there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at
factor cost) from 52% in 1950/51 to about 33% in 1981/82, while the share of
industry rose from 20% to around 26%. But industrialization has not been rapid
enough to absorb the growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic
transformation, with significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a
result economic growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging
about 3.6% per annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress, with per capita income
e         rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980.  Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persiEtent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
markedly since 1950/51: the gross national savings rate more than doubled from
1.1 Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Maharashtra Petrochemical Project
(No. P-3959-IN), dated February 26, 1985.



-2-
10.8% of GDP (at factor cost) to 22.72 in 1983/84, whilo the gross doicatic
investment rate rose from 12.5% of GDP to 24.8Z in 1983/84. Foreign savings
(bala Lco of paymonts deficit on currant account) have nover finnnced a major
portion of domcstic investment: a peak of about 20Z wao reached during tho
early 1960.. Currently, foreign savings account for about 8% of investment.
External assistance has been low both ao a percentage of GDP and in per capita
terms, never rising above 3X of GDP and averaging below 1% for the past five
years. Net uoe of foreign sa',iftgs has never risen above 3S of GDP, and
presently stands at 2 1Z.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during
the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced
various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume
of India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a
whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is
possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle
East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and
more effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
5.3%, 3.3% and 8.1%, respectively, during the 1975/76 to 197£I79 period. In
1979/80, however, this momentum was broken when the worst drought in recent
years, combined with a doubling of international oil prices and domestic supply
shortages, led to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and
the opening up of a relatively large trade deficit. Severe inflationary pres-
sures also emerged after several years of virtual price stability. These
setbacks coincided with the preparation or the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid
down a program of adjustment that aimed at improving the trade deficit, remov-
ing infrastructural bottlenecks and ensuring price stability with an overall
growth of the economy of 5.2Z per annum.
Recent Trends
7.      Despite the effects of two severe droughts in 1979/80 and 1982/83,
India's econouy in the early 1980s continued to grow at the faster pace of the
second half of the 1970s. Between the two droughts (from 1979/80 to 1982/83),
GDP growth averaged almost 5% per annum, while between the two recovery years
(from 1980/81 to 1983/84), it was 4.5% per annum -- substantially higher than
India's long-term growth rate of 3.6Z. Continued rapid economic growth has
resulted from a development strategy which includes higher investment levels
and liberalized policies on imports, industrial licensing, prices, and commer-
cial borroving. These policies, by easing constraints on the supply of
infrastructure and basic commodities, were a determining factor in the improved
performance of the economy and the industrial sector.  This overall improvement
in performance, combined with a sore restrictive monetary policy in 1981/82 and
1982/83, resulted in a sharp decline in the rate of inflation.  The growth rate
of wholesale prices declined from over 18% in 1980/81 to only 2.6% in 1982/83,
but rose to over 9X in 1983/84, mainly due to the effect of the 1982183 drought



-3-
on food prices. Further improvements in the policy environment vill be
required to maintain these higher levels of economic growth and investment
without putting undue pressure on the balance of payments or reviving infla-
tionary expectations.
8.      Economic growth in the early 1980s has not been steady, mainly because
of the effect of uneven rainfall, on agricultural production during the period.
In 1980/81 and 1981182, the economy substantially recovered from the 1979
drought, with real GDP growing by 7.6% and 5.3%, respectively. While
industrial output expanded by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981182, recovery was
particularly robust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise
by more than 15% and 5.52, respectively. The supply of powe;, coal, and rail
transport, already improved in 1980/81, was further expanded in 1981/82,
recording growth rates of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.5%, respectively. This over-
all improvement in the Indian economy was halted in 1982/83 by a severe drought
in mid-1982 which reduced agricultural production by 42, brought down the GDP
growth rate to 1.8%, and put further strains on the already difficult balance
of payments and domestic resource situation. The timely implementation of
various economic policies relating to foodgrain imports, procurement and
distribution, and the allocation of power to irrigation pumps mitigated the
otherwise very distressing effects of the poor monsoon. The economy recovered
in 1983/84, led by a robust agricultural sector - GDP grew by about 6.5% to 7%
with agricultural production growth in the 9%-1OZ range and industrial growth
of 4.5%. The major factors contributing to the good economic performance
during 1983/84 were the excellent monsoon, combined with adequate agricultural
policies and programs, and satisfactory performance of the coal and transport
sectors. The power sector, however, emerged again as a constraint on higher
growth, especially in industry.
9.      Agricultural production rebounded strongly in 1983/84 in response to
the monsoon, improved use of inputs and continued expansion of irrigation.
Overall foodgrain production rose by 10%-12% over the previous year, reaching
a new record of 142-144 million tons, a substantial increase over the previous
peak of 133 million tons in 1981/82. Corrected for weather variations,
foodgrain production continues to grow at a trend of 2.6% per annum-sufficient
to maiutain a broad balance between supply and steadily increasing domestic
demand. Nonetheless, the balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain
imports to maintain consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise
from time to time. Thus, adequate management of foodgrain stocks and programs
to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient use of
other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.     Basic infrastructure services had a mixed performance in 1983/84,
partially because of sluggish demand from industry during the first half of
the year but also due to a failure to maintain the productivity gains of
1980-82. Electricity generation grew only by about 3.7X due to low reservoir
water levels during the first half of the year, delays in the commissioning
of new capacity, and a deterioration of capacity utilization in thermal plants.
As a result, power generation was about 11.5% belov requirements and con-
stituted a major bottleneck in the economy. Key industries which were adver-
sely affected by power constraints included steel, fertilizers, cement, and
coal. To improve performance in the power sector, the Government recently
increased incentives for higher labor and management productivity in thermal
plants. Railway freight traffic, measured in ton-kms, grew by only 0.52 in
1983/84, reflecting sluggish demand. Coal production increased by about 6.5%



-4-
in 1983/84 reaching 139 million tons. When combined with stocks already avail-
able this level of production was sufficient to meet the relatively slow demand.
growth. Infrastructural constraints would have emerged much more aharply had
the pace of industrial growth and demand been more rapid. It is therefore
critically important that India maintain the pace of investment in these key
sectors, mobilize sufficient resources to do so, and implement programs to
enhance productivity.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus in
the late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit. The gap between gross invest-
ment and national savings increased from negligible levels during the late
1970s to an average equivalent to 2.1X of GDP in 1980-84. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.6% of GDP in the last four years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population below the poverty line. The scope for a substan-
tial increase in the savings rate is therefore quite limited. If India is to
maintain investment at about 25Z of GDP, a major effort will be required to
raise additional domestic resources particularly in the public sector. Future
increases in savings will depend heavily u;pon the enhanced profitability of
public sector enterprises which would requtire better utilization of capacity,
more efficient operations and adequate pricing policies. This would also allow
a marginal decline in the use of foreign savings from the recent 2.1Z-2.32 of
GDP to 1.5Z-1.8%, to ensure a sustainable external debt service burden.
12.     India's external resource position has changed notably since the late
1970s. The current account balance, which recorded surpluses from 1976/77 to
1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging US$3.5 billion and 2.1Z of GDP during
1980/81 to 1983/84. Several developments contributed to these relatively
larger current account deficits. First, the terms of trade deteriorated
sharply in 1979/80 due to the second round of oil price increases and continued
to move against India during the first three years of the 1980s. Second, a
more liberal import policy towards industrial inputs was pursued. Third, net
invisibles declined as travel receipts fell off, workers' remittances stagnated
(reflecting slower development activity in the Middle Eas9), and payment of
interest on higher levels of foreign debt increased. Faced with severe
infrastructural constraints and a deterioration in its balance of payments,
India initiated an adjustment program in 1980/81 designed to raise the growth
rate from its historical level of 3.6% to 5.22 while adjusting the country's
external balance to the adverse price developments in the world markets. The
main elements of this strategy, which is being successfully implemented, are
export promotion, import substitution where economically justifiable, implemen-
tation of a coherent energy policy designed to meet the energy needs of the
economy while curbing the growth of oil imports, and continued movement toward
a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to inputs
for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology and
capacity expansion.
13.     A positive development in India's balance of payments is the reduction
in the trade deficit from US$7.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$5.9 billion in
1983/84 despite unfavorable world market conditions and import liberalization.
Export volume growth and import substitution of oil and petroleum products,
metals and fertilizers more than offset the substantial increase in "other"
imports. These "other" imports consist mainly of industrial imports and capi-
tal goods which historically have been in chronic short supply and which are of
critical importance to capacity utilization, product quality, and plant modern-



-5-
ization and expansion. A major factor in the decline of the trade deficit was
the lo!'rer net import bill for petroleum, which dropped from US$6.7 billion in
1980/81 to US$3.4 billion in 1983184 in response to a successful oil develop-
ment program that reduced import needs and allowed crude oil exports, which
totalled about US$1.5 billion in 1983/84. These structural changes in the
balance of payments are to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past three years. It is expected that the
balance of payments will continue to be under strain for the next several
years, since the adjustment strategy will continue to require high levels of
imports.
14.     Even assuming a favorable export performance, India will need external
capital flove to augment its own resources for the foreseeable future, given
the low per capita income level in the country, the already high savings rate,
and the structural adjustment process. Faced with a growing need for external
capital inflows and stagnation in the availability of concessional assistance,
India decided at the start of the Sixth Plan to increase borrowings from the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and coimercial banks to substantial levels.
In the period covering the fiscal years 1981/82 to 1983/84, India drew SDR 3.9
billion from the Extended Fund Facility of the IMF. In addition, India bor-
rowed significant amounts on commercial terms from the Euro-dollar market and
increased the use of suppliers' and export credits. In the period 1980-84,
India contracted commercial loans totalling over US$6,000 million and
suppliers' credits of over US$1,000 million. The bulk of this borrowing has
been used for specific development projects in the public and private sector
(mostly for petroleum exploration and development, steel, power, aluminum and
shipping). India's favorable debt service position and the nature of its
borrowings, for project-related purposes instead of direct balance of payments
support, enabled it to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads.
This larger commercial borrowing and transfer of funds under the arrangement
with the IMF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reserves which had fallen
to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
Development Prospects
15.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although there is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity. India also has
a wide range of institutions capable of fostering development and is well-
endowed with human resources. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource
base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores,
but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to
foreign savings, India has the capability for managing these considerable
resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
16.     The Government is currently preparing the Seventh Plan which will lay
down the development strategy for 1985/86-1989/90. This strategy is expected
to continue the emphasis of the Sixth Plan on agriculture, energy development,
export promotion, domestic import substitution where economically justifiable
and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall Sixth Plan performance



-6-
haa been encouraging, with aggregate real investment projected to be about 30%
higher than in the period 1975-80-a creditable performance indeed. The Sixth
Plan expenditure targets, however, will not be fulfilled as resource mobi-
lization by the public sector will fall short of the finanicing requirements of
planned public investment. Actual aggregate real investment is projected to be
about 7S below the original target for the period 1980-85, private investment
being 5% to 1OZ higher and public investment about 20% lower in real terms than
actually projected. In terms o'f meeting Plan expenditure targets, the perfor-
*        mance of the Central Government is considerably better than that of the State
Governments.  The Central Government's Plan outlays are likely to reach about            e
80% to 90% of the original Plan allocation in real terms, vhile the States'
will probably achieve only about 50% of their targets, due principally to
shortfalls in resource generation. Bottlenecks in key sectors such as power,
transport and irrigation are likely to persist as a consequence of real invest-
ment shortfalls relative to original Plan allocations.
17.     Although Sixth Plan expenditure targets will not be met, India's capi-
tal formation rates have increased from 22.6% in 1975-80 to 24.7Z of GDP in
1980-84. Recent higher capital formation rates arc encouraging for future
income growth, but returns to investment have so far been relatively low. Much
of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of development, in which a large
and growing proportion of investment has been needed to build up basic
infrastructure services which have inherently high capital-output ratios.
However, there is scope to reduce capital-output ratios through improvements
in efficiency. As discussed in greater detail in our recent economic reports,
performance in the basic service sectors can be improved through better plr3-
ning and management, thus leading to higher productivity and capacity utiliza-
tion throughout the economy. At the same time, programs to expand domestic
capacity are vital. In the case of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and
cement, this is justified on the grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors
such as irrigation, power and transportation, expansion of planned capacity in
accordance with the requirements of the rest of the economy will be vital for
sustained growth.
18.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil development program
backed by substantial financial commitment. Performance under the program has
been excellent with real investment and oil production levels running well
ahead of Plan Targets. In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for
exploration and development were raised by successive price increases for
domestic crude and products. While the gap between domeatic consumption of
petroleum and production remains large, India's dependence on oil imports
dropped from 632 of consumption in 1979/80 to about 412 in 1983/84 and is
expected to decrease to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85.  The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects. At the same time, the increases in domestic
petroleum prices have helped encourage conservation and slow demand growth.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on
the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
This will require the continuation of the current development strategy which
assigns high priority to export promotion, public finance discipline, improve-
ment of economic efficiency, and investment in infrastructure, supported by
adequate flows of external borrowing and aid. In the short term, a relatively



-7-
large level of external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commer-
cial borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments conse-
quences of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing
India with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of conces-
sional assistance since India is still a very poor country with a la;ge rural
sector and enormous investment requirements for human development and basic
infrastructure. Although India.is currently in a position to increase borrow-
ing on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of
course, limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives
rather than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. Nevertheless,
with a more open trade policy and expanded efforts to remove constraints on the
growth of productive capacity, supported by adequate mobilization of both
foreign and domestic savings, India is demonstrating that it can sustain a rate
of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than to the long-run trend of 3.6% per
annum. If the rate of population growth can be brought to below 2.0X per
annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of growth of
per capita income of 1.4% per annum. Success in these efforts would make a
significant difference to the prospects of easing poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
to accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census indicated there
was no decline in the rate of population growth, which remained abouit 2.2% per
annum in the 1970s despite a measurable decline in fertility rates. The
population growth rate failed to decline in the past decade due to a reduction
in the infant mortality rate and an increase in life expectancy, reflecting
larger availability of food and health services. While this is a welcome
development, it implies a greater strain on the economy and re-emphasizes the
need for continuing efforts to strengthen the healtb and family planning
programs in a broad range of activities and services. These efforts are given
high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in the proportion of
protected couples in the reproductive age group from its estimated 1979/B0
level of about 23% to over 35Z by 1984/85. The Government is revieving its
population policy for the Seventh Plan, with indications of a determination to
retain the emphasis on the implementation of family planning, health, education
and literacy programs aimed at reducing fertility rates.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic and
social policy. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more
than 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line. Significant reductions in poverty
will depend primarily on an acceleration of economic growth, particularly in
agriculture, combined with effective implementation of poverty alleviation
programs. India's poverty alleviation strategy appropriately recognizes that
production-oriented programs, which aim at accelerating the overall pace of
economic growtb, and poverty alleviation programs, targetted at those least
able to participate in the general growth of the economy, can be mutually
reinforcing rather than substituting for each other. Major poverty programs
operating on a nationwide basis at present include; the Minimum Needs Program
(MNP), the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP), and the National Rural
Employment Program (NREP). The IRDP and KREP are targeted programs aimed at
increasing the incomes of the poor rapidly, either through the transfer of
productive assets or direct employment. The NNP, aims at broadening the provi-
sion of social infrastructure and basic services which enhance the human capi-
tal of the poor and improve living standards. These programs represent a



-8-
vitally important commitment of the Government to address the needs of the
poorest. The scale of the poverty problem in India, combined with the inherent
difficulties in implementing poverty programs in any country, imply the need
for continued efforts to enhance the effectiveness of these programs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.    Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 82 loans and 165 divelopment
credits to India totalling US$6,526 million and US$12,268 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,524 million has been
repaid, and US$6,207 million was still undisbursed as of September, 30, 1984.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1984 totalled US$171 million, representing a decrease of about
40 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1984.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 29 commitments in India totalling US$223
million, of which US$2.4 million has been repaid, US$56 million sold and
US$34 million cancelled. Of the balance bf US$98 million, USS91 million repre-
sents loans and US$7 million equity. A suwniary statement of IFC disbursements
as of September 30, 1984, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, arnd to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.    This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant and consonant with
Government priorities as reflected in the Sixth Plan. Continuation of the
Bank's Group current priorities can be strongly justified on the basis of the
approach that is being taken by GOI in the preparation of the Seventh Plan.
First, continued support of GOI's agricultural program is warranted. While
India has made significant progress in agriculture, productivity growth will
have to be sustained to improve the balance between food demand and supply and
to contribute to poverty alleviation and employment. Thus, we will continue
our support to irrigation, fertilizer production and distribution, and agricul-
tural extension and credit. Second, the review of performance under the Sixth
Plan confirms the high priority that should continue to be given to the expan-
sion and more efficient use of basic infrastructure capacity and to the
development of India's indigenous hydrocarbon resources. Accordingly, the Bank
will continue to support the development of the energy, transport and telecom-
munications sectors to alleviate critical shortages which constrain output in



-9-
both agricultural and industrial sectors. Third, nupport of urban development
and other GOI basic social services programs for the poor must also continue in
light of the growth in population which, despite successes in lowering birth
and death rates, still increasen by about 16 million each year. Finally, the
major departure from our previous strategy will be a substantial increase in
the Bank's assistance to India's industrial development substantially aimed at
supporting GOI's efforts in proboting greater efficiency and faster development
of the industrial sector.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community. India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, India
continues to require a substantial level of foreign assistance both to offset
the overall deterioration in the world trade environment, and to sustain the
relatively higher investment and growth rates achieved during the first four
years of the Sixth Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in
India should aim to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports
relatively few capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the
domestic capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component
tends to be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such
high-priority sectors as agriculture and irrigation.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from
IDA. Eawever, IDA lending to India is declining from a peak of US$1.6 billion
in FY82, mostly due to funding constraints related to IDA. The amount of IDA
funds available to India is likely to remain small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Thus, this requirement for additional assistance will
have to be met, in part, through larger Banlk lending. Given its development
prospects and policies, India is judged creditworthy for Bank lending to sup-
plement IDA assistance. A continuation of efforts already underway to achieve
growth in productive capacity, trade expansion, higher levels of savings,
foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduction in the rate of population growth
should result in continued economic growth and improvement in the balance of
payments. India's debt service ratio is estimated at about 15.2% in 1984/85.
This ratio is projected to rise to around 20% by 1989/90, mainly due to the
hardening structure of India's debt; and to increase slightly over this level
through the mid-1990's. Although the projected debt service ratios are con-
siderably above historical levels, they are still manageable and will not
adversely affect India's creditworthiness.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has growm significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34Z of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursement. as compared with 622, 33% and 37%, respectively, in 1983184.
In 1983/84, about 19.0% of India's total debt service paynents were to the Bank
Group. On March 31, 1984, India's outstanding and disbursed external public
debt was estimated to be about US$26.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was US$9.6 billion or 36X (IDA's US$7.8 billion and IBRD's US$1.8 billion).
As of September 30, 1984, outstanding loans and credits to India held by the
Bank totalled US$17,271 million, of which US$6,207 million remain to be
disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$11,064 million.



-10-
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN WEST BENGAL
Backfround
29.     The State of West Bengal (WB), which is located in the north-
.         eastern part of India, has a geographical area of about 88,000 km2 and a
population of about 50 million, of which about 752 live in rural areas.
The population density averages about 570 persons per km2, second to the
State of Kerala within the Union. Despite a strong industrial base,
agriculture plays a predominant role in the State economy, accounting for
about 40Z of State income and employing about 75S of its labor force. It
is estimated that about 70% of the population of WB live belov the poverty
level (about US$114 per capita in 1979/80 prices).
The Proiect Area
30.     The irrigation systems to be constructed under the project would
be distributed in 14 out of the 16 districts of the State. High inter-
annual and intra-annual variations in rainfall are characteristics of the
project area and periods of drought are common within the Monsoon season.
Uncertainity regarding the amount and distribution of rainfall makes
irrigation a prerequisite for successful crop production. Except for the
Himalayan region, WB has a tropical monsoon climate. During the winter
season (November to February) the minimum temperature is about 110 C, and
in the hot season (March through May) the maximum temperature is about
370 C. The mean annual rainfall in the plains ranges between 1,125 and
1,875 mm, and reaches 2,500 mm in the Himalayan foothills. The plains
region has gentle slopes and is crossed by a number of major rivers. The
soil is mostly alluvial, but some areas of acid brown aud acid red
laterific soils also occur. Soil fertility levels are generally high.
31.     Land Distribution, Tenure and Use.  The rural population density
is about 600 persons per kmz. Small and marginal farmers with less than
2 ha account for about 87% of all holdings, but they control only about
58% of the cultivable land, and many farmers are either share croppers or
tenants. Because of the small and fragmented holdings and the land tenure
situation, the Government supports minor irrigation development which
would enable it to reach groups of small and marginal farmers. About 652
(5.7 million ha) of the land surface is cultivated. Reserved forest land
*        accounts for about 13.7% (1.2 million ha); cultivable wasteland, common
lands, permanent pastures and barren lands account for 7Z (0.6 million ha)
while the remaining 16.5% is earmarked for other purposes, including urban
*        and village roads.
Water Resource and Utilisation
32.     Although, the State is endowed with both surface and groundwater
resources, only about 1.65 million ha (42% of the cultivated area) receive
irrigation, of which, about 1.0 million ha are irrigated by major and
medium surface irrigation schemes, and 0.65 million ha are served by



-ll-
tubewells (TWR) and river lift installations (RLIs). By tarch 31, 1981,
the GOWB had installed about 2,950 high capacity TWs and about 3,000 RLIs.
In addition, about 222,000 low-capacity TWs and open dugvells together
with a number of other minor surface sources had been constructed in the
private sector.
33.     Surface Water Irrigation.  The irrigation potential from surface
water resources is estimated at about 3.6 million ha, of which about
1.3 million ha would be from minor irrigation including riverlifts, public
and privately owned tanks, minor diversion canals, and private low lift
pumps, and the balance would be from major and medium surface water
systems. In recent years, the area irrigated by canal systems has
averaged about 1.0 million ha a year, depending on monsoon and runoff
conditions. No major or medium surface water system in the State provides
a perennial water supply. The irrigation systems provide water mainly to
supplement monsoon rainfall. Of the 3,100 RLIs designed to provide peren-
nial water supplies, only 1,900 schemes have complete piped distribution
networks serving a net command of about 40 ha or half the design
potential. Under the Sixth plan, GOWB plans to establish an additional
105,000 ha of irrigation potential.
34.     Groundwater Irrigation.  Groundwater resources are contained
mainly in the alluvial aquifer system underlying most of the plains area.
The aquifer systems are recharged by the infiltration of rainfall water,
rivers, streams, ponds, lakes, floodwater, and deep percolation of water
held on paddyfields, and surface water irrigation systems. Discharge
occurs by evaporation and water extraction in wells. At present, only
about 17% of the State's groundwater resources are developed.
Agricultural Development
35.    About 5.7 million ha of the State are cultivated, and paddy is the
dominant crop, accounting for about 88% of the State's foodgrain
production. WB's jute and tea production account for 60Z and 25%,
respectively, of the country's total production of these crops. After a
decade (1964-74) of impressive growth (6Z per annum) in grain production,
foodgrain production has fluctuated due to variations in monsoon rainfall
and the incidence of droughts and floods.   Production of barley, maize,
pulses and millets has declined over the last decade, while production of
oilseeds has more than doubled and that of potatoes has significantly
increased.
36.     Crops and CropDins, Patterns.  In 1980/81 rice accounted for about
74% of the cropped area and is grown in three different seasons:
(i) April/May and September (Alus rice); (ii) July/August and
November/December (Amal rice); and (iii) January and May (Boro rice).
Wheat accounted for 4% of the cropped area, and is growm in the rabi
season, and pulses which accounted for 7Z of the cropped area, are grown
in the rabi season as irrigated crops following rice and jute. Nonfood
crops including oilseeds, jute and miscellaneous crops, account for 15Z of
the cropped area. The average yields for most crops are higher in the



-12-
plains area, reflecting greater access to irrigation and better farming
practices.
Atricultural Supportinr Services
37.     Agricultural Research and Extension.  The principal institutions
conducting agricultural research in WB include the Department of
Agriculture (DOA), the Agricultural University (Bidhan Chancha Krishi
Vi.wavidyalaya), and the Indian Council on Agricultural Research (ICAR).
The research capability of the DOA has been strengthened through the
Bank-financed West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project
(Cr 690-IN). The project has strengthened also the Water Management
Center (WMC) which vas established in 1972, to conduct adaptive research.
The Agricultural University has 12 research centers, including the main
one at Kalyani. The ICAR research activities cover breeding programs,
pest and disease control, agronomic practices, retting and fibre quality
and fibre extraction technology, the cultivation of maize and rice at high
elevations and of plantation crops.
38.     IDA has assisted the GOWB to reorganise and strengthen its exten-
sion service by introducing the T&V system in six districts, through the
West Bengal Agricultural Development Project (Cr. 541-IN).  With the West
Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project (Cr. 690-IN), the GOWB
was expected to extend the T&V system throughout the entire State.
However, the project has performed poorly mainly because of structural
and staffing problems. The T&V system entailed adoption of a single-
function, single-line-of-command service, and attempted to merge 14
separate staff cardres into the Department of Agriculture--a radical
change which was strongly resisted by the staff who resorted to the courts
to stop the change from the existing extension system. As a result, the
GOWB's commitment to the T&V concept has not been matched by performance.
Recruitment of some cadres of the extension staff has remained below the
required strength and provision of facilities and equipment has been
inadequate. GOWB has agreed to implement a T&V Extension System and to
provide appropriate staffing, facilities and services and other resources
required to carry out an effective agricultural extension service (draft
Project Agreement, Schedule 2, paragraph l(d)).
39.     Agricultural Inputs.  Most seed is retained by the farmers from
previous crops. In addition, GOWB has about 4,000 ha of seed farms which
supply certified seeds.  Seed is generally available, except in excep-
tional years when the supply is affected by drought or floods. The supply
of fertilizer is also generally adequate. With the steady increase in
fertilizer use, average statewide consumption is now about 36 kg of
nutrient per ha.  About 60Z of fertilizer is distributed by the
Agro-Industries Corporation (AIC) and the State Cooperative Marketing
Federation (CMF). In addition, there is an extensive network of private
dealers who obtain fertilizer directly from supplfers.  Pesticides also
are distributed by AIC and through private outlets. Pesticide
availability is adequate, and about 3,000 tons are utilized annually.



-13-
40.     Agricultural Credit.  The State Cooperative Bank (SCB) provides
about 70Z of short-term and medium-term (2-5 years) credit, and the
balance is provided by commercial banks. There are 6,000 primary coopera-
tive societies at the village level affiliated with the district coopera-
tive banks. Commercial banks provide short-term credit mainly to large
farmers, while sharecroppers,itenant farmers and small and marginal
farmers obtain loans from the cooperative banks and noninstitutional
sources such as traders, money lenders, family members and the farm
owner/tenant relationship. The main sources of long-term credit (more
than five years) are the State Cooperative Land Development Bank (LDB) and
the commercial banks. Long-term lending to individual farmers has been
mainly for minor irrigation (tubevells, dugwells, and pumpsets). Credit
recovery is poor (in 1982-83, overdues to LDB equaled 61% of demand).
Most of the creditworthy farmers have obtained institutional credit.
However, the very small sizes and fragmented nature of landholdings (and
the large number of tenant farmers) have made it extremely difficult for
many farmers to gain access to long-term credit. Consequently, public
sector lending for minor irrigation in WB is needed to supplement the
institutional credit facilities.
41.     Marketin2. Processin2 and Storae.  About 20% of paddy, 40% of
wheat, 90% of vegetables and fibre crops produced in the State, are sold
on the open market. There are about 2,600 privately operated village-
level primary markets. The Central Marketing Federation purchases jute
for the Jute Corporation of India, potatoes for storage, and wheat for the
Food Corporation of India. Cold storage facilities are available (about
1.1 million tons) for the potato crop. Marketing, processing, and storage
facilities are generally adequate in relation to the current production
levels, although GOWB plans to provide more marketing facilities with a
view to improving farm gate prices for farmers.
42.     Bank Group Lending for Irrigation in West Bengal.  The Bank Group
has assisted minor irrigation development in WB through financing a number
of projects. The West Bengal Agricultural Development Project
(Cr. 541-IN, 1975) financed public and private groundwater development and
construction of riverlift installations. WB also benefitted from four
all-India Agricultural Refinance Development Corporation (ARDC) line of
credit projects (Crs. 540-IN, 715-IN, 947-IN and 1209-IN), which provided
institutional credit for minor irrigation development, on-farm improve-
ments and equipment. The ongoing WB Extension and Research Project
(Cr. 690-IN, 1977) designed to strengthen agricultural support services
is expected to be closed by March 31, 1985.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
43.     The project was appraised in SepEember/October 1984.  Negotiations
were held in Washington in January 1985 with the Indian delegation coor-
dinated by Mr. A. Thapan of the Government of India's Department of
Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance. The Staff Appraisal Report



-14-
(No. 5355-IN) dated February 1, 1985, is being circulated to the Executive
Directors separately. A Supplementary Data Sheet is attached as
Annex III.
Proiect Rationale
44.     The GOWB boo an on-going minor irrigation program which is not
likely to achieve its intended objectives, because the technology being
used is ineffective. Bank involvement would introduce improved technology
which would enable the GOWB to provide irrigation services to a subetan-
tial group of very small and marginal farmers. Without Bank assistance in
planning and design, large portions of WB's land water resources would
continue to be developed inefficiently and therefore ineffectively. In
this context, the Bank already has assisted the GOWB to prepare the
proposed project, incorporating the principles of improved design and
planning, thereby extending the successful experience gained from the
Bank-financed project in the State of Uttar Pradesh--the Uttar Pradesh
Public Tubewells II Project (Cr. 1332-IN, 19B3). Bank intervention vould
also help GOWB to improve the institutional structure and capabilities of
the main project-executing agency, the Agricultural Engineering
Directorate (AED), and to facilitate efficient operation and maintenance
of the minor irrigation systems.
Proiect Obiectives and Description
45.     The main objective of the project is to raise agricultural produc-
tion and farm incomes in West Bengal through the upgrading and construc-
tion of public tubewell irrigation systems, open dugwells and riverlift
installations. A second objective is to strengthen the institutional
capability to effectively manage the improved irrigation systems. The
project would support construction of about: (i) 3,400 deep tubewells
(DTWs); (ii) 5,400 shallow tubevells (STWs); and (iii) 10,000 open dug-
wells (ODWs). It would finance also completion of the distribution sys-
tems of about 200 riverlift installations (RLIs) management improvements,
and incremental staff costs for agricultural extension services. The
project vorks would be sited, planned, designed and constructed according
to criteria and standards acceptable to IDA (draft project Agreement,
Schedule 2, para. l(a)).
Detailed Features
46.     Deep Tubewell Systems.  The project vould provide funds for cou-
struction of about (i) 1,200 high capacity deep tubewells (HDTWs), each
with a capacity of about 200m3/h and serving about 40 ha; (ii) 400 medium
capacity deep tubewells (1DTWs), each with a capacity of about 1OOm3/h and
serving about 20 ha; and (iii) 1,800 low capacity deep tubevells (LDTWa),
each with a capacity of 30m3/h and serving about 6 ha. Hovever, the
allocation of the DTW program among high, mediium, and low capacity may be
revised as site data become available. All DTWs would use submersible
pump units. The EDTW and MDTW systems would consist of a vater point
(vell, pump, prime mover, svitchgear, electric connection and starter, and



-15-
protection relays), a pump house, a distribution chamber equipped with a
float switch for automatic control of the pump, a buried pipe distribution
system with outlet valves, earthen field channels, an access road to the
water point, and electrical power supply. For management purposes, the
LDTWs would be sited in groups of about six wells and they would be
located where water levels require the installation of a shaft-driven
turbine pump or submersible pump.  The LDTW system would consist of a
water point vith a pump house, an earthen channel system, and an 0.4kV
low-tension line to link the pump motor to the 11/0.4kV transformer on an
*           llkV distribution line common to the well cluster.
47.     Shallow Tubewells.  Funds would be provided for the construction
of STWs in parts of the alluvial aquifer system where the water table is
sufficiently shallow to permit reliable operation of STWs equirped with
centrifugal pumps. An STW system would consist of a water point, pump
house, earthern channel water distribution system from well head to farm
fields, and a power connection. The w'ells would be hand-drilled up to
60 m deep, and about 9 m of screen would be provided. The pumps would
have a capacity of about 30m3/h and would be mounted either at land sur-
face or located in a shallow sump. The STWs would be grouped in clusters
of six wells and would be energized as for the LDTWs (para. 46, above).
48.     Open Dug Wells.  Under the project, funds would be provided for
the construction of ODWs in both hard rock and riverine alluvium. A
typical well in hard rock would be 3 m square in cross section and about
12 m deep. Bricks would be used for securing the uppermost part of the
well where loose soil and unstable rock would occur. The command area
would be about 2 ha and the water distribution system would consist of
earthen channels. A deep well in riverine alluvium would be about 1.5 a
in diameter to take a 1.2 m internal diameter precast reinforced concrete
ring, and it could extend to about 12 m in depth. The command area would
be about 4 ha and the water distribution system would be earthen channels.
49.     Riverlift Installations.  GOWB has installed about 3,000 small-
scale riverlift irrigation (RLI) systems throughout the State, many of
which have incomplete water distribution systems and pump houses. Under
the project, about 200 existing but incomplete RLIs would be completed
and modernized by electrification of the pump units, provision of elevated
distribution chambers, a buried pipe water distribution system and an
earthen channel conveyance system. The design characteristics of a mod-
ernized RLI would be similar to those of a HDTW (Para. 46), except the
stream size (400m3|h) and command area (80 ha) of a RLI would be larger.
Organization and Management Improvements
50.     Organization.  The overall responsibility for project implementa-
tion would rest with the Secretary for Minor Irrigation. Two agencies
under him would implement the project: the Agricultural Engineering
Directorate (AED), which in the State is responsible for construction,
operation and maintenance of riverlift installations and public
groundwater schemes; and the WB State Electricity Board (WBSEB), vhich is



-16-
responsible for the construction, operation and maintenance of power
transmission and transformation. The Department of Agriculture (DOA)
would be responsible for the agricultural extension component and agricul-
tural development activities; the WB State Water Investigation Directorate
would assess surface and groundwater resources and authorize groundwater
development; and the Department of Panchayats (DOP) would assist in a
limited supervisory role.
51.     The Chief Engineer of the AED, assisted by Project Coordinating
and Accounting Units (PCU and PAU), will act as Project Coordinator. The
PCU would coordinate all project activities, including preparing project
reports, and maintaining a link with project beneficiaries. The PAU vould
be responsible for project accounts and collation of expenditure state-
ments for reimbursements from IDA. By June 30, 1985, the GOWB would
establish and maintain the PCU and PAU within AED and appoint a suitably
qualified and experienced officer to head the PCU (draft Project
Agreement, Schedule 2, para. 2(a) and (b)). It would also sanction and
fill the staff positions with AED in accordance with an organizational
structure and staffing schedule acceptable to IDA (draft Project
Agreement, Schedule 2, para. l(d)).
52.     Manazement Improvement.  AED was established with agricultural
enginering rather than minor irrigation as its main focus. Although the
institution has the technical capability to implement the project as
designed, there is need to restructure it in order to improve its
efficiency. As a first step, construction and O&M activities would be
separated. In this regard, not later than the beginning of project
implementation, AED would maintain separate accounts for OM activities
(draft Project Agreement, Section 3.03). In addition, the GOWB would
carry out a comprehensive management study of the AED under terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA. By September 30, 1986, a report summariz-
ing the findings and recommendations of the study would be submitted to
IDA for review and comment, and taking into account IDA's comments, GOWB
would carry out the recommendations of the study in accordance with an
agreed schedule (draft Project Agreement, Schedule 2, para. 4(a) and (b)).
53.     In addition, the project would provide funds for specific manage-
ment improvements within the AuED. In recent years, provision of housing
has not kept pace with the statewide development program and the conse-
quent expansion of the establishment. As a result, the AED has extremely
limited housing accommodation, and rentals are expensive.  Consequently,
AED is unable to attract qualified and competent staff, particularly, in
the remote parts of West Bengal. Therefore, under the project, residen-
tial buildings would be constructed for selected grades of staff in OM
and other field activities. The buildings would be of standard PWD
designs and would be constructed on land owned by the AED.
54.     Although the design and criteria of the improved tubewell systems
under the project are acceptable to IDA, it is envisaged that more
progressive and advanced technologies could be developed which would
further improve the effectiveness and efficiency of public groundwater and



-17-
riverlift systems. The project therefore provides funds for .esearch on
irrigation technologies and techniques which either have not been tried in
West Bengal or have been attempted only on a limited experimental scale.
Areas of research would include further technical improvements, planning,
siting, and criteria and procedures for increasing efficiency and improv-
ing O& standards of minor irrigation systems. For this purpome, a
*          Research and Development Unit would be established in AED.  The Project
would also provide funds for monitoring and evaluation activities includ-
ing an agro-economic baseline study, and routine monitoring of project
implementation and operation and agricultural performance.  The AED will
prepare research and development and monitoring and evaluation programs by
September 30, 1985 and December 1, 1985 respectively, submit them to IDA
for review and comment prior to implementation of the programs and
thereafter, in consultation with the Association review the work programs
annually (draft Project Agreement, Schedule 2, para. 3(a) and (b)).
55.     The project would introduce planning, design, and implementation
concepts which would be new to most of the AED staff. Therefore, the
staff would need substantial training in order to cope with the project
implementation schedule. The training would cover design, layout, and
management of the new well and riverlift systems and the associated com-
mand areas. The project would therefore provide for the construction of
two small service training centers, training equipment, services of visit-
ing local specialists to assist AED staff, and study tours to enable AED
staff to widen their experience.
56.     The project provides for a limited amount of technical assistance
to assist GOWB to prepare a comprehensive Design Manual which would embody
planning principles and design criteria for-the new tubewell technology
together with construction practices for implementing the works. GOVB
would also prepare an O&H Manual covering all aspects of management of
public groundwater systems. The drafts of the Manuals would be submitted
to IDA for review and comment by December 31, 1985 (draft Project
Agreement, Schedule 2, para. l(c)).
57.     To help consolidate the progress made in improving the State's
agricultural extension services, the project would finance the incremental
staffing costs of key extension staff (Agricultural Development Officers)
throughout the districts under the project. In addition, the GOWB would
undertake a comprehensive review for further strengthening of its exten-
sion services.  The report would be submitted to the Association for
review and comment prior to its implementation.
Proiect Cost and FinancinR
58.     Total project costs are estimated at US$141.8 sillion equivalent
net of taxes and duties.  Foreign exchange costs are estimated at
US$13.4 million (about 9Z of the total costs). Physical contingencies
amount to approximately US$6.4 million, while price contingencies amount
to US$25.9, and are based on expected annual price increases for both



-18-
local and foreign costs of 8% from 1984/85, 7% in 1985/88 and 6%
thereafter.
59.     The proposed IDA credit of Us$99 million equivalent would finance
about 70% of the total costs, including 100% of foreign expenditure and
about 67% of local costs. T>e balance would be borne by OI and COWB.
Procurement and Disbursement
60.     Annex IV, attached, details the manner in which items vill be
purchased under the project. Civil works for construction of deep and
shallow tubewells, systems modernization of river lift installations,
access roads, and buildings (US$28.3 million) would be individually small
and scattered over large areas, and carried out intermittently. They
would not be suitable for ICB and would be let through Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB). Some works contracts (US$0.5 million) would have been let
between September 1984 (when the project was appraised) and March 31,
1985, when project implementation is expected to start (advance
contracting). Tnese would be let after LCB on the basis of documents and
procedures satisfactory to IDA. Works which would not be suitable for
either LCB or ICB (US$16.0 million) would be small and scattered and their
implementation governed by weather and agricultural conditions. These
works would be carried out under small piece work or rate contracts or
GOWB departmental forces or farmers benefitting from the project.
61.     WBSEB would be responsible for power transmission and transforma-
tion works, including the procurement and installation of electrical and
mechanical equipment (US$33.1 M). Of this, about US$16.3 M would consist
of installation works and US$16.8 N would be of materials and equipment,
comprising conductors (US$6.0 M), distribution transformers (US$2.5 M), UT
insulators (US$1.5 M), concrete poles (US$4.4 M) and general materials
(US$2.4 M). As with IDA credits for rural electrification, WBSEB would
procure its own project materials and equipment using Rural
Electrification Corporation (REC) standard specifications, General
Conditions of Contract and LCB procurement procedures as agreed for the
on-going Bank supported Third Rural Electrification Project
(Loan 2165-IN).
62.     Materials aud equipment would cost about US$49.9 million, of which
about US$23.4 million would be procured through ICB, and the balance
through LCB procedures.  A preference limited to 15% or the prevailing
customs duty, if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in
evaluation of bids. Equipment and materials would be grouped together to
*          attract competition from large manufacturers.  However, bids would also be
accepted on individual packages to allow small manufacturers to compete.
Because equipment to be procured through LCB would be assigned throughout
the 14 districts covered by the project area, accessibility to spare parts
and prompt service facilities is essential. There is adequate domestic
competition and prices are highly competitive. Equipment for DAE would be
procured as part of the general GOWB procrrement for government agencies,
usiug standardized procedures and bidding documents developed by the CWC



-19-
and approved by IDA. All bidding packages for works estimated to cost
US$0.5 million or more and for goods costing US$100,000 equivalent or more
would be subject IDA pre-action review. The remaining contracts would be
subject to IDA post-action review.
63.     Disbursements would be made for: (i) 100% of the foreiSn expendi-
tures for directly imported equipment; (ii) 100% for locally manufactured
goods procured ex-factory; (iii) 70% for other locally procured goods;
(iv) 10OZ of expenditures for management improvements (excluding
buildings) and for the agricultural extension component; (v) 75Z of expen-
ditures on buildings and for completed works (excluding materials procured
under items vi and vii below) on deep tubewells, shallow tubewells, river-
lift installations; and open dug wells; (vi) 75% of expenditures for steel
and reinforced concrete pipes, casings and fittings and general steel
materials; and (vii) 100% of the foreign expenditures of PVC pLpe and
fittings or 1OOZ ex-factory expenditures if locally manufactured.
Disbursements for works constructed by departmental forces and for pay-
ments of less than Rs 300,000 for works and Rs 150,000 for goods and for
extension staff costs may be made against certificates of expenditure
itemised by subproject. Disbursements for shallow tubewells and open
dugwells would be made against certificates of expenditure submitted by
GOWB and itemised by major components. Disbursements for the power trans-
mission network would be made in stages as the minor irrigation systems
are energised. Documentation for these works would be retained by GOWB
and made available for inspection by IDA's review missions. Full documen-
tation would be required for all other disbursements. The expected rate
of disbursement follows the typical disbursement profile in the Indian
irrigation sector for the first three years of project implementation,
after which the rate of disbursement would remain constant since the
project is the first time slice of a long term development program.
64.     Monitoring and Evaluation.  The AED would coordinate monitoring
and evaluation activities. For this purpose, a monitoring and evaluation
unit would be strengthened in the AED. The unit would collect and analyze
data on project implementation and performance, crop production, and
yields. The GOWB would submit quarterly progress reports, starting
October 1, 1985, and within two months after the end of each reporting
period (draft Project Agreement, Schedule 2 para 8). In addition, the
GOWB would carry out a mid-term review in accordance with terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA, and by March 31, 1988, GOWB would submit to
IDA a report summarizing the results of the review. Thereafter, taking
into account IDA's comments, GOWB would carry out necessary adjustments
(draft Project Agreement, Schedule 2, para. 7).  Within six months after
the project closing date, GOWB would submit to IDA a project completion
report.
65.     Cost Recovery.  The GOWB has been vigilant with regard to keeping
its water rates under review and collecting water charges. a recent 300%
increase from Rs 1.60 to Rs 5.0 per acre-inch (Rs 0.02 to 0.05/m3) for
DTWs and RLIs has resulted in a substantial increase in revenue and has
made water charges in WB among the highest in India. Furthermore, the



-20-
payment procedure is such that farmers must pay watcr charges before the
crop season begins thus ensuring 100% recovery of assessed water charges
from land to be irrigated. For typical project works which are fully
utilized, and with effective and efficient management, it iB estimated
that on average, revenue from present water charges would cover O&M costs.
66.     With this project, three basic objective. would be pursued con-
cerning cost recovery to: (i) improve financial monitoring procedures in
order to enable O&M costs and revenue to be compared; (ii) restructure the
water charge system for minor irrigation works in order to reflect the
quantity and quality of the service provided and thus introduce equity
amongst users; and (iii) achieve a level of cost recovery which would
cover O&M costs and a reasonable portion of capital costs, taking into
account farmers' ability to pay. To achieve these objectives, first, the
financial management of AED would be improved under the AED reorganization
(paras. 52 and 53). Secondly, with respect to the water charges system,
on the basis of appropriate studies and investigations, GOWB would, not
later than December 31, 1986, submit to IDA for review and comment a
proposal together with a timetable for establishing a water charge system
for modernized irrigated areas, and taking into account IDA's cohments,
GOWB would by not later than September 30, 1987, implement the new water
charge system in accordance with the agreed timetable (draft Project
Agreement, Section 3.04). Thirdly, with respect to the level of water
charges, the GOWB would continue to set water charges for minor irrigation
systems, vith regular reviews of the cost of providing the services, in
order to ensure that revenue covers average operation and maintenance
costs and a reasonable share of the capital costs of new and modernized
schemes, taking into account farmers capacity to pay (draft Project
Agreement, Section 3.05).
Benefits. Justification and Risks
67.     The project would stabilize agricultural production and reduce
farmers' risk by providing reliable irrigation service. It would lead to
more efficient use of groundwater resources and introduce equity in water
allocation. The quantifiable benefits from the project derive from an
increase in command area which can be fully irrigated of about 139,000 ha.
The annual incremental agricultural production at full project development
would be foodgrain about 367,000 tons, potato 140,000 tons, jute 18,000
tons, and sesame 5,000 tons. The total value of agricultural production
would increase by about US$46 million per year. About 190,000 farm
families comprising small and marginal farmers, would benefit directly
from the project. The project would generate an additional 47 million man
days per year of farm labor employment, and project construction
activities would generate about 20,000 jobs in construction employment.
The employment impact is significant to WB, which is beset by overpopula-
tion and substantial unemployment.
68.     The economic rates of return (ERR) for the various project com-
ponents range from 13% to more than 502 and for the overall project about
37%. The results of the sensitivity analysis carried out to determine how



-21-
deviations from the maxu assumptions including incremental benefits affect
the ERR, indicate that the project's return is insensitive with respect to
most variables.
69.     The apparent lack of demand for water from the existing minor
irrigation works, suggests a poteiitial risk to project benefits because of
possible underutilization of the additional irrigation capacity to be
created with the project investments.  However, the present low level of
farmer response is primarily due co the poor quality of the existing
irrigation service. Under the proposed project, this risk is minimal
because the improved technology would insure provision of a reliable,
timely, and equitable irrigation service.
Environmental Effects
70.     The project is not expected to create adverse environmental
conditions. Water from the project tubewells would be potable and
therefore, would reduce the occurance of intestinal diseases. In
addition, water delivery through buried pipes is expected to reduce the
potential hazard of malaria associated with surface irrigation schemes.
Consequently, the project is expected to have only beneficial environmen-
tal effects. Nonetheless, assurances would be sought that GOWB would take
all measures as may be considered necessary to minimize the risk of
malaria, filaria and other water-related diseases within the project areas
(draft Project Agreement, Schedule 2, para. 9).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
State of West Bengal, and the reco mendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of the Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
72.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
73.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausea
President
Attachment                                                     by
Ernest Stern
February 26, 1985



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
T A I L E IA
rNDIA                   - SOCT4L INDICATORS DATA NERTr
tNDIA                                 RIRIINGC   GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGU1 p
HOST                      (MOST RICNT ZESTINATE) lb
RECENT              LOW INCOme            HICKu IiiCU
ISGoCLk    i,,0Lk     ISTIMATRLb        ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA 6 PACIFIC
A     (SAS EQ. I)
TOTAL                                  3287.6     3287.6      3287.6
AGRICULTURAL                           1763.5     1780.5      1812.3
GWN  MR CAPIT  (M)                          6n.o      100.0       260.0            218.6                     1091.2
cne               F    CAPT,S
{(KILOGRAMS OF OIL FQUIVALENT)                                 79.0      113.0       158.0            272.0                      567.3
POMPUT     AM nITAL StATISTXCS
POPULATION."MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    434849.0   547569.0    714935.0
URBAN POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)           *6.0        29.8        24.1             21.7                       36.7
POPULATION PROJECTLONS
POUIULATIOH IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                              994.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (1ILL)                                1707.2
POPULATION MOMENiTUR                                           1.7
POPULATION DENSITY
PER Sq. KM.                           132.1      I6h.6       213.4            166.6                      261.9
PFR SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               246.6       307.5       187.2            345.5                     2735.l
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE (t)
0-14 TrS                             40.9       42.7         39.3             35.6                       39.0
25-64 YTs                             54.5       56.2         57.6             59.8                       57.6
65 AND ABOVE                           4.6         3.1         3.2              4.1                        3.3
POPULATION GROWT1t RATE 1.)
TOTAL                                   l.h        2.3         2.2              2.6                        2.3
URBAN                                  2.5         3.3         3.9              4.1                        6.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THoUS)            47.7        42.4        34.2             2.1                        30.)
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)            21.8        27.8        12.7             10.1                        9.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  2.9         2.4         2.2              L.8                        2.n
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTURS. AIWUAL (THOUS)             64.0      37h2.0      6826.0
USERS Cl OF MARRIED WONEN)              ..        11.7        28.0               ..                       52.7
rtloD AND 1wIXrrOK
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                           98.0       102.0       201.0            112.8                      123.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (t OF REQUIREMENTS)          91.0        91.0        86.0             97.7                      114.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              54.0       50.0         46.0             56.8                       57.0
or WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           17.0        15.0        13.0 2c          *4.9                       14.1
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE             26.2        20.7        11.0              9.8                        7.2
MALTE
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)           42.5       47.5         54.6             60.0                      60.6
INFA.NT NORT. RATE (PER TNOUS)         *65.0      239.0         94.0             83.8                      66.3
AECESS TO SAFE WATER ('1P0)
TOTAL                                   ..        27.0        33.0 /d          32.9                       37.0
URBAN                                   *-       60.0         83.0 7d          70.9                       54.8
RURAL                                   ..        6.0         20.0 Id          22.1                      26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    .        18.0        20.0 /e          28.2                       41.1
5RBA                                    ..       85.0         67.07            72.8                      47.4
RURAL                                   ..         2.0         2 o.-            4.6                      33.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              4850.0     4890.0       3690.0 If        3484.2                    7749.4
POP. PEN NURSING PERSON              10980.0 p  7420.0       5460.0 7F         4793.1                    2460.4
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
rOTAL                               2*80.0      1650.0      1290.0 If        1066.5                     1044.2
w                 ~~~~~~~~URsAN                            3.         .          70.o 7d-        298.0                     h51.2
4  RURAL                                *-                 1041O0f.a7        5993.4                    2594.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED               ..         .            .                ..                      27.0
AVERAGE SIZE OF HDUSEHOLD
TorAL                                   5.2        5.6         5.2 /I
URBAN                                  5.2        5.6          4.a 7..
RURAL                                  5.2         S.6b         .3 7..
AVERACE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                  2.6         2.8
URBAN                                  2.6        2.8
RURAL                                  2.b        2.8
ACCESS TO ELECT. (I OF DIELLINCS)
TOTAL                                   ..         ..
URBAN                                   ..         ..
RURAL                                   ..         ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TSA    Ll I  3A
i:s~~~~~   ~- SOCIAL ZNDCATR1 DTAGOl  (WIRT           GiDAVRE
MOST                      (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
EU7k  KNETI               LOW INCOE             MIDOLS tI
1960a     1970&:    lESTIMATE          ASIA A PACIFIC          ASIA G PACIFIC
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      e1.0        73.0        79.0             97.4                      102.0
#ALC                       60.0       90.0         93.0            110.5                      105.9
FEMALE                     40.0       56.0         64.0             63.7                       90.2
SECONDARY: TDTAL                      20.0        26.0        30.0             35.9                       46.0
MALE                       30.0       36.0         39.0             44.6                       48.7
FEMALE                     10.0       15.0         20.0             26.8                      43.1
VOCATIONAL (1 OF SECONDARY)               Z.8        1.0         0.7 la           2.2                       17.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               46.0        41.0        54.0             38.S                       31.8
SECONDARY                             16.0        21.0          ..             18.7                       23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (C)                  27.8       34.1        36.2              53.4                      72.9
PASSENGER CARSZTNOUSAND PoP              0.6         1.1         L.4 Ih           0.9                       10.1
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             4.9        21.5        43.6             112.1                     113.6
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND PoP                 0.0        0.0         1.7              15.7                      50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERIAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PEP ThWOUSAND PtPUlATTnN               10.6       16.2        19.4  I          16.2                       33.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrEHDANCEICAPITA           3.2        6.2         s.i e             3.t                       3.4
LAf FUG
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            185951.0   219194.0    282169.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      30.7        32.5        31.8             33.3                       33.5
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 74.0        74.0        71.0             69.6                       52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    11.0        11.0        13.2             15.8                       17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  42.8       40.0        '9.4             42.6                       38.7
KALE                                   57.0       52.4        52.0             54.7                       50.9
FLALE                                27.3        26.9        25.9             29.8                       26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.1        1.1         1.1              1.0                        1.1
fllcmU DISTIBIJIOS
PERCENT OP PRIVATE. INCOME
RECE4VED BT
HICHEST 5: OF HOUSEHOLDS               26.7       26.3 /i     22.2 /a          22.2                       Z2.2
HIGHEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS             51.7        4t.9 71     49.4 7;          48.0                       48.0
LOWEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS               4.1         5.7 7r      7.07/            6.4                        6.4
LOWEST 401 OF HOUSEHOLDS              13.6        17.2 75     16.2 E.          L.                         15.5
POVER   TAN=ET COUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOFE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                    .          .        132.0 lh         133.9                      188.6
RURAL                                                        114.0 7ib        111.6                      132.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
JURAIN                                                                                                   177.9
RURAL                                                                                                    164.6
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (2)
URBAN                                                         40.3 lb          43.8                       Z3.4
RURAL                                               .         50.7 7i;         51.7                       37.7
NOT AVAILABLE
NOr APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a   The group avaragam for each lndicator are population-weIghted arithmetic meana.  Coveraga of countriam among the
indicators dependa on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unlesa otherwise noted. "Dae tor 1960" ref er to any year between 1959 and 1961: "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Moat Recent Estimte" between 1980 and 1982.
ic   1977; Ld 1976; /e 1975;  /f 1978; I, 1962;  /b 1979; jI 1964-65.
UE, 1986



-fh            ' -- -0     Voo-a   -   mle. l'l'dap "am   inayaT"  i-
Moqa A. - mlvqsn aicl-S. kpaq - winpon n4 LA -1a-
Dum lZ4 -W - I'llay i-l-a.M - Ei-j niBs. too ansass.
"- "     o  i-fo    q-ms           .                                                                            Me 1  il'ood sMioad      i-a  W"    tmaid-          (lm    tsn
mainu ...  "a PM                                                                                                     in4. _ - .  a-sans.se...    asap Ama            m.f Iii.  in
*i.mlsn aniisaal                                          mis: ~ ~~~ST    lot'an I"i- 'sas  a-.a.P  1d1m
1_,o.0 vAJ1= X     n   -doltolo     -A.oo-     s j.Mloo   ift .W              -a ns          Pooja     fue tlafti~ 1-n   ("at1a -J    aaP"   il""         a
"Gilol"   - .4 la-a           -ms-a aPa        ,aa maa
- :    ~t*- '   '~    ,~ay  .:''-"  -     rn"aM-".  a-  .aa  'a                                             Ssay-'-owina1nIm                             t~
wllS     tfol    n ov        n-      mha"to na al    in    daa                                      R.aa lidai pa. ; ti    la    .qs    n              a-n.a 
aild. 5   San    r  s7las  1 ~     m~U    Lam    saMaa     0a6a                                                --oln,la    t   'Ls   aa_ a- nn    s-aad           e   aW
as a.-t lAanl...  Molna   litaa                 d    n    sa        dlliliti                                  a  Ass'ial]55                  .aaliaiJ         - 
IMILIFIUlsAJ~~~~~~~- aaU 'liaiia                                  pnaaalI             a               Mo'saa   .y
PM 90 lo- LI -P-     %.I.&M J.  "..M -  - R    _2a isle                              -saaSc   s   ts-asmsla   "A  Al - ~-  a.-aau
-ias    aajalease na Sq"aiinaa   ils Am   1         as-   dil=
-."midd I, iaisa1 PM. ais-l          sfsuas "haIaJ.                                                        Wo*aal     1-- "al,51"l.fJ a_Lh m.aaJfj
-tL:T-V--d -.1m    - P."   oll -.%L  ml poo '..a,sa.j  a  itIiti-iSs  5If   Ilr at  l
alll tlaii--As - s- s I-     Pl-   ia a5          'aalm"aas  salsyai                                                  Abi'ammadsaaymlaa mlamaw.*.
...:vZeroP- 4       na'm   if1 "                      al    U Su  'iis1151   as   tis   smanmi 
aaa'ls5talsq1    amaa    a a.t                  S-~  I3t.          rr                            iLaas  eaa    asaat   stsa -pp5asasss"                                    a
pa   iaaama   -n" lmi         mi. staejsL-  lmtclaar'iimm-ssaas.   W*aZaas  s't  si- !psms    aai
.1        3.                -~als  ai  a it.1  Mll  lalq-       .                                                          " .       ~       
&ilass   1-Is 1aipem'tssalaIlPai   m  pa .tis        55L5-'5                                                i55S   samsisiama                    ,s   m -l a5s"       .  a-maa
d3 1-loo-d -J                      .., --..ft a    ~          ~    ~ ~ ~ *alma  aass  a  aa. aI_s   ' aamEmo-                      sm-P~jla
ha -aim  tI-elIp  *1    ~                 ~         'm alam.                            .a'i  I Ii-ac   -7..  '  a   sznsi                          rts'IV,,'3yI LA
-3.         q                                                                                                                                              12        Z m.ac  mysats9   h.saas
Im  a - aa maiama   sa   55maasa s    minaltm  a~--a aml      ~             hes-aa  *-i-    .  ,map  r                R'  Ms A-a   .'aMaaa
'ha. i mmall anI itlal  - asassai II ii  disap  is ma  isaaaasas  p  aasmac isa-am -   i.-.aatW  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
. m l p it    ii at  '   lasm ma    ls'ips sas    51  a lslss  Salacs    aimaa lsBs                                                            'as
ymalalss   a    - pail mp  .'aa adaa   l5a eai~ ala I Sp as     I   li* ass t  1m '5~~   aIm   ma  -sp n  at t  ia   ama.ma3  5.as...lt......sm
as m   a   c' -~ U l 7 ~ a a5   ma   ss m a aa      a -           ~            .'~    g  s a     a   s     at a s  a  l   y    al'    a y am a dm    n a ..
'1 m5   i  n Il i  5 II r ll sl las a -  aai at "   m ls s as          ~             5'       i  a n   .  ms   s. i  5l .   -a   as   a  -   i  Vrpil;s a        m t
ilamlmail a  pmamaala 7 asta.ss.l            .ZW s   l   sl4          sa                                                               aapIa             aa 'eifiaii
aa1apilsa    s--sat-lnana.piila  aa   sasal   tI"-pa       a    s.~m   aaa 5'ea-fAtsas   is  Ja.uiWa
ollol.,    "Ildow,miam                          Ijllsm-Ii  i..5e  a'5a,.....m -llm   - sLalmlimna!asasm
.-imodoll A.  d t--!                                       Ra.saa                   sI  llm    en-5ms   a,  is'Iil  .                a.am s.4aajbciiU
*malj!AL!aist
'l'm  "   ijas  s  ataimaiasla   sIo--a 5    a'5wol,      sd                          miamssssme,ss''    s                            as    emSa7 imW'l
as p5a ls'.m  m.ase'ss    m5e,-'5p--laJ am   asai-- - mse7sis.sas5sais'eolm  5--ma
- oq%    o,d mim la-aa  saiIsia  amaaaeds              -  saL5ma piasa                            saa.   tm   l. -siesi    i-a               aisft A. I  issam     mIl
slsm   ''a   aamil m55.is'sle,-l'sss.sasyaa m1ei .'.ast                                                                  . -am   mlaim   seA e  mamssm   s.sImmTass
-pagmJ.    5- ampi Ll .ama.*                     -L5ii5ma..                  le  1'.5 mA.,  a  asea   aa all-   sjI aolas 'a
'iSa ya.qeAl  yM.Sd   kp.megeaaiase    am    s   iedmm  mmaIl  s    i-  a    i  esma 5   Isa-lIsa    -'-I,  asb  alas isa-I
P"mlsma  -a      .'s  -.amm      P-shmi    miiacmp  asasaldsia Ills .saa'5    W'aaim    asm   ssam                                             -a'mm         ol,a- ala at VII  "al   11
aaasso.        elollm....   -      Too,. ...as.....i. .ma'             1     P.ama 1masaliaellid.saa                                    5-ssPm       a  J.ssg .-ma  se  im
rwi-ir   -pwoT:':e""                                5ii   a   pasal  asl  *Easslaa   ll Iaem  saam   s ImiI
aims-i ma ialsimiEma Pl aaiias m P       or5 J-akialses to.a' ns lm~                             i'115   freasa asm         - lmed.i  aia- al    s'mm   msaml
55   asa. a   aaiP id.a M555msllsaa    Llam =lmim    'illilsIals                          .(9p           'a- sa ."[W %maim   ssa.        s Sm  se   pat aS1   slam aai  sits              %
i5slsasipadmm 1is  W a5l   1s~in ieasaasl                                ~           d5  Spas toa  asismlsaa ai ai5P--  'l-       lai- s5-1  -'   5    I  5             -1
lolltoo~otwl  -4-   4   'atiss    lallais ma.  aM-1 pliaysmai  lal                                                        -mis W.,4 Ps  155'II  55te5a
as,mmyi  sv   iniia   a   iptama1mqV'lm    la  pc"                                                      lpa   aalmsa              51    nsialaS   Iai                        as
mmsaE Ia as      m        ylila  -  aaaasi-npmssi-liI1d    ta   seuiI ama)-ssa   lsIatal5 54 5



Pop 4 of 5
3COIINIC DUVEOPN    DATA
CN1P PEl CAPITA IN 1981 US1260  a/
CROSS DOtISTIC PIU1ICT IN 1982/83 b/                                            ALIU.L RATE OF CGVIOI (1- Conmtant Price.) S/
1955156-1959/60  1960/61-1964/65  1965/66-1969/70  1970/71-1974/75  1975/76-1979/(M
UO6 BIn.    2
CDP at Market Price.                170.74   100.0                     3.7                3.6               3.7              2.9               4.1
Crams Dostic Inveatmnt               41.99    24.6
Cram. National Saving                38.12    22.3
Currant Account RblasCe            -  3.87   - 2.3
OUTPUT. LABOR FIORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981
Valu  added (at factor cost)        Labor Force i        V.A. Par Worker
US  Bin.                            9 Ntl.     2         PSI    2 of N-tional Average
Agriculture                          51.7                  35.1        112.7      70.6      299         SO
Industry                             35.2                 23.9          31.6      12.9     1114       185
Services                             60.6                  41.0         40.3      16.5     1504       249
Total/Average                       147.5                 100.0        264.6   100.0        603       100
COVERNBEWT FINANCE
Cenaral Covernmnt a/                                 Central Covrent
Rs. Bin.            Z of GDP                    RD. Bln.             I of GDP
1982783     1982/83    1978/79-198283            1982=83     1982/H3    1970/79-1982/83
Current Receipts                      333.34      20.3            19.5                 175.61       10.7           10.5
Current Expenditures                  340.09      20.7            19.0                 188.59       11.5           10.8
Current Surplus/Deficit              -  6.75     - 0.4             0.5                - 12.98      - 0.8          - 0.4
Capital Expenditures f/               131.28       8.0             8.1                  95.13        5.8            5.7
External Assistant. (net) dj           19.30       1.2             1.0
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES             1970/71  1975/76  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  198D/81  1981/82  1982/83  February 1983  February 1984
(Rs Million out-tanding at and of period)
Mone  and quasi oney                  109.8    224.8    329.1    401.1    472.3    555.5    624.9   723.B           711.7           845.7
Rank Credit to Government (nct)        54.6    106.3    137.3    159.3   200.1    257.2   309.1    352.4            353.5           406.6
Rank Credit to Commercial Sector       64.6    156.2    212.2    255.3    310.1    363.5    430.5    504.5          487.7           576.4
(Percentage or Index Numbera)                              Apr-Feb 1982/83 Apr-rub 1983184
Mlony and Quaai     I as a 2
of GDP                               27.3     30.3      36.7     41.1     44.1      43.6     42.0     44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                     100.0    173.0    185.8    185.8    217.6    257.3    281.4    288.6          288.1               314.8
Annuel percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                   7.7     -1.1       5.2      -        17.1     18.2      9.4       2.6         2.3                 9.3
Bank Credit to Covernment (net)        15.0     22.7      16.3     16.0     25.6      28.5    20.2       14.0        21.0 s/             18.9 h/
Benk Credit to Comercial Sector        19.4     22.7      12.6     20.2      21.5     17.2     18.4      17.2        15.5 R/             17.9 h
The per capita GN? eatlstr  Ia at market prices. using World Bunk Atlas methodology. base period 1979-1981.
All other con'ersiona to dollar, in tchi  table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
h/ Quick Estimates. Central Statistical Organization.
c   Computed from trund line of CNP at factor coat caries. including one observatiou before first yer And one observation mlter last year of
listed period.
dl World Bank eatiates of net dixbursemnt  of conceseional aid and DRD.
e/ Transfere between Centre ad  States have been netted out.
fl All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
j/  Percentage chane from end-Mah 1982 to end-February 1983.
hi  Percentage change from end-Mrcb 1983 to und-February 1984.
1  Total Labor Force and purcentage breakdown from 1981 Census.  Excludes data for Amman.



A- S
fPaS  of 5
BALANCE OF PANUTI                       1980131   1991/62   i,iRA31/ 1963/31/           ISmUBU   ORTUS (Ans LS niaa19- 2/t3) 1
tUSS NA{n.)                                                                                                           U1S KIn. 
Zxport. of Gooad 1/                      9,504     8.519     &,001     9.466            Egineuring goods rl             90        12
mports of Goods g/                     -16,204   -15,500   -14,249   -14,412            Te                              455        6
Trade o lal1cs                         - 7.700  - 6.981  - 6.24F   - 5.9U4              C                               779        9
NFS (not)                                1.363       974       940       956            Clothing                        573        7
Leather end Leather Product.   430         6
Remource Balance                       - 6,335   - 6,007   - 5,3B0    5,090             Jute Nrufacturee                333        4
Iron arm                        330        5
lnterest Ineo_ (net) k/                    600       286   -   415   -   649            Cotton Tal es                   328        4
oNt Trannfers 1/                         2.771     2,319     1,949     1,790            0thgr                            66        1
Others                        3,649       46
Balance on Current Account             - 2.964   - 3,403   - 3.874  - 3,945
Official Loans A Grant                                                                  Total                         8.243      100
Cross Disburements                       2.651     2,570     3,086     3,441            STUN.L DVT, NARBH 31. 1913
Anortisation                           -   700   -   674   -   701   -   783
WS. billion
Tranctian with  MF (ntec)                1,035       690     1.9J0     1.295            Outetadig end Diaburs.d                   19.6
All Other tea s                        -   367   - 1.561        12       531            Undimburea                                11.1
Outstandin  inluding Undiebureed          30.7
Increase in Reserves (-f                   345     2,399   -   503   -   536
Cross Reserves (end year) p/             6.859     4.461     4,964     5,500            DOT SCrICE RATIt FO0  1992/63 J/ I/       10.1 per eant
Not Reserves (Nd year)  f                6.532     3.497     2.084     1.449
12RD/ LUIIDC. waH 31, 1934 jI
Fuel and Related materiels
USS million
isports (Petroleum) g/                   6.672     5,590     4.613     3.395                                                 URD    IDA
Outstanding and DiObured            1.826     7.924
Undisbured                          2.061     4,331
Outstandung including Undiehurmad   3.907    12,25S
RATE OF EXCIANCZ
June 1966 to mid-Deceber 1971          uS$1.00 - Re 7.50
Rs 1.00 - US$0.13333
;id-Dec_mber 1971 to end-June 1972 :  US1.00 - R  7.27927
Re 1.00 - u$00.137376
After end-June 1972                :  Floating Rate
Spot Rate snd-March 1983           :  Us$1.00 - Re 10.0301
Re 1.00 - uSSO.0997
Spot Beta end-March 1914               USS1.00 - Re 10.7181
Re 1.00 - USS0.0933
Estiated
1 Figures given cover All investment ince (net). Major payments aer interest on foregn loans nd charge  paid to Dff, nd mjor receipt. is
interest aes on foreign soaste.
1 fguroe  givn include workers rcttances but excluda offricl  grant esstanee whIsh le Included within officia  loans ad grats, end
nonresident depoaits which are included within all other ita.
*/ Exclud.  t uae of Der credit.
n/ Amortization and interet payonts on forein loans a  a prce ntae  of total current raceipta. -
;/  Includes  4eacege rate adjustments to the valuation of r-servs  and financig of ilanes nl rupe  trade.
p/ Excluding gold.
g/ Nat of crude petroleum sports.
r/ Including iron and stel.



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANW LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1984)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA ij     Undisbursed V
50 Loans/                                              2,164.0          -              -
93 Oredits fully disbursed                                 -        5,535.2            -
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                                   30.0          8.15
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development         -           18.0           0.03
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0          -            24.94
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                     25.0          -           11.19
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport               25.0          -            1.17
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development             -           30.0          8.45
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development             -           20.0           1.65
690-IN    1977      West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research                -          12.0           7.32
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0         -             2.62
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation             -           23.0          1.52
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development        -            8.0           1.34
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage              -          107.0         52.65
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agricultural
Extension & Research              -            8.0           4.93
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0          -            1.72
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power         105.0          -            3.60
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                  -          117.6         37.38
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                   -         200.0          30.11
806-IN    1978      Jamu-Kashmir Horticulture             -           14.0          9.91
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -           17.5          8.40
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                     -           16.0          4.86
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII              120.0          -           15.10
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                        -          150.0         43.85
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                -          196.0        141.11
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                      -          190.0          25.05
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -          38.0           5.28
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research        -           27.0         14.06
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -             25.0           2.94
871-IN    1979      National Cooperative Development
Corporation                        -           30.0           0.83
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0         -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              -          200.0         10.71
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                     -          129.0         38.32
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply              -          48.0           6.72
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II        -          175.0          4.45
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry         -           23.0          2.24
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II             -          210.0         42.74
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry            -           37.0          6.51
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                      -           20.0         16.07
981-IN    1980      Population II                         -          46.0          27.63



Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Apuroval        Purnose                        Dank         IDA V1     Undisbursed  /
1003-IN    1980     Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -           32.0         19.48
1011-IN    1980     Gujarat Irrigation II                 -          175.0         94.88
1012-IN    1980     Cashevnut                             -           22.0          16.11
1027-IN    1980     Singrauli Thermal II                  -          300.0        159.67
1028-IN    1980     Kerala Agricultural Extension         -           10.0          7.56
1033-IN    1980     Calcutta Urban Transport              -           56.0         17.76
1034-IN    1980     Karnataka Sericulture                 -           54.0         30.32
1046-IN    1980     Rajasthan Water Supply & Severage   -             80.0         49.09
1843-IN    1980     Industry DFC XIII                   1004.          -            5.37
1887-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                25.0          -           25.00
1053-IN    1980     Farakka Thermal Power                 -          225.0        113.52
1897-IN    1981     Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                  30.0          -            20.31
1072-IN    1981     Bibar Rural Roads                     -           35.0         14.38
1078-IN    1981     Mahanadi Barrages                     -          83.0          42.64
1082-IN    1981     Madras Urban Development II           -           42.0         19.49
1108-IN    1981     M.P. Medium Irrigation                -          140.0         85.73
1112-IN    1981     Telecommunications VIII               -         314.0          89.58
1116-IN    1981     Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -           54.0         37.68
1125-IN    1981     Hazira Fertiliz^r Project             -          400.0        117.86
1135-IN    1981     Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -           23.0         13.92
1137-IN    1981     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -           28.0         17.08
1138-IN    1981     M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -           37.0         28.05
1146-IN    1981     National Cooperative
Development Corp. II               -          125.0          70.25
1172-IN    1982     Korba Thermal Pover Project II        -         400.0         273.61
1177-IN    1982     Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -         220.0         154.99
2050-IN    1982     Tamil Nadu Nevaprint                100.0         -            18.15
1178-IN    1982     West Bengal Social Forestry           -           29.0-        19.92
1185-IN    1982     Kanpur Urban Development              -           25.0         15.13
2051-IN    1962     ICICI xIV                           150.0         -            57.70
2076-IN    1982     Ramagundam Thermal Power II         300.0         -           269.54
2095-IN    1982     ARDC IV                             190.0          -            0.43
1219-IN    1982     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -              6.0          4.69
2123-IN    1982     Refineries Rationalization          200.0          -           96.43
2165-IN    1982     Rural Electrification III           304.5          -          274.48
2186-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                   20.3         -            20.00
1269-IN    1982     Kallada Irrigation                    -          60.0          30.57
1280-IN    1983     Gujarat Water Supply                  -           72.0         60.11
1286-IN    1983     Jammu/Kashmir and
Raryana Social Forestry            -           33.0         24.97
1288-IN    1983     Chambal Madhya Pradesh                -           -
Irrigation II                      -           31.0         19.65
1289-IN    1983     Subernarekha Irrigation               -         127.0         105.46
2205-IN    1983     Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5          -          140.52
2210-IN    1983     Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                   200.0          -          197.04



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
USS million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Apuroval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA j       Undisbursed 2/
;4    1299-IN    1983       Railway. Modernization &
Maintenance II                      -          200.0         177.00
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development       139.3          -           133.71
a     1319-IN    1983       Haryana Irrigation II                 -          150.0         114.38
1332-IN    1983      U.P. Public Tubewells II              -          101.0          89.79
1356-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power           -          170.0         148.38
2278-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydra Power         156.4          -           156.01
1369-IN    1983      Calcutta Urban Development III        -          147.0         132.10
1383-IN    1983      Kaharashtra Water Utilization         -           32.0          26.95
2308-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization        22.7          -            22.64
2283-IN    1983      Central Power Transmission          250.7          -           250.07
2295-IN    1983      Himalayan Watershed Management       46.2          -            45.89
2329-IN    1983      Kadhys Pradesh Urban                 24.1          -            24.04
1397-IN    1984      Orissa Irrigation II                  -          105.0          83.20
1424-IN    1984      Rainfed Areas Watershed Dev.          -           31.0          29.37
1426-IN    1984      Population III                                    70.0          66.23
1432-IN    1984      Karnataka Social Forestry             -           27.0          25.57
2387-IN    1984      Nhava Sheva Port                    250.0                      249.38
2393-IN    1984      Dudhichua Coal                      151.0                      150.62
2403-IN    1984      Cambay Basin Petroleum              242.5                      241.90
2415-IN    1984      Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer           203.6                      203.09
1483-IN    1984      Upper Ganga Irrigation                           125.0         117.38
1496-IN    1984      Gujarat Medium Irrigatiou                        172.0         164.14
2417-IN    1984      Railways Electrification*           280.7                      280.70
2442-IN    1984      Farakka II Thermal Power*           300.8                      300.80
Total                                    6,526.3    12,268.3
of which has been repaid               1,350.8        173.0
Total now outstanding                    5,175.5    12,095.3
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8          -            -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3J        5,175.5    12,095.3
Total undisbuIsed (excluding *)          2,712.69    3,494.35
c
1/ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalent ; as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on September 30, 1984.
31 Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1984)
Amount (USS million)
Fiscal
Year                     Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.            1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.             0.8         -        0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -        1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.           0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3      13.1
1964            Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                 8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.             15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                        6.6         -        6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                            4.0        1.2       5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.        7.5        1.2       8.7
1981            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                 15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -       38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.            2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited              2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited               1.5        0.2       1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -       28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.             18.8         -      18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.             15.5         -       15.5
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.            8.1         -        8.1
1984             The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.        3.7        _        3.7
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         210.7       12.1    222.8
Less:   Sold                          53.0        3.4      56.4
Repaid                        34.0        -       34.0
Cancelled                     33.0        1,4     34.4
Nov Held                      90.7        7.3     98.0
a _=mm              mamma
Undisbursed                   44.1        -       44.1
mm           an       =Mm



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
WEST BENGAL MINOR IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUPPLEWENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the proiect
About one year.
(b) The asency which has prepared the proiect
The Government of West Bengal (GOWB).
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the proiect
April 11, 1983.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
September 10, 1984.
(e)  Date of completion of neQotiations
January 1985.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
June 1985.
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section III:    Special Conditions
GOWB would:
(a) provide appropriate staffing, facilities and services
and other resources required to carry out agricultural
extension services tuhroughout the districts under the
project (para. 38).
(b) locate and implement project works in accordance with
siting, planning and design criteria and construction
standards acceptable to IDA (para. 45).
(c) by June 30, 1985 establish Project Coordinating and
Accounting Units with the PCU headed by a qualified
and experienced Officer (para. 51).
(d) carry out a management study of the AED by not later
than September 30, 1986 (para. 52).
(e) maintain separate accounts for the construction and
Q&M activities (para. 52).
(f) AED would prepare an annual research and development
program and submit to IDA by July 1 each year
(para. 54).
(g) by December 31, 1985 prepare and submit to IDA for
review and cowment drafts of Design and O&H Manuals
(para. 56); and
(h) by December 31, 1986 furnish to IDA for review and
comment a proposal for establishing a watercharge
system modernized irrigated areas; and taking into
account IDA's comments, implement the new water
charge system by September 30, 1987 (para. 66).



Annex IV
Total        Non-
Eligible   Eligible
Components                 ICB          LCB          Other         Coots       Costs j   Total Cost I/
_ __________----_------------    (USS K)  -------------------------
A. Works
1. Deep Tubewells
a. High Capacity             -           15.1 (10.9)  1.0 (0.7)  16.1 (11.6)   6.1    22.2 (11.6)
b. Medium Capacity           -            3.2  (2.3)  0.3 (0.2)   3.5  (2.5)   1.0         4.5  (2.5)
*       c. Low Capacity              -             2.5  (1.8)  0.3 (0.2)   2.8  (2.0)   1.2         4.0  (2.0)
2.  River Lift                  -            3.0  (2.1)   -    -        3.0  (2.1)   1.4       4.4  (2.1)
3.  Shallow Tubewells           -             4.0  (2.9)  1.1 (0.8)   5.1  (3.7)   2.2         7.3  (3.7)
*    4.  Open Dug Wells               -            9.4  (6.4)  3.4 (2.4)  12.4  (8.8)   1.6    14.0  (8.8)
5.  Management Improvements
a. Buildirgs                 -            0.3  (0.2)   -             0.3  (0.2)   0.1       0.4  (0.2)
b. Other items               -            0.2  (0.2)  0.9 (0.9)   1.1  (1.1)    -           1.1  (1.1)
Saub Total                              37.3 (26.8)  7.0 (5.2)  44.3 (32.0)  13.6    57.9 (32.0)
B. Goods
7.  PVC Pipe, Fitting          13.1 (10.5)  1.5  (1.2)   -             14.6 (11.7)    -       14.6 (11.7)
8.  Pump Units & Ancillaries 10.3  (8.2)  5.2  (4.2)   -               15.5 (12.4)    -       15.5 (12.4)
9. Steel and RCC Pipe,
fittings, casings,
values and other
steel work                   -          19.4 (i4.5)   -           19.4 (14.5)    -       19.4 (14.5)
10. Equipment                    -            -           0.4 (0.4)   0.4  (0.4)    -          0.4  (0.4)
Sub Total                   23.4 (18.7) 26.1 (19.9)  0.4 (0.4)  49.9 (39.0)    -          49.9 (39.0)
C. Power SuDSiM
11. Works                        -          13.3  (9.5)  3.0 (2.1)  16.3 (11.6)    -          16.3 (11.6)
12. Materials & Equipment                   16.8 (12.0)   -    -    16.8 (12.0)    -          16.8 (12.0)
Sub rotal                               30.1 (21.5)  3.0 (2.1)  33.1 (23.6)    -         33.1 (23.6)
D.  Extension Services
13. Incremental staffing
costs                    _          _                 0.9 (0.9)   0.9  (0.9)    -         0.9  (0.9)
Total (A+B+C+D)        23.4 (18.7) 93.5 (68.2) 11.3 (8.6) 128.2 (95.5)   13.6  141.8 (95.5) S
_=ca   =          a==  c =  cs=  ee===e=c eec    ae   ==in=  eecen e
a/  Costs which are not eligible for disbursement include those for Engineering and
Administration and Land Acquisition.
b   Figures in parentheses are the amounts eligible tor financing under IDA.
c1 Excluding USA 3.5 M which is not allocated to specifiL works.



IBRD 18610
rew no heJ hDom prrWed by                                    as      ( v     arm
Tne kriIa Ians s1t1 editxj&wa
rrlr rr convnrwnc of Ihn. 
tr mc on and ic at exha frMe
ann in fncAW,tar IIs                N      E      P                          DARJEELING                   BHUTAN
amnVW Iftr"h"WN                            E      P      A      L
CrorrW5Don Trh d£rwnnai
usnd and M hounaww o n s l.                                                                           _
an DS mWrp do nro w%l an rih                                              I       IAI 
Pat? of Tr  VWor frank am VW                                                                 JALPAIGU
Itd""Not fi ncur Corpmralton.                                                                             R
anr judrenw on Me khl.Q status
ofono driorse    or amobc ot            ......                                           \        7
,nwat mppurpn't (wmcpanyno
sucti boundoms                                                          }  u        *    t |/    v
0uch bduifldWIS  /    H/    A  R,) -;.         -'o  ,8>Lt , KOCH-BIHAR(
:                                           IND A                    H     A                                                                     2
I N  D I A*.                                                                -         .       .
WEST BENGAL
MINOR  IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJECT LOCATION                                        DINAJPUR
PROJECT AREA                            MALDA
e       .STATF CAPITAt
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
- - - STATE HOUlNDARIES                                      eANGLADE:H
-      - -    IINTERNATIONAL HOUNUARIES                                               L   A   D
11S *\     F  MURSHIDABAD                                               24-
aIRBHUM                                      5
r  .1'                                   BBURDWAN
~~ss                     _ ,-N~~~J  A D I A     
P U R U LI A,J .; -
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                      '..j ¢t
BANKURA
8 /FAR OF                                               HOOGHLY   /                      |
>             \         i                                 t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HOWRA  @tot 
24 PARGANA 
</-Ut-~  MIDNAPORE             A./-  24                                                  N"
22'
O R  S    A                                                                          i
L0 Z        3 400     80  KILOMETERS                           /
0   10  20   30   4 50 50MILES                                                                          /& .-
8b'                                         ~~~ ~~~ ~~~80  ,-    o;        R.enafi                         * 
OCTOBER 1984






