CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1293 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIETE NATIONALE DE L'ELECTRICITE
ET DU GAZ
Dated July 8, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 8, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and
SOCIETE NATIONALE DE L'ELECTRICITE ET DU GAZ (hereinafter called
the Borrower).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the following modifications thereof (said General Con-
ditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
Section 9.02 is amended to read as follows:
"Section 9.02. Financial and Economic Data. The member
of the Bank which is the Borrower or the Guarantor shall fur-
nish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request with respect to financial and economic
conditions in its territory."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿* -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-
seven million five hundred thousand dollars ($57,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A,
B and D of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods, the carrying out of works or
services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿-4-
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and eighty-five hundredths per cent (8.85%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, administrative and financial practices.
Section 3.02. In the preparation of final design and the
supervision of works under the Project and in carrying out Part D
of the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering consultants
as and when needed and on specific assignments, whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.03. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall
employ qualified contractors upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿6-6
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions there-
to.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to re-
cord the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods, works and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c)
of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the goods, works and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, prop-
erty and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land,
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the con-
struction or installation (and operation) of the facilities in-
cluded in the Project.


﻿*                            -7-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. In implementing Ordonnance No. 71-74 dated
November 16, 1971 on socialist management of enterprises, the
Borrower shall manage its affairs, maintain its financial position,
plan its expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance
with sound engineering, administrative, financial and management
practices and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management assisted by qualified and competent staff.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all authorized rights including owner-
ship of assets, power, privileges, concessions and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain, or
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall operate and maintain its
plants, equipment and property, and from time to time make all
necessary renewals and repairs thereof, all in accordance with
sound engineering practices.


﻿-8                                       0
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.
(b) Without any limitation or restriction on the other pro-
visions of this Section, the Borrower shall, in implementing its
regulated accounting plan and the Ordonnance No. 71-74 on social-
ist management of enterprises, furnish to the Bank, not later than
November 30 in each year, or such other date as the Borrower and
the Bank shall agree, separate financing plans for the Borrower's
electricity and other activities approved by the Guarantor, indi-
cating how the Borrower plans, for the following two years to:
(A) achieve the annual return set forth in Section 5.04 of this
Agreement; (B) meet its projected capital expenditures for its
electricity activities; and (C) meet the financing gap, if any,
in investments for its gas and other activities.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited, (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such


﻿*                               -9-
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested and (C) state-
ments indicating separately the operating results from its elec-
tricity operations; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other in-
formation concerning the accounts and financial statements of the
Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 5.03. The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security for
any debt and undertakes not to grant any such lien provided, how-
ever, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps as shall
be necessary to provide sufficient revenues from its electricity
activities to yield, starting with fiscal year 1978, an annual
rate of return which shall be as agreed between the Bank and the
Borrower.
(b) Until the Borrower has achieved the annual rate of re-
turn referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower
shall ensure that its revenues from electricity operations produce
a surplus ratio as agreed between the Bank and the Borrower to the
average cost of its construction program for electricity.


﻿- 10 -                                      0
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall take all such action within
its power as shall be necessary to maintain a ratio of net revenues
from electricity operations during any fiscal year to the average
debt service requirements on loans allocated to electricity opera-
tions for the said fiscal year and previous year as agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall set prices and charges for its op-
erations other than the sale of electricity and gas at levels suf-
ficient to ensure that revenues from such other activities are not
less than their costs, including a reasonable allocation of over-
head and general charges.
Section 5.07. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower's surplus shall be initially applied to
meet requirements for electricity operations. For the purpose of
this Section, the term "surplus" means net income from electricity
operations less debt service requirements on loans allocated to
the electricity operations.
is


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date October 6, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VII
Addresses
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Socite Nationale de l'Electricite
et du Gaz
2, bd Salah Bouakouir
Alger
Algeria
Cable address:                     Telex:
EGALGERIE                          52898 SONEGDG
Alger


﻿-13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Maurice Bart
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SOCIETE NATIONALE DE L'ELECTRICITE
ET DU GAZ
By /s/ Abdenour Keramane
Authorized Representative


﻿-1i4 -                                        a
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Supply and in-            28,000,000     )
stallation of                           )    100% of foreign
transmission                             )   expenditures or
lines                                    )   100% of the ex-
)    factory price of
(2) Construction and          24,000,000     )    locally produced
equipping of sub-                       )    items
stations                                )
(3) Consultants' Ser-          1,500,000          100% of foreign
vices                                        expenditures
(4) Unallocated                4,000,000
TOTAL     57,500,000


﻿-15-
2.   For the purpose of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of a country other than
the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the terri-
tory of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan de-
creases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for ex-
penditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5. Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insuf-
ficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in
that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation


﻿cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿-17-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the transmission component of SONELGAZ's
investment program for electric power for the period 1976-1980 and
studies for the improvement of the Borrower's organization and its
development. It consists of the following:
Part A:
Procurement and installation of:
(1) about 1,40 km of 220 kV transmission lines;
(2) about 1,380 km of 90 and 60 kV transmission lines; and
(3) about 560 km of 30 kV transmission lines.
Part B:
Construction and equipping of:
(1) about 1,100 MVA of 220/60 kV substations; and
(2) about 3,125 MVA of 60/30 kV substations.
Part C:
Construction and equipping of a dispatch system comprising:
(1) one main dispatch center; and


﻿- 18-
(2) three district dispatch centers.
Part D:
Studies for the improvement of the Borrower's organization
and its development including:
(1) improvement and modernization of its organizational
structure and management methods;
(2) development and management in the gas sector; and
(3) improvement of the management information system and
development of computer applications.
The specific transmission lines and substations included in
Parts A and B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be determined in agreement between the Bank and
the Borrower.
*              * P                         e
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿-19-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
September 15, 1979                               1,390,000
March 15, 1980                                    1,455,000
September 15, 1980                               1,520,000
March 15, 1981                                   1,585,000
September 15, 1981                               1,655,000
March 15, 1982                                   1,730,000
September 15, 1982                               1,805,000
March 15, 1983                                   1,885,000
September 15, 1983                                1,970,000
March 15, 1984                                    2,055,000
September 15, 1984                               2,150,000
March 15, 1985                                    2,240,000
September 15, 1985                               2,340,000
March 15, 1986                                   2,445,000
September 15, 1986                               2,555,000
March 15, 1987                                    2,665,000
September 15, 1987                               2,785,000
March 15, 1988                                    2,910,000
September 15, 1988                               3,035,000
March 15, 1989                                    3,170,000
September 15, 1989                                3,310,000
March 15, 1990                                    3,460,000
September 15, 1990                                3,610,000
March 15, 1991                                    3,775,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                      Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                     1.75%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                      3.55%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                     6.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                     7.65%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                      8.85%


﻿-21-
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Contracts shall be let under procedures consistent with those
set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (herein-
after called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
0        1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or
the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Algeria may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for


﻿- 22-
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Algeria if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Algeria equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Algeria.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first com-
pared among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other
import taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar
taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the
lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids
shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of
this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest,
it shall be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported


﻿-23-
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the
group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a
result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest
evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. If prequalification is required,
*        the Borrower shall, before qualification is invited, inform the
Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and, where applicable, of their
eligibility for domestic preference under Part B.2 above and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalifica-
tion and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower
to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified,
and the Borrower shall make such additions to, deletions from or
modifications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
0


﻿- 24 -
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its Comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in suffi-
cient cime for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the recommen-
dations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalifications invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-


﻿-25-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


