CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1293 AL
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Second Power Project)
between
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 8, 1976


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 8, 1976, between THE DEMOCRATIC AND POP-
ULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Societ' Nationale de l'Electricitg et du Gaz (herein-
after called the Borrower) the Bank has agreed to make to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to fifty-seven
million five hundred thousand dollars ($57,500,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condi-
tion that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the
Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideratior of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Section 1.01
of the Loan Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements, as so modified, being hereinafter called
the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the seveml terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. In the event that there is reasonable cause
to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be inade-
quate to complete the Project, the Guarantor specifically undertakes
to take all steps as needed to make available to the Borrower such
funds as shall be required to complete the Project under terms and
conditions which shall be consistent with the provisions of Sec-
tions 5.04 and 5.05 of the Loan Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor undertakes that, except as
the Guarantor and the Bank shall otherwise agree, no lien shall
be created on any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as
security for any external debt, which will or might result in a
priority for the benefit of the creditor of such external debt
in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign exchange.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,. solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any administrative subdivision thereof
and of any entity owned or controlled by, or operating for the
account or benefit of, the Guarantor or of any such subdivision.
Section 3.02. Except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Guarantor shall take all steps necessary on
its part to ensure that the Borrower shall satisfy the requirements
of Section 5.05 of the Loan Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 3.03. Without any limitation or restriction upon
the obligations of the Guarantor under Section 2.01 of this
Agreement, and except as the Guarantor and the Bank shall other-
wise agree, the Guarantor shall take all measures within its power,
which may include, if required, measures with respect to tariffs,
to ensure that the Borrower shall achieve the rate of return and
the surplus ratio referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b), respec-
tively, of Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement. The Guarantor shall
also take any measures which may be required in order to ensure
that the Borrower's financial results referred to in Section 5.04
of the Loan Agreement shall not be adversely affected by the re-
sults of the Borrower's operations other than electricity.
Section 3.04. The Guarantor shall make all necessary arrange-
ments in order to enable the Borrower to collect promptly its
unpaid accounts for electricity supplied and in order to ensure
the prompt settlement of arrears between the Borrower and other
state enterprises and public departments or agencies.


﻿--6-
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Minist4re des Finances
Palais du Gouvernement
Alger
Cable address:
FINPLAN                  Telex:
Alger                         91034 Finplan
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wuI)


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR
REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
By /s/ Mahfoud Aoufi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Maurice Bart
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


