Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4166-JO
REPORT AND RECODMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCIION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt10.2 MILLION
TO THE
HASHEEMTE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
*                                     October 10, 1985
This document hass a resicted distibouton and way be wed by recipients only in the performance of
their oLch daie  Its owlmti; may oa dherwise be disoseRd without Wedd Bank auhorization.



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1984         July 1985
Currency Unit = Jordan Dinar (JD)
US$1.00       =       JD .384             JD .392
JDl.OO        --      US$2.60             US$2.55
Exchange rate used in the Appraisal Report JDI = US$2.50
GOVERNMENT OF JORDAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GVSS      -        General Vocational Secondary School
ICB       -        International Competitive Bidding
JIPA      -        Jordan Institute of Public Administration
LCB       -        Local Competitive Bidding
NOE       -        Ministry of Education
MOH       -        Ministry of Health
MOL       -        Ministry of Labor
NPITI     -        Nursing/Paramedical Integrated Training Institute
OSHI      -        Occupational Safety and Health Institute
PIU       -        Project Implementation Unit
PMU       -        Project Management Unit
TA        -        Technical Assistance
TTC       -        Trade Training Center
VTC       -        Vocational Training Corporation



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.
Beneficiaries:             The Vocational Training Corporation (VTC), the
Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Jordan Institute of
Public Administration (JIPA).
Amount:                    US$10.2 million equivalent.
Terms:                     15 years, including three years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project Description:       The project would help alleviate current and
projected shortages of skilled and semi-skilled
workers in the industrial and health sectors as well
as improve training programs for public and private
sector managers. The project includes: (i)
constructing, equipping and furnishing 4 trade
training centers, extensions to 2 existing trade
training centers, a new occupational safety and
health institute, and a nursing/paramedical
integrated training institute; (ii) equipping a
management training institute; (iii) providing
fellowships and expert-services for introducing new
disciplines, developing curriculum, establishing
training organization techniques as welL as
enhancing management training programs. The project
would strenghten Jordan's manpower development
system. It is expected to benefit about 2,000
trainees per year, mostly from urban and rural
low-income groups, by enhancing their opportunity
for employment. The project does not involve any
special risks.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost: 1/                                  Local     Foreign      Total
----(US$ million)          -
Training skilled workers (VTC)                       2.6        4.9         7.5
Training nurses, midwives and paramedics (MOH)   2.0            3.2         5.2
Training public and private sector
managers (JIPA)                                     0.1        0.6         0.7
Base cost                                  4.7         8.7        13.4
Physical contingencies                               0.5        0.9         1.4
Price increases                                      1.1        2.4         3.5
TOTAL COST                                 6          12.0       1iLl
Financing Plan:
Proposed World Bank Loan                              -        10.2        10.2
Government contribution                              6.3        1.8         8.1
TOTAL                                     6_1_       IZ.          1lB.
Estimated Disbursements:  FY   1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
(US$ million)
Annual                            0.1   0.4   1.0   2.4   2.9   1.8   1.1   0.5
Cumulative                        0.1   0.5   1.5   3.9   6.8   8.6   9.7  10.2
Staff Appraisal Report: No.5704-JO, dated September 24, 1985.
Map Number: IBRD 18945.
1/ Does not include direct taxes and duties from which the project is exempt.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN FOR A MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan of US$10.2 million equivalent to help
finance a Manpower Development Project.  The loan would be for 15 years,
including three years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I -  THE ECONOMY "
2.       A report entitled "Jordan Review of the Five-Year Plan" (No. 4129-JO,
dated May 1983) was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1983.
An economic mission visited the country in May/June 1983; its findings have
been included in the present text. 2/ Country data sheets are attached as
Annex 1.
Recent Economic Developments
3.       Conscious of the country's limited natural resources, its relatively
narrow productive base and the sensitiveness of the economy to changes in
its oil-rich regional environment, the Government has pursued liberal,
outward-looking policies in trade, labor migration and foreign exchange.
This has enabled Jordan to alleviate the effects of a very high natural
population growth rate (3.4 percent) through massive emigration stimulated by
high salaries in the neighboring countries and through rapid expansion of
domestic production fueled by an exceptionally high investment rate and
rapidly growing export demand. At present, a large part of Jordan's total
workforce is employed abroad. In addition to sizable workers' remittances,
Jordan has benefited from large inflows of grant aid from neighboring
countries as well as from a rapid increase in regional demand for its
exports. During the period 1976-82, the yearly inflow of workers' remittances
and grants reached on average close to two-thirds of Jordan's GDP. The
abundant supply of these resources and a favorable entrepreneurial climate
enabled Jordan to maintain both very high consumption and investment rates.
4.       As a result, the Jordanian economy expanded rapidly with an annual
average GDP growth rate of over 10 percent in real terms during the 1976-82
period; almost full employment was reached. The overall balance of payments
remained strong despite a large chronic deficit in merchandise trade.
1/ This section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's Report
for the Second Urban Development Project (P-4133-JO), dated July 29, 1985.
2/ References in the text which follows are to the East Bank of Jordan.



729S                                     - 2 -
Although exports of goods and non-factor services (primarily agricultural
products, manufactured goods, tourism and exports of the new commodities,
fertilizers and potash) grew at a rapid rate of about 16 percent in real terms
during 1976-82, its small base in relation to imports led to a continuous
deterioration of the resource gap. These trade deficits, however, were almost
fully covered by factor income and transfers from abroad.  Government-
guaranteed external borrowing remained therefore within reasonable limits and
borrowing on commercial terms was reduced to a modest level (para. 14).
5.       Beginning in 1982, however, the economic slowdown in the neighboring
countries has affected the Jordanian economy in many ways, leading to a
slowdown of domestic economic activity and a reduction in the inflow of
external transfers. The overall economic growth rate slowed to about
4.2 percent (in real terms) in 1983, still a satisfactory performance
considering the unfavGrable economic environment. Economic activity in 1984
furthSr slowed to an estimated growth rate of about 3 percent, and is expected
to remain at that level throughout 1985. The slowdown in economic activity
was due to a decrease in the growth of foreign aid by another 30 percent
between 1983 and 1985 and to slower growth in worker remittances and in
exports of manufactured goods and services to neighboring countries. The
effect of these factors was exacerbated by a marked decline in export prices
of raw and processed minerals. Imports also declined, in line with the
sizable reduction in public and private investments. As a result, the current
account deficit for 1983 showed only a slight increase to $390 million. It
was mainly covered by the proceeds of a $225 million Eurodollar loan
contracted in earLy 1983. Jordan also drew on its reserves, which remained,
however, equal to three months of imports. The decline in merchandise
imports, continuing in 1984, combined with an increase in exports of goods to
contribute to an improvement ir the balance of trade deficit, from nearly $2.4
billion in 1983 to about $2.0 billion in 1984. A slight reduction in official
transfers was more than offset by the decline in imports, and the current
account deficit improved to $229.3 million. Preliminary estimates for 1985
show imports increasing, but at a slower rate than exports, leading to a
further reduction in the current account deficit to about $190 million.
6.       With the decline in Government revenues from grants, public
investment has been reduced, and the Government has further intensified
its domestic resource mobilization efforts through cuts in subsidies and
improved collection of direct and indirect taxes (about 90 percent of
recurrent expenditures is covered by domestic revenues).
7.       The main concerns of monetary policy have been mobilizing savings and
controlling domestic liquidity. Private savings have improved, but public
savings have continued to be negative because of the high level of defense
expenditures. To promote domestic savings, greater discretion is being
allowed the Central Bank in adjusting interest rates and banking commissions.
As a result of increases in deposit rates in 1983, savings deposits rose
faster than the money supply. A parallel situation materialized in 1984
though both savings deposits and the money supply grew at slower rates in that
year. Together with a marked decline in inflation to 3.9 percent in 1984,
these increases have resulted in interest rates becoming substantially
positive again in real terms.



7 29S                                    -3-
Medium-Term Prospects
8.       Given the changed situation and outlook in the neighboring oil
producing countries, continuing GDP growth in the 9-11 percent range as
projected by the 1981-85 Plan would no longer appear feasible in the medium
term; a rate in the neighborhood of 5 percent per annum in real terms appears
more likely during the next Plan (1986-90). This projection assumes a
reduction in the exceptionally high level of investments achieved during the
early 1980s, which was mainly due to implementation of a number of major new
projects such as potash, fertilizer and a refinery, now at initial stages of
production. While the new, major natural resource-based industries have
provided some new employment opportunities in the short term, the economic
slowdown is likely to change the manpower situation in Jordan from one of
selective shortages to one of general excess supply requiring finding
employment for a rapidly increasing domestic workforce (para. 12).
9.       The industrial sector (including mining, manufacturing and
construction) is expected to lead the growth of GDP and exports, with the new
industries contributing more than one third towards incremental GDP during
1986-90. Together with an expansion of phosphate mining and cement
production, total industrial output would grow at an annual rate of about
7.5 percent per annum for the period 1986-90. Since the rapid expansion of
infrastructure and private housing during the boom years of the 1970s and
early 1980s has slowed down substantially, the construction industry is likely
to grow at a substantially lower rate (3 percent) during 1986-90. Thus,
industrial growth during the next plan period will have to rely increasingly
on development of more small and medium-scale higher technology manufacturing,
largely for exports. The projected 7.5 percent for industrial growth assumes
that adjustment of the industrial sector in this direction will be achieved,
inter alia through changes in protection policies and improvements in export
incentives.
10.      Curtailment in growth of public expenditures and the slowdown in
domestic and foreign demand for banking and transportation services are
expected to slow down growth of services to an average annual rate of a little
over 3 percent per annum for 1986-90. In particular, it is expected that the
transportation sector and the hotel industry, which at present are facing
large surpLus capacity, will undergo a period of consolidation. In the trade
sector, efficiency gains from modernization would likely be offset by
increased pressure from higher unemployment to expand the less efficient
informal sector of trade. In contrast to the expected slow growth performance
of traditional private services, the prospects are Eavorable to exploit
Jordan's potential in skilled labor and meet the demand for special services
in areas such as consulting, contracting, and maintenance. Agriculture is
projected to continue to grow by about 5 percent per annum. Overall, the
sectoral growth rates would enable Jordan to maintain a GDP growth rate of
about 5 percent per annum throughout the 1980s.
11.      On the external balance side, the projections assume that exports of
goods and non-factor services would grow by an average rate of about 8 percent
per annum in real terms for 1985-90. Exports from the output of previous and



729S                                     -4-
new industrial, natural resource-based projects to the world market would make
the largest contribution to this growth performance. The export projections
for the later 1980s assume that adequate measures are taken to develop
Jordan's manufacturing exports. The external balance projections assume that
imports would increase less rapidly because of the slow overall economic
growth rate and the expected sizable reduction in the level of investments
after completion of the major industrial projects. Even though merchandise
exports are projected to approach a high rate of increase while imports would
grow at a significantly lower rate, the trade deficit could remain large at
about $1.9 billion in 1985. In relation to GDP, however, the resource gap is
expected to show a further decline from about 51 percent in 1984 to about 38
percent in 1987. Unlike the past, net workers' remittances and foreign
grants, which are likely to decline, may not be sufficient to meet the growing
trade deficit. Jordan therefore would have to rely more on external borrowing
(para. 15). In order to maintain its prudent build-up of exterual debt,
Jordan will need to combine external borrowing with increased efforts to
mobilize domestic resources, particularly in the public sector.
Social Issues
12.      Due to the substantial migration of Jordanian workers to neighboring
countries and the rapid economic growth, the labor market situation has been
characterized until recently by selective manpower shortages. However,
according to recent manpower projections, supply of labor in Jordan in the   -
medium term is likely to show selective surpluses, particularly throughout
certain categories of skilled professionals. In 1983, it is estimated that
312,000 Jordanians were working abroad compared to a total domestic employment
of about 570,000. Domestic employment includes at present a relatively large
number of foreigr. workers currently estimated at about 130,000, half of whom
are unskilled. A comprehensive manpower and training plan as well as
improvements in vocational training are needed to help ensure that the
education and training system is geared to meet both domestic and external
demands for manpower.
13.      The Government has emphasized social issues in the current Five-Year
Plan (1981-85). Although the social indicators are relatively favorable in
most sectors, social services are unevenly distributed across income groups
and between urban and rural areas. Housing remains a problem despite the boom
in 1978-80, mainly because housing costs have far exceeded the means of the
lower income groups.
External Assistance
14.      With the large, chronic trade deficit offset by inflows of
remittances and foreign transfers, the current account of the balance of
payments was on average in equilibrium in the period 1975-81. Net workers'
remittances increased from about $160 million in 1975 to about $900 million in
1983 and 1984. Following the Baghdad Arab Summit Conference in November 1978,
which pledged assistance of about $1.2 billion per vear over a 10-year period,
net foreign grant aid rose from $400-500 million in 1977-78 to about
$1.3 billion in 1980 and 1981; it declined to some $0.8 billion in 1983 and to
$0.7 billion in 1984.  In 1985 it is expected to fall to $0.6 billion.  This



729S                                     -5-
decline was the main reason for the current account deficits of $390 million
in 1983, and $230 million in 1984, both of which were financed largely by
external borrowing and partly by drawing on reserves. The external public
debt outstanding and disbursed reached $2.2 billion at the end of 1984 (about
52 percent of GNP). External debt service payments amounted to $319 million
in 1984 or 9.6 percent of total exports of goods and services.
15.      Jordan's impressive growth, pragmatic economic and social policies
and efficient economic management have helped to attract large amounts of
foreign assistance. The grant component of this foreign assistance is
projected to decline gradually in real terms over the next few years. The
projections on that basis indicate a need for average gross external borrowing
of about $0.9 billion over the 1985-1990 period, mostly in later years. While
bilateral and multilateral sources can be expected to provide the bulk of
external resources, Jordan is likely to resort increasingly to the financial
markets, and this would result in a hardening of loan terms. On these
assumptions, debt service as a percentage of exports of goods and services is
projected to reach 10.0 percent by 1990. Given this outlook and the country's
record of prudent management, Jordan remains creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS I'
16.      Jordan has received 19 Bank loans totalling $467.3 million and 15 IDA
credits totalling $86.1 million (net of cancellations), of which all the
credits and two loans have been fully disbursed. Project implementation and
disbursement performance have been generally satisfactory. In recent years,
disbursements have amounted to about 50-60 percent of appraisal estimates.
IFC has made investments in Jordan with total commitments of $94.8 million.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1985.
17.      Under its last two development plans, Jordan has aimed at
restructuring its economy to achieve a wider manufacturing base, to reduce its
dependence on external grants, and to spread the benefits of development among
different regions. The Bank's strategy has been tailored to support those
objectives and in particular is designed to help the Government: (a) to
diversify the country's economic base and promote exports; (b) to alleviate
manpower and infrastructure constraints in the productive sectors; and (c) to
encourage more balanced growth and distribution of social services among
regions and income groups, with particular emphasis on low-income groups.
18.      Within this broad framework, past lending has emphasized support for
capital infrastructure and manpower development. Since 1962, Bank Group
lending has focussed on water supply and sewerage, power and energy
development, education and urban and municipal development. The Bank Group
has also lent for irrigation, agricultural and industrial credit,
transportation, and tourism, and recently became involved in the health sector
with a loan for a Primary Health Care Project. In addition, the Bank Group
1/ This section is substantially the same as the coIresponding part of the
President's Report for the CVDB II Project (P-4133-JO), dated July 29,
1985.



729S                                    - 6 -
has financed technical assistance for developing and implementing a plan for
expanding phosphate rock mining. An engineering credit was made in FY75 to
help prepare a large project for potash production from the Dead Sea via solar
evaporation, for which a loan was approved in September 1978. These projects
have been designed with an emphasis on institution building to assist the
agencies involved to develop their capabilities to plan, prepare, and
implement projects on their own. In addition to the proposed manpower
development project, future lending would include projects for mining,
transportation, water supply and sewerage, urban development, power and energy
development, and industry. IFC has provided loans and equity contributions
for a major fertilizer project and for projects in the construction materials
subsector. It has also assisted the capital market and leasing ventures.
19.      The Bank has recently helped the Government to review the energy,
water supply, health, urban and education/training sectors, and the Bank's
economic and sector work will continue to focus on strengthening the
macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program. The Bank's economic
work program aims to deepen and broaden the well-established policy dialogue
with the Government in priority areas: (i) development planning, with a focus
on resource mobiLization and allocation; (ii) industrial and trade policies,
including technology transfer and export strategy/promotion and industrial
subsector studies; (iii) regionial development and equity and efficiency of
government revenues and social expenditures; and (iv) manpower development.
These subjects are crucial because the substantially tighter balance of
payments situation expected for the rest of the decade calls for increased
efforts to step up domestic resource mobilization, to stimulate manufactured
exports and to optimize resource allocation, while making particular efforts
to reduce rural and urban poverty.
20.      At the end of 1983, the actual Bank Group share in Jordan's total
external public debt was estimated at 12 percent, and its share in debt
service was 5 percent. In 1985, the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding
and in debt service are expected to be about 13 and 8.5 percent respectively.
PART III - THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
Background
21.      Population and labor force in Jordan are growing at a rapid rate.
The total labor force has increased at about 3.5 percent per v-c during the
1960s and early 1970s, and about 6 percent per year since 19i5.  This rapid
growth results partly from the continuing movement of working-age population
from the West Bank to the East Bank. The bulk of it, however, arises from the
high rate of natural population increase in the East Bank. Rapid growth of
population, particularly in the youngest age groups (more than half of the
population is less than 15 years old) has strained and will continue to strain
the Government's capacity to provide education and training to the expanding
school-age population, and job opportunity to those entering the labor force.
22.      The rapid labor-force growth at home and the sharply reduced
opportunities for employment abroad suggest that by the end of this decade the
manpower situation in Jordan will shift from one of shortages in many skills



729S                                    -7-
to one of shortages in selected skills and large surpluses in white collar
workers. The most pronounced shortages would be in skilled and semi-skilled
manual workers and the largest surpluses would be in office workers and some
professional categories (certain types of scientists, teachers and others with
liberal arts background). Current shortages in managerial skills are expected
to persist throughout the decade. Substantial pressure on wages, exercised by
increasing excess labor, is likeLv to prompt more labor intensive production
patterns and higher labor demand. Nevertheless, the projected magnitude of
the surpluses is such that early policy and institutional changes are needed
over time to alleviate imbalances. The Bank has assisted the Government with
a manpower subsector analysis which identifies economy-wide measures to deal
with emerging manpower problems. A comprehensive policy approach has emerged
which would involve measures to encourage labor intensive industries, to
coordinate migration, to improve manpower data compilation and analysis, to
better align the education and training system with the labor market
requirements and to expand management and vocational training. The Bank has
also assisted the Government with a survey of the management and vocational
training institutions, which has recommended the following measures:
(i) establishing . labor market information system; (ii) diversifying
vocational training disciplines, expanding and improving vocational training;
(iii) expanding and improving short duration "limited skill" vocational
training by the Vocational Training Corporation (VTC); and (iv) strengthening
the Occupational Safety and Health Institute (OSHI) and the Jordan Institute
of Publ>- Administration (JIPA). The proposed project was designed in light
of these recommendations.
Recent Progress in Education and Training
23.      In view of Jordan's scarce mineral, land and water resources,
successive Governments have regarded the country's skilled labor force as its
major productive asset. Accordingly, Jordan's education and training sector
has made impressive strides over the last ten years. The Government has
placed particular emphasis on educational development as witnessed by the
striking progress achieved since 1975. Enrollments have increased by some
30 percent at the primary level, 80 percent at the preparatory level and well
over 100 percent at the secondary level with female participation reaching
48 percent, 46 percent and 47 percent of total, respectively. The Government
has also continued its efforts to diversify education and to link it with
developmental needs through the establishment of general vocational secondary
schools (GVSS) and the development of prevocational instruction courses for
students pursuing general studies at preparatory and secondary Levels.
24.      Progress on vocational training, outside the Ministry of Education
formal school system, has also been impressire. This type of training is
provided mainly by VTC, a corporation established in 1976. Enrollments in
VTC's apprenticeship program increased from some 1,600 in 1981/82 to 5,600 in
1984 while those in short, limited-skill courses remained practically constant
(some 850 per annum) during the same period. In accordance with availability
of VTC facilities and staff as well as employer needs, enrollments in
upgrading courses fluctuated from some 350 in 1980 to around 70 in 1982, and
200 in 1984. The output of the longer apprenticeship courses has followed the
enrollment trend reaching some 1,600 in 1984 as against 500 in 1980.  Output



729S                                    - 8 -
of the other courses is 85 - 90 percent of the initial enrollments. In
addition to these programs, there is a vigorous effort in job-oriented
training provided by the private sector. There are, for example, 20 private
community colleges that offer post-secondary courses, principally in
commercial specializations. Despite this impressive effort there remain some
key problems in the education and training sector. Most pressing among them
are: (i) the need for continuing qualitative improvements; (ii) the large
shortage in adequate physical facilities; and (iii) the need for a closer
alignment of the education and training system with the job market. The
Government is carrying out projects, including a labor market information
system, that addresses these problems.
Vocational Training by VTC
25.      VTC is the most important vocational training source in Jordan, and
it will continue to play a key role in remedying the labor market imbalances.
It offers (a) three-year apprenticeship programs after nine years of basic
education leading to a skilled worker certificate. On average, the first and
second-year curriculum includes 6 weekly hours of general subjects (Arabic,
English, religion and science), 36 hours of practical work (50 percent in the
center and 50 percent in industry) and 5 hours' related theory; the program
starts with three months of multi-discipline training and one month of
training in the selected specialization; (b) short (three to six months)
training courses in a variety of topics at the "limited skill" worker level;
(c) upgrading courses; and (d) training (60 hours) and upgrading (20-30 hours)
courses for instructors and supervisors in teac;iring methods and techniques.
VTC provides this training in 8 trade training centers (TTC) (a ninth one is
now under construction in the North Jordan Valley), 10 centers attached to
large industries and a number of MOE facilities (technical schools and
training centers) in the afternoons. Most of the VTC activities are in the
industrial sector (disciplines such as mechanical skills, welding, casting,
heating, refrigeration and instrumentation) with male trainees. Only one
center (Marka) offers secretarial and dressmaking courses to female trainees.
Five additional training facilities for females are about to begin
operations. A hotel and catering course is offered in the Wadi Seir Center
and an agricultural program has been introduced this year in the Middle Ghor
center. The VTC is also responsible for increasing workforce productivity by
lowering the incidence of occupational accidents and injuries. VTC's
Occupational Safety and Health Institute offers training seminars and short
courses for managers, safety officers and trainers; it also provides
consulting services to enterprises.
Health Technician Training
26.      Health sector problems are analyzed in the report entitled "World
Bank Health Sector Review" (Report No. 4748-JO). Both the Bank's manpower
review and the health sector review have indicated that there is an ample
supply of physicians in Jordan but a shortage of female nurses and midwives,
and health technicians. In addition, more than one-third of the current
registered nurses are foreigners, whose effectiveness is limited by language
difficulties. Hence, there is an urgent need to train additional personnel
for these occupations. The MOIH has drawn up a set of manpower targets up to
1995 (3,600 nurses, 1,000 midwives. and 5.500 health technicians) and a plan
of actioti for meeting these targets. This plan of action includes the



729S                                    - 9 -
expansion of the training system. The present training facilities for nurses
include two nursing schools attached to universities; the Royal Medical
Services (Princess Muna) Nursing School; and three nursing colleges under the
Ministry of Health (MOH). Practical nurses are trained in 11 facilities
attached to hospitals. Midwives are trained only in the MOH's nursing
colleges. Paramedical technicians are trained in special schools in Amman
(housed in inadequate buildings) and in Irbid (housed in provisional, rented
buildings). Of the three MOH nursing colleges, one is well-established and
has been functioning since 1953 in Amman while the other two, one each in
Irbid and Zarka, were established in 1984 and have been operating in
provisional buildings. A Nursing/Paramedical Integrated Training Institute
(NPITI) in Irbid is included in the Fourth Education Project now underway and
a second one in Zarka is included in the proposed project in response to the
health sector review recommendations. The two NPITIs would absorb the
enrollments of the existing institutions.
27.      The nursing training programs are at the post-secondary level and
consist of 4 academic years at the universities (leading to a bachelor degree)
and 39 months at the MOH colleges (leading to a diploma). The midwifery
programs are for 27 months. A post-nursing course (1 year) in midwifery
allows registered nurses to specialize also as midwives. A committee,
composed of the principals of the nursing institutions, coordinates curriculum
development. The health technicians (paramedical) programs are for 3 academic
years for physiotherapists and 2 years for all other specializations (such as
laboratory technology, radiology and dental technology). At present, combined
enrollments in nursing and midwifery courses are about 900 and the output
about 130 and 25, respectively. The enrollments in health technician courses
are about 350 and the output about 150.
Public Administration and Management Training
28.      Manpower projections by the Ministry of Planning confirmed by the
Bank's manpower sector review indicate that the present deficit in the
availability of trained and experienced managers is expected to prevail
throughout the decade. As in the past, the shortages are likely to affect the
public sector more than the private sector, because of the less flexible
compensation mechanisms of the former. Improvement and expansion of this type
of training is urgently needed in order to meet the needs of a growing economy
that is also becoming more sophisticated. Training for administration and
management is carried out by the Jordan Institute of Public Administration
(JIPA), the Jordan Institute of Management (JIM) and the universities. A
number of other institutions such as the Royal Scientific Society and the
Institute of Banking Studies provide special-purpose training courses. JIPA
courses of 1-9 week duration are intended principally for public sector
personnel but courses are also attended by private sector employees. JIM
offers in-service courses for the middle management of the private
manufacturing enterprises; the courses are also open to participants from the
mixed sector enterprises.
Bank's Role in Education and Training
29.      The Bank has extended two credits ($5.4 million in 1972 and
$6 million in 1975) and four loans ($19 million in 1979, $25 million in 1981,



729S                                    - 10 -
$18.8 million in 1983 and $40 million in 1984) for education projects. The
first three projects are completed. The implementation of the remaining
projects is satisfactory. These projects were designed to assist Jordan in
improving the quality of education, providing basic education to all relevant
age groups, establishing appropriate manpower training and increasing
vocational training opportunities for men and women. Institution building has
been a prominent feature of the Bank's operations. The planning and project
implementation capabilities of the MOE were vastly expanded, supported in part
by technicai assistance components of Bank-Group projects, and the Ministry is
now able to manage all of its school construction programs with minimum
external assistance- The above projects have also assisted the establishment
and refinement of the comprehensive secondary school curriculum, and the
expansion and alignment of technical/vocational programs with the labor
market. These projects have introduced modern evaluation systems for the
various schools and institutions. The third project was particularly useful
in improving the planning and management capability of the MOE by providing a
research and evaluation mechanism and a computerized management information
system to be used as tools for planning and modern management.
Experience With Past Lending
30.      The Project Performance Audit Report (No. 2494, Sec. M79-336) on the
first education project noted the institutional impact of the project in many
areas, including educational planning, and concluded that the project was
justified and worthwhile. The recommendations of the report have been
implemented, including improved procurement procedures, better coordination of
technical assistance, more effective scheduling of required inputs and timing
of implementation, and more extended training in management and adminis-
tration. The Project Completion Report on the second education project (PCR
No. 4261) has concluded that the project was contributing to the expansion of
vocational and technical education in Jordan at a time when demand for skilled
labor was increasing. It has also noted that the physical components were
well executed, the quality of construction and equipment was very good, and
that all major technical assistance components were fully implemented. The
completion report on the third education project is under preparation. The
completion mission has reported that the objectives of the project have been
achieved and the project has substantially contributed to quality improveme.ats
in education, diversification and orientation towards economic needs. It has
recommended that in designing technical assistance under future projects,
fellowships should be emphasized, and insofar as possible, consultants should
have Arabic language capability and their close collaboration with
counterparts should be ensured. It has also recommended with respect to
physical implementation, that the project managers should ensure early legal
clearance of sites and coordinate the construction plans with equipment and
furniture layouts. These recommendations have been taken into account in the
design of the proposed project.
PART 'V - THE PROJECT
31.      The project was identified in July 1984 as a follow-up to the Bank's
reviews of the manpower sector, the vocational training system and the health
sector. It was preappraised in September 1984 and appraised in January/
February 1985. At the Government's request negotiations were carried out



729S                                    - 11 -
through correspondence during September 1985. A Staff Appraisal Report (No.
5704-JO), dated September 24, 1985, is being distributed separately. The main
features of the proposed loan and project are outlined in the Loan and Project
Summary and in Annex III. A map of the project area is attached.
Project Objectives and Description
32.      The project would assist the Government in alleviating the skilled
and semi-skilled manpower shortages in the industrial and health sectors, and
improving management training at all levels. It includes: (i) constructing,
equipping and furnishing four Trade Training Centers (TTC), extensions to 2
such centers, an Occupational Safety and Health Institute (OSHI) and a
Nursing/Paramedical Integrated Training Institute (NPITI); (ii) equipping the
Jordan Institute of Public Administration (JIPA); (iii) providing
expert-services and fellowships to enable VTC to introduce new training
disciplines, MOH to develop curriculum and training organization techniques,
and JIPA to enhance its management training programs.
Trade Training Centers (TTC)
33.      The proposed TTC (four new and two extensions) would help expand the
training and upgrading of skilled and semi-skilled labor. VTC would extend
the training capacity in existing trades and introduce new specializations
(instrumentation, control systems, office machine maintenance, and training of
operators of earth moving and other heavy equipment). Five of the project TTC
would offer apprenticeship training programs three years after completing
grade 9, short training (3-6 months) and upgrading courses as described in
para. 25. The sixth TTC would offer only short courses for operators of earth
moving and other heavy equipment and for commercial-vehicle drivers. The
locations of project institutions were selected carefully to ensure
distribution of the training capacity throughout the country (see map). The
output of the project TTC during the 1986-90 period would be in the order of
3,400 industrial workers or some 20 percent of the total VTC output. This,
together with the projected output of the -ocational education schools of the
MOE would contribute to meeting the anticipated blue collar worker shortages.
VTC operates a flexible training system that has direct links with industry.
Hence, it would not have difficulty in adjusting to future labor market
developments.
34.      A total of 11 general subject teachers and 117 technical teachers and
instructors would be required to operate the project institutions. General
subject teachers are readily available. The technical teachers and
instructors would be recruited from the technical teacher training program at
the Amman Polytechnic and the pool of experienced craftsmen. A 60-hour
methodology program in VTC's Wadi Seir instructor training center would
enhance the teaching abilities of the new recruits. About 9 man-months of
expert services and 6 man-months of fellowships would be needed to help VTC
introduce the new specializations in instrumentation, control systems and
office machine repairs.
35.      VTC also operates the Occupational Safety and Health Institute
(OSHI). The project would include a building, furniture and equipment for the
OSHI at Marka. OSHI was created in 1982 and started functioning in 1983 on
the premises of the Wadi Seir training center with the purpose of contributing



729S                                    - 12 -
to reducing occupational accidents in industry through advice to enterprises,
seminars and training of safety officers and trainers (about 100 people have
been trained so far and advice has been given to 125 enterprises). The
Government attaches high importance to the objectives of this component, which
forms an integral part of VTC's development program.
Vocational Training Corporation (VTC)
36.      VTC would implement the TTC and OSHI components.  VTC is governed by
a 12-member Board of Directors, 6 of which represent the private sector. The
Minister of Labor is the ex-officio chairman of the Board. Day-to-day
operations are managed by a Director-General with the assistance of an
administrative and financial manager, and a technical manager.   VTC employs
394 staff, 61 of whom are in administration, 258 in full-time teaching and
supervisory posts (7 training coordinators, 25 training officers, 186
instructors and 40 teachers) and 75 are supporting staff. In addition, it
makes use of part-time teachers and instructors mainly borrowed from
industry. In 1984, VTC operated with a budget of about 2.5 million Jordanian
Dinars. Recurrent costs represented about forty percent of total
expenditure- About half of VTC's resources came from Government grants, about
one-third from loans, and the rest from foreign aid and its own revenues. On
the Government's recommendation, the Parliament is considering a draft law
establishing a training levy (1 percent of payroll) which would augment VTC's
budget resources. VTC's objectives as stated in its 1986-90 program are:
(a) to t-ain, during the Plan period, some 20,000 skilled and semi-skilled
workers chrough its apprenticeship, short training and upgrading courses to
meet anticipated manpower demands; (b) to extend vocational training programs
to include new specializations and cover additional geographic areas; and (c)
to intensify its occupational safety and health program. In addition to
quantitative targets, the VTC envisages during the above period: (a) to
improve the quality of training through upgrading its technical and managerial
staff and developing teaching aids and materials; (b) to extend the trade
standardization process to include new trades (now only the auto-mechanics
trade is covered); and Cc) to promote integration of the education and
training systems.
Nursing/Paramedical Integrated Training Institute (NPITI)
37.      To alleviate the shortage of nurses, midwives and health technicians,
to replace foreign workers in these areas and to improve the quality of health
services, the project would construct, furnish, and equip a NPITI in Zarka of
the same structure and capacity as the one being built in Irbid under the
Fourth Education Project. Total enrollments in the new NPITI would be
700 (about 50 percent female) and the anticipated output of 260 (80 nurses,
25 midwives and 155 health technicians) would contribute to meeting the
Government targets. The training programs would emphasize practical
applications (60 percent of total instruction), which would be carried out
mainly in the nearby hospital. Eight specializations would be offered for
health technicians--pharmacology, radiology, physiotheraphy, laboratory
technology, anaesthesiology, dental technoLogy, sanitation and medical
records/statistics.



729S                                    - 13 -
38.      Based on a 15:1 student/full-time teacher ratio for the nursing and
midwifery courses, 24 staff would be required for these programs. Of these, 6
are already working in the provisional facilities and an additional 6 would be
appointed in 1986. For the rest, the MOH will continue to draw its trainers
from experienced hospital staff who in turn are replaced by newly recruited
college or university graduates. In addition, special short courses (1-3
months) for trainers are organized regularly by the "Center for Educational
Development for Health Personnel" affiliated with the Jordan University and
established with WHO assistance. Part-time staff are used for specialized
disciplines in the nursing and midwifery programs. For the health technicians
programs, all teaching staff work on part-time basis; there are 16 permanent
supervisors already appointed (working at the Amman college). To assist the
institute in instructor training, the detailed development and application of
new disciplines within the existing programs, upgrading staff quality and
improving management, the technical assistance component of the project would
provide 27 staff months of expert services and 38 staff months of
fellowships. The MOH has submitted to the Bank a preliminary plan for
fellowships and expert services. The details of the plan, including terms of
reference and a time schedule for recruiting experts and implementing
fellowship programs, would be submitted by end November 1985. The Government
has agreed to monitor the job placement and performance of all NPITI graduates
through a tracer system that is being developed.
Assistance to the Jordan Institute of Public Administration (JIPA)
39.      The Bank's manpower sector review has indicated that serious
shortages of experienced managers would persist throughout the 1980s. In the
past, the public sector has had problems in recruiting and retaining
managers. The Government is currently carrying out reforms in the
administration with the help of a Royal Commission on Public Administrative
Development. There is a sharper focus on managerial functions and management
training in this period of reform, and the Royal Commission has, among other
measures, recommended that the Government expand public management training.
JIPA would, of course, play a key role in implementing the recommendations of
this commission. In addition to contributions by JIPA, the Jordan Institute
of Management and the University of Jordan cover the management training needs
of the private sector. While JIPA operates in an adequate, rented building,
its equipment and other facilities would need upgrading. The project would
provide audiovisual and other equipment and library books for JIPA to enable
it to expand and improve its management training programs. The project would
also provide fellowships for training trainers, and expert services in
designing teaching materials, teaching methodology and evaluation of
training.
40.      JIPA is an autonomous public entity established in 1968 with Ford
Foundation assistance to develop administration in both public and private
institutions. Et is administered by a Board of Directors chaired by the
President of the Civil Service Commission. Other Board Members are from
universities, chambers of commerce and industry and labor unions. The
permanent staff of the institute includes 25 higher level professionals, 10 of
whom are trainers. The 1985 budget of JIPA is about JD 200,000. Its
resources consist of Government grants and revenues derived from its services
to the private sector. The courses for the private sector, designed with the
advice of the clients, have been successful in attracting a large number of
participants.



729S                                     - 14-
Project Management and Status of Preparation
41.      The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established in VTC for the
implementation of the vocational training component of the Fourth Education
Project (currently under implementation) would also be responsible for the
implementation of the VTC component of this project. The Unit is headed by a
project engineer and also includes an architect and a building technician. An
accountant from the VTC Accounting Department, experienced in Bank procedures,
would be assigned to the PIU for project accounting. The VTC Technical
Department would be responsible for the control of design, procurement
operations, and supervision of construction. The MOH has created a Project
Management Unit (PMU) to oversee implementation of all projects. The unit
comprises a project director, two architects, a civil engineer, an accountant,
a procurement specialist and support staff. The NOH has also created a
project advisory committee chaired by the MOH Undersecretary and composed of
the directors of all MOH Departments. VTC and MOH would both maintain their
implementation units adequately staffed through the project implementation
period. The implementation of the JIPA component presents no difficulty. The
director of the institute would act as project director and an accountant
among the regular staff of the institute would be assigned the responsibility
of project accounting. JIPA would receive assistance from the Project
Implementation Unit of VTC as needed.
42.      Suitable sites for the vocational training centers and OSHI have been
acquired. These sites have adequate sources of water supply and municipal
electricity. The two existing VTC centers that would be expanded have
sufficient land to allow for the expansion. A suitable site for the MOH
institute has already been acquired and a site plan is under preparation. VTC
civil works, representing about half of the project civil works, are expected
to be ready for tendering by end-1985. The MOH civil works are expected to be
ready for tendering in June 1986. Preliminary equipment lists have been
prepared by VTC, MOh and JIPA. Ic is expected that, by end November 1985,
VTC, MOH and JIPA would complete final furniture and equipment lists with
bidding documents for their respective project components.
Accounts and Audit
43.      The existing Project Implementation Units in VTC and MCHi maintain
project-related accounts in accordance with sound accounting principles and
practices satisfactory to the Bank. JIPA, with the help of VTC, would follow
the same procedure.  A Special Account would be established to facilitate
disbursements under the proposed loan. Each project implementing agency would
submit to the Bank annual financial-statements for their respective project
components.  Such financial statements would .e the basis of annual auditing
of expenditures, including the audit of the Special Account, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. The Government Bureau of Audit is such an
auditor. Annual audits would be submitted to the Bank not later than six
months after the end of each government fiscal year.



/-,S                                    - 15 -
Project Cost and Financing Plan
44.      The total cost of the project is estimated at about $18.3 million
(base cost calculated in 1985 prices), of which about $12.0 million is foreign
exchange. Cost breakdown by components is summarized in the Loan and Project
Summary at the beginnirig of this report. Indirect taxes on civil works and
locally procured furniture and equipment are estimated at about $1.1 million.
No customs duties or taxes are levied on items directly imported for project
use. Physical contingencies amount to 10 percent of base cost and the price
contingencies to about 24 percent of the base cost plus physical
contingencies. The annual price escalation rates are estimated at 5.0 percent
in 1985, 8 percent during 1986-1989 and 5 percent thereafter, for foreign
costs; 5 percent in 1985, 6 percent in 1986 and 7 percent thereafter for local
costs.
45.      The proposed Bank loan of $10.2 million would finance about 57
percent of the total cost and about 85 percent of the foreign exchange cost
of the project. The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange costs of
constructing, equipping and furnishing 4 TTC, the 2 extensions to existing
TTC, and the Nursing/Paramedical Training Instit'ite, as well as constructing
the Occupational Safety and Health Institute. It would also cover part of the
foreign exchange cost of consultant services and fellowships for development
of staff, curricula and management in the MOH. The remaining foreign exchange
costs of about $1.8 million, would be covered by the Government, who may
however seek co-financing. The Government has agreed to conclude these
arrangements within six months from the date of the Loan Agreement. The
Government would cover the local costs (about $6.3 million).
46.      Recurrent Costs.  When fully operational, the project institutions
would generate about JD 200,000 for VTC and about JD 380,000 for MOH in yearly
incremental recurrent costs (in 1985 prices). These amounts would constitute
a 19 percent addition to VTC's budget and less than 2 percent to MOE's
budget. The levy mentioned in para. 36 would more than cover the incremental
recurrent costs to be met by VTC. Until the levy becomes effective the
Government would continue to contribute the required funds to VTC's budget.
The MOH incremental costs are expected to be fully within the Government's
financial capability. The JIPA component does not involve significant
recurrent costs.
Procurement and Disbursement
47.      Civil works contracts (amounting to about $11 million), including
contingencies, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB), in conformity with the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits. Equipment and furniture items, amounting to some
$5 million, including contingencies, would be grouped to the extent possible
to permit bulk procurement, and procured under ICB as above. Contracts for
goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent each, which would not
be expected to interest foreign suppliers because of the variety of each
contract, could be procured: (i) on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally, using local competitive bidding procedures which the Bank
has reviewed and are satisfactory; or, (ii) when such items are estimated to
cost per contract not more than US$50.000 equivalent, on the basis of a



729S                                     - 16 -
minimum of three quotations from manufacturers or suppliers. The aggregate
cost of goods to be procured under local competitive bidding and local
shopping procedures is limited to US$900,000. In the comparison of equipment
bids obtained on the basis of ICB, local manufacturers would be allowed a
margin of preference equal to the existing rate of custom duties applicable to
competing imports, or 15 percent of CIF price, whichever is lower. Prior Bank
review of procurement documentation and contract awards, would be required for
all civil works contracts and equipment contracts in excess of $150,000.
Expert services would be acquired in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants.
Procurement by Category of Expenditure
Procurement Method
Category                                      ICB      LCB     Other        Total
Civil Works                              11.0       -         -         11.0
(5.4)     -                   (5.4)
Goods                                     4.6     0.5        0.4         5.5
(4.2)   (0.5)                 (4.7)
Expert Services                            -       -         1.8         1.8
and fellowships                                            (0.1)       (0.1)
TOTAL                                        15.6      0.5       2.2        18.3
(9.6)   (0.5)      (0.1)     (10.2)
NOTE:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
48.      The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of seven years,
and cover: 49 percent of the total ex<penditures for civil works; 100 percent
of foreign expenditures and of local expenditures ex-factory for furniture and
equipment as well as 80 percent of local expenditures for such imported items
procured locally; and 90 percent of the total expenditures for fellowships and
specialist services. All disbursements would be fully documented except those
against contracts valued at $10,000 equivalent or less. Disbursements against
those contracts would be made on the basis of statements of expenditutei. The
loan closing date would be December 31, 1992.  The estimated disbursc-ant
schedule in the Loan and Project Summary reflects the sector disbursement
experience in Jordan (6-year project implementation period). Adjustment has
been made for the modest implementation experience of MOH and VTC coripared to
MOE by allowing a longer disbursement period. However, the bulk of the
disbursements is expected to take place from mid-1986 to mid-1992.
Justification, Benefits and Risks
49.      Growing labor market imbalances (shortages and surpluses of certain
skills) prompted by high population growth, increasing participation in the
labor force, reduced prospects of labor migration, and job and training
preferences which do not reflect the labor market conditions, necessitates
that the government focus on special policies to alleviate emerging problems.



729S                                    - 17 -
Foremost among recommended measures are:  (i) a closer alignment of the
education/training effort with the labor market requirements; (ii) improvement
and expansion of vocational training; and (iii) improvement and expansion of
management training and nursing and health technician training. The proposed
project would assist the Government in meeting these objectives. It is
expected that the vocational training components of the project will help
train an additional 1,300 industrial workers per year through apprenticeship
programs and short, intensive courses to upgrade and reorient worker skills,
thereby enhancing their prospects in a changing labor market. The managerial
and health training components will help fill the significant gaps that exist
or are expected to develop in these specific occupations. Quality and range
of training in these disciplines would be improved through establishing better
training organization techniques, carrying out curriculum development and
introducing new disciplines. In addition, the project would directly assist
Government's efforts: (a) in increasing the number and range of
education/training opportunities for females in provincial areas for health
and other careers, (females from poorer families are expected to be attracted
to these training programs); and (b) in helping youths who would not continue
their formal studies beyond ninth grade (such opportunities would especially
benefit urban and rural poor). During the preparation of this project a
dialogue has been initiated with the Government on the establishment of a
labor market information system which would be very valuable in dealing with
labor market problems. Working documents prepared by the Bank during project
preparation have defined the outlines of such a system and the steps for
creating it. The Government is initiating the first steps for developing the
system with assistance from bilateral sources and the Arab Labor
Organization. The demand for vocational and professional training has
increased in recent years and it is expected that the project institutions
will function at full capacity. The project involves no special risks.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
50.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by R. Picciotto
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
October 10 , 1985



ANNEX I
18 -                                           Page 1 of 7
PACE I
JORDAN                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SKEE
JORDANII                             RIPRCE CROUPS COIGND AVERACES) 
HmST                     (NOST RCENT ESTIMATE) lb
R ECElT          MIDDLE IeOM             MIDDLE INCOE
19&/b      197a, ESTIJA.. lb      M. APICA A HID EAST      LAT. AMERICA A CAR
ARA (T1WUSASDS.  It#)
TOTAL                               97.7        97.7        97.7
ACRICULTURAL                        12.0        14.0        14.8
CI  P  CAIPiTA CUS$)                    ..          ..        640.0 IC          1134.9                   1875.9
inin  CONSUoWTO  P2CA: .A:
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)      127.0       211.0       706.0             623.3                     993.6
PaUmCON AM  VITAL STATSTCS
?OPULATION.MID-tAR (TWOUSANDS)    1695.0      2299.0      3247.0 /d
URBN POPULATION CZR   F TOTAL)      42.7        50.5        71.6              49.0                      67.7
POrPATION PROJCrlONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (HILL)                            6.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (ItLL)                              17.0
POPULATION HOMeNTON                                        2.0
POPULATION DENSITt
PEL SQ. XM.                       17.3        22.5        33.2               37.1                     48.0
PER SQ.  L. AGRI. LAND           141.4       164.2       203.9             470.1                      91.1
POPULATION ACE STRUCTURE CZ)
0-14 YRS                         44.4        45.8        48.7               43.5                     38.5
15-6A YRS                         51.4        51.0       48.4               53.0                      57.1
65 AnDABOE                         4.0         3.1         24                 3.3                      4.2
POPULATION CRIOW1 RATE (Z)
TOTAL                              '.1         3.0         2.7                2.J                      2.4
URJAN                              5.2         4.7        4.0                4.4                       3.6
CRUDC SIRrH RATE CPUR THOUS)        47.4        47.6       45.0               40.0                      30.9
CRUDE DEAIK RATE (PER THOUS)        19.9        15.5        8.0                11.S                      3.0
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.5         3.5        3.6                 2.8                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPrORS. ANNUAL ITNOUS)
USERS CI OF MARKED WE)             ..         22.0 J.    26.0                21.4                     45.3
FOOD A NUTRITION
InDEX OF FOO PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      220.0        79.0       71.0               95.1                     109.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES CZ OF REQUIREMENTS)      96.0        97.0       131.0              11B.2                    113.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          62.0        60.0        81.0              77.8                      69.4
OF IMIC ANUIAL AND PULSE         L5.0        15.0        16.0 If            17.S                     34.2
CNILD (ACES 1-4) DEAHIN RATE        22.9        15.1        5.0                12.8                      4.8
WrALTZ
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTR (YEARS)       46.9        54.1       64.D               57.3                      64.8
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THO13S)     135.5        97.5       62.u               96.8                      59.7
ACCESS To SAFE WATER CIPOP)
TOTAL                             21.3         ..         80.0              67.2                      65.3
URBAN                             48.6         ..        100.0               93.4                     76.5
RURAL                              2.1         ..         65.0              45.8                      44.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
t2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..         76.0              45.9                      56.3
URBAN                              ..          ..         94.0 /R            63.0                     73.4
RURAL                              ..          ..         34.0              28.6                      25.5
POPUIATION PER PHYSICIAN          5800.0      3730.0      900.0 Jc          4331.0                    1909.7
PoP. PER NURSING PERSON           1930.0 /h  1480.0       1990.0 7W         1845.0                     808.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL RED
TOTAL.                           560.0      1350.0       520.0 /c           621.8                    362.0
URBAN                            390.0 /h   1120.0      680.0 7F           565.0                     422.0                      P
RURAL                               -       5440.0                        2511.3                    2716.7
ADISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..         36.5       45.7 /f            25.7                      27.5
.Ousnc
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.3         6.1         6.7  c*1.
URBAN                              5.5         ..
RURAL                              5.1         ..
AVERACE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                              * -                     6.5 c..
URBAN
RURAL                              ..          ..
PERCENTAGE OF DUELLlNGS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                             170           _         66.0 /c.i
URBAN                             39.2         ..         90.0 Ic             .
RURAL                              1.4         ..         30.0 Ic.t



AMNEX I
-  19  -                                         Page  2 of
PAUL 2
JORDAN                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SBIET
JOROAN                              RPSERENCVE GROUPS (WEIGITED AVERAGES) Ia
KlST                     (CST RUCENT ESTL1ATt2 lb
RRCENT           MIDDL  tNCfl IF.       iUDnLE INCWIE
196nIb     1970tk. ESTIMATESb    N. WERICA A 41-i EAST     UT. Ar.DICA & CAd
EOUCASDN
ADJUSTED ENROLWENT RATIOS
PRLnAtL:  TOTAL                  77.n        72.n       103.0 Ic           89.1                    106.7
MALE                   94.0       7q.0       105.0 7&          103.7                    IU8.5
FEMALE                 59.0       65.0       10i.0 7;           72.2                    it16.6
SECOXDARY: TOTAL                 Z5.0        33.U        77.0 /c           42.9                     44.2
MALE                   36.0       41.0        79.0 7F           5U.V                     42.7
FEMALE                 13.0       24.0        76.0 Ic           34.6                     44.9
VOCATIONAL CR OF SEOINCART)         2.7         3.0        6.9 /c            10.0                     13.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
YSLMAC                           34.0        39.0        32.0 Ic           29.7                     9.9
SECONDARY                        20.0        23.0        21.0 77           18.8                     16.7
PASSENGER CARSTMUUSAND POP          3.7         6.7       30.7 1j            17.8                     46.U
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSA3D POP       37.8       160.9      174.3              175.9                    328.3
TV EECErvERS/TIOUSAND PaO           ..         20.0        64.0              51.2                    112.4
NE%SPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTERESr) a RCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULAT'lON          I1.3        24.4        54.4              37.2                     51.1
CISE ANNUAL ATTENDAnCE/CAPrTA       3.2         0.9        5.3 /I             2.4                      2.4
TOrAL LAEOR FoRCE (THOUS)         432.0       569.0      720.0
MALE (PERCENT)                    5.0         5.6        6.9               11.0                     23.b
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             .4.0       34.0        2D.0 /g           42.4                     31.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)               26.0         9.0       20.0 1             27.9                     24.3
PARrICI?ArION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                            25.5        24.7        22.2              26.2                     33.5
MALE                             46.7        45.5        39.6              46.2                     51.3
FEMALE                            2.7         2.h         3.1               5.8                     15.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO           1.9         2.0        2.3                1.8                      1.3
IM1E DISTRUZON
PERCENT OF PRIVATE IhCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5; OF ttOUStAOLDS         ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..
LOWEST 22 OF HOUSEHOLDS 
L06EST *O2 OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..
ESTTMTED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL CUSs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..        230.0 /f          226.3                    288.3
RURAL                                                   to.1     7F       134.0                    185.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..        2U6.0 If          431.5                    519.8
RURAL                             ..          ..        135.0 If          326.0                    359.7
ESTIMATED POP. BELaU ARSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOMX LEVEL C!)
URBAN                             ..          ..         14.0 It
RURAL                              .          ..         17.0 TI           2.1n.
NOT7 AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICAILE
N o T1 Ss
/a  The group average for each indicator are population-eighted arituehtic mcans. Coverage of countries
aong the indicators depends on availability of data and ts not uniform.
/b  Unless othenuise noted. "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; DUata for 197U  bet.een
1969 and 1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1981 and 1983.
Ic  East Bank only;  Id 1983 East Riank population is 2.5 milliton;  e 1972;  /f 1977  /g 1980; A  196Z;
iJ 1979.
JUNE, 196



ANNEX I
-20-                                          Page 3 of 7
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note Although the data arc drawn from ounxa genaly judged the mot authoritative and relile it should also be noted that they may no be intcrnmtionaly
comparable because of the lack of standardized deiinitons and concepts ued by different countries in coleting the data. Thc data are. noneihelebs useful to
describe ordern of magnitude, indicate trends, and cheracterize certain major different betwnen countries.
The eference groups are (1) the tame country group or the subject country and (2) a country group with somewhat higher average income than the country
group of the subject country (except for -High Income Oil Eapoer'n group where -Middle Income North Africs and Middle East" is chosen because of tronger
ocio-cultural affinities) In the rmeerence group data the *avrages are population weighted arithmetic m-os for each indicator and shown only when majority
ofthe countnes in a group hasdata for that indicator Since the coveage otcountnes among the indicaton depend on the availbility ofdata and ianot uniforms
caution mus he exercised in relating averages orone indicator to another These averags are only useful in companng the value ofone indicator as a time aimong
the couuury and reference groups.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                            Crude Bint Rare (per shousand)-Number of live births in Ihe year
Total--Total surfacc ars comprising land arca and inland waters;  per thousand or mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                      -                 CrdE Dea  Rate (per t*Jusand)-Numler of deaths in thc year
Agrickltmal-Estimatc of agricultural area used temporarily or     per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  Gross Reproduecion Rare-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current          in 1960. 1970, and 1983.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World      Family Planning-Aecepbwr, Annua (tkousandsl-Annual num-
Rank- Atlas (1981-83 basis); 1983 data,                          ber of acceptors or birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.    FPEJJ P        Ulangt Rsenr (pacrent ofmawrried wvoren)-The peren-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuckar and geothermal eee-    tage of married womea of child-bu%ring age who arc practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any Form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                       of child-bearing age are generaly women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  groups.
Total Popslioa. Mid-Yea (shusnds)-As of July 1; 1Q60. 1970,      FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Index ofFood Production Per Capita (196-71 = 100)-Iadex of per
Urban Populttion (perent of totit)-Ratio of urban to total       capita annual production of aD food commodities. Production
population. different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  cxdudes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability or data among countries: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.       include primary commodities (eg. sugarcane instead of sugar)
PopsJek Projections                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Poulation in eyear 200-The projection of population for 20M.     excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops, pulses, oil seeds,
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on    vegetables, fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets. livestock, and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
intenational migratian in the base year 1980. these parameters    on national average producer price weights; 1961-65, 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.               Per Capita SpplY ofCaies (percent ofreqtniensens)s-Com put-
Stationary population-Is one in which age- and sex-spccific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
t21ity rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also   food processing, and losses in distributon. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                       waste at household leveL 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momentun-- -Is the tendency for population growth to  Per Capita Supply of Prtein (grms Per duf)-Protein content or
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year ; is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, ofwhich 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fcrtility reains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards,are lower than those of
ment level from year I onward. 1985 data.                        75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Polpiatio Densty                                                average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.kmn.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tarcs) of total area; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.                  Per Capita  rotein Supply from Anind) an PFl-Protein supply
Per sq.kmn. agricul:ural land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                             1970 and 1977 data.
Pbopultion A.e Srswceure (percenf)-Children (0-14 years). work-  Child (ages 1-4) Deth Rate (per thousand)-Number of deaths of
ing agc (15-64 years), and retircd (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-ycar population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
from lifie tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
Popltion Growth Rate (percent )-ttal-- Annual growth rates of
total mid-year population for 1950.60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.     HEALTH
Population Growth Rate (percenfl-arhan-Annual growth ratcs       Life &xpectay at Birth (years)-Number of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.      infant would live if prevailing pattems of mortality for all people



- 21 -                                        ANNEX I
Page  4 of 7
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life.  PuplI-tearher Ratio - primary. and ;erndary-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                       rolled in pnmary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
lnat Mertality Rate (per rhosand)-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year of age per thousand live births in a given
year; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                 CONSUMrTION
Acces to Safe Water (prcnt of popolaidou-etoial, urba,  and     Passer Cars (per tshomd popuiarim-Passenger cars com-
rurl-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight peons excludes ambul-
accss to safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances. hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontaminated water such as that from protected  Ra     Rwrs (per thousand popnton.-All types of receivers
borehoks, springs and sanitary wells) as percentages of thoar respec-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population;
tive populations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludcs un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
located not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of radio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable access of that house. In rural areas  not be comparble since most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable access would imply that the housewife or members of the
*       houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  Tv Reirs (per h     pa i)-TV  receivers for broadcast
in retching the family's water needs.                           to general public per thousand populatiok: excdudes unli;ensed TV
receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Access to Excreta Dipoal (percen of populadtin)-_eota, arban,   in eff.
an rural-Number of peopic (totaL urban, and rural) served by
cxcrcta disposal as percentages of thcir respective populations.  Newspaer CrewJuno. (per thousandpopuladoni-Shows the aver-
Excrcta disposal may indude the collection and disposal. with or  age circulation of -daily general interest newspaper.L defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-   periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
bome systems or the use of pit privies and sinilar installations.  It is considered to be -daily" if it appears at lcast four times a week.
Populdon per Physician-Pbpulation divided by number of prac-    Cfeha A /nn    Anedanc per Cpita per Yea-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at univcrsity levd.  number of tickets sold during the year. induding admissions to
Popuaton per NuifVn Persou-lo pulation divided by number of     drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses.   LABOR FORCE
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                       LU OR FORCE
Populos pff Hospital Ied-tora, rbn, aLd r ral-lbpulation        Tl   ar  force   and u-economicallaive peusons. in-
(total, urban. and rural) divided by their respective number of  eluding armed forces and  unemployed but excludig houseinves,
hospital beds available in public and private, general and s l     stud ents, etc.. coverng  populbtio n of all ages. Dfinitions in
hospitals and rchabilitation centers. Hospitals are establishments  varous countres are not comparable: 1960.1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at least one physician. Establishments pov- ae (percent)-emal labor force as percentagc of total labor
iding principaly custodial care are not induded. Rural hospitals,  force.
however. include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  A4ricultre (perceatj-Labor force in farming, forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force, 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                          Indusry (perceu)-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
Admissions per Hospital Bed-Total number of admissions to or    facturing and electricity. water and gas as percentage or total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Panicfradou Rate (perents-ero4 mate, andfe, azle-Participation
HOUSING                                                         or activity rates are computed as totaL male. and female labor force
Arage Size of Househd (persons per honsehoMdI-totaf. wham,      as perentages of total. male and female population of all ages
andrural-A household consists of a groupof individuals who share  respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main mals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the popultion. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Number of Persons per Room-ttetal, urban ad rul,-       Econoir Dependecpy Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural      65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exdude
non-pernanent structures and unoccupied parts.                  INCOME DlSTRIBUTION
Perentage of Dwel6ins with Electrirciy-total, urban, ad ural-   Peentage of Total Disposable Incoe (boh in ca  ad kind)-
Conventional dwellings vwith electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total. urban. and rural dwellings respectively,         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                       POVERTV TARGET GROUPS
Adjusted EroEnarnt Ratos                                        The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
PnFfarr school - total. male and femal-Gross total, male and   levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment or aD ages at the primary level as pcentages of  Esimated Abslte Per lcome Leve fUSS per capita-urbwan
a       rcspective primary school-age populations. While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For somc countries with universal  Estmaed Reative Poverty Incom  Lrvd (USS per capita) -urban
education, gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent smce some    and rural-Rural relative poverty income levcl is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                            derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total. mal and female-Computed as above.     living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Estmated Popultins Below Absolure Porty Income Lev  (per-
mary instruction provides general. vocationaL or teacher training  cent)--ban and rural- Prcent of population (urban and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are "absolute poor.?
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocaricna/ Ewromeni (percent of serondaryj-Vocational institu-            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technical, industriaL or other programs which operate    Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departtments of secondary institutions.                              Junc 1985



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 7
DlEM -  Cmc nDwIS
P4pulation  2.6 milion (1984) 1/
GNP per capita: USt 1,710 (1983) 1/,2/
Ammt                                              humwl -m.th Rati
Indicator               (million la at              Actual (at 1990 prices)                       KFoiseted (at 19K0 pcices)
ojrunt prices)
1984              1979   1990   1981   1982   1983 3/  19B4 3/ L985   1986   1987   1988   199
NkZNL ANS
Gross doestic pmcxft       4,029                7.8    8.3    6.4    7.1    4.2        3.0     3.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Agriculture              289             -29.0   39.0   11.6    9.7    7.2        7.0     5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
nlktvy                 1,070              19.2   11.5   13.2    0.3    4.2        2.0     2.0    8.0    7.0    7.5    7.5
Services               2,144              10.2    7.9    4.3    8.9    5.0        3.0     3.0    3.5    3.7    3.2    3.2
Consumption                4,651               17.3   -7.6    6.4    3.8    3.7    -5.0        2.7    1.7    5.5    4.3    4.3
Gmss luvesb.nt             1,277               10.5   17.2   24.2    2.4   -5.7       -3.0    -2.3   -2.0   -1.3    2.6    2.6
Expots GIFS                1,612               20.4   24.1   24.9    1.5  -9.1        10.0     8.0    9.8    7.0    7.0    7.0
imports of GEFS            3,511               26.4   -1.7   27.4   -0.8   -6.2       -5.8     3.0    3.1    4.4    4.5    4.5
oSS Nationl Podurt         4,257                7.7    6.8    8.2    7.4    L3         4.0     4.0    4.2    4.3    4.2    4.2
PRI
GIP Deflator                              82.5  100.0  116.5  123.7  13L7    136.8
Fchaz  Rate                                3.33   3.35   3.07   2.84   2.76       2A7
Share of Gat st Mekt Prices (Z)                 ANexe Ammsl rwzease
(at cmret prices)                            (at  rant prces)
1975    1930    1985                     1979-6:    19_WV_ 9    198S 90
Gross Dmtic Pzodut                                      96.0   100.8    98.2                         5.8       4.2         5.0
Agrictldre                                          7.8      6.6     6.9                       14.4        5.4        5.0
Imstry                                             21.8    26.7    26.6                         6.1        6.4        7.5
Services                                           59.7    57.9    53.2                         5.8        3.3        3.2
Qxzmptim                                               123.8   109.8   106.0                        0.9         3.7        4.3
Gross Invsens                                           26.5    40.8    33.5                        6.4       -0.1         2.6
Exports of GMS                                          35.5    47.9    47.2                         9.5        7.8        7.0
imports of GQS                                          90.1    97.2    8L6                         1.9        3.9        4.5
Gmss National Product                                  100.0   100.0   100.0                         5.5       4.2         4.2
Net Factor Izcoxe                                        4.1    -0.8      1.8                        -          -          -
Grmss Nttigaml SwixMs                                  -23.8    -9.8    -6.0                         -          -          -
As Z of GP
(at cament prices)
1975       19E0        1985
ELMIC FIZC
- tic Revems                         24.8        22.8       26.0
Owrent 8)emtiturs                   37.6        33.9        27.4
Budgetary Savirgs                  -12.8       -10.0        -1.6
Capiral Epediturs                   23.6        22.9        12.3
Foreign Fici. g                      34.8        27.7       12.6
of whidc foeigm gs                 30.0        20.5        9.7
1979-84     1984-89
aim  nmECAT
ICOR                                7.6         7.5
Margnal Gwss National
Savings RIate                     0.8        -0.2
lsport Elasticity (goods)           0.3         0.9
1/ East BanS only.
2  Preliminary estiuute based on the revised seie of national accoamts to be diaccse with the Cavet, .hich exludes rettsres
fhnlong te1n vesidents abromad that are considered caprial traisfers.
3/ Preliminaxy estiate.
DM CPC
Ortcber 1985
0185S



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 7
1NM- EXER L WDE
hmunt                                            Amwkl Goth Rates
IMditaor                (million Ust at                Actual (at 980 pricea)                        Pwojecte  (at 198 price)
curezt prices)
198               1978   1979   BO0  1981   1982   L983   1984 2/   1985   1986   1987   1988
me=hndise  qxorts 1/      690                6.7   22.5   22.9   31.1    2.1   8.0    9.5          8.0    9.1    8.5    85
Priay                  370                5.5   16.1   26.2   18.5  -3.2   -8.0   11.0          7.6    9.2    8.7    8.7
am1fat s                320               9.1   35.6   17.0   59.0    8.5   -8.1    4.0         8.5    9.0    8.3    8.3
Merchmlise iuports       2,825              -1.3   10.5    7.8   27.4   -L0   -6.2   -6.1          1.5    4.4    4.7    4.5
Food                   499               25.8    8.9    7.1   31.6    6.4  -6.0   -2.0          2.0    3.2    4.8    4.5
PetiDleuw              613              -13.2   30.3   42.3   19.3   22.0    1.1    4.0         2.0    3.2    4.3    4.0
Rahiney and eWipuent  575                -3.5  -11.7   13.6   56.6  -13.0  -18.0   ff.5         0.5    0.8   L1       1.0
Other                 1.138              -9.8   27.5   -3.4   19.3    0.5    9.1   -8.1         1.5    2.8    4.7    4.5
RICES                                                   (1975 = 100)                               (198D0  1110)
Eicport price ind-         -                85.8   90.2  106.9  107.5  113.2   90.3   97.5       106.1  112.4  124.3  128.5
inp-t price i-der          -               114.8  133.5  150.4  113.6  119.4   94.2   91.6       98.9  105.3  110.9  117.0
Tleis of mie ijEc          -                74.7   67.6   71.1   94.6   94.8   95.9  106.4       107.3  106.7  112.1  109.8
Gpcosition of ierdhaiise Tr: (Z)                      here hual Gmwth Rates
(at currug prices) 3Y                             (at consant pces)
1975      1982     1987                            1979-84       1984-88
fxports V                                        100.0     100.0    Il0.0                              11.5           B.5
Pri                                            79.8      46.8     55.3                               8.9           8.5
&am.sfacturm                                   M20.2     53.2     44.7                               14.5          8.5
Laports                                         1u0.o      110.0    100.o                               4.4           3.9
Food                                           22.2      16.7     18.3                               7.4           3.8
Petroleu                                       10.6      21.0     24.3                              17.7           3.5
Machineq r  eqaned  t                          31.6      28.0     23.7                               6.1           0.9
Other                                          35.5      34.3     33.8                               3.5           3.6
Sharu of Toral Eqporcs (2)                   Shae of Total IUpoC=s (Z)
DIlSN w lXl                                              1975       1983                              1975         1983
Developed mr1et emcxmes                                  17.6        4.9                              62.6         46.3
Devlepi-g maket ecwncaes                                 70.2       82.0                              29.2         46.5
of whidc Arab ccxtries                                 47.4       63.3                              19.8         43.6
Cenally plmnd ecoeaeies                                  12.2       i3.1                               8.2          7.2
1/ Bcmluding re-expots
V  Preli nary estimate.
_/ tlum.s may not sun due to nuteing.
Ottober 1985
0185S



ANNEX I
- 24 -                                               Page 7 of 7
XIMN  - BUAN1 (1 PADSJ. CEWEL CAPUL A)D DER
(milli. LISS at orrt pric)
Indictor                                                     Actml                                                        Pmojeafl
1977     1978     1979     190D    1981      1982    l983    L984 3/    1985    1986           7      lS90
B1AN1E OF PAUMMt
ipaorts of goods & services          1203    1437      1819    2491      3205     3174    3047      3330       3782     4202      4655     6341
Of which: Merchandise f.ob.          249      297      402      574      742      749      581      756         941     106      1110     1555
Wodern uaitEames           470      520      600      792    1042    1I81    111Z        1311        L369     1435     1477     1660
ipoTrs of gods & sevces              1714    2065      2872    3452    4550    4564    4251    4271            4571    5083       5604     7480
Of uhich: merchsadise f.o.b.        1376     1497     1957    2393    3237    3229    3041         2779       2847      3012     3214    4034
Workers remittances           46       65       80      154      159      175      201      242         229      219      207      197
Net transfers 2/                      504      347     1046     1335    1321      1055      814      712        6CO         0      600      500
Qreit acwunr balage                     7    -280         7      374     -26      -335    -390      229        -189     -281      -349     639
Priuste dixect inwerbtmn               11      56        26       31      67       91       24       50         110       118      127      157
ILT lms  (net)                        190      189      193      232      274      242      306      233         52       270      331      625
Official                              86      112      143      240      2S3      271      164      158         92       255      278      585
Private                              104       77      50       -8       -9      -29       142      75         -40        15       53       39
Other capital                         -21      278       20    -266    -398    -290         -76     -219        -81         -        -        -
dharUs in resernes                   -173    -243      -232    -371       83      292      13       165         109    -107       -109     -143
Itematioal reserves                   740     983      1215     1586    1503      1211    1075    1061          952     1059      1168     1558
Of vhicb: Gold                        81       81       82      208       98      19       200      M0         2M0       200      200      200
Reserues as mmnths of imports           5.1      5.6      5.2      5.5      4.5      3.2      3.0      3.0        2.5      2.5       2.5      2.5
AERNL CUPEL AND lEir
Gross dismtweseins                   214      223      250      306      407      374      331      383
(becesaos  l loams                  94      119      151      133      126      184     224      274
UR                                9       6        13        9       3        4        -        -
Other                            85      113      138      124      123      180     224       274
MCaroozessioaloI                   120      104       99      173      282      191      97       109
Official eqaort credits           3        8        2       97      159       94       10       12
[EN                              -        -        4       22        19      11       33       39
O%wr  eltxlateral                 -       -         7       14        6       30       15       16
Private                         117       96       86       40       98       56      49       42
faternl debt
Iebt utstzxIing ard
disbuaped                          623      841     1048    1266    1481       1685    1966    2152
Official                        469      609      765      993     1226    1464    1305       1429
Pri:vate                        154      232      283      273      254      221     661      723
1odisbursed debt                   559     825       863     1221     995      831      932      574
Debt service
Total service payments              38       58       96      133      182      193     2;8       319
Iearest                          15      24       40       58       81        61     1D6      147
Pa,mmCs as Z   exportsl1             3.2      4.0      5.3      5.4      5.7      6.1      9.1      9.6
A&erage interest rate
on new loans (Z)                     6.0      6.3      5.3      6.8      5.3      6.0      7.0     i.0
Ahrage maurity
of new loans (years)                14.4    18.1    21.4    14.8    17.7    20.1    17.0    12.6
AvraW ge-e
of new lan  (years)                  3.5      5.6      4.7      3.8      4.3      5.0     4.1       2.7
As Z of Debk Cltstamir
at erd of M3st Recet Year (183)
Maturity striture of debt oatstandirg
Maturities de within 5 years                                     39.0
Maturities due within 10 years                                   68.9
Interest structure of debe outstanding
Interest due within first year                                    6.0
-   Data nat available.                                                    ,MI  ('llI-C
V  I rts of goos sd services includig zerittaees.                                                                              Ottober 1985
2/ Excludizg unrequited  bransfers  lb1  te  resident anrkers abroad.                                                           0185s
3/ Prelimisy estmae.



- 25 -                   ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JORDAN a/
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1985)
US$ Million
Amount
(less cancellations)
Number   Year       Borrower        Purpose            Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Fifteen credits      Jordan
fully disbursed                                                86.1         -
Two loans fully
disbursed                                             50.0
1781     1979                 Education III            19.0                 4.5
1826     1980                 CVDB                     10.0                 2.0
1893     1980                 Urban Development        21.0                11.7
1986     1981                 Power IV                 25.0                 5.0
2068     1982 1/              Education IV             25.0                18.1
2162     1982                 Power V                  35.0                17.3
2213     1983                 Water Supply and
Sewerage               17.0                 7.6
2246     1983 lf       "      Education V              18.8                17.9
2334     1983                 Urban Transport          30.0                27.6
2371     1984                 Energy Devt. I           30.0                24.4
2378     1984 1/              Education VI             40.0                40.0
2425     1984          "      Eight Cities
Water Supply
and Sewerage            30.0                19.4
2463     1985                 Multi-Mode
Transport               30.0                30.0
2483     1985                 Greater Amman
Water Supply
and Sewerage            30.0                30.0
2531 c/  1985                 Primary Health Care      13.5                13.5
2587 c/  1985                 Urban Devt. II           28.0                28.0
2614 c/  1985                 CVDB II                  15.0                15.0
TOTAL b_                                              467.3      86.1     312.0
of which has been repaid        11.6       3.7
Total now held by Bank/IDA b/ 455.7       82.4
a/ The status of the above projects is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
b/ Includes exchange rate adjustments.
c/ Not yet effective.
1/ Education IV and Education V loans are substantially committed. Bidding
under Education VI loan is progressing.



729S                                     - 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1985)
- US$ Million --
Year          Obligor           Type of Business       Loan    Equity    Total
1974     Jordan Ceramic Ind.
Co. Ltd.             Ceramic Tiles            1.6       0.2       1.8
1975/    Jordan Fertilizer
78/82      Ind. Co.            Phosphatic Fertilizer  79.5 1/   8.7         88.2 1/
1979/85 Jordan Lime and
Silicate              Building Materials       2.5       1.3        3.8
1979     Jordan Securities    Money & Capital
Corp.                  Market                            0.7       0.7
1982     Jordan Leasing
Co. Ltd.             Leasing                            0.3       0.3
Total Commitments                             83.6 1/  11.2        94.8 1/
Less Commitments Repaid, Sold or
Cancelled                                     60.9 1/   0.6        61.5 1/
Total Commitments now held by IFC                   22.7     10.6       33.3
Total Undisbursed                                -        -          -
1/ Includes a $50.0 million loan managed by IFC on behalf of other -
participants.



729S                                 - 27 -
ANNEX III
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by agency to prepare                      10 months (March to
the project:                                         December 1984)
(b) Agency which prepared the project:                   Vocational Training
Corporation (VTC);
Ministry of Health (MOH)
'c) Date of first presentation to the Bank:              July 1984
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:              January 1985
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:                  September 22, 1985
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:                       March 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) MOH would extend to all NPITI the coverage of the tracer system for
graduates now under preparation (para. 38).
(b) 'JTC and MOH would both maintain their implementation units adequately
staffed (para. 41).
(c) The Government would conclude co-financing arrangements within six months
from the date of the Loan Agreement or provide the necessary funds itself
(para. 45).



IBRD 18945
.  .    ^         E         -     >           ~~~~~~~~S Y R I A N                  -
I 1-
at                        ARAB                                   R
JORDlAN
MANPOWER TRAINING I PROJECT
I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~,   JOM INEI OF PLIIC VAMM
R~~~~~~~~a                                          .eiau nas. 
I/                                                                     - 'j . .,) ,'* * fNATIONAL CAPITAL
-r  |   S                                                           CITIF%  TO S  Ak0  VILLAGEa
_ / '. i' ,---- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECOND CLASS ROADS
\     /7                   -,  , -  -             - --- -  OT HER     RO ADS
)     {}              S%   '- 2_-t,-                       WD-
,  J=__ MUDFLATS
v   v  2           _-. g sxl                      _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
_   .)    <     [_3  b--           H                        xN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\xw ~~~OCCOIEO TERRITORIIES
X  -. _                                     ,/                               t      X       S ^ U D . 0       . .     A
JUNsE 1985



