Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Repor No. 12495
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JORDAN
FIRST MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2633-JO)
NOVEMBER 17, 1993
FILE COPY
Report No:         12495
Type: PCR
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region
This docuament has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Name of Currency    Jordanian Dinar (JD)
Year                          Exchancre Rate
Appraisal Year AN-age  (1985)         US$ 1 = 0.400 JD
Completion 'Year Average (1992)       US$ 1 - 0.688 JD
ABBREVIATIONS
JIPA     Jordan Institute of Public Administration
MOH      Ministry of Health
MOP      Ministry of Planning
NPITI    Nursing/Paramedical Integrated Training Institute
OSHI     Occupational Safety and Health Institute
PCR      Project Completion Report
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PMU      Project Management Unit
TA       Technical Assistance
TTC      Trade Training Center
VTC      Vocational Training Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Ofhce of mrectof-GeneI
Operalons Evaluation
November 17, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIE DIRECTORS AND THIE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Jordan
Manpower Develonmeat Project (Ln 2633-JO?
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Jordan - Manpower Development Project
(Ln. 2633-JO) prepared by the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office. Part II was prepared by
the Borrower.
This eighth project in the human resource sectors is rated as satisfactory. It was
appropriately identified aud in design and scope was suited to the capabilities of the implementing
agencies. It achieved cost savings, and disbursement and completion were attained within the planned
time-frame. Through expanding access to training by building and equipping key institutions for
vocational training, health care and public administration, the project largely achieved its objectives of
increasing the supply of trained middle level technical workers for the public and private sector to
replacing expatriate labor. In health technician training original enrollment targets were reduced to
match market needs. The PCR does not comment on whether training quality was enhanced to produce
employable graduates.
The project's implementing units and project training institutions increased their
management capabilities. Institutional development is rated partiaL
Sustainability is likely given high commitment to human resource development, reported
strong demand for graduates and the consulting services of project institutions, together with adequate
funds and support for operations and maintenance.
The PCR paints a positive picture of the entire project process and covers key data
requirements. It omits mention of progress on the innovative Occupational Safety and Health Institute's
program. Part II provides insightful comments and useful recommendations on the Bank-Borrower
partnership which was assessed as beneficiaL
The project is not planned for audit.
Attachment
This document has a etrictwd dstributon and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their official
duties. ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorWion.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT l;OMPLETION iREPOUIr
JORDAN
FIRST MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2633-JO)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface............... ............................i
Evaluation Summary  . . . . . . . .iii
PART I.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   ...I. . . . .   .           1
A.  Project Identity  ..................                             1
B.  Project Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            1
C.   Project Objectives and Description  . . . . . . . . .           2
D.   Project D6sign and Organization   . . . . # . . . . .           3
E.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            4
F.  Project Results   .. .  .............                            6
G.   Project Sustainability  ...............                         8
H.  Bank Performance  .......................                        8
I.   Borrower's Performance  . .        . . . . . . . . .            8
J.   Borrower-Bank Relationship  ..   .... .......                   8
K.  Consulting Services   ..           ..............                9
L.  Project Documentation and Data  ..  ...           .. . . .   .   9
M.  Conclutsions and Lessons Learned    . . . . . . . . . .          9
PART  II.  PROJECT REVIEW PROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   . . * . . .          10
PART III. STATISTICAL INFONTION  ... .           .  .  .  .    ................    14
TABLES
1.  Related Bank Loans  .................                   .       14
2.   Project Timetable       . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . .        16
3.   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements   . . .          17
4.   Planned and Actual Completion Dates of Civil Works  .          18
5.  Civil Works Procurement Schedule  . . . . . . . . . .           19
6.   Planned and Actual Technical Assistance    ... . .   .        20
7.  Project Costs   . . . .   . .   . . .   . *. .. . . . . .   .  21
8.   Project Financing   . . . . . .   . .   . . . . . . . .   .    21
9.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds   . . .*. . . . . . . .   .        22
10.  Student Enrollments and Outputs   . .. . .   . . . . .         23
11.  Compliance with Loan Covenants  . . . .. . . . . . . .         24
12.   Mission Data  . . . . . . . . . . . .. . ..  . . . . . .      25
13.   Staff Inputs  . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .      26
ANNEX    1.  Persons Participating in Completion Mission    ...   .          27
MAP      -    TBPD IlS45P,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i.-
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST MANPOWER DEVELOPMFNT PROJECT
(LOAN 2633-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
i.          This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the First Manpower
Development Project in Jordan, for which a Bank loan (No.2633-JO) in the
amount of US$10.2 million was approved on November 12, 1985. An amount of
US$7,477,340.64 million was disbursed from the loan and the project closed on
December 31, 1992. A balance of US$2,722,659.36 million was unutilized and
cancelled effective May 17, 1993.
ii.         The PCR was jointly prepared by the Population and Human Resources
Division of the Middle East and North Africa Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
iii.        The preparation of the report was facilitated by data collected
during a project completion mission to Jordan in January 1993. The PCR is
based, inter alia, on information contained in the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Loan Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower, internal Bank memoranda and interviews with Jordanian Government
officials who were closely associated with the project.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
IRST NPONER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LLA  2633-JO)
VYaA&TION SUMMARY
A.    Obiectives
The project was designed to assist the Government in implementing
priority manpower development programs which would: (a) increase the annual
supply of skilled and semi-skilled workers trained in Vocational Training
Centers (VTC) by about 1300, and enable the VTC's Occupational Safety and
Health Institute (OSHI) to increase the productivity of the workforce by
reducing the incidence of occupational accidents and worker injuries; (b)
improve the quality and coverage of management and administration training
offered by the Jordan Institute of Public Administration (JIPA), contributing
to better organizational procedures and management/administration practices;
and (c) enable the Ministry of Health (MOH), through the construction of a
Nursing/Paramedical integrated Training Institute (NPITI), to increase the
annual supply of nurses (60), midwives (25) and health technicians (155),
thereby addressing shortages, allowing eventually for replacement of non-
Jordanian personnel, and improving the quality of health services.
2.          To acnieve these objectives, the project provided financing for:
(a)   the VTC, by providing civil works, furniture and equipment for
four new trade training centers (TTCs), extension of two existing
TTCs and the OSHI; and TA for the extended TTC and the OSHI;
(b)   the JIPA, by providing equipment and technical assistance; and
(c)   the MOH, for civil works, furniture, equipment and TA for the
NPITI.
3.          The Bank agreed to amend the project's description in February
1991, to include the extension of a VTC drivers, training yard.
B.    Imnilementation Exoerience
4.          Project start-up was facilitated by the availability of Jorianian
staff experienced in implementing World Bank projects, having worked in two
project implementation units financed under the Fourth Education project
(Loan 2068) and the Primary Health Care project (Loan 2531). Bank staff
conducted an in-country seminar cum project launch workshop which was
instrumental in shaping the relevant officials' understanding of the project's
objectives, Bank guidelines and reporting relationships between thd-ViD1Fdt--
financed entities (JIPA, VTC and MOH), the Bank and the hinistry of Planning.



- iv -
5.          Civil works, equipment and furniture procurement were undertaken
and completed satisfactorily under all project components. Project-related
technical assistance was provided through loan funds, grant financing and a
UNDP project. The tracer study to monitor the employment prospects of NPITI
graduates was not completed, as these trainees are all employed by the
Government after graduation. Project costs were lower than expe_ed mainly
due to the need to procure less than the projected amounts of equipment and
furniture because some institutions were merged and less furnishings were
required, and to unit cost changes resulting from the devaluation of the JD
during the implementation period of the project.
C.    Proiect Results
6.          Planned civil works, equipment and furniture procurement, and the
technical assistance program were successfully completed. The TTCs are
operational and active in providing training and apprenticeship programs in a
variety of trades relevant to industrial needs; the OSHI facility and JIPA are
performing efficiently. The project has increased the stock of nurses,
midwives and trained health technicians (see para. 12 (c)), which will reduce
the dependence on expatriates to provide these services.   Moreover, training
for the nursing and midwifery professions have exceeded appraisal targets but
the paramedical technician training was scaled back by the authorities to
ensure that the availability of their services is in line with market needs.
The project closed at its originally planned completion date and approximately
US$2.72 million in unutilized funds was cancelled, as project costs were lower
than anticipated at appraisal.
D.    Proiect Sustainabilitv
7.          Demand for graduates of project institutions is strong and steady:
VTC trainees are readily accepted for jobs in industry; JIPA and OSHI are
providing consultant services beside their regular training functions which
will assist in sustaining their quality and fiscal viability. There is strong
Government commitment to fund operations and maintenance at project
institutions: maintenance and upkeep of the facilities is efficient at project
sites and this will ensure the continued functioning of the institutions at a
satisfactory level.
E.    Conclusions and Lessons Learned
8.          The project was a success in achieving its objectives and its
implementation phase reaffirmed the importance of:
(a)   holding a project launch workshop to acquaint counterpart staff
with the objectives and requirements of the project and their role
in ensuring an efficient and effective implementation;



-V -
(b) utilizing similar designs for project institutions; this is a
cost-effective measure which provides a standardized way of
carrying out future construction o.f institutes;
(c)   including only necessary covenants in the Loan Agreement, as the
covenant for a tracer system for MOH institute graduates was
unnecessary since all NPITI students are government employees and
study under fellowships with the obligation to serve in the
government at least double the time they have spent in their
studies. The attrition rate after the compulsory service period
is reported to be negligible.



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST MNPOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2633-JO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Proiect Identity
Project Name:     First Manpower Developmznt Project
Loan No.:         2633-JO
RVP Unit:         Middle East & North Africa Region
Country Department II
Country:          Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Sector:           Population and Human Resources
Subsector:        Training
B.    Prolect Backcrround
1.          Sector Develo2ment Obiectives.  Jordan has one of the highest
enrollment rates among middle-income countries. Vocational education plays a
major role in preparing young Jordanians to be productive workers and to
contribute to sustained national economic growth. The official vocational
education entity is the Vocational Training Corporation (VTC), which provides
young males and females with blue collar and commercial skills through three-
year apprenticeship programs. VTC, which is operated cooperatively with
private industry, also sponsors intensive short courses and upgrading programs
for unemployed workerk   Management training is provided primarily by tLe
Jordan Institute of Public Administration (JIPA) and the Jordan Institute of
Management.
2.          The project was prepared during the latter half of 1984, during
the Government's 1981-85 Development Plan. This Plan tried to create an
institutional framework and investment climate to strengthen the private
sector, extending education, health and other public services and utilities to
all regions; to raise the production potential of the population through
education and training; to increase the participation of women in the labor
force; and to upgrade the efficiency of the public sector.
3.          The Plan period witnessed considerable development activities and
high economic growth rates generated by the relocation of foreign corporations
to Jordan during the war in Lebanon; heavy use of the port of Aqaba for
transit trade to Iraq during the Iraq-Iran war; and remittances from



-2-
Jordanians working in oil-exporting countries (about 40% of the Jordanian
labor force in 198S worked abroad, of which 85% were in the oil-exporting
Middle East countries). Nevertheless, the momentum of development and
economic growth experienced during the early 1980s could not be sustained as
oil prices fell, thersby reducing remittances.
4.          Slower economic expansion, alone 4.1th the completion of major
infrastructure development in the Oil States, reduced the demand for Jordanian
workers abroad. Migration from the West Bank to the East Bank had increased
significantly, with non-Jordanian workers replacing Jordanian migrants to the
oil states. The late 19808 and the early 1990s reversed the net manpower
deficit situation of the past decade through reduced migration to the Gulf
states, increased female labor force participation and rapid population
growth.
s.          The Goverrment responded to the slowdown in economic growth by
focusing on a human resources strategy that would increase employment
opportunities by improving the quality of the labor supply. The strategy
includes a comprehensive ten-year, three-phase reform of basic and secondary
education, together with institutional and policy development initiatives for
scientific and technological capacity-building. The strategy also tries to
improve the country's human capital resources in order to revive domestic
growth and maintain external balances over the long term; and to enhance the
quality of the education system to improve the capacity of school leavers to
compete in labor markets, at home or abroad. In line with this strategy, the
MOH component was modified during project implementation through the merger of
some facilities (para 12.c).
C.    P?roiect Obiectives and Description.
6.          Prolect Obiectives.  The project was to assist the Government in
implementing priority manpower development programs which would:
(a)   increase the annual supply of VTC-trained skilled and semi-skilled
workers by about 1,300 (about 20% of the incremental supply of
skilled workers by 1989); and enable the VTC's Occupational Safety
and Health Institute (OSHI) to reach some 500 managers, safety
officers and trainers through advisory services to enterprises and
seminars, so as to increase the productivity of the workforce by
reducing the incidence of occupational accidents and worker
injuries;
(b)   improve the quality and coverage of management and administration
training offered by JIPA, reaching some 1,000 participants from
the public and private sectors per year in courses and seminars of
varying duration, and contribute to better organizational
procedures and management/administration practices through JIPA's
program of applied research and consultation; and
(c)   enable the MOH, through the construction of NPITI, to increase the
annual supply of nurses, midwives and health technicians, thereby



alleviating shortages, allowing eventually fcr replacement of non-
Jordanian personnel, and improving the quality of health services.
7.    Proiect Comnonent_ .  The project provided financing for:
(a)   the VTC, by providing civil works, furniture and equipment for
four new trade training centers (TTCs), extension of two existing
TTCs and the OSHI; and TA for the extended TTC and the OSHI;
(b)   the JIPA, by providing equipment and technical assistance; and
(c)   the MOH, for civil works, furniture, equipment and TA for the
NPITI.
8.          The Bank agreed to a Government request to amend the project's
description in February 1991, to include the extension of a VTC drivers'
training yard. Construction started in July 199. aead was completed by May
1992.
D.    Proiect Desicn and Oraanization
9.          The project was designed to m     Jordan's priority manpower
training needs, which were identified as: (a) improvement and expansion of
vocational training programs for 'blue collar' skilled and semi-skilled
workers and supervisors, particularly for industry; (b) reinforcement of
management training, especially in-service upgrading for the corps of managers
(private and public sectors) which grew rapidly during the period leading up
to the 1981-8S Development Plan era, as well as pre-service training for
managers for new, more sophisticated enterprises; and (c) expansion of health
technician and para-professional training programs. The project's components
were designed to complement the Government's strategy of increasing employment
opportunities through manpower development. Specifically, the project
included:
(a)   The VTC Comvonent.  Four new TTCs and extensions to two existing
TTCs were envisaged to help expand the training and upgrading of skilled and
semi-skilled labor through extending the training capacity in existing trades
and introducing new specializations such as instrumentation, control systems,
maintenance of business machines, and operation of heavy equipment. The
component also included a new OSHI facility to be constructed, furnished and
equipped. This was a timely and well-focussed program designed to augment the
VTC's sound ties with industry through its training functions and its mandate
to increase the productivity of the workforce by reducing the incidence of
occupational accidents and injuries.
(b) The JIPA Comnonent. JIPA is the longest established management
and administration-training organization in the country. It was established
in 1968 as an autonomous public entity to improve administration in both
public and private institutions. The project's support of JIPA's role in
management and administration training by providing fellowships for training
trainers, expert services to assist in designing teaching materials, teaching



methodology and evaluation of training, plus audio visual and other equipment
and library materials was valuable and timely. This support enabled JIPA to
function effectively and fulfill its objective of enhancing job performance in
the public and private sectors to serve the social and economic development
plans in Jordan through training and management development programs.
(c)   The Ministry of Health (MOH) Comnonent -- thi NPITI.  The project
was also organized to finance the country's second NPXTI under the auspices of
the MOH. The plan to construct, furnish and equip a new training institute in
Zarka, along the same designs as the one constructed at Irbid under the Fourth
Education Project (Ln.2068-JO) was cost-effective and efficient, as
construction and implementation of this facility benefitted greatly from the
lessons learned from the construction of the irbid institute. This institute
will assist in alleviating the shortage of nurses, midwives and health
technicians, improve the quality of health services, and develop further the
paramedical and nursing professions. The anticipated annual output of 260
graduates (80 nurses, 25 midwives and 155 health technicians) would contribute
to meeting the MOH targets for improved delivery of health services. The
NPITI was designed to enroll about 50t female trainees, and it was supported
by USAID technical assistance.
(d)   Technical Assistance (TA. under Lhe project for the VTC, MOH and
JIPA included fellowships (about 80.5 staff months) and expert services (about
60 staff months) to strengthen institutional capacity.   As noted above,
USAID-funded technical assistance for the NPITI institute was included to
support four training specialist consultants, for an estimated three staff-
years each, plus short-term consultants for a total of one staff-year. This
was specifically intended to start the new institute off on a sound footing so
as to ensure the development of quality at the teaching/program level. It was
also a good design strategy to have the Government secure, through grant
funding, a significant portion of the TA planned for the project. This was
successfully accomplished through bilateral funding for the MON and VTC
components, and through a UNDP program for JIPA.
(e)  Loan Covenants were straightforward and complied with except for
the requirement (Section 4.02 of the Legal Agreement) that a tracer system be
established for all MOH paramedical training institutions, with the primary
purpose of analyzing job placement opportunities. This covenant should not
have been included in the project, given that all MOH institute graduates are
required by law to work for the Government, and, therefore, there is no need
to trace them after graduation.
E.    Prolect Imnlementation
10.         The original project components were substantially completed by
the planned completion date of December 31, 1991 and the loan closed, as
scheduled at appraisal, on December 31, 1992. Project start-up, though
delayed by the postponement of the original terminal date of effectiveness to
facilitate the ratification of documents and transmittal of the legal opinion,
was facilitated by the acquisition of sites for the TTCs as well as adequate
sources of water supply and municipal electricity. A suitable site for the



- 5 -
MOR NPITI was also acquired prior to the loan's effectiveness and the use of
the designs of the Irbid NPITI (financed under the Fourth Education Project -
Ln.2068) facilitated the timely implementation of this component.
11.         An in-country seminar cum project launch workshop conducted by
Bank staff was instrumental in shaping the relevant officials' understanding
of the project's objectives, Bank guidelines and reporting relationships
(between the project-financed entities, the Bank and the Ministry of
Planning).   Furniture and equipment procurement was implemented without
difficulty, athough slightly delayed in the case of some JIPA supplies and the
quality of the goods supplied was satisfactory. For some components, some of
the furniture and equipment requirements were provided through grants from
Canada, Germany, Australia, the USA and UK.  Some further equipment
procurement needs were identified at one of the TTCs (Aqaba) specifically for
spare parts and heavy-duty training center machinery. However, these
requirements were not communicated to the Bank and unutilized loan funds were
not made available for this purpose. As noted previously, the project's TA
program was funded mainly with grant assistance and was successfully
accomplished.   Implementation highlights for the project components are noted
below:
(a) The VTC com2onent. A project implementation unit (PIU) which had
been established at the VTC under the Fourth Education Project (Loan 2068-JO)
was adequately staffed to manage and administer the VTC component of the First
Manpower Development Project.   Construction was well-executed and adequately
supervised. All project training centers originally included in the project
were completed by December 1990, at which time four of the centers had begun
functioning. Technical assistance activities (curriculum development for
selected specializations) were completed and the curricula and instructional
materials field tested as part of an evaluation and finalization process.
Certain foreign specialist services were replaced, quite successfully, by
local experts. OSHI began its operations in 1983 on the premises of the Wadi
Seir TTC and construction of the new facility was completed in 1988. The new
TTCs and OSHI are well located with adequate access to the surrounding areas
and industry. The site layouts provide a pleasant environmenc and are
appropriate to their functional requirements.  only one of the VTC sites
experienced considerable delay due to the financial difficulties of the
contractor and the subsequent appointment of two other contractors to complete
the work. The buildings were well planned and provided the necessary
facilities. Maintenance is adequately carried out by TTC staff and students.
(b) The JIPA ComDonent. This component of the project also performed
very well. It had accomplished most of its objectives by mid-1990 (with the
exception of final procurement of additional instructional equipment and
materials, as well as some of the scheduled technical assistance). All 36
staff-months of fellowship training planned for the program were completed.
Although only about five weeks of the planned 24 staff-months of consultant
services were financed from the loan, the remaining specialist services were
financed mainly by USAID and staff training was completed by the end of 1988
with excellent results. UNDP financed the remaining specialist services (a
total of 26.75 staff-months) envisaged by the project under their program with
JIPA (JOR/89/501) which began in 1990.



-6 -
(c) The NPITI. The design of the building at Zarka replicated that of
the Irbid Institute which was financed under the Fourth Education project
(Loan 2068-JO). However, while the buildings were designed for about 760
student places, the merger of the Amman and Zarka nursing colleges has created
heavy demands on teaching space, particularly on classrooms, which are
designed for thirty students and which now accommodate fifty. Maintenance of
this institute has been carried out efficiently. A private firm, under a two-
year contract with the MOH, is responsible for upkeep of the premises. A
zesident MOH engineer inspects the buildings and assesses the need for
repairs, after which the private firm is responsible for undertaking the
necessary actions. Staff of the MOH PIU which was created under the Fourth
Education Project (Loan 2068) were suitably trained and knowledgeable about
Bank guidelines and procedures to carry out the implementation of the First
Manpower Development Project. In addition, staff of a project management unit
(PMU), created under the Bank-financed Primary Health Care Project (Loan 2531-
JO) monitored and facilitated the ongoing action programs. A tracer study
which was to be started under the Fourth Education Project and continued under
the First Manpower Development project by the MOH was not done because all
NPITI students are Government employees and study under fellowships with the
obligation to serve in the Government at least double the time they have spent
in their studies.
(d) Prolect Costs and Disbursements. Actual project costs amounted to
75% of those originally estimated due to the merging of two paramedical
nursing institutes for efficiency, thereby requiring less equipment and
furniture than anticipated at appraisal; and to changes in unit costs
resulting from the devaluation of the JD during the implementation period. A
balance of US$2,772,659.36 million in loan funds was unutilized and cancelled
effective May 17, 1993. Disbursement performance was very impressive during
the project's initial implementation phase and far exceeded appraisal
estimates during 1986-1989.
F.    Prolect Results
12.         The project's physical targets were all achieved.  Although the
actual outputs for OSHI, the VTCs and the NPITI in 1991/92 were still lower
than the appraisal estimates, they are expected to approach these estimates by
full project development (1995). Enrollments are close to those anticipated
at the project design stage with the exception of the NPITI, where a
Government deciE )n to reduce the planned trade training courses for the
paramedical institute from five to two, has limited the number of enrollees in
ongoing programs (Table 10). Construction at the project institutions was of
above-average quality and maintenance mechanisms for the facilities is
satisfactory. Procurement of furniture and equipment was carried out
efficiently, with the exception of some minor delays for the JIPA component.
Covenants were all complied with except for the decision to cancel the
requirement for the tracer study (to monitor job placement of NPITI graduates)
since trainees are all employed by the Government. There were some delays in
the submission of audit reports for the MOH component. Project costs were
lower than anticipated at appraisal for all project components due to the
merging of project facilities (MOH component) which reduced the need for



equipment and furnishings; and to unit cost changes resulting from the
devaluation of the JD during project implementation. Specific results are
provided below:
(a) The VTC has estimated that the total number of employers and
enterprises who have benefitted from the project is approximately 1343. The
OSHI facility is fully operational and is promoting the application of
occupational safety and health standards in Jordan through advice to
governmental and official bodies concerning safety standards; providing
training services to official organizations and to industry, promoting
teaching of health and safety through the educational system; providing
consultancy services to industry, and conducting work studies in the field of
occupational safety and health throughout Jordan. Consultancy services
undertaken by OSHI include, inter alia, safety policies and programs for
specific companies; appointment of safety officers and staff; and selection
and use of all forms of safety equipment.
(b) JIPA's overall program of administrative/management training as
well as the organization's efficiency in fulfilling its mandate was improved
through the receipt of training, audio-visual and filing equipment, as well as
office machinery and other supplies financed under the project. Most
importantly, its updated resource-training films library is utilized not only
by JIPA but also by other educational institutions in the country such as the
Universities of Jordan, Yarmouk, Mu'tah, the Jerusalem Open University, and
the Royal Jordanian Airlines Training Center. Computer systems were developed
for all fields of managerial, financial and documentation activities at JIPA
as a result of the installation of the computer hardware and systems software.
In JIPA's case, expert services were secured with UNDP financing -- about
$750,000 (of the total amount of $1.25 million). The UNDP three-year training
program began in 1990. During 1991, JIPA conducted fifty-nine general and
special training programs of short duration totalling 2341 training hours and
attended by 1141 participants. General programs are usually issued in a
special brochure circulated to all public and private agencies in the country,
inviting employees from various departments to participate. Special training
programs are training courses designed to fulfill particular needs in one
department or ministry upon request. Such programs are attended by
participants from the requesting agency.
(c)   The NPITI.  With regard to the training for nurses, about 328 have
been enrolled since 1989 (startup of the project-funded institution) and a
total of 287 had graduated by 1991/92. About 147 midwives enrolled from :989
through 1992 and a total of 102 had graduated by 1991/92. About 140 nurses
and midwives graduated in 1991/92. This output far exceeds the appraisal
output annual targets of eighty nurses and twenty-five midwives by full
project development in 1995.  With regard to the paramedical institute at the
same facility, training in five trades was in progress up to the 1990/91
school year but was reduced to two trades (Public Health and X-Ray
Technicians) by 1992/93, in conformity with Government policy. In 1991/1992,
ninety-one graduated as techniciars. About 131 graduates are expected for
1992/93, which is close to the appraisal estimate of 155 graduates at full
project development (1995).



G.    Proiect Sustainability
13.           Demand for graduates of project institutions is strong and
steady: VTC trainees are readily accepted for jobs in industry; JIPA and OSHI
are providing consultant services beside their regular training functions
which will assist in sustaining their quality and fiscal viability. There is
strong Government commitment to iund operations and maintenance at project
institutions: maintenance and upkeep of the facilities is efficient at project
sites and this will ensure the continued functioning of the institutions at a
satisfactory level.
H.    Bank Performance
14.         Bank supervision missions reviewed the progress of the project's
components at least once a year and were effective in monitoring project
activities. As a result, loan funds were utilized efficiently and the major
project components were completed alhead of schedule. Project indicators were
collected, analyzed and discussed with counterpart staff, and issues were
addressed promptly. The Bank also provided expertise, guidance and coaching
regarding its guidelines and procedures, as needed during project
implementation.   In its review of the project the JIPA agency noted that more
clarification of the financial procedures required to implement the project
could have been provided by the Bank and that there was some delay in the
Bank's procurement approval responses. VTC management noted in its review
that Bank supervision missions should be timed to coincide with critical
implementation events, to facilitate a joint review of documentation and
thereby avoid time-consuming correspondence.
1.    Borrower' s Performance
15.         Regular quarterly and yearly reports were provided by the VTC and
JIPA, greatly assisting the Bank in monitoring the progress of the project,
both at headquarters and during field visits. All agencies prepared very
professional and detailed end of project reports which facilitated the Bank's
preparation of the project completion report. Staff at all institutions and
agencies were available and willing to assist the Bank review missions,
specifically in the provision of data and arrangements for site visits. The
MOP provided a valuable liaison function between the project entities and the
Bank and was very efficient and successful in securing technical assistance --
fellowship training and expert services -- for the various project-financed
entities.
J.    Borrower-Bank Relationship
16.         Bank supervision staff were consistent in their support to
counterpart staff, which facilitated effective and efficient project
implementation. All Jordanian personnel in charge of project related



activities were efficient, professional and cordial in providing documentation
and carrying out the recommendations of the Bank. Bank staff and local
project staff greatly benefitted from each other's experience and assistance
throughout project implementation.
K.    Consultinci Services
17.         Expert services for civil works were utilized mainly under the VTC
component of the project and the designs and tender documents for the VTC
training centers were prepared under the supervision of VTC management, by
consultant architects and engineers whose qualifications and experience were
acceptable to the Bank. An engineering firm was engaged for the design of
buildings and the preparation of construction tender documents for all
institutions supported under the VTC component (with the exception of the TTC
at Irbid where design and construction were the responsibility of the
Industrial Estate Authority - who later handed the site over to the VTC).
Under the managemnent and direction of the UNDP, experts were secured to
provide services for JIPA. Considerable grant assistance was provided to the
MOH for expert services.
L. Prolect Documentation and Data
18.         All relevant working papers, including end of project reports from
the VTC, JIPA and MOH were readily available for use in preparing the PCR.
MOH staff also provided their documentation with regard to project
implementation promptly, but experienced some difficulty in determining the
proportion of the technical assistance they received which was directly
related to project objectives. Actual costs of grant-financed technical
assistance had not been computed by the recipient agencies and could not be
added to the costs of the project. The Bank's staff appraisal report (SAR)
was well documented, provided a suitaele background of information for the
conditions existing at the time the project was appraised and was a useful
tool in monitoring progress of the various project-related objectives. The
legal document was also concise and clear and, together with the SAR, assisted
the implementing agencies in the execution of project-related functions.
M.    Conclusions and Lessons Learned
19.         The decision to utilize the same designs for the NPITI institute
at Zarka as those prepared for the Irbid NPITI financed under the Fourth
Education Project (Loan 2068-JO), was cost-effective and enhanced the
implementation of this component. In spite of the changes in management
personnel at the MOH during the project's implementation phase, project-
related activities progressed smoothly mainly because key PIU staff who had
been trained in Bank procedures and requirements under a previous,Bank project
were experienced in the implementation of Bank projects. Moreover, a project
launch workshop at the project's inception assisted all relevant counterpart
staff in understanding the objectives and requirements of the project and
their role in its implementation. Finally, it was an oversight to include the
covenant for a tracer system for MOH institute graduates in the Loan



- 10 -
Agreement, given that all NPITI students are government employees and study
under fellowships with the obligation to serve in the government at least
double the time they have spent in their studies.
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
THE JORDAN INSTITUTE OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (JIPA)
A.    Comments on Part III:
All information provided in Part III of the Project Completion Report is
adequate and accurate. The analysis contained in Part I of the PCR is
also very realistic and logical.
B.    Bank Performance:
Despite the fact that the project workshop was instrumental to acquaint
local couaterpart staff with the objectives and requirements of the
project, a few steps should be taken to increase the efficiency of such
workshops in the future such as:
1.    More clarification of the financial procedures required; the
relationship between the Ministry of Planning as the national
financial supervising body through which disbursements are
approved and received by beneficiaries, and between all otber
parties concerned.
2.    W.B. approval on certain requests took so much time at certain
instances, which requires the set of a contingency procedures if
possible.
3.    It might be relevant if few local W.B. procedures consultants be
named to advise on administrative and logistical matters,
pertaining to future projects especially for agencies dealing with
such projects for the first time. "JIPA often sought the advice
of such consultants found in the Ministry of Education at the
beginning of the project."
Other than the above W.B. performance during the evolution and
implementation of the project was excellent.
C.    Borrower's Performance:
JIPA's performance was very good, but certain difficulties arose at the
beginning in our relationship with the Ministry of Planning regarding
the financial procedures.
Other difficulties included partial negligence of certain administrative
and logistical matters that were clarified upon contacting experienced



- 11 -
personnel from the Ministry of Education who have a long history in
dealing with W.B. projects.
The relationship between JIPA and W.B. missions was very constructive
and extremely effective. It helped us keep an open and continuous
communication channel from the planning stage to the very end of the
project.
Follow up missions should be continued to assure accurate and flawless
implementation of any project.
Finally, we extend our warmest thanks to all W.B. mission members who visited
J.PA. Their advice, guidance and professional cooperation was of paramount
importance in the success of this project.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH (MOB) COMPONENT: THE NURSING AND PARAMEDICAL INTEGRATED
TRAINING INSTITUTE (NPITI)
A.    Implementation of MOE component of the project (NPITI) was smooth with
no constraints or difficulties. The construction of NPITI was ahead of
schedule and it was finished before the end of project life.
The number of trainees exceeded the planned number for many categories.
The main factors that facilitated easy and timely implementation of
project activities are:
1.    Experience of project management unit staff gained from administration
similar project (Irbid NPITI).
2.    Using the same architectural designs used in Irbid institute with minor
modifications.
B.    Evaluation of Bank's missions who visited the country to review
project's progress were helpful and supportive all through the implementation
phase. The main lesson learned is that infrequent change in mission
composition facilitates continuous and easy communication between both
parties: MOH and the Bank.
C.    Evaluation of Borrower's performance and lessons learned:  The Ministry
of Planning has done a great job as a liaison agency between MOH and the Bank
and as coordinator of all project components. The PMU in the MOH has had a
good experience in implementing similar project: therefore implementation of
health component was not faced by difficulties such as those encountered
during implementation of Irbid Institute.
The main lesson learned is that for success of project implementation,
there should be a full time project management staff who have experience in
their fields.



- 12 -
D.    Relationship between the Bank and the Borrower:  Direct relationship was
between the Ministry of Planning and the Bank. The MOH contacted the Bank
through the MOP. The relationship between MON and the Bank was through World
Bank missions who visited the country and it was a very good relationship.
THE VOCATIONAL TRAINING CORPORATION
1.    BANK PERFORMANCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
Bank performance, through follow up missions, was more than satisfactory
in financial matters. All problems related to disbursement schedule,
withdrawals from the account and reallocation were solved in due time and
without delay. This made it possible to complete the components of the
project in, nearly, the planned time.
Lessons Learned:
From Borrowers point of view, the Bank should pay a greater role in the
technical and managerial aspects of the projects it finances. This can be
achieved through:
o     Creating a new department in the Bank the function of which is
recommended to be the follow up of aspects other than financial.
O     Providing a staff development program for the purpose of training
Borrower's staff, and arranging seminars or workshops periodically
to discuss with Borrower's project management staff all aspects of
procedures etc. requiring clarification.
O     Arranging for the introduction of procurement systems other than
conventional system currently used in developing countries.  lhe
Management Contract System is recommended for civil works.
O     Development of an evaluation procedure for tenders that facilitate
selection of the most suitable tender which is not necessarily of
the lowest price.
And finally, we may suggest that successive supervision missions should
be timed, as far as possible, to coincide with critical events such as the
completion of any plans or equipment lists, bid analyses, or the presentation
of training studies. Material may, thereby, be reviewed and discussed in the
field without repeated and perhaps time-consuming exchanges of correspondence.



- 13 -
2.    BORROWER' S PERFORMANCE
VTC performance was satisfactory as the project was monitored and
controlled adequately. The Bank was informed in due time about all activities
through quarl-erly progress reports covering the period of implementation. It
is to be noted that the project was administered and managed by existing
departments and sections within the permanent government organization.
Lessons Learned:
o     The design adopted for the project could influence the design of
similar future projects. In fact it had already influenced the
design of components under Human Resources Development Sector
Investment Loan.
o     Completion of construction works could be faster if the owner
supervise the work through his own staff rather than engaging a
private engineering office.
O     The availability of any unit capable of managing project
implementation should be as certained as early in project
development as practicable and the possibility of its undertaking
such responsibilities discussed with the Borrower. Arrangements
should be made for key personnel to participate in project
development. If it is found necessary to establish a special
unit, the Borrower should assign key staff in time to participate
in the preparation and appraisal stages.
Where local staff for key project management posts may be difficult to
recruit, the need for technical assistance should be noted an da search for
candidates.



-14-
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1. RLATED DAM VWANS
Loan Number         Year        Purpose of Project
Proiect Title       Approved   Components                           Status
Cr.285-JO            1972       Purpose                             Completed
Education I                     Improve quality of education;
increase supply of skilled
manpower.
24M2on_2nte
2 Comprehensive Secondary Sch.
I Polytechnic & Teacher Trng.Cen.
TA for institutional support,
curriculum development, teacher
training and a tracer system.
Cr.534-JO            1975       Purog                               Completed
Education II                    Similar to Education I.
1 Polytechnic; 3 Comprehensive
schools; 1 Trade Training Center;
i Hotel Training School; 1 Rural
Development Center; Technical
Assistance for each component.
Ln.1781-JO           1979       trig0eS                             Completed
Education III                   Similar to Education I.
Comionents
5 Comprehensive Secondary Schs;
I Teacher Training Institute;
I Community College; 1 Training
Complex; 8 Mobile Units;
Technical Assistance for evalua-
tion mechanism; computerized MIS
for Min.of Educ; project institu-
tions; project management support.
Ln.2068-JO           1981       Purpose                             Completed
Education IV                    To meet critical shortage of
skilled workers and technicians
required for industrial develop-
ment; ensure adequate supply of
vocational subject teachers;
provide increased post-secondary
general and occupational education;
contribute to increase of general
vocational secondary schools and
trade training centersl and
alleviate shortages of qualified
paramedical, nursing and mid-
wifery personnel.



-15-
TABLE 1. RELATED BANK LOANS
Paae 2
Loan Number         Year        Purpose of Project
Prolect Title       Approved   Com2onent2                               Status
Ln.2068-JO            1981      Comoonents                              Completed
Education IV                    1 new Polytechnic; Expansion of
the technical teacher training
program at the Marka Polytec.;
Conversion of two technical
training schools into community
colleges; 4 new general voca-
tional secondary schools; 1 new
vocational training center; 1
new nursing/paramedical ins-
titute; Technical assistance
(UNDP funding).
Ln.2246-JO            1983      Purnose                                Completed
Education V                     Increase supply of skilled man-
power; provide access to basic
schooling for nomadic popula-
tions; strengthen Min.of Ed.
Comionents
15 General Vocational Secondary Schs.;
3 Centralized Preparatory Schools;
TA to train instructors, strengthen
the Min.of.Ed; prepare future follow
up projects.
SPIRZiSi
Other closed and ongoing projects for Jordan includes
1. A Sixth Education project (Ln.2378), approved in 1984/closed in May 93,
expanded the facilities for compulsory and secondary school.
2. A Primary Health Care project (Ln.2531), approved in 1985/closed May 93,
reorganized the primary health care system;
3. A Seventh Education project (Ln.2870), approved in 1987, is
improving the quality and expandi4g the coverage of compulsory education;
4. A Human Resources Development project (Ln.3106), approved in 1989, is
supporting the first four-year phase of the Government's educat$on
reform program; and
5. A Health Management project (Ln.3S74), approved in 1993, is assisting
the Government in improving the health status of the population through
enhanced primary and hospital services and reform of the Ministry of
Health's organization, management, finances and planning capacity.



-16-
TABLE 2. PR0JIET TIME L
Platmed         Revised           Actual
ActivitY                             Date             DateDte
Reconnaissance                      03/23/84            -             03/23/84
Identification                      07/15/84            -             07/15/84
Preparation                         09/15/84            -             09/15/84
Appraisal                           01/23/85            -             01/23/85
Negotiations                        09/09/BS            -             091/1/85
Approval                            11/12/85            -llf2/8S
Signing                             11/25/85            -             11/25/85
Effectiveness                       03/25/86          06/25/86        06/25/86
Completion                          12/31/91            -             12/31/91
closing                             12/31/92                          12/31/92
Final Disbursement                                                    05/17/93



TABLE 3.  CUMUlATIVE ESTIT&TED AND ACgUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
--- ----------- Bank Fiscal rear      - - - -
'    .         ~~~~86  _87   88     89    90  _91    92    3_
Appraisal Estimates             0.10  0.50  1.50  3.90  6.80  8.60  9.70 10.20
Actual                         013  0.89  2.87  5.01  6.38  6.99  7.52  7,471
% Actual/Estimate                130  178   191   178    94    81    77   74
Date of Final Disbursement     Xay 17, 1993
I/ Although US$7.53 million was disbursed from the loan, the refund of the
undisbursed balance of the special account (made on May 17, 1993) reduced the
actual total loan disbursed to US$7,477,340.64. An unutilized balance of
US$2,722,659.36 was cancelled effective May 17, 1993.
JORDAN-LANPOWER DEV. PROJECT- LN.2633
CMUZAWtASUN & AuAL DEBURM)E7s
12*,
to   ..  ... .     . ........................... .........................
I   - ..-....-..--   .j    .  i
.a -----...s
4   -
2          - -. .-
to" 107 106 10890 o0 1901  1990 103
BANXt FTISCAL YEA
M PU. N    AA L
MMk rAffN APu SuoMWX=



-18-
TABLE 4.  PLANNED AND 69MUL AOLETION DATES OFG CIVL MORKS
NO.OF NTHS.
COMPONENTS                          ESTIMATE        ACTUAG           PELU
VTC COMPONENT:
OSHI                             04/88              05/88              1
TTC Hashemieh Ext.               12/87              11/87             -1
TTC Yajouze Ext.                 12/87              11/87             -1
TTC Aqaba                        01/89              03/90             14
TTC AlSafi                       01j89              03/90             14
TTC Irbid                        10/89              10/90             12
TTC Zarka                        10/89              12/90             14
Driver Trng.Yard-Hasheimieh       -                 05/92
NPITI IMOB                       09/89              09/89               0
The delays in the completion dates of civil works were in relation to appraisal
estimates, but all civil works were completed before the planned completion date of
December 19915 except for the Driver Training Yard at Hasheimieh, which was added to
the project in 1991. Construction of the training yard, however, did not delay
project closing, since tne loan closed, as schedulet, on December 31, 1992.



-19-
TABLE 5. CIVIL W0RKR PROCURENENT SCHEDULE
DATE OF       CONTRACT    CIVIL WORKS
XINSTITUTION                  ZIR             SIGNED       STARTED
.OsuI                          07/86           08/86         10/86
.Yajouze Extension             07/86           09/86         10/86
.Hashimieh Extension           07/86           09/86         10/86
.TTC Aqaba                     08/86           11/86         12/86
.TTC AlSafi                    08/86           11/86         12/86
.TTC Irbid                     02/87           03/87         04/87
.Driver Training Yard          05/91           07/91         07/91
NPITI                          06/87            09/87        11/87



-20-
TABLE 6. ?LANND AND ACTUAL TECHNTCAL ASSISTAECE
(Staff Months)
Component/Type                        mm         NR         JIPA
----- (Nanmonths)  -
Fellowshi-s
Planned (SA.R)                        6.5        38.0        36
Actual                                 -         35.0        36
% Actual/Planned                       -          92%       100%
Snecialist Services
Planned (SAR)                         9.0        27.0        24
Actual                                 -           -          s
% Actual/Planned                       -           -         21%
COMMENTS:
All planned technical assistance (fellowhips and specialist services) has been
provided, although these were not always financed by the loan: VTC fellowships and
specialist services were financed from foreign grants; MOH (NPITI) specialist
services were financed through grants; and JIPA specialist services were completed
under a UNDP project.



-21-
TABLE 7. PROJECT COSTS
(US$ Million)
Estimated Costs                       Actual Cgsts
Catecory                 Local    Foreign      Total          Local   Foreicn   Total
Civil Works                5.6     5.4         11.0           5.59    3.82         9.41
Equipment                  0.8     4.7          5.5              -     3.40        3.40
Technical Assistance       1.7     0.1          1.8           0.88    0.2s         1.13
TOTAL                  8.1    12           18.3           6.47      _i47     13.94
-     The actual project Costs amounted to 7S% of originally planned costs due to the
merging of some health facilities, which reduced the need for equipment and
furniture; and to changes in unit costs resulting from the devaluation of the
Jordanian Dinar during project implementation.
-     Specific amounts of all the grants provided to the Government for technical
assistance have not be computed by the relevant agencies and could not be added to
actual project cost information.
TABLE 8. PROJECT FTNANCING
(US$ Million)
PLAN              ACTUAL
Government                8.1                6.47
Bank                     12                  7.47
18.3              13.94
COMMENTS:
An undisbursed amount of US$2,722,659.36 was cancelled effective May 17, 1993



-22-
TABLE 9. ALLOCATION O LOAN PROCEEDS
(US$ Million)
Original              Actual
Catestory                                    Allocation           Disbursement
Civil Works                                   5,000,000           3,821,866.86
Furniture & Equipment                         4,100,000           3,403,651.14
Consultants' Services & Fellowships             100,000             251,822.64
Unallocated                                    1,000,000                -
TOTAL                 10,200.000          7,477,340.64
An undisbursed amount of US$2,722,6S9.36 was cancelled effective May 17, 1993.



-23-
ALE 10. SDENT  NROLLMENTS A   OTPTS
(1991/92)
NO. OF      AUPRASAL ESTIMATES       ------ ACTUAL ------
nIsITCITuoNs       nunRs       ENOLfgN=Sm OUtT         rsNROLLMENTS   OVnTPSS
OSI              -500                      500          474          389
VTCs                               1977   1310         2193          591
.Aqaba           7            210         128          267   *       74
.AlSafi          6            418         254          470          112
.Zarka           4            400         350       150/200 a]      Al
.Irbid           5            365         222          155
.Hashimieh Ext.     4             292        178          639 5/               154
.Yajouze Ext.    4            292         178          312 4/       251
NPITZ                             700        260           204         231
.Paramedical a]  2                        155                        91
.Nursing         -                        105                       140
J7PA (Participants).U            1000       1000         1141         1141
A/    Full-time/Part-time participants -- No. of graduates not available for 1991/92, but
a total of 893 individuals have been trained since 1988.
ki   Total graduates for all sessionsr not available.  Enrollments for short courses
totalled 54 and the number of graduates for these courses was 33.
1    Information for 1991/92 is combined and includes three-year apprenticeship courses
and one-year intermediate courses.
gI    This figure represents two shifts.
a]    The number of health tecbnician courses offered was dec=eazaa from five to two in
accordance with revised Government policy.
sJ    These are all courses of short-duration, so enrollments and outputs coincide.
NCIE: Appraisal estimates refer to 199S, at full project development, while actual
enrollments and outputs correspond to 1991/92.



-24-
TABLE 11.  CONEPLMICE llTH LOAN COVKpAIMM
Status of Compliance
Source of                         14
Description of Covenant     I Covenant  Conditions   | Action    | Conditions I Discussion
Not Complied  Pendino    Met
With
Within six months of the     Section  j             ;              X
signature of the Loan        3.01 lb)
Agreement, Borrower shall             1              1 j       ;
make arrangements for securing
foreign exchange required for         I              I         I           I
the implementation of the             j              t
project.                    ;
To provide adequate staffing of t Section            1 t          X          Staffing atthe PlUs
VTC and MOH Project         1 3.02     1             j         I           I is adequate
Implementation Units.       t                                  j
Not later than six months after  j Section                     1  x        I Audit reports were
the end of each fiscal year,  4.01 (b) |                                     prepared annually.
Borrower shall furnsih a     and 4.01
certified copy of the audit  (c) Uiv)
report to the Bank, Including an
audit of the Special Account.
Tracer system to be established | Section                        N.R.        This covenent WaS
for Irbid NPM to be extended to  4.02                1         1           i waived as irreevant
all MOH training instutitions.                    |                          since all graduates
a             a         a           i . | areobligedtowork
I         I             I          I      .       |{(and theydo) forthe
i         I____I__                 J     I       Govemment
Not relevant



-25-
TABLEI 12: MISSION DATA AND STAFF INPUTS BY PROJECT STAGE
Activitv           PY        Staff/Consultant8 Sbecialties        Staffweeks
Preparation        84          EDC                                     4.2
Preappraisal       85          EDC, ARC                               12.6
Appraisal           85         EDC, ARC, ECN                          27.1
Post Appraisal     86          ARC, ECN, EDUC                          3.1
Negotiations        86         ARC, ECN                                3.2
Supervision        86          ECN, ARC                                 .8
Supervision        87          ARC, TECED, ECN                         6.8
Supervision        88          ARC, MAA, ECN, OA, EDC                  6.8
supervision.       89          ECN, ARC, EDC                          2.8
Supervision        90          BCH, EDC, HRS                          3.6
Supervision        91          ECN, TECED, EDC                        3.7
Supervision        92          HRS, 00, OA, EDC, ARC                  8.1
supervision        93          ARC, OA, TECED, HRS                    2.3
Completion         93          TECED, ARC, OA                          2.2
87.3
8T^FF/SPECIALTIES
ARC                Architect
ECN                Economist
MDC                Education Specialist
HRS                Human Resources Specialist
lEAA               Division Chief/Deputy
OA                 Operations Assistant
00                 Operations Officer
TECED              Technical Education Specialist
5:SMENTS t
Staffweeks in the field during supervision missions reflect project time shared with
five other ongoing projects in the PHR portfolio.



- 26 -
Table 1: STAFF INPUTS
(Staff Weeks)
Fiscal Year    Preappraisal  Appraisal  Negotiation   Supervision    Other   Total
1984            .7                                                          .7
1985          12.6         27.1                                   4.2     43.9
1986                        1.4          3.2          .8          1.7       7.1
1987                                                  6.7                  6.7
1988                                                  6.8                  6.8
1989                                                  2.8                  2.8
1990                                                  3.6                  3.6
1991                                                  3.7                  3.7
1992                                                   1                   851
1993                                                  85                   8.5
Totals         13.3         28.5           3.2        41.0         5.9      91.9



- 27 -
ANNEX 1:  PERSONS PATICIPATING IN COMPLETION NISSION
MlNzstrv of Health
Dr.Abdalla M. Hamdan, Director of Planning S Research, MOH
Dr.Abdul Rahim Jalal, Director, Medical Education Dept.
Mr.Bassam N. Monayer, Accountant
Mr.Qasim Nanan, Architect
Ms.Sana' Jawhari, Procurement Officer
JIPA
Dr.Zuhair All Rayed, Director
Me. Lina Qardan, Administrative Officer
-'TC
Dr.Ahmed Atwan, Director General
ibdelazir Moh'd Ayyash -- Head of VTC Project Department, Amman
Zarka NPITI
Mrs. Malak Jaradeh, Director (Nursing Institute)
Institute for Specialized Nursina Studies (Al Bashir Hosoital)
Mrs. Huda Abu Hamdeh Quteishat, Director
UNDP
Dr.Montaser J. Oklah, Program Officer
THE WORLD BANR
Ms. P.Maughan, Population & Human Resources Division Staff
Mr. S. Syrimis, Consultant Vocational Trng.Specialist
Mr. J. Antoniou, Consultant Architect/Implementation Specialist



MAP SECTION



/  .  ,\,{t .Wt.'3'''$,tNt:    w                                                    IBRD 18
;      oothshu*  irott    ~~~~S Y R I A N                                          
.            4'<  tZE15; W                          ~~~~~A R A B         
- V _]                                     REP.
(   ' -   .  \<  z }  Et.    X y  \      \                                / ~~a.  Atn
ToO.s,euw    SYRofIKhAN,
IsbId ~ ~ ~        ~       ~        ~      ~       SAD
( '; ' 'N                                                     ARA.                                     7RABIA
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
JORDAN
MANPOWER TRAINING I PROJECT
L     JORDAN INSTIT,T. OF P,.UC ADMINISTRATION
AL   TRADE TRAINNG CeNTERS
U OCCUPATIONA SAFET AND HEALTH INSTIUT
0  EXTENSIONS
(                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NURSING AND PARAMEDICAL. INEGRATED
'-,  I                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECOND CLASS ROADS
OTHER itOADS .   . '   . . tpa Ad
WADI3             by Th. Wcdd SwA'sstaff
,e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x AW iX S.K'-
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oulJ fo .,o'ais
.'\%CCP D TERRITOR-ES
pwo of owpdook Gp
t*~~~I~~           A  '~~RAO
I   k  >  Ay    . .                                        TRAtNING INSnTUTE~~~~~ARA
/~~~fRUdyOR. '  I  
- /                                                -OTHfR ROASEPUBLIC
i   2                     } t                                  _               .                } ) s . . A NW EGYP



