Doumentof
The World Bank
]FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
/AI 2 G33- 1
Report N. 5704-30
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST MiAN'POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 24, 1985
Education and Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
lhis decueet h  a rudicd ili&btdemd my e mod by reeWleats dy Is the pedminme of
Itheir offcia dotlea& lb cg.jmb may  met  erwise be dAwldo  without Wiw  Um.k amtorboatie-



PRINCIPAL ABBREVIAIIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
GVSS  -  General Vocational Secondary School
ICB    -  International Competitive Bidding
Jim    - Jordan Institute of Management
JIPA   - Jordan Institute of Public Administration
LCB    - Local Competitive Bidding
MOE   - Ministry of Education
MO    - Ministry of Health
MOL   - Ministry of Labor
MOP   - Ministry of Planning
MOPW   - Ministry of Public Works
NIPITI - Nursing/Paramedical Integrated Training Institute
OSKI  - Occupational Safety and Health Institute
PIU   - Project Implementation Unit
PMUI    - Project Management Uait
TA     - Technical Assistance
TTC    - Trade Training Center
UNRWA - United Nations Relief and Works Administration
VTC    - Vocational Training Corporation
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US Dollar ($) 1.00 = Jordanian Dinar (JD) 0.400
JD 1.000 = US$2.50
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
RASBhITE KIN4D0K OF JORDAN
FIRST MANPOWER DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIAIIONS AND ACRONY!S USED ............... (i)
BASIC DATA .................................            (ii)
I. THE SETTIN .1
Development and Econmic Setting   .         .
Manpower Considerations ........................    .      2
Sector Background .......................................  4
The Vocational Training Corporation (VTC) ...............  4
Management and Administrative Training .     .................  6
Health Services and Manpower             .       .         8
Training of Nurses, Midwives
and Health Technicians-................--.-........   9
Bank Strategy and Lending for
Education and Training..: .............................. 10
Experience with P ast .......................................... 11
II     TH E PROJECT13
Introduction .13
Project Objectives ..................................... 13
Project Composition ..................................    13
Project Output Contribution to
Meeting Manpower Requirements ..........................  15
Trade Training Centers (TTCs) ........................... 17
Occupational Safety and Health
Institute (OSRI) ................................        17
Strengthening the Jordan lstitute
of Public Administration (JIPA) ........................ 18
Nursing/Paramedical Integrated
Training Institute (NPITI) .............................  18
Technical Assistance (TA) Summary          .      .       19
This document has a restited distrbution and may be used by reipents only in the performance of
I their offKl duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
III.     PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, KANAGEMENT
AND EMPLEMENTATION .....................................  20
Project Costs                       ..     20
Recurrent Costs   ..23
Financing Plan   ..23
Disbursemeuts   ..25
Accounting and Auditing    .              .25
Special Accout   ..26
Project Managemnt   ..26
Status of Preparation         ..                              27
Project Implementation             ..28
IV.  BENlEFITS AND RISKS .30
Benefits  . .30
Risks..----.30
V.     AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOM MEATION. .31
SCHEDULES
I. Technical Assistance
II. Project Implementation
III. Disbursements
ANNEXES
1. Annual Growth Rates and Structure
of Employment (1972-83)
2.  Manpower Requirements by Occupation 1980-90
3.  Vocational Training Corporation--Organization,
Plan of Action, and Budget
4. Vocational Training Corporation--
Enrollments in Trade Training Centers
5. Health Manpower--Supply and Demand Estimates at
Skilled and Semi-Skilled Worker Levels
6.  Vocational Training Corporation-Project Training Centers--
Enrollment, Training Places, Output
7. Manpower Supply and Demand Estimates at Skilled
and Semi-Skilled Worker Levels
8. Project Base Cost and Financing Details for Project Sub-Components
9. Area and Capital Cost Per Trainee/Student Place
10. Local Competitive Bidding Procedures
11. Comparative Education Indicators
12. Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAP



(ii)
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
BASIC DATA a/
Population (1983 Estimate)
Jordan (East Bank only)                             2.6 million
Annual rate of growth:
including inmigration                             4.0%
current natural increnase                         3.4%
Proportion less than 15 years old                  50%
labor Force (1983)                                     570,000
X in secondary sector                              27.0
GMP Per Capita (1983-East Bank only)                   US$1,710
School Enrollments (1983/84)
Enrollments Girls as 2 of
Level at Age Group         Grade           (000's)     Enrollments
Primary (6-11)             1- 6            441.1           47.9
Preparatory (12-14)        7- 9            191.4           46.2
Secondary (L5_17)         10-12            125.3           47.3
Higher (18-23)            13-16+            53.9           45.3
VTC Enrollmeats -                      1981/82        1984/85
Apprenticeship                          1,571          5,606
Short Training Courses                    875            847
Upgrading                                  68            200
a/ All data are for East Bank only.



EASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Sumnary
Borrower:    Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Amount:       US$10.2 million equivalent
Terms:        15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable rate interest
Project
Description:       The project would assist the orderly growth and development
of the country's educat onltraining system by providing support
for expansion of priority manpower development programs_   It
would   assist   the   Vocational   Training   Corporation   to:
(a) establish and equip  four new and  extend  and  equip  two
existing  trade   training  centers,  and  to  introduce  key
specializations not currently provided for (instrumentation and
control systems; business equipment maintenance; and operation/
maintenance  of  heavy  equipment);  (b)  provide   technical
assistance to develop new curricula and train staff for new
specializations   in   the   trade   training    centers;   and
(c) establish, equip and provide related technical assistance
for  an  occupational  safety  and  health  institute,  thereby
enhancing worker productivity. The project would also provide
technical assistance and training equipment for upgrading
management/administration training programs for the Jordan
Institute of Public Administration to complete and enhance
Jordan's management training capacity for the public and private
sectors.  In addition, the project would assist the Ministry of
Health to establish and equip a Nursing/Paramedical Integrated
Training  Institute,  and  provide  technical  assistance  for
developing curricula and staff training for a predominantly
female paramedical/nursing profession.
Benefits and
Risks            The project would strengthen Jordan's manpower development
system, and increase annual training output by 1,300 skilled and
semi-skilled   workers   and   260   nursing   and   paramedical
technicians. In addition, occupational education and training
programs would be directed to some 500 enterprise managers and
trainers per year, and the quality and coverage of management/
administration programs provided annually to about 1,000 private
and public sector managers would be upgraded.  There are no
substantive risks anticipated with the project.



(ii)
Estimated Proiect Costs*
Local          Foreign          Total
(US$Million)
Training Skilled Workers (VTC)     2.6              4.9            7.5
Training Nurses, Midwives and
Paramedies (HOH)                 2.0              3.2            5.2
Trining Public and Private
Sector Managers (JIPA)           0.1              0.6            0.7
Total Baseline Costs         4.7              8.7           13.4
Contingencies
Physical                     0.5              0.9            1.4
Price                        1.1              2.4            3.5
Total Project Costs                6.3             12.0           18.3
Financing Plan
Government                   6.3              1.8            8.1
Bank                          -              10.2           10.2
Total                              6.3             12.0           18.3
*These estimates exclude taxes from which project agencies are exempted.
Estimated Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year  1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Annual              0.1     0.4     1.0     2.4     2.9     1.8      1.1     0.5
Cumulative          0.1     0.5     1.5     3.9     6.8     8.6     9.7    10.2
Rate of Return: Not applicable.



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE SETTING
Development and Economic Setting
1.01    Political  stability,  sound  economic  management,  and  favorable
external circumstances enabled Jordan to record impressive socio-economic
accomplishments in the 1970's, including an average annual economic growth
rate of 12Z in real terms for the period 1976-80.  This performance was in
part attributable to spill-over benefits from the economic boom in neighboring
oil-exporting countries, including a rising volume of remittances from a
sharply increased number of Jordanians working in the oil-rich countries,
growing regional demand for Jordanian exports, and large inflows of grants,
mainly from Saudi Arabia, Iraq and Kuwait. In addition, Jordan benefited from
the relocation of foreign corporations which transferred from war-torn Beirut,
and from heavy use of the port of Aqaba for transit trade to Iraq due to the
Iraq-Iran war.
1.02    To achieve  the general  objective of sustaining  the momentum of
development activities and high economic growth rates, the 1981-85 Development
Plan called for further development of the country's limited natural resources
base (agriculture, water and domestic energy), creation of an institutional
framework and investment climate to strengthen the private sector, extending
education, health and other public services and utilities to the regions and
reducing regional income disparties, and a variety of measures that
appropriately recognized the crucial iole of human resources in Jordan's
development process. Specifically, human resources objectives in the Plan
included:   raising  the  production  potential  of  the  population  through
education and training; increasing the participation of women in the labor
force; and upgrading the efficiency of the public sector.
1.03    Sustaining the momentum of development and economic growth has been
increasingly challenging for Jordan in the 1980's. Falling oil prices have
adversely altered the economic circumstances of neighboring oil-endowed
countries, and this has been reflected in a diminishing scale of grant
assistance available to Jordan. In addition, slower economic expansion in the
oil states has curtailed their demand for Jordanian workers. Migration for
employment opportunities were in any event becoming relatively scarcer for
Jordanians as the infrastructure building phase of development approached
completion in the Gulf States, and because the oil states had increasingly met
their requirements for foreign manpower by engaging lower cost Asian labor.
Consequently, the net inflow of Jordanian worker's remittances, which in 1980



- 2 -
were equivalent to a little over one-fifth of GDP, stabilized and recently
have declined slightly. For the 1981-85 Development Plan period, average
annual economic growth is now estimated by the Bank to be 5-6X, and GDP growth
is expected to hover during the next few years at the level of 4-5X per annum
in real terms.
Manpower Considerations
1.04    The population of the East Bank, estimated at 2.6 million in 1983,
has been increasing at an average annual rate of about 41 since enumeration in
the 1979 Population Census. In addition to a natural rate of increase of 3.41
due to sustained high birth rates and declining mortality rates, the East Bank
population has been augmented by migration from the West Bank and, more
significantly, by immigration of non-Jordanian workers to replace Jordanian
migrants to the oil states.
1.05    Jordan's 1/ population is young (nearly half under the age of 15).
mainly urban (601 of the total), well educated (over 901 of the 6-14 age group
are  enrolled  in  schools)  and  highly  mobile.   Despite  a  slowdown  in
out-migration and signs of returning migration, the Ministry of Labor (MOL)
estimates the total number of Jordanian workers abroad in 1985 to be 365,000,
nearly 401 of the Jordanian labor force. Of the Jordanian migrants, about 851
are working in the oil-exporting Middle East countries. The fact that about
one-fourth of these are professionals and technicians arm almost two-thirds
are skilled workers suggests that the quality of Jordan's human capital has
been a key factor in explaining the migrants' continued success in the
currently prevailing relatively loose regional labor market.
1.06    From the mid 1970's to the early 1980's, a net deficit of manpower
available  to  the domestic  labor market  appeared  and  grew.   East  Bank
employment grew at an average annual rate of 4.3Z (5.51 excluding agriculture)
during the period 1972-79, and 4.71 (3.81  eluding agriculture) from 1979 to
reach an estimated 570,000 in 1983 (Annex 1). In spite of higher male labor
force participation rates responsive to plentiful job opportunities, and
increasing numbers of educated females participating in the labor force,
Jordan found it necessary in the mid-1970's to open its labor market to
non-Jordanians  in  order  to  fill  domestic  job  openings and  offset  the
large-scale  out-migration  of  Jordanians  to  the  oil  states.   By  1983,
approximately 130,000 non-Jordanians accounted for nearly one-quarter of the
resident East Bank labor force.
1.07    The contrast is sharp between the net manpower deficit situation of
the past decade and a prospective net surplus situation for the remainder of
the 1980's and on into the 1990's. Jordanian nationals' labor force growth in
the East Bank is projected to exceed 6X per annum because of rapid population
growth, increasing female labor force participation, and reduced migration for
employment opportunities in the Gulf labor market. By 1990, the net surplus
1/ All references to Jordan refer only to the East Bank of Jordan.



-3-
could reach soae 180.000. or 23Z of the labor force.  The projected manpower surplus.
however, takes only partial account of the dynamics of the Labor market, and it is quite
possible that an increasing volume of e=cess labor would emert downward pressure on wages
and foster labor intensive economic growth, thereby increasing labor demand. Nevertheless,
as Table 1.1 below sbows, the orders of osgnitude of imbalances between the education/
training system outputs and occupational requirements indicate that adjustments are required.
Table 1.1: PROJECTED MANPOWER SURPLUSES AND SHORTAGES OF
JORDANIANS BY OCCUPATIONAL CLUSTER IN 1990 a!
('000)
Labor Balances
National Natio-nl   Shortage of  Surplus of
Labor     Labor    National      National
Supply    Demand       Lbbor        Labor
1. Scientists. Engieers and Related
Technicians (encl. Selth)                    28.3      25.7                      2.6
2. Health Professionals and Technicians           13.0      16.9         3.9
3. Teachers and Other Professionals              108.1      67.8                     40.3
4  Nigh Level Managers (exrL. Agric.)             21.7      24.6         2.9
5. Working Prospecturs. Trade and Agric.
Managers, and White Collar Supervisors       54.9      23.1                     31.8
6. Blue Collar Supervisors and Foremen,
Skilled and Semi-Skilled Workers            174.9    258.1         83.2
of which:
(Blue Collar Supervisors and Foremen)        (13.7)    (21.4)       (7.7)
(Agric. Managers and Skilled Farm Workers)   (14.2)    (24.6)      (10.4)
(Skilled Non-Farm Manual Workers)            (53.2)    (62.3)       (9.1)
(Semi-Skilled Manual Workers,
exS2. Service Workers)                    (93.8)   (149.8)      (56.0)
7. Skilled and Semi-Skilled Office, Service
and Other Non-!anual Workers               299.5    100.5                     199.0
8. Unskilled                                      84.0      86.3         2.3
Total                                        784.4    603.0
Gross Surpluses/Shortages                                        92.3        273_7
Net Surplus                                                                  181.4
a/ Data on projected manpower demand and supply are derived from 'Kanpower Development in
Jordan." issued Jiue 1984. Mhe projections assume average annual economic growth rates
of 6.2Z for 1981-85, and 4.9Z for 1986-90. Annex 2 provides more detailed projections
of manpower requiremnts by occupation.
a



- 4 -
1.08   The required adjustments would be facilitated by early introduction of
the following remedial measures:  encouragement of small- and medium-scale
labor intensive industries oriented to exports; appropriate population,
immigration  and  migration  policies;  establishment  of  a  labor  market
information system (currently under development) as a basis for policy
formulation and program monitoring; and adjustments to the education/training
system to ensure, at a minimum, that manpower shortages do not coexist with an
overall labor surplus. Specifically, education/training system adjustments of
high priority are:   (a)  improvement and expansion of vocational  training
programs- f_r "blue collar" skilled and semi-skilled workers and supervisors,
particu arly  for  industry;  (b)  reinforcement  of  management  training,
especially in-service upgrading for the current corps of managers (private and
public sectors) which grew rapidly over the past decade, as well as
pre-service training for managers for new, more sophisticated enterprises; and
(c) expansion of health technician and para-professional training programs.
Sector Background
1.09   Jordan's general education system is well-developed.  Basic education
(grades 1-9) is compulsory, and female and rural students are equitably
represented  in primary and secondary schools.  In  keeping  with  a  major
education policy decision of 1984, a secondary school admission examination
has been introduced, and of those who pass this examination, no more than 601
of males and 70X of females are allowed to enroll in general (academic)
secondary  (grades  10-12)  schools.   Others may  enroll  in  MOE vocational
education programs or vocational training programs sponsored by other
agencies,  including  the  Vocational  Training  Corpcration  (VTC).   This
adjustment of flows through the education/training system is timely and
appropriate to meet the country's current and projected labor market
requirements  (paras. 1.07-1.08).  Approximately 60X of students completing
secondary school enter higher education institutions in Jordan, with about
two-thirds enrolling in the country's 47 private and public community colleges
(1 to 3 years post-secondary) and one-third enrolling in the three public
universities. Private financing plays a major role in the higher education of
Jordanians, as evidenced by the fact that private institutions account for
over 60S of commmnity college enrollments, and the number of Jordanians
studying in universities abroad (virtually all studying at their own expense)
is some three times as great as enrollments in the domestic universities. A
principal challenge now facing the Government is to expand and strengthen the
technical and vocational programs which prepare Jordanian youths and adults
for priority labor market requirements. The proposed project would assist the
Government to meet this challenge through provision of support to the
principal  agencies/institutions  involved  in  those  priority  areas.   Those
agencies  are  the  VTC  for  skilled  worker  training/upgrading,  (paras.
1.10-1.13), the Jordan Institute of Public Administration (JIPA) (paras.
1.15-1.16), both autonomous bodies, and the Ministry of Health (MOH) (paras.
1.20-1.22).
The Vocational Training Corporation (VTC)
1.10   The VTC, an autonomous governmental organization, was established in
May 1976 to promote manpower training and to develop job organization and
classification. The VTC is administered by a tri5partite Board of Directors
chaired by the Minister of Labor, and including the Director General of the



VTC as Vice-Chairman.  The composition of the Board of Directors and  the
administrative structure of the VTC are given in Annex 3. The VTC currently
employs about 400 staff, of whom some 60 are in administration, 260 in
tear ing and supervisory posts, and the remainder in support staff positions.
Program quality control is effected through 7 training coordinators and 25
training officers. Part-time teachers and instructors drawn from industry and
the MOE supplement the full-time instructors (about 190) and teachers (40).
Recruitment and retention of VTC staff has been facilitated by special salary
scales,  slightly  higher  than  those  of  the  civil  service,  and  special
allowances for technical staff.
1.11   The VTC offers:
ta) Three-year apprenticeship  programs  (admission  prequisite  is nine
years of basic education) leading to a skilled worker certificate.
On average, the first- and second-year curriculum includes 6 weekly
hours of general subjects (Arabic, English, Religion and Science), 36
hours of practical work (50Z in the center and 50X in industry) and 5
hours related theory; training starts with three months' of tasic
multi-discipline training and one month of basic training in the
selected specialization. Dropout is low, about 10Z, mainly after
basic training.  All courses are of a modular character.  There are
no repeaters because the training period is extended until the
trainee  completes  satisfactorily  each  training module.  The high
practical training content in the program is appropriate, and
employer response and satisfaction is good.  The VTC has placed
priority on the apprenticeship program, as reflected in enrollment
growth  from  1,600   in  1981/82  to  5,600  in  1984.   Output
correspondingly rose from 500 to 1,600 during this period.
(b) A variety of short intensivre training courses (three to six months)
for workers with a minimum general education. These courses are
particularly valuable for retraining workers who are making voluntary
or involuntary job shifts, including return migrant workers.
Enrollments have remained relatively constant at about 850 over the
1981-84 period, with output approximately 90% of enrollment.
(c)  Upgrading  courses  for  employed  workers.   Curricula  and  course
duration are tailored to employer needs. Enrollments have fluctuated
(see Annex 4) mainly due to availability of VTC facilities and staff.
(d) Training (60 hours) and upgrading (20-30 hours) courses for VTC
instructors and supervisors in teaching methods and techniques.
(e) Occupational safety and health consultations with enterprises and
seminars for managers, safety officers, and trainers for the purpose
of increasing workforce productivity by lowering the incidence of
occupational accidents and injuries.



1.12     To carry out its institutional training, the VTC uses its 8 trade
training centers (TTCs) 11 (a ninth one is now under construction in the North
Jordan Valley), 10 centers attached to large industries, and a number of MOE
facilities (technical schools and tzaining centers) in the afternoons. The
vast majority of VTC trainees are males, and training courses are
preponderantly oriented to the industrial sector.  Only one center (Marka)
offers secretarial and dressmaking courses to female trainees. Three small
intensive training centers for girls started functioning recently within the
framework of a Bank Urban Development Project. Three additional (2 for girls
and 1 for boys) will start functioning shortly. A hotel and catering course
is offered in the Wadi Seir Center and an agricultural program has been
introduced this year in the Middle Ghor Center. The VTC draft plan for
program expansion and diversification is summarized in Annex 3.
1.13     The VTC  revenue  was  JD 2.7 million  (US$6.7 million)  in  1984,
including revenue of JD 159.,OOO (US$397,500) from employers for upgradng
training services. Further VTC budget information appears in Annex 3. nit
costs to the VTC for the apprenticeship program are approximately US$450.
This roughly compares with an approximate unit cost of US$550 for the MHE
three-year industrial vocational education program. The cost difference is
essentially due to apprenticeship training expenses borne by the employer.
The VTC apprenticeship program is thus a cost effective mode of delivery for
the CGovernment. Average umit cost to the VTC is approximately US$100 for
short courses. The Parliament is considering a government-proposed amendment
to the Labor Law to provide for a 1Z payroll training levy, with provision for
rebate to firms providing training. The levy on private sector establishments
would be as much as JD 3.5 million (US$8.75 million), of which approximately
3D 2.0 million (US$5.0 million) would be paid by private sector establishments
which engage 10 or more workers and are already covered by the social security
system.
Management and Administrative Training
1.14    As  emphasized  in  the  Bank's  report reviewing  Jordan's  1981-85
Development Plan, and again in the recent Bank report on Manpower Development
in Jordan, the rapid economic expansion of the 1970's accentuated the shortage
of appropriately trained managerial personnel in both the public and private
sectors. The problem is expected to persist throughout the 1980's (Table
1.1). Three institutions carry complementary responsibility for enhancing the
managerial and administrative skills of managers: the Jordan Institute of
Public Administration (JIPA), the Jordan Institute of Management (JIM), and
the Royal Scientific Society.  Meeting the in-service management training
needs of the private sector (including private- and government-mixed ownership
enterprises)  is basically the responsibility of JIM.  Established in 1976
under auspices of the Industrial Development Bank, JIM provides training to
top- and middle-level private and mixed sector managers in marketing, finance,
production, accounting, project appraisal and other managemeat topics.  The
short course training format of JIM reaches over 300 participants per year,
heavily drawn from industrial, banking, finance and trade enterprises. Over
1/ Locations, specializations and enrollments are given in Annex 2.



90Z of participants are university graduates.  The Government has recently
secured USAID support for strengthening JIM. The Royal Scientific Society has
recently begun collaboration with the Bank's Economic Development Institute to
offer regional seminars on economic management and development topics.  In
addition,  USAID  will  support  development  of an  MBA program  at  Jordan
University, thereby expanding and strengthening pre-service management
training.
1.15     The  longest  established  management  and  administration  training
organization in the country is the Jordan Institute of Public -Administration
(JIPA),  an  autonmous  public  entity  established  in  1968  to  improve
administration in both public and private institutions. JIPA is administered
by a Board of Directors chaired by the President of the Civil Service
Commission and composed of the Director of JIPA and representatives (one each)
of the MOE, Budget Department of Ministry of Finance, University of Jordan,
Yarmouk University, Union of Chambers of Commerce, Aman- Chamber of Industry,
and General Union of Labor. The permanent full-time staff of the Institute
includes 25 higher level professionals, of whom 10 are trainers. In addition
to its rented-facility headquarters in Amman, JIPA operates a branch at
Yarmouk University and plans to open a second branch at Mo'ta University. The
1985 budget of JIPA is about JD 200,000 (US$500,000), of which some JD 30,000
(US$75,000) comes from charges for services to the private sector.
1.16     Through  an  integrated  program  of  applied  research,  consultation
services and training, JIPA caters primarily, but not exclusively, to the
eeds of the public sector which employs some 45% of the labor.  JIPA's
principal programs include:
(a) Consulting assignments aimed at reviewing current operational
problems in client agencies, which in turn provide feedback to the
design of training programs. JIPA also designs and develops training
materials.   In  1984,  JIPA  produced  guidebooks  and  manuals  to
supplement training on the following topics: (i) budgeting systems
and procedures; (ii) functions and procedures for municipal council
members; (iii) secretarial guidelines and procedures; (iv) management
information systems; and (v) use of training aids and equipment.
(b) Courses organized at the request of a particular agency and tailored
to meet specific needs of that agency. In 1984, six such courses
were organized (plans for 1985 are to accommodate 15 to 20 such
requests).
(c) Management seminars on practical and topical issues (3 to 15 days) at
several levels at the rate of 10 to 15 per annum.
(d) Short (3 to 5 months) management training courses for public and
private employees at the rate of 2 courses per annum (25 participants
in each).
(e) Courses on specific topics (I to 4 weeks) such as finance, office
management and accounting at the rate of 15 per annum (participants
20 to 30 per group).



-8-
Health Services and Manpower
1.17     Jordan has a well-developed health care physical infrastructure.  The
MOB provides one-third of the country's hospital beds and operates a network
of more than 200 primary health care and maternal rnd child health care
centers. The Jordan University Hospital, the United Nations Relief and Works
Administration (UNRWA) and the private sector also provide health care
services. The MOH has decided to reorganize its approach to primary health
care and referral care in order to make the health care system more dynamic
and efficient. The new approach would be based on a comprehensive series of
measures linking improvements in health services training, health education.
mangement and health facilities. The Bank's primary health project (Loan No.
2531-JO), together with the paramedical training component of this project,
are designed to help the MRH implement its revised strategy.
1.18     A prequisite for successful implementation of the revised health care
strategy is provision of an adequate supply of health professionals and
technicians, categories for which an overall shortage of some 3,900 has been
projected  for  1990  (Table  1.1).   Within  this  occupational cluster,  the
adequacy   of  current  and  projected  supply  for  specific  levels  and
specializations of manpower is mixed. The supply of physicians is ample, as
reflected in Jordan's physician to population ratio of 1:900 in 1982 compared
with a ratio of about 1:2,000 for other countries in its income group.  In
contrast, there are shortages of nurses, midwives and health technicians in
selected specializations.  This is evidenced by the inadequate ratios of staff
to population, the absolute shortages of nurses, midwives and technicians
needed to staff the new service delivery model, and by the fact that of the
1,377 registered nurses in 1984, 368 (27X) were foreigners, mainly from the
Philippines, Pakistan and Tndia.  Simnlarly, of 330 registered midwives, 42
(131) were  foreigners.   This  situation  often  impedes  comrunication  with
patients and is a financial drain on the country.



-9 -
1.19     The MRK has recognized the severity of the current and potential
shortage of relevant categories of health manpower and has drawn up a set of
manpower targets to be attained by 1995 (sumfarized in Table 1.2) and a plan
of action for meeting these targets.
Table 1.2:  SELECTED RHALTH OCCUPATIONS
1985 EMPLOYMENT AND- 1995 TARGETS
Target Levels For
Jordanians    Personnel/Population Ratios     Jordanian
Employed                       1995           Employment
Category            in 1985        1985          Target           in 1995
Nurses                1,038       1:2,500         1:1,100            3,600
Midwives                288       1:9,030         1:4,000            1,000
Health Technicians    1,462              a/              a/          5,500
al Targets were calculated separately for each specialization as shown in
Annex 5.
The plan calls for establishment of additional nurses and midwives training
facilities in locations other than kmman to increase the supply of candidates
and the likelihood of their wanting to work outside the capital. The ME has
also adopted measures which should attract and retain more personnel,
especially females. These measures included: reducing for females only the
period of obligated employment to one year for each year of training (compared
with two years obligated service for each year of training for males);
provision of free board and lodging for femle students; payment of training
stipends (JD 40 per month for nuirsing and midwifery, and JD 34 per mouth for
other  paramedical  specializations);  restructuring  jobs  to  give  greater
responsibility to registered nurses and midwives; improved working conditions
and career prospects; and a special monthly allowance after four years of
service which is doubled after eight years.
Training of Nurses, Midwives and Health Technicians
1.20    Nursing  training  programs which  lead  to a  diploma are  at the
post-secondary level 1/ and last 39 months at three MRO colleges and the Royal
Medical Services (Princess Muna) Nursing School. In addition, nursing schools
1/ Reference here is to training of "registered" or "staff" nurses.  There
are also 532 practical nurses employed in Jordan; these are trained in 11
schools attached to hospitals, each of which trains for its own needs. In
addition, 1,997 nursing workers are employed, some of whom have been
trained in the MOE secondary vocational program for girls.



- 10 -
attached to the University of Jordan and Yarmouk University offer programs
leading to B.Sc- degrees.  The university programs are of 4 years' duration,
including a number of credit hours of study not directly related to the
nursing  profession.   Of   the  three  NOH   nursing   colleges,   one   is
well-established and has been functioning since 1953 in Aron; the other two,
one each in Irbid and Zarka, were established in 1984 and operate in
provisional buildings (para. 1.22). In addition, the MOH plans to coumence
nursing training in Kerak in  1986.  Nursing training output in  1985  is
expected to be about 132 (MON-48; Jordan Uuiversity-54; and Princess Muna
College--30).
1.21     Training programs for midwives were established by MOg in 1977 at its
nursing college in Amman, and in 1984 in provisional buildings in Irbid and
Zarka (para. 1.22). An additional program is to be started in Kerak in 1986.
The training programs are of 27 months' duration, including a common first
year with  the nursing training program.  Both  the nursing and midwifery
programs are composed of some 60Z clinical practice carried out mainly in
hospitals and 40S related theory and English language courses. In addition,
registered nurses may specialize as midwives by completing a one-year course.
Midwifery program output in 1985 vill come only from the MRN college in Amman,
and is expected to be 23.
1.22    Prior to 1984, health technicians were trained only in a special
school of the MOH, housed in dfl.apidated buildings  in  Ammaa.  In  1984,
Nursing/Paramedical Integrated Training Institutes (NPITIs) were established
and  comwnced  operation  in  provisional  facilities  in  Irbid  and  Zarka.
Provision for construction and equipping of a purpose-built facility and
technical assistance (TA) for staff and curriculum development for the NPITI
in Irbid is included under the Fourth Education Project now underway
(construction is scheduled to start in 1985); comparable provision for the
Zarka RPM  is proposed in this project.  The M0O  plans to establish a third
NPMTI in Kerak in 1986. Each of the institutes offers nursing, midwifery and
health technician  training  programs.  The health technician programs last
three academic years for physiotherapists and two years for all other
specializations.   At  present,  the  latter  are:   pharmacology,  radiology,
laboratory technology, anesthesiology, dental technology, sanitation, and
health  statistics/medical  records.   The  output of  the  Amman program  is
currently  about  115, and  the  NPITIs  in  Irbid  and  Larka  will  each  be
approximately 155.
Bank Strategy and Lending for Education and Training
1.23    Two IDA credits and four Bank loans have supported development of
Jordan's education/training system since 1972. 1/ Throughout the first five
1/  I:  Credit  285-JO, approved  in 1972 for US$5.4 million,  completed in
1979, PPAR No. 2494, May 1979;
II:   Credit  534-JO, approved  in 1975 for US$6.0 million,  completed in
1982, PCR No. 4261, December 1982;
III:   Loan 1781-JO, approved  in 1979 for US$19.0 million,  completed in
1984, PCR under preparation;
IV:   Loan   2068-JO,  approved  in  1981  for  US$25.0  million,  under
implementation;
V:  Toan   2246-JO,  approved  in  1983  for  US$18.8  million,  under
implementation; and
VI:  Taan   2378-JO,  approved  in  1984  for  US$40.0  million,  under
implementation.



- 11 -
lending  operations,  the  focus  was  on  establishing  or  strengthening
occupationally oriented elements of the formal education/training system
operated by the MOE to enable the country to better meet its requirement for
trained manpower.  Accomplishments have included establishment of Jordan's
first post-secondary polytechnic in Marka to train industrial technicians and
technical teacher/trainers and a second in Tafilah to provide technicians for
the mining and chemical sectors, and assistance in establishing the nucleus of
a public community college system. The latter concept has proved so useful
and popular that the system has grown to include 47 community colleges, of
which -20 are operated by the private sector.  Formal secondary vocational
education   has   been   diversified,   expanded   and   strengthened   through
establishment of Jordan's first hotel training school, two new industrial
vocational schools, extension of an agricultural secondary school, and 19
general vocational secondary schools (GVSSs) offering a mix of specializations
in outlying areas. In addition, the projects have assisted the establishment
of 10 comprehensive secondary schools, development of prevocational ..course
offerings at the preparatory and secondary levels of education through
training of prevocational course teachers at two teacher training institutes,
and extensions for workshops and laboratories to 16 preparatory and secondary
schools.  Geographic  and  sex  equity  in  access  to  education  have  been
particular foci in the last two projects, and the MOE has been substantially
strengthened through institution building TA in each of the projects.
1.24    Jordan's current and prospective labor market  situation  and  the
cogrxuence of the education/training system with requirements for further
economic and social development in the country have been addressed to a
considerable extent in recent Bank economic and sector works. 1/ Key findings
and recomcendations in those reports emphasize the priority of strengthening
and expanding manpower development programs which administratively fall
outside the formal school system. Continued progress is required in such
areas as improved school facilities, but general education has now been
extended on a reasonably equitable basis to females as well as males, in rural
as well- as urban areas, and the school system is comparatively well
developed. It is appropriate now to turn attention to the development of more
specialized training programs.
Experience with Past Lending
1.2.5    The Project Performance Audit Report (No. 2494, Sec. M79-336) on the
First Project noted the institutional impact of the project in many areas,
including educational planning, and concluded that the project was justified
and worthwhile.  The recommendations of the report have been  imple-mented,
including improved procurement procedures, better coordination of TA, more
effe.tive scheduling of required inputs and timing of implementation, and more
extended training in management and administration. The Project Completion
Report on the Second Project (PCR No. 4261) has concluded that the project was
1/ Principal reports include: Special Economic Report-Jordan, Review of the
Five-Year   Plan   (1981-85),   issued   May   1983;   Special   Study   on
Vocational/Professional  Education  and  Training,  issued  March  1984;
Manpower Development in Jordan, issued June 1984; and Jordan Health Sector
Review, issued May 1984.



- 12 -
contributing to the expansion of vocational and technical education in Jordan
at a time when demand for skilled labor was increasing.  It has also noted
that the physical components were well executed, the quality of construction
and equipment was very good, and that all major TA components were fully
implemented.   However,  delays  and  cost  overruns  were  encountered  during
implementation.   The  completion  report  on  the  Third  Project  is  under
preparation. The completion mission has reported that the objectives of the
project have been achieved and the project has substantially contributed to
quality improvements in education, diversification and orientation towards
economic  needs.   It  has  recommended  that  in  designing  TA  under  future
projects,  fellowships  should  be  emphasized,  and  insofar  as  possible,
consultants should have Arabic language capability and their close
collaboration with counterparts should be ensured.  It has also recommended
with respect to physical implementation, that the project managers should
ensure early legal clearance of sites and coordinate the construction plans
with equipment and furniture layouts.  These recommendations will. be taken
into account in the implementation of the proposed project. Implementation of
TA in the Fourth Project is proceeding smoothly, as is construction and
equipment procurement for the schools under the Fourth and Fifth Projects.
Prototype designs for new schools and aditions to existing schools have been
adapted to sites and tendering is expected shortly for the Sixth Project
schools.



- 13 -
II. THE PROJECT
Introduction
2.01     The project grew out of extensive dialogue with the Government on
Jordan's priority training requirements, particularly the needs for skilled
and semi-skilled workers as trained in the VTC programs, and for management
and administration  training.  At a somewhat  later  stage,  the  Government
requested  that  the  project  include  provision  for  expansion  of  para-
professional health manpower training capacity already assisted under the
Fourth  Education  Project.   The  project  was  prepared  by  the  Goverment
following a Bank project identification mission in July 1984 and a subsequent
Rank  preparation  assistance  mission  in September 1984.  The project was
appraised by Messrs. S. Syrimis (educator, mission leader), 0. de Messieres
(architect) and P. Mersier (technical educator) in January/February 1985.
Proiect Obiectives
2.02    The project would assist the Government in implementing priority
manpower development programs which would: (a) increase the annual supply of
VTC trained skilled and semi-skilled workers by about 1,300, accounting for
nearly 20X of the incremental supply of skilled workers by 1989; and enable
the VTC's Occupational Safety and Health Institute to reach some 500 managers,
safety officers and trainers through advisory services to enterprises and
seminars, with the purpose of increasing productivity of the workforce by
reducing the incidence of occupational accidents and worker injuries;
(b) improve the quality and coverage of management and administratioa training
offered by the JIPA, reaching directly some 1,000 participants from the public
and private sectors per year in courses and seminars of varying duration, plus
contributing to better organizational procedures and managementladministration
practices through JIPA's .wprogram  of applied research and consultation; and
(c) enable the MOK to increase the annual supply of nurses (80), midwives (25)
and health technicians. (155), thereby alleviating current shortages, allowing
eventually for replaceicat of ncc-Jcakdnian personnel, and  improving  the-
quality of health ser7icas.
Project Composition
2.03     To attain  the objectives stated above, the project would include
three components, to be implemented by the VTC, the JIPA, and the MOH.  The
project would provide civil works, furniture, equipment and TA as shown below.



- 14 -
(a) The Vocational Training Corporation: a/
Annual Enrollment Annual Output
Training            Short              Short
Places   Apprent. Courses  Apprent. Courses
(lst 2 yrs)
Skilled and Semi-CZilled
Worker Training
Civil Works, furniture and
equipment for:
4 (new) Trade Training Centers        536        650      740      310       650
(TTCs)
1 extension of existing TTC           100        190      100       90        90
Civil Works, furniture,
equipment and TA for:
1 extension of existing TTC           132        190      100       90        90
Occupational Safety and
Health Institute
Civil Works, furniture
euipment and TA for:                 120                 500                500
OSHI
a/ Details on VTC training places, enrollments and outputs are provided in
Annex 6.
(b) The Jordan Institute of Public Administration (JIPA):
Annual Enrollment          Annual Output
Equipment and TA             550 participant           1,000 participants.
for: JIPA                   months in short
courses and
seminars.



- 15 -
(c) The Ministry of Health (MOR):
Enrollment              Annual Output
Civil works, furniture,
equipment and TA
for: Nursing/Paramedical
Integrated Training
Institute (NPITI)                    700                        260
Proiect Output Contribution to Neeting Manpower Requirements
2.04     The  output of  the  project  institutions  would  make  significant
qualitative  and  quantitative  contributions  to  meeting  Jordan's  manpower
requirements. The skilled and semi-skilled worker training program of the VTC
component and the MOR health manpower training component lend themselves to
quantitative measurement as indicated below.
(a) VTC: Skilled and Semi-Skilled Worker Training a/
Estimated Output of Trained Workers by Source and Demand. 1990
Annual Supply                                  Annual
MOE                        Demand
VTC (of which Project Institutions)    Voc. Ed.        Total          (1990)
4,200            (1,300)              2,900        7,100          13,300
a/ Further details on skilled and semi-skilled manpower demand and supply
estimates are in Annex 7.



- 16 -
Cb) MH: NursingfParamedical Health Training. -a Training programs are
geared to gradually meet targets for the various specializations by
1995. Key indicators for 1995 are as follows:
Estimated Annual Output of Nurses and Midwives
and Status Compared to Targets, 1995
Total Annual Output       MRO            Personnel to
(,  which Project      Target            Population
Institutions)         Ratio           Ratio Achieved
Nurses             440 (80)            1:1,000             1:1,070
M4idwives           95 (25)            1:4,000             1:4,270
a/ Further details on paramedical output and targets are provided in Annex 5.
For health technicians, different targets prevail for each of eight
specializations.  Overall, the 1995 supply/demand relationship  is
estimated to be:
Estimated Annual Output of Realth Technic'an
and Stock Compared to Tar¢et, 1995
Total Output       Net Available
(of which Project     Jordanian          Jordanians
Institutions)          Stock            Required
Health Technicians      425 (155)            4,500              5,500



- 17 -
Trade Training Centers (TTCs)
2.05     Establishment of 4 new TTCs and extensions to 2 existing TTCs would
help expand the training and upgrading of skilled and semi-skilled labor
through extending the training capacity in existing trades and introducing new
specializations   (instrumentation,   control   systems,   business   machine
maintenance, and training of operators of heavy equipment). Five of the the
project training centers would offer apprenticeship training programs (three
years after completion of grade 9) and short training (3-6 months) and
upgrading courses as described in para. 1.11. One center (Zarka) would offer
only short courses for operators of heavy construction equipment and other
vehicles. Annex 6 gives details on the project institutions (location, number
of training places, enrollmnts, specializations, and estimated output). The
specializations at each TTC have been selected in accordance with local
demand, and training places have been provided to allow for some short courses
to be offered simultaneously with apprenticeship training. A particular
advantage of the VIC program format is that it allows for some adjustment to
unforeseen Labor market developments because of each TIC's direct links with
industry and the large proportion of readily adjustable short training courses.
2.06     The VTC is undertaking with its own resources two important tasks
which will strengthen its institutional capability:  (a) establishment of a
tracer system for its graduates to enable She VTC to monitor more closely its
programs and allow necessary adjustments to labor market requirements; and
(b) a study of job profiles and development of trade standards to facilitate
further modular curricula development.
2.07     A total of 11 general subject teachers and 117 technical teachers and
instructors would be required to operate the project institutions. General
subject teachers are readily available. Needs for technical teachers and
instructors would be met satisfactorily through the existing technical teacher
training program at the Ammn Polytechnic and the recruitment of experienced
craftsmen. A 60-hour specific methodology program in the Wadi Seir instructor
training center will enhance the teaching abilities of the new recruits. TA
(9 man-months expert services and 6.5 man-months fellowships) would be needed
to help VTC introduce the new specializations in instrumentation, control
systems and office machine repair. Satisfactory draft terms of reference and
time schedules have been provided to the Bank. The Government will provide
the US$0.2 million cost of TA. However, the Government may seek bilateral
funding assistance for the TA (para. 5.02). Further details on TA are given
in para. 2.13.
Occupational Safety and Health Institute (OSHI)
2.08     Because  of  the  VTC's  strong  ties  with  industry  and  training
capabilities, the Government has assigned the VTC responsibility for
increasing productivity of the workforce by reducing the incidence of
occupational accidents and injuries. Since the OSHI started functioning in
1983, using a portion of the premises of the TTC in Wadi Seir, it has provided
advisory services to enterprises (125 reached to date), and conducted seminars
and training courses for safety officers and trainers (about 100 participants
to date). The existing facilities are limited and preclude implementation of



- 18 -
the required scale and quality of program required to meet the important
objectives of OSHI. Under the present project, a new OSHI center would be
constructed, furnished and equipped at Marka (on the outskirts of Am-an) and
related TA for program development provided.  The Government has committed
itself to provide the US$0.8 million of foreign exchange required for
financing of furniture, equipment and related TA for OSHI (para. 5.02).
However, the Government has already secured commitments in principle from the
Social   Security   Corporation   and   the   Industrial   Development   Bank
(quasi-autonomous governmental agencies) and has held preliminary discussions
with bilateral and multilateral agencies interested in providing some or all
of that amount; the Bank would finance construction.
Strengthening the Jordan Institute of Public Administration (JIPA)
2.09     JIPA has potential for becoming a  leading  public  administration
center which may be targetted for regional EDI programs together with JIM and
RSS. However, fellowships for training trainers, expert services to assist in
designing teaching materials, teaching methodology and evaluation of training,
plus audiovisual and other equipment, and library materials are urgently
required to enable JIPA to play an expanded role in the management/
administration training effort required.  The Government will provide  the
US$0.3 million cost of TA (para. 2.13). However, the Government may seek
bilateral funding assistance for the TA (para. 5.02). The Bank would finance
the equipment requirements, including audiovisual equipment, office and
reproduction machinery, and library materials, for the headquarters premises
and the Irbid branch. A final equipment list is being prepared and will be
reviewed by the Bank no later than end November 1985.
Nursing/Paramedical Integrated Training Institute (NPITI)
2.10     To alleviate the shortage of nurses, midwives and health technicians
improve the quality of health services, and develop further the paramedical
and nursing professions, the project would construct, furnish and equip a
NPITI in Zarka of the same structure and capacity as the one planned for Irbid
in the Fourth Education Project. Total enrollments in the new NPITI would be
700. The anticipated output of 260 (80 nurses, 25 midwives, and 155 health
technicians) 1/ would contribute to meeting the MOR targets (para. 2.04). The
NPITI will have about 50Z female trainees.
2.11     The MOH is expected to employ most of the graduates, particularly in
health centers and hospitals, but may release some for the Royal Medical
Services and the private sector. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that the tracer system which is to be established under the Fourth
Education Project, with the purpose of analyzing job placement and performance
of the graduates of the Irbid NPITI, would be extended to cover the graduates
of all MOH paramedical training institutions (para. 5.02). To ease student
boarding problems and to assist in the recruitment of senior staff, boarding
facilities for 360 girls and staff accommodations for 15 teachers would be
provided under the project.
1/ The health technician output will remain at its present level as the Zarka
institute, when operating in its new facility, would absorb the
paramedical enrollments of the Anman college (para. 1.21); by that time,
the Kerak NPITI is expected to be operational.



- 19 -
2.12     Based on a 15:1 student to full-time teacher ratio for the nursing
and midwifery courses, 24 staff would be required for these programs. Of
these, 6 are already working in the provisional facilities (paras. 1.20-1.21)
and an additional 6 or 8 would be appointed next year. This approach is
feasible because the NOR draws its trainers from experienced hospital staff
who in turn are replaced by newly recruited college or university graduates.
In addition, appropriate special short courses (1-3 months) for trainers are
organized regilarly by the Center for Educational Development for Health
Personnel affiliated with the Jordan University and established with World
Health Organization assistance. The TA to be provided through the project
(para. 2.13) would also contribute to training trainers in specific areas.
Part-time staff are used for specialized disciplines in the nursing and
midwifery programs. For the health technicians programs, all teaching staff
work on a part-time basis; there are 16 permanent supervisors (2 per stream)
already appointed (working at the Amman college). To assist the institute in
the detailed development and application of new disciplines within the
existing programs, and to upgrade staff quality and improve management, the
proposed TA would provide 27 man-months of expert services and 38 man-months
of fellowships as set out in Schedule I.
Technical Assistance (TA) Summary
2.13     TA to be provided by the project includes:
(a) For the VTC: 6.5 staff-months of fellowships (1 x 6-1/2 months) for
instructor training in instrumentation and 9 staff-months of expert
services (3 x  3 months) to help introduce new specializations
(instrumentation, control systems, and office machines maintenance)
and  train  local counterparts.  Details of  TA  for  OSHI will be
provided no later than end November 1985.
(b) For the MOR: 38 staff-months of fellowships (12 x 3 months and 2 x 1
month) in a number of curricul   areas to enhance teaching capacity
and 27 staff-months of expert services (7 x 3 months and I x 6
months) in training, management and planning.
(c) For JIPA:  36 staff-months of fellowships  (12 x  3 months)  for
trainees and 24 staff-months of expert services (1 x 12 months and 2
x 6 months) in designing teaching materials, teaching methodology and
evaluation of training.  Further details on TA are present3d in
Schedule I annexed.
2.14     During negotiations, the Bank reached agreement with the Government
that the details of the expert services specializations for MOH, as well as
terms of reference and a proposed time schedule for the MOH expert services
and fellowship programs, would be prepared by MOH and submitted to the Bank no
later than end November 1985 for review and comment (para. 5.01).



- 20 -
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANING KJAGIT AND ;KH O  UZ:en IN
Proiect Costs
A. Cost Strv
3.01    The total cst of the project. Incling cot es,       estited
at JD 7.3 million or US$18.3 million equtivalent, of  US$12.0 million is
foreign exchange. The breakdown by project component is siinrized in Table
3.1.
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST BY COIEII
Total as
-  Milions JS$Milions                    S of Base
Local  Foreign  Total   LOCal  Foreign  TotaL  Costs
A. Training Skilled Workers
Vocational Training
Corporation              1.0    2.0      3.0      2.6    4.9      7.5      55
B. Training Nures. Midwives
and Paramedics
Mimistry of Health       0.8    1.3       1.1      2.0    3.2      5.2      40
C. Mamageenldminstration
Training
Jordan Institute of
Public Administration    0.1    0.2      0.3      0.1    0.6      0.7       5
Total Baseline Costs         1.9   - 3.5      5.4     4.7    8.7      13.4    100
Physical Contingencies      0.2    0.3       0.5     0.5    0.9       1.4     10
Price Contingencies         0.4    1.0       1.4     1.1    2.4       3.5     26
Total Project Costs          2.5    4.8       7.3     6.3   12.0      18.3    136
NOT: Details on  bt in Asmex 8, page 1.
.



- 21-
3.02    A sury of estimtaed project costs by type of expenditu e is give
In Table 3.2 belav.
Table 3.2: PROJBCT COST BY CATEOU OF WfhDITURE
Total Z
JD Million              US011lion          of Bse
Tye of Etpnditure       Loca1  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    Costs
I. Imvestmnt costs
A. Civil Works           1.7     1.6     3.3     4.2     4.0 -   8.2       62
B. Equipmet              0.2     1.4    1.6      0.4     3.6     4.0       29
C. Technicel AssiEance   0.0     0.5     0.5     0.1     1.1     1.2        9
Total Baseline Costs     1.9     3.5     5.4     4.7     8.7    13.4      100
Physical
Continteniea         0.2     0.3    0.5      0.5     0.9      1.4      10
Price Contiencies      0.4     1.0     1.4     1.1     2.4     3.5       26
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS      2.5     4.8     7.3     6.3    12.0    18.3      136



- 22 -
B. Basis of Cost Estimates
3.03    Construction costs were estimated on the basis of:  (a) schedules of
acconmodation;   (b)  detailed  architectural  drawings;  and   (c)  recent
construction contracts for similar facilities. The areas per student place
allowed for in the project institutions are based on epience in existing
similar institutions in the country and are comparable to the median unit
areas in Bank-assisted institutions. Annex 9 shows details of unit areas and
capital costs per trainee place in the VTC centers and NPITI. The estimated
base costs per square meter of gross construction area, which average US$110
equivalent for the VTC training centers and! US$130 for the NPITI (teaching and
commnunal accommodations) are  reasonable for the utilitarian standards of
construction allowed for.  Equipment and furniture costs were derived from
preliminary  lists   prepared  for  this  project  and  based  on  similar
institutions. These were reviewed during appraisal and found appropriate in
scope  and  cost.   Fees  for  design  and  supervision  (10  of  estimated
construction costs) were estimated on the basis of draft consultancy contracts
and typical supervision fee scales of Jordanian consulting architects and
engineers, and were included in the civil works costs.
C. Custom Duties and Taxes
3.04     Estimated project costs do not include direct taxes and custom duties
from which the project is exempt, but they include about US$1.1 million
indirect taxes on locally purchased project items.
D. Contingency Allowances
3.05    A physical contingency of 10Z of base cost (US$1.4 million) was added
to the cost of all project items to allow for unforeseen events.  A price
contingency allowance of US$3.5 million was added, representing 241 of the
base cost plus physical contingency.  This figure is based on the annexed
implementation schedule (Schedule II) and the local and foreign annual price
escalation  rates, starting from June 1985, as shown in Table 3.3.  Total
contingencies of US$4.9 million represent 361 of baseline costs.
Table 3.3: PROJECTED A1NUAL PRICE ESCALION
(LOCAL AND FOR'IGN COSTS)
Annual Price Escalation (in Percent)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
Local          5.0     6.0     7.0     7.0    7.0      7.0     7.0      7.0
Foreign        5.0     8.0     8.0     8.0    8.0      5.0     5.0      5.0



- 23 -
E. Foreign Exchange Component
3.06     The foreign exchange component of US$12.0 million, representing 66S
of estimated total project costs, is based on the following estimated foreign
exchange proportions for individual categories of project expenditures:
(a) site development and civil works: 492;
(b)  furniture and equipment:            90X; and
(c)  technical assistance:               90X.
These percentages have been derived by determining the proportions of civil
works and furniture costs attributable to materials, local and foreign labor,
overhead and profit; reviewing awards for equipment and civil works made under
earlier loans; and estimating  the composition of the TA program.  It is
estimated that 50X of the civil works contracts would be awarded to local
firms, all of the equipment would be directly imported, and about one-third of
the furniture would be manufactured locally.
Recurrent Costs
3.07     When fully operational, the VTC project institutions are estimated to
generate about JD 197,000 in recurrent costs at constant 1985 prices,
representing a 19? addition to the VTC's budget. However, the Government is
committed to support expansion of the VTC program, and the payroll training
levy, when implemented, will provide about JD 2.0 million of additional
revenue  for  the  VTC.  Until  the  training  levy  law has been  passed by
Parliament, the Government will continue to contribute the required funds to
the VTC  budget.   At  full  operation,  the NPITI  is estimated  to require
incremental recurrent costs of JD 382,000, representing an increase of 1.71 to
the MOR's budget (6.71 together with the primary health project). These
incremental costs are expected to be fully within the Government's fiscal
capability. The estimates are based on the VTC's present recurrent unit costs
with somewhat reduced overhead expenses, and on the MNO's experience in
operating the present institutions. The recurrent cost increments for JIPA
due to its strengthening under the project are expected to be negligible
because training would be provided for existing staff, and other aspects of
this project component focus on qualitative improvements of JIPA's programs.
Financing Plan
3.08     The proposed Bank loan of US$10.2 million would provide finance for
85S of the foreign exchange component of the project. The Bank loan would
finance all of the foreign costs oE civil works, 921 of that of furniture and
equipment and 9X of that of TA as shown in Table 3.4 following. The remaining
costs would be covered by government funding.  However, the Government may
secure bilateral or multilateral funding for residual foreign costs of TA,
furniture and equipment and has undertaken to complete these arrangements
within six months of the date of the loan agreement (para. 5.02).



- 24 -
Table 3.4: PROJECT FINANCING BY PLAN a/
(USSNillion)
Local
World Bank       Governmet        Total    (Emcl.  Duties L
Foreign      Foreign   Local   Amoumt   Taxe ) Taxes
A. Civil Works       4.0          0.0      4.2      8.2        3.5    0.7
B. Furniture/
Equipmnt        3.3          0.3      0.4      4.0        0.3    0.1
C. Technical
Assistance      0.1          1.0      0.1      1.2        0.1    0.0
Baseline Cost        7.4          1.3      4.7    13.4         3.9    0.8
Physical           0.8          0.1      0.5      1.4        0.4    0.1
Price              2.0          0.4      1.1      3.5        0.9    0.2
Subtotal             2.8          0.5      1.6      4.9        1.3    0.3
Total Project Cost  10.2          1.8      6.3    18.3         5.2    1.1
a/ Details of base costs and total costs for each project institution are
;ho  in Annex 8.



- 25 -
Disbursements
3.09     The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of seven years as
shown in Schedule III (annexed). This disbursement period compares with an
average of six years for the six prior education projects in the country, but
both the VTC and MOE bave acquired only limited Bank project implementation
experience under the Fourth Education Project. The regional average for
projects in the sector is over ten years.  Site acquisition is advanced and
preliminary architectural drawings and furniture and equipment -lists are
available for most institutions.  Disbursements are expected to be completed
by December 31, 1992, and would be on the basis of:
(a) Civil Works: 49Z of total expenditures;
(b)  Furniture and Equipment:  lOOZ of the  foreign  cost of directly
imported items and 100% of ex-factory costs of locally manufactured
goods procured through ICB; 80% of costs of goods procured through
local shopping or local bidding; and
(c) Technical Assistance:   90S of the total cost of fellowships and
expert services.
In the cases of the Special Account (para. 3.11), aggregation and submission
of withdrawal applications would be the responsibility of the Ministry of
Planning (MWP). All disbursements would be fully documented except those
gsainst  contracts valued  at US$10,000 equivalent or less.  Disbursements
against those contracts would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure. The documentation for disbursements made against statements of
expenditure would be correlated with related withdrawal applications and they
would remain on file in a single location and made available for review by
Bank representatives during supervision.
Accounting and Auditing
3.10     The existing Project Implementation Units  (PIUs) of VTC and MNE
(paras. 3.13 and 3.14) maintain project-related accounts in accordance with
sound accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank.  JIPA,
with the help of VTC (para. 3.14), would follow the same procedure. Each PIU
would submit to the Bank annual financial statements reflecting the financing
performance  and  position  of  their  respective  project components.  Such
financial statements would be the basis of annual auditing of expenditures,
with separate audits for the Special Accounts (para. 3.13), by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. The Government Bureau of Audit is such an
auditor. Beginning with the first year of disbursements, annual audits would
be submitted to the Bank not later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year of the Government. These audits would provide adequate and timely
information on the supervision of loan disbursements and of the project in
general. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances (para. 5.02)
that:
(a) the VTC, JIPA and MOE, respectively, would maintain satisfactory
accounts;
(b) the MOP would maintain separate accounts on the Special Account;



- 26 -
(c) audits would be conducted annually and the accounts and audits would
be submitted to the Bank for review within six months of the close of
the Goverument's fiscal year; and
(d) the auditors would give separate opinions on the special accounts and
on statements of expenditures of the VTC, MOE, and.JIPA.
Special Account
3.11     For the purpose of accelerating disbursements and of maintaining an
adequate flow of funds, the Government shall, for the purpose of VTC, MOE and
JIPA components, maintain a Special Account. This account shall be maintained
by the MNP in the Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. The expenditures eligible for pre-financing through the Special Account
would be those expenditures for which the Government makes payment first to a
supplier,  contractor,  consultant  or  fellow,  and  subsequently  claims
reimbursement from the Bank for goods, services or fellowships required for
the project and  to be financed out of the proceeds of  the  loan.   The
authorized ceiling of allocations to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited in the Special Account would be equivalent to US$500,000. This
allocation   represents   estimated   averages  of  four  months'  projected
disbursements  during  the peak year  of  disbursement.  The  MOP would  be
authorized to request initial and replenishment amounts, as required, up to
the ceiling.
Proiect Management
3.12     The PIU established in the VTC for the implementation of the VTC
component of the Fourth Education Project performed satisfactorily and would
also be responsible for the implementation of the VTC component of this
project. The Unit is headed by a project engineer and includes an architect
and a building technician. An accountant from the VTC Accounting Department,
experienced in Bank procedures, will be assigned to the PIU for project
accounting. The VTC Technical Department, which has a good record of civil
works and equipment procurement, would be responsible for the control of
design, procurement operations, and construction supervision.
3.13     The MOR PIU which was responsible for the implementation of the MOR
component of the Fourth Education Project consisted of the Director of the MOR
PLanning, Training and Research Directorate acting as project director and two
architects. However, the MOR, as part of its efforts to prepare and implement
the Primary Health Care Project, has created a Project Management Unit (P?WU)
to oversee  implementation of all projects.  A project director, the  two
architects of the previous PIU, and a civil engineer, all of whom are regular
MOH staff, began working full-time in the PMU in February. An accountant, a
procurements specialist, and support staff are also working in the PHU. The
PMU would be satisfactory for implementation of the MOR component of this
project. The MOH has also created a Project Advisory Committee chaired by the
MOH Undersecretary and composed of the directors of all MOR Departments. This
connittee meets once a month, or at the request of the chairman, to coordinate
the execution of project-financed activities which are carried out by regular
line units of the Ministry, and to discuss project implementation issues.



- 27 -
3.14    The implementation of the JIPA component presents  no  difficulty
because of its relative simplicity. The director of the institute would act
as project director and an accountant among the regular staff of the institute
would be assigned the responsibility of project accounting. Prenaration of
bidding documents, procureme-nt of equipment, etc., would be carried out in
collaboration with  the VTC  PIU.  The  VTC director  has  agreed  to  this
arrangement.
3.15    The responsibilities of the staff of the implementation units are
detailed in the Project Working Papers and have been discussed and agreed with
the respective government agencies.
Status of Preparation
A. Sites
3.16    the two existing TTCs that would be expanded have sufficient land to
allow for the expansion but, to be suitable for expansion, the land of one of
these TTC sites would require substantial regrading. Suitable sites for the
four new TTCs and the site for the OSHI have already been acquired. These
sites have adequate sources of water supply and municipal electricity.
3.17    A suitable site for the KH institute has already been--acquired.  A
site plan is expected to be prepared before November 1985.
B. Architectural Services
3.18     It is anticipated that all VTC civil works, representing over half of
the total cost of project civil works, will be ready for  tendering by
December 31, 1985.  The MOH civil works are expected to be ready for tendering
in June 1986.  The designs and tender documents for the VTC training centers
would  be  prepared  under  the  supervision  of  the  VTC  by  consultant
architects/engineers acceptable to the Bank, to be appointed under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank. 11  The design and tender documents for
the NOR component are being prepared, under the supervision of the MOE PMU, by
the Ministry of Public Works under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
C. Furniture and Equipment Lists
3.19    Preliminary lists have been prepared by the VTC Technical Department,
the MOE PNU, and JIPA, the latter with assistance of specialists from the MOE
Project Implementation Directorate. These are acceptable to the Bank. During
negotiations, the Bank reached agreement with the Government that by end
November 1985, the VTC, MOR and JIPA would submit to the Bank for review and
approval final furniture and equipment lists with bidding documents and
proposed procuremant schedules for their respective project components (para.
5.01).
1/ Dangroup International has been appointed for the Irbid TIC.



- 28-
Project Izplementation
3.20     The project implementation schedule and action plan are  shown in
Schedule II.
A. Procurement
3.21     The table below summarizes procurement arrangements:
Table 3.5: PROCUREMENT BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES
(US$Million)
Procurement Method
Category                ICB        LCB        Other        Total Cost
Civil Works:
VTC                     5.7       -                                5.7
(2.8)                   -                 (2.8)
mOn                     5.3       -                                5.3
(2.6)     -             -                 (2.6)
Goods:
VTC                     2.9        0.3          0.4                3.6
(2.6)      (0.3)        -                 (2.9)
NOR                     1.1        0.1                             1.2
(1.0)      (0.1)        -(1.1)
JIPA                    0.6        0.1                             0.7
(0.6)      (0.1)        -                 (0.7)
Technical Assistance:
VTC                                             0.5                0.5
M0OB                                            1.0                1.0
(0.1)             (0.1)
JIPA                   _                        0.3                0.3
Total               15.6        0.5          2.2               18.3
(9.6)      (0.5)        (0.1)            (10.2)
NOTE: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.



- 29 -
3.22    Architectural  Design  and  Supervision.   The  VTC  has  appointed
consultants U1 for the design and construction supervision of one of the
project-financed institutions of the VTC component.  The VTC is. currently
contracting other consultants.  A VTC architect has been appointed to oversee
the work of-these consultants. The MOE has appointed the Ministry of Public
Works (MOPW) to prepare the architectural and engineering documents for the
project-financed  Nursing/Paramedical  Integrated  Trainiig  Institute.   The
architects in the PHU will oversee the work of the HOPW on behglf of the MON
and will coordinate the architectural program with the other parts of the
project.
3.23    Civil Works.  Contracts, amounting to about US$11 million, including
contingencies, would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB), in conformity with the revised and expanded Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, printed in August 1984.
3.24    Goods.  Equipment and furniture items, amounting to some US$5 million
including contingencies, would be grouped to the extent possible in large
packages toi permit bulk procurement in conformity with the guidelines cited
above        -3.23) and with  the Sample Bidding Documents, Procurement of
Goods, published by the Inter-American Development Bank, Asian Development
Dank and World Bank in September 1983. All equipment and furniture to be
financed under the proposed loan would be procured under the following
procedures:   contracts  for  bid  packages  exceeding  US$100,000  equivalent
estimated value would be awarded' on the basis of ICB. Contracts for goods
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent each, which would not be
expected to interest foreign suppliers because of the variety of each
contract, could be procured: (i) on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally, using local competitive bidding procedures; or, (Hi) when
uch items are estimated to cost per contract not more than US$50,000
equivalent, on the basis of a minimum of three quotations from manufacturers
or suppliers. The aggregate cost of goods procured, under local competitive
bidding and local shopping procedures, is limited to US$900,000.
3.25    Preferences.  In the comparison of bids obtained for goods on the
basis of ICB, qualifying domestic manufacturers would be allowed a margin of
preference equal to the existing rate of custom duties applicable to competing
imports, or 151 of the CIF price, whichever is lower.
3.26     Local  Competitive  Bidding  (LCB).   LCB  procedures  are  generally
consistent with the need for economy and efficiency in the execution of the
project.   Annex  10  lists  several  local  bidding  practices  on  which
clarifications were secured at recent negotiations.  These points would be
taken  into  account  in  carrying  out procurement in accordance with Bank
procurement guidelines.
B. Other Procurement Procedures
3.27    Expert services would be acquired  in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Const1tants.
3.28     Bank Review Requirements.  The Bank would review prior to contract
award: (a) all construction contracts; and (b) all contracts for goods which
are in excess of US$150,000 c.luivalent.  The remainirTg contracts wolld be
subject to post-review by the Bank after contract award.
V1 Dangroup International (for the Irbid TfC).



- 30 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.01     The proposed project would make an important contribution to
Jordan's manpower development system by providing support for expansion
and strengthening of priority programs. Specifically, the project would:
(a) increase by about 1,300 the annual supply of scarce trained
skilled and semi-skilled workers, including industrial workers
required for implementation of the export-oriented industrial
development effort;
(b) improve.- workforce productivity by reducing the incidence of
occupational accidents and worker injuries through education and
training programs directed to some 500 enterprise managers,
safety officers and trainers per year;
(c) increase the annual output of paramedical personnel by about
260, thereby alleviating current shortages, allowing eventually
for replacement of non-national personnel, improving the quality
of health services, particularly primary health care, and
expanding career opportunities for women; and
Cd) upgrade  the quality and  extend  the  coverage  of - magement/
administration programs provided annually to approximately 1,000
private and public sector managers at various levels.
Risks
4.02     There are no undue risks anticipated with the proposed project.
The trade training and paramedical training components are similar to
those already being implemented satisfactorily under the Government's
existing programs, including institutions financed under the Fourth
Education Project.  The-project units have been strengthened and are
performing  satisfactorily.   Although  Jordan's  labor market is  quite
sensitive   to   neighboring   oil-endowed   countries'   changing   labor
requirements due to oil price fluctuations, the Jordanian manpower
trained under the present project are expected to be fully absorbed in
the local labor market to meet domestic requirements.



- 31 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01     During  negotiations,  the  Bank  reached  understanding  with  the
Government that:
(a) No later than end November 1985, the MOR would submit to the Bank for
review and conmment, a TA plan, including details of expert services
specializations, and terms of reference and a time schedule for the
expert services and fellowship programs related to the MOB component
(para. 2.14).
(b)  By end November 1985, the VTC, MOH and JIPA would submit to the Bank
for review and approval furniture and equipment lists with bidding
documents  and  proposed  procurement  time  schedules  for  their
respective project components (para. 3.19).
5.02     During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a)  it would provide funds for: (i) TA for the trade training centers
(para. 2.07); (ii) furniture, equipment ane related TA for the OSHI
(para. 2.08); and (iii) TA for JIPA  (para.  2.09).   However,  the
Government may secure bilateral or multilateral funding for these
items, and has undertaken to complete these arrangements within six
months of the date of loan agreement (para. 3.08);
(b)  the  tracer  system  vhich  is  to be established under  the Fourth
Project, with the purpose of analyzing job placement and performance
of graduates of the Irbid NPIT[, would be extended to cover the
graduates of all MOH paramedical training institutes (para. 2.11);
(c) the VTC, JIPA and MOH, respectively, would maintain satisfactory
accounts (para. 3.10);
(d) the audit of the project accounts would include audit of the Special
Account (para. 3.10);
(e) the audits would be conducted annually and the accounts and audits
would be submitted to the Bank for review within six months of the
close of the Government's fiscal year (para. 3.10); and
(f) the auditors would give a separate opinion on the special account and
on statements of expenditures of the VTC, MOH and JIPA (para. 3.10).
5.03     Subject  to  the above conditions, the project provides a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$10.2 million equivalent to the Hashemite Kingiom
of Jordan for a term of 15 years, including a grace period of three years.



- 32 -
Scdle r
HASHEMITE KrNGDM OF JORDM
FIRST MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Technical Assistanpe Schedule
Fellowsh is             Exoert Services
Man/Hbnths                HanfJMnths    8egiminng
Description                    Number    Each    Total   Number   Each   Total       Date
Vocational Training Cornoration       1          -       64      I        _       2
Instrumentation                      1         6.5      6.5     -        -       - July 87 A1
Experts in:
Instrumentation                   -         -        -       1        3       3 July 87 jf
Control Systems                   -         -        -       1        3       3 July 87 ml
Office Machines Maintenace        -         -        -       1        3       3 July 87 £/
Hinistry of Health                   14-                i                  -     27
Nursing and Midwifery
(Different Disciplines)              s    3      iS            -     -      -        .
Health Technician Education
(Laboratory 2. Sanitation 1.
School Health 1. Rehabilit-          6    3      18            -     -      -
ation 1. Public Health 1)
Educational Hanagement               1    3       3            -     -       -
Directors of College Departments    2    1        2            -     -       -
Experts in Organization and
Traintng (Nurse Education 1.
Nutrition 1. Sanitation 1. School   -    -        -            6     3      18
1. Other to be decided 2) hI
Expert in rn-Service Training.
Management  and Health               -    -       -            1     6       6
Planning
Expert in Equipment Maintenance                                I _1 _                ...
Total financed by Bank                        A& _  44     11    _       i
VTC-Occupational Safety and
Health (government financing)          h.          ... h/    ... ht ... I ... hi       IV kr
Jordan Institute of Public Admini-
stration (coverrment financingl    l2                                      2
Upgrading of Trainers            12    3      36            -     -       -
Experts In:
Teaching Methodology              -    -       -            1     6      6
Designing Teaching Materials      -    -       -            1     6      6
Evaluation of Training            -    -       -            1    12      12
a! May start earlier.
b/ To be decided by October 198S.
Doc 2122V. p41



- 33 -
Page 1 of 2
Ef£tetsvstt:      Jmaary 1. 1916
Ct_ett1m Date:   Iwh  31. 1991
Lam ClOSin Date:   ecrs     31. 1992
Coat        itim         Categary         1965     196      l9       1966      1969     1990      1991     192
vrr GwS _ ,t
101    A_D CTTC       Civil wirks       SOPO         OX  X X X X  X X C 6   G 6
Eqwment                      Pon  Be            xxx   XG
102    Irbid.(TTC)    Civil brks       P P o *  8 o x x  x X X X   X X X x  G 6 G G
EqWit_t                          P  PO 8 a    0   X X X X G
103    Oinr Al Sart   Civ1t wbris       S  0 P O  8 B 0 X  X X X X  X XG   6 6
(CTM         Equipment                     P       30 8  * O  X  G
104    Zarka lTTC)    C1i wbrks          Pr 0 c     x            x  x x x x  c G G6 C
Equtpnt                     P P O        B   0  XX   XG
105  1ashmly, Ext. Civil W1rks            P O 8   8 0      X  X G G  G G
MTYC)        Equipment                p  O 8 a O   XIXG
106    YAjou Ext.    Civ iWrks            P0 r  o      X ox   X X G G  G G
(TTC)        Eqip.mt                  P  0 3 3 0  X X X C
Tecmical Asst-          p       a Ba     X X      X X      X X       X X
107      *a (0OSH)   Civil wrks             P 0  B 8 0   X   X  X X X  6 G G G
Equipment                     P B B      X X  X
Tedmical Asst.              P  BB        XX  XXX   XXXX  X XX   X XXX
201    Z2rq anst.    Civil Uorks           S O P   P 0 a B  0 X X X  X X X X  X X X G  6 G G
(IPITI)      Equipawt                      * P O      B B  0           X X X  X G
Techtcal Asst.      P P o  JB a30        XX  X X X X X X  X  X   X XXX   XXXX
301      _aInst.   Ekipm1nt                 P P   0 8 a 0        X  X X X G
Techical Asst.              PP  a             XXX          XX XX   XXXX  XXXX
KEY: S - Site Selectlm; P a Preparation; 0 - Bank Review.   = Advertising for Bids to Award;
X - Execution; 6 - Guaranty
Doc 2122V. p42
.



- 34 -
Sc le II
PaW 2 of 2
RAE ENXM OF N
FmIR3 MkUE  -EE43M    PRU=~
SIEF APPRAIS RREer
Ation Plan fr Project TEzpemeUtarim
item                                                    CDF lMtes
Vic                  MB                 JIPA
1.  tctin idrwirgs finalized             Nauember 30, 1985       March 31, 1986         WA
2. Bid doamomts sent for BaRk review
and co.,t             lwaber 31, 1985                    J.e 30, 1986           WA
3.  -mmmweent  of 13CB                       Jze 30, 1986   Septeiber 30, 1986          WA
4. Cm1etim of ICB and bid evauatiix   Sqeuer 30, 1986            March 31, 1987         WA
5. Aurd of cwtraets                      I1eaber 31, 1986         J.  30, 1987          WA
6. Target caupletica date for all
ca-st=tiCm                        Dcuber 30, 1988   S.cezter 30, 1989            WA
1L Equipemt li8tS sen for Bonk
review and c t                      Mmrc: 31, 1987   Sep e 30, 1986   Decesber 31, I8
2. Bid docs st for Bak
re-iw and c    t                     Jue 30, 1987         eher 31, 1986       March 31, 1986
3. Caf_meemot, of IB                     D ber 31, 1987   Sepmber 30, 987             Je 30, 1986
4. Campletim of 1DB aI  bid evlatim         luzh 31. 1988   Setember 30, 1988  Setad)er 30, 1986
5. hard of ctrcts                               r 30, 1988       Mch 31, 1989        March 31, 1987
6. Mumfacm and !delivey of Mernt           Mch 31, 1989        ecemer 31, 1989        Jume 30, 198
7. rnsta]Iatim of equipmnt                   jum  30, 1989        oh  31, 1990  Spteaber 30, 1988
ical Assista
L Recruitzoit of fells.                      Je 30, L987          Jui 30, 1987   aleber 31, 1987
2. Rearuitnet o' cmultmts                    Jiue 30, 1987        Jue 30, 1987  Dezx?r 31, 1987
3. Marget cmletic date for
feDhip                             ceuer 31, 1991    Dember 31, 1991   J3ezber 31, 1991
4. :Iget ccmp1etim date for
Catmltons                        Dezbr 31, 1991    Deceber 31, 1991   1aceder 31, 1991
Doc. 212ZV p. 68



- 35 -
Schedule III
HASEEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Schedule of Disbursements
Project       Bank FE/        Disbursements        Cumulative
Year         Semester         US$Million          US$Sillion        Z
Year 1        86/2                 0.1                0.1           1.0
87/1                0.2                0.3           2.9
Year 2        87/2                 0.2                0.5           4.9
88/1                0.2                0.7           6.9
Year 3        88/2                 0.8                1.5          14.7
89/1                1.0                2.5          24.5
Year 4        89/2                 1.4                3.9          38.2
90/1                1.5                5.4          52.9
Year 5        90/2                 1.4                6.8          66.7
91/1                1.0                7.8          76.5
Year 6        91/2                 : a                8.6          84.3
92/1                0.6                9.2          90.2
Year 7        92/2                 0.5                9.7          95.1
93/1                0.5               10.2         100.0
Doc 2122V, p41



- 36 -
HWSE KI           OF aF
FEWS NNEWR  DEEUA    PFI
STAFF APLAIL REEMR
Average Aial   th Fates and
Struure of Fnploymnt (1972-83)
Average Amml Percnt f h          CZ)
1972-79 1972-75 1975-79 1979-83 a/      1979 1983 a/
Agriculture                  -3.5    -3.4    -3.6        4.9         10.0  10.1
#fnn                         ll,.9     9.1    14.1       1.1          LO    .9
Harmifactrc ing                5.9     7.4     4.8       5.6          9.7  10.0
chmical &  t euiica]-c   10.6        9.1    12.7       63           1.0   1.1
tallic Miteral
Products                    13.3     3.2    21.5       6.4          1.1   1.2
Other                       4.5      7.6      2.3      5.4          7.6   7.7
Electricit3y, Gas and Water   18.0    15.2    20.0      14.1          1.3   1.9
qxistruti-cxx                15.1      6.0    22.5       3.3         16.0  15.1
Trade                        -3.9      3.3    -9.0       4.2          9.6   9.4
TrarmIortIti"n                6.1    10.2      3.1       6.4          7.7   8.2
Finance                       9.0    11.5      7.2       1.3          2.3   2.0
Public Aklinistratdrim        5.2      4.7     5.6       6.0         35.9  37.6
Other                         6.7      5.9     7.3       3.3          6.6   4.8
TOTML                         4.3      4.2     4.4       4.7        100.0 100.0
An-Agriculture                5.5      5.6     5.5       3.8         90.0  89.9
a/ Bank estimte
Source: bDparenmnt of Statistics and Bank estimates
Doc. 21Zv p. 67



- 37 -
FIRST iumnOEWLELtT PSl3FCT
STAFF APPAISAL REPORT
E_le_t Estimtn  by Ocetmati
ism0          ism             "         Animal Average
nmter  S of  _mra   % etr  Sme         a    Groomth Rates  n    ago* tape) A
(0006) Tatal  (GOO) Total  ('000) Total   19C0-WS  19S5-90   190-085  1965-90
A-1  Scintists and lNthnticians 0.6   0.1      S.8   1.1     6.8   1.1       S7.4     3.2       S.2      1.0
A-2 Architects mnd Egineers     3.8   0.1      9.4   1.5    10.8   2.6       19.9     2.8       5.6      1.4
A-i kelth Professionals         7.1   1.S    14.S   2.7    16.9   Z.8        15.4     3. 1      7.4     2.4
& Tedhnicis
A-4 Teachers                   33.S   7.2    38.4   7.2    44.0   7.3         2.8     Z.        4.9      S.6
A-S Other Professonals         10.0   2.2    2S.4   4.8    23.8  . 3.9       20.5    -1.3      15.4   -1.6
A-6  pragws                    34.1   7.3    32.7   6.1    33.6   S.6       -0.5      O -S     -1.4      0.9
-1 Science & Math TechnicIans    2.3   0.5     2.7   O.S    851   6.5         3.3    25.0       0.4      5.4
3-2 White Collar Supervisors    5.0   1.1    12.7   2.4    14.9   2.5        20.5     3.2       7.7      2.2
&-3 Ele Collar Supervisors     19.4   4.2    16.S   3.1    21.4   3.6        -3.2     5.3      -2.9      4.9
C-1 Skilled Of1ice warkers     26.1   S.6    30.2   S.7    3S.8   S.9         3.0     3.5       4.1      S.6
C-2 Skilled Manual             6.3  14.3   76.1  14.3    86.1  14.3           2.5     2.S       9.8    16.6
0-1 S_i-Skil'ed Manual        1S5.4  34.1   162.7  30.s   177.6  29.S         0.5     1.8       4.3    14.9
0-2 Smi-Skilled office         24.S   5.3    30.8   5.S    36.9   6.1         4.7     3.7       6.3      6.1
E   USskilled                  _3.0 1S.7    75.e  14.2    S6. .    14.A1 .3   La      Li        2I2     I
TOTAL                     46M  iflLft   532L   lL0t0   fi  lA            LA2-t   2.1       6.      S
nuber (o000         Change   hange        Annual Averao. Emlont Incrase
l  Collr
&_3 )
C-2 )        244.1   25S.3 255.1       11.2    29.8                 2.2          6.0
f-1
A/ Colums my not s5 de to romding.
ZMK: Bank estimates. (Manpowr evelrp ent in JorAn Report)
Dec 2122V p61
.



Amnex 3
38 -                                 Page 1 of 3
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OFJORAN
FIRST ANPOWR  DEELPENT PROJECT
vooon"  Ii*i Coipotfn
Bxm-irGof Ltor
OMWers
oI fktIcWt cIs
PtvnratT .c tom                              li
[ E }  E  3  I    '   0
< }                                               I    r~~~~~~~~~~~wc 
Vte bOhT _ Or Glcll d VIC ~ ~ ~  ~       ~     ~      I
taor&KRAcMHf
19cfstr_ SM Cd2T)
VRMBcm-275Mt



- 39 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
HASHEMITE KINGDOIM OF JORDAN
FIRST MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VTC Summary of Draft Plan of Action (1986-90)
The VTC Board has approved a draft plan of action which it has
submitted to the Ministry of Planning for inclusion in the next Five-Year
Development Plan (1986-90). The VTC plan, which is highly appropriate to
Jordan's  labor market needs, calls for construction of five new TTCs and
extension of three existing ones at a total estimated cost of JD 3.275
million. In addition, there are in the Plan proposals for five specialized
centers attached to industries to be financed by employers. The objectives
stated in the Plan are: (a) train, during the Plan period, some 20,000 skilled
and  semi-skilled  workers  through  its  apprenticeship,  short  courses  and
upgrading programs to meet anticipated manpower demands; (b) extend vocational
training programs to include new specializations and cover additional
geographic areas; and (c) intensify its occupational safety and health
program. In addition to quantitative targets, the VTC envisages during the
Plan period to:  (a) improve the quality of training through upgrading its
technical and managerial staff and developing teaching aids and 'materials;
(b) extend the trade steandardization process to include new trades (now only
auto-mechanics is covered); (c) promote integration of the education and
training systems, and (d) introduce a payroll training levy.
Doc 2122V, p62



- 40 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VTC REVENUES AND EXPENDTURES IN JD (000's)
Revenues and Expenditures         X     Recurrent Expenditures            X
Revenue:
Government          1,346       49.9   Salaries, rewards and             74.9
overtime                783
VTC activities        159        5.9    Taining materials and
servicas                226    21.6
Foreign aid           330       12.1   Maintenance of buildings
and equipment            22     2.1
Loans                 863       32.0   Other                      15     1.4
Total          2,698      100.0         Total             1.046- 100.0
(Capital
Expenditure)      (1,652)     (61.2)   (Apprenticeship)        (989)  (94.6)
(Recurrent
Expenditure       (1,046)     (38.8)   (Other courses)          (57)   (5.4)
Doc 2122V, p63



- 41 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST MANPOWER DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VTC-Enrollments in Trade Training Centers by Specialization
(1981/82-1984/85)
Apprenticeship Courses
Specification                 1981/82   1982/83   1983184   1984/85
1. Welding and Metal Fabrication            338       743       901      1,164
2. Central Heating and Plumbing             172       350       514        699
3. Automechanics                            282       659       814      1,083
4. Auto-Electricity                           -         -        14         90
5. Diesel Engines                             -         -        59         32
6. Body and Fender Work                       -         -        14         41
7.   iintenance Mechanics                   164       169       153        239
8. Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration         -         -        50        159
9. Radio and TV Repair                        -         -         -          9
10. Machine-Shop                              -         -        50        186
11. Electrical occupations                  422       493       558        840
12. Office Machines Maintenance               -         -         -          8
13. Woodwork and Decoration                 123       345       470        706
14. Building Construction                     -        36        72        129
15. Petroleum Refining Operators             42        46        21         55
16. Petroleum Refining Pipe-Fitting          28        14         -          -
17. Press Printing                            -         -        20         40
18. Secretarial                               -         -         -         13
19. Dressmaking                               -         -         -         13
20. Hotel and Catering                        -         -        30         83
21. Agriculture                               -         -         -         17
TOTAL                                 1.571     2.855     3,740      5,606
Doc 2122V, p64



- 42 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
RASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VTC-Enrollments in Trade Training Centers by Geographical Area.
by Year in Aprenticiship
(1983/84-1984/85)
Apprenticeship Courses
Enrollments 1983/84             Enrollments 1984/85
Ist Yr  2nd Yr  3rd Yr  Total   lst Yr  2nd Yr  3rd Yr  Total
1. Wadi Seir        149     98       66     313     169     119      98      386
2. EuAkama          428    223       67     718     486     367     213   1,066
3. Ein Al-Basha     283    156       98     537     394     240     134      768
4. Saahab           339    265      132     736     508     316     239   1,063
5. Yajouz           343    227      125     695     565     290     218   1,073
6. Hashimiya        278    168       94     540     377     256     166      799
7. Middle Ghor       34     38       -       72     125      33      36      194
8. Narka              -      -        -       -      41       -        -      41
9. South Region*     57     61       11     129      96      59      61      216
Total          1.911  1.236     593   3.740   2,761   1,680   1,165   5,606
*Using facilities of MOE
Doc 2122V, p65



- 43 -                         Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
HASHEM[ITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VTC--Enrollments in Short (Limited Skill) and Upgrading Courses
A. By Geographical Area and Year (1980-84)
Limited Skill                     Upgrading
Area        1980  1981  1982  1983  1984   1980  1981  1982  1983  1984
Sweileh          135  143  161    94   119    144   10   24   -
Aqaba              -    20   34      -    62       -     -     -    -
Irbid             -   236   87   107   151        68    12    12   -
Middle Ghor        -     -    31   78   63         -     -     -   -
Amian             34  256  188   377   297        61   30   40    -
Zarka             60   220  2.23  145   155       81    16     -   =
Total            229  875   724  801   847       354   68    76   =    200
B. By Specialization and Geographical Area (1984)
(Limited Skill Courses Only)
Middle
Specialization         Sweileh Aqaba  Irbid  Ghor   Anm-n Zarka Total
1. Electrical Eoune Wiring    45      35      72    10    75       82     319
2. Autoemcbanics               21    18        9    11    76    40        175
3. Puiabing-                   27      -      36      -     45     20     128
4. Arc Welding                  -      -       -      -      -     13      13
5. Pachine Utilization         11      9       -      -     88      -     108
6. Woodwork                     -      -       -      -      6      -       6
7. Tiling                      15     -       11     -      -       -      26
8. Typing                       -      -      23    21       -      -      44
9. Electrical Machine Winding -        -       -      -      7              7
10. Spinning and Weaving       -      _       -      21     -       _      21
Total                     119     62     151    63    297    155    847
Doc 2122V, p66



Annex 5
44 -                             Page 1 of 6
EASHBEMtE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST MNPOWIE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A. Health  hanpower-Projected Output of Nursing Training Institutions
Jordan    Irbid    Zarka    lerak      Jordan   Princess   Yarmouk
Year  College  College  College  College  University   Nuna   University  Total
1985    48        -        -        -           54       30           -      132
1986    45        -        -        -           54       30           -      129
1987    45        -        -        -          100       30           -      175
1988    45       80       30        -          100       30         40       325
1989    45       80       80       30          100       30         40       405
1990    80       80       80        30         100       30          40      440
1995    80       80       80        30         100       30          40      440
2000    80       80       80        30         100       30          40      440
2005    80       80       30       30          100       30          40      440
B. Projected Supply and Ratio Patterns for Jordanian Nurses
Gross
Beginning    New                    Ending     Population     Ratio per
Year    Stock a/  Supply   Attrition b/  Stock a/   Est. (mln.)    1.000 pop. c/
1984                                       1,038       2.60            1:2,500
1985    1,038      132          52         1,118       2.70            1:2,420
1986    1,118      129          56         1,191       2.81            1:2,360
1987    1,191      175          60         1,306       2.92            1:2,240
1988    1,306      325          65         1,566       3.04            1:1,940
1989    1,566      405          78         1,893       3.16            1:1,670
1990    1,893      440          95         2,238       3.29            1:1,470
1995    3.455      440         173         3,722       4.00            1:1,070
2000    4,664      440         233         4,871       4.87            1:1,000
2003    5,254      440         263         5,431       5.48            1:1,010
2004    5,431      440         272         5,599       5.i2            1:1,020
2005    5,599      440         280         5,759       5.92            1:1,030
a/  Jordanian nationals only; there were 368 expatriate nurses registered in
1984.
b/  Estimated at 5S  per annum,  a conservative assumption given  the high
proportion of female employment, and excludes migration.
c/ MOR target is ratio of 1:1,000 by 1995.
Doc 2122V. p67



- 45 -                              A"_nn  5
45 -                         Page 2 of 6
HASEDIITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A. Health Manpower-Projected Output of Nidwife Training Institutions
Jordan          Irbid          Zarka           Kerak
tear      College         College        College         College         Total
1985        23               -23
1986        50              25              15               -             90
1987        30              25              25              15             95
1988        30              25             25               '5             95
1989        30              25             25               15             95
1990        30              25             25               15             95
1995        30              25             25               15             95
2000        30              25             25               15             95
2005        30              25             25               15             95
B. Projected Supply and Ratio Patterns for Jordanian Midwives
Gross
Beginn       New                   Ending     Population      Ratio per
Year    Stock al  Supply   Attrition b/ Stock a/   Est; (Kln.)    1,000 pop. cl
1984                                       288       2.60            1:9,030
1985     288        23         14          297       2.70            1:9,090
1986     297        90         15          372       2.81            1:7.550
1987     372        95         19          448       2.92            1:6,520
1988     448        95         22          521       3.04            1:5,830
1989     521        95 -       26          590       3.16            1:5,360
1990     590        95         30          655       3.29            1:5,020
1995     885        95         44          936       4.00            1:4,270
2000   1,114        95         56        1,153       4.87            1:4,220
2003   1,225        95         61        1,259       5.48            1:4,350
2004   1,259        95         6a        1,291       5.70            1:4,420
2005   1,291        95         65        1,321       5.92            1:4,480
a/  Jordanian nationals only; there were 42 expatriate midwives registered in
1984.
bi Estimated at 5t per annum, a conservative assumption given that midwives
are females, and excludes migration.
c/ MOE target is ratio of 1:4,000 by 1995.
Doe 212ZV, p68



- 46 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 6
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST NANPOWER DEVELOPMET PROJECT
STAFF -APPRAISAL REPORT
Health Manpower-TarRets for Health Technicians
Number of Paramedicals Required for 1995
1.      The required numbers of different paramedicals were calculated by
reference to MOH staffing standards/targets for each category of health
technician. These standards were used to project the demand until 1995.
(a) Assistant Laboratory Technicians: The standard for laboratory
technicians working in hospitals is 1:15 beds. The planned number of
beds in 1995 is to be 6178. NOR also plans to staff Primary Health
Care Centers (PECs) with 2 lab technicians per center, and
Comprehensive Health Care Centers (CKCs) with 3 lab technicians per
center. Plans call for 200 PHCs and 13 CECs by 1995. In addition,
45 private laboratories are expected to require 3 lab technician
each. Thua the requirements for laboratory technicians by 1995 are
as follows:
IFuu Ier Laboratory
Employment Setting Taehnicians Required
Hospitals: 6,178 beds j. 15                        412
PHCs     : 200 x 2                                 400
aHse     : 13z3                                     39
Private Laboratories: 45x3                         135
TOTAL                                            986
(b) Assistant X-Ray Tehnicians: The standard is 1:10 beds for hospitals
staffing. In addition, 50 PECs and 13 CEC. will be staffed with two
technicians  each.   Thus,  the  requireuments  for  Assistant  X-Ray
Technicians are as follows:
Number Assistant X-Ray
Employment Setting                  Technicians Required
Hospitals: 6,178 beds . 10                         618
PECs     : 50 x 2                                  100
CICs     : 13x2                                     26
TOTAL                                            744
Doc 2122V, p69



- 47 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 6
(c) Assistant Anaesthesia Technicians: The standard is 1:10 hospitals
beds. The total staff recuired is 6,178 - 10 = 618 technicians.
(d) Assistant Pharmacists: The standards set for assistant pharmacists
are as follows:
(i) Private pharmacies: In urban areas, one pharmacy is needed for
every 5,000 citizens, and in rural areas I for every 6,000;
each pharmacy needs one assistant pharmacist. The population
number in 1995 will be 3,700,000 of which 601 urban and 401
rural. Therefore the number of assistant pharmacists needed
for the private sector is:
Urban areas:  3,700,000 x  60 x   1 = 444
i00   5000
Rural areas:  3,700,000 x  40 x   1 = 249
100   6000
Total for private pharmacies       693
(ii)  Health Centers and Hospitals:  The standard is 1:15 beds in
hospitals. In addition, the MOR plans to staff each PHC with
1  and  each  CHC  with  2  Assistant  Pharmacists.   The
requirements, therefore, are as follows:
Number Assistant
Employment Setting                        Pharmacists Required
Hospitals: 6,178 beds ' 15                          412
PECs:      200 x 1                                  200
CHCs:      13x2                                      26
Total                                             638
GRAND TOTAL
(Private Pharmacies, Hospitals & Health Centers) =      1.331
(e) Health Inspectors: The standard is one health inspector for every
5,000  citizens.   In  1995,  800 would be  required  to  serve  the
estimated population of 4 million.
(f) Assistant Physiotherapists: The standard is 1:30 hospital beds.
The total number needed in 1995 is thus 6,178 beds . 30 = 206.
Doc 2122V, p55



- 48 -
Annex 5
Page 5 of 6
(g) Assistant Dental Technicians:   The  required  number  of Assistant
Dental Technicians was calculated in accordance with the following
standards:
1 technician for each of the 200 PECs planned to be operative by 1995;
3 technicians for each of the 22 out-patient speciality clinics in
government hospitals.
2 technicians for each of the 53 private dental laboratories.
The total requirements are as follows:
Number Assistant Dental
Employment Setting                               Technicians Required
PHCs     : 200 x 1                                           200
Hospital Clinics: 22 x 3                                      66
Private Dental Laboratories: 53 x 2                          106
TOTAL                                                      372
(h) Assistant Statisticians: The required number was calculated according
to the following standards:
5 for each hospital (private and public)    45 x 5 = 225
1 for each PHC                              200 x 1 = 200
2 for each CHC                               13 x 2 =  26
Tatal                                                 451
Doc 2122V, p56



- 49 -
Annex S
Page 6 of 6
NASHENITE KINGDOM OF JORDA
FIRST AUNPOwER DEVELOPWNT PR0JECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Health Mannower--SunnlX and Denand for Health Technicians
Projected   Requirements            Projected
No.                     Available     to Meet    Surplus/   Available
Available   Gross Annual    Supply       Targets    Shortage  _.MUnPlD   d
Category              1985      New Supply Al  in 1995 h/    in 1995    in 1995   2000    2005
Assistant Laboratory
Technicians                  403          60          746           986        -240     858     93S
Assistant X-Ray
Technicians                  197          74          744           744           0     911   1,039
Assistant Anaesthesia
Technicians                  128          69          667           618         +62 !/  829     954
Assistant
Pharmacists                  310         110        1.125         1.331        -206   1.368   1.557
Health
Inspectors                   208          45          507           800        -293     597     665
Assistant
Physiotherapists              72          17          186           206         -20     221     248
Assistant Dental
Technicians                   70          1S          168            372       -214     198     221
Assistant
Statisticians                 74          35.349                    451        -102     429    491
TOTAL                   1-462           U4.492                 L_Dft    -1016   5.411  6.110
a/  Supply from all Institutions, including NPITIs  In  Irbid and Zarka  which  are  operating  in
tenorary facilities pending construction of permanent rnstitute buildings.
hi Assumes annual attrition rate of SX per annum. a conservative assumption given the expected
high proportion of female employment in these occupations. and excludes migration-
£1 Adjustments would be made to enrollment intake in the various specializations to ensure that
oversupply does not result for any specialization.
d/ Assuming no increase in capacity of supply institutions. and continued SX per annum attritrion.
Doc 2122V. pS7



- 50 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
HASEEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VTC-Proiect Training Centers
A. Enrollments by Specialization and Center (A prenticeship Courses Only) at
(1988t89)
105        106
L1W     102        103      Hashimiya  Yajow;
Specializations      Aqaba   Irbid  Chor Al Safi Extens.   Extens. Total
1. Antomechanics                 30                                               30
2. Maintenance Mechanics         48                                               48
3. Welding and Sheet Metal                57           50                        107
4. Foundry                                39                                      39
5. Plumbing and Sanitary                               35                         35
6. Air-Conditioning and
Refrigeration                        48                                       48
7. Office Machine Maintenance                                            35       35
8. Instrumentation
and Hydraulic Systems
Control                                                              57       57
9. Maintenance of Agricultural
Machi-nes                                          30                         30
10. Electrical Occupations       30      48            50                        128
11. Woodwork and Decoration      30      48            30      92                200
12. Building Construction                              50     100       100      250
13. Agriculture                                        30                         30
Total                       138      240          275     192        192   1.037
a/ Enrollments in first two years only of three year apprenticeship program,
because third year is entirely on-the-job.
Doc 2122V, p58



-51-                                 Amex C
Page 2 of 2
HASHENITE KINGDOM OF JORDAM
FTRST HAMPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
VTC--Proiect Tratning Centers
B. Number of Trainina Places- Enrollments and output by Center
Enrollments              Estimated Annual
Nuber of       Apprenticeshin     Short        Outnut (10891
Location            Training  1ILsYr  Znd Yr           Curses Appren-  Short
Code City          Governorate   Places     8718B   88/89   Total   87/88 ticeship Courses Total
101    Aqaba            Na'an         100       72      66      138       72     65      63    128
102     Irbid           Irbid         145      12S     11S      240      125    113     109    222
103    Ghor nl Safi   Kerak           191      143     132     275       143    129     125    254
154    Zarka a/        Amn_an         100        -       -        -      400      -     350    350
105    Hashbnmya (Ext.)Aman           100      100      92      192      100     90      88    178
106    Yajouz (Ext.)  Balqa           13Z      1Q                        in 1R           Al    T7
Subtotal Trade Training Centers    ZM        5dQ     497   1Z037      4m    4S7       MZ   1310
107    Marka--OSI  J A_mma            1-                -       -        50      -      soo    SQ
TOTAL                               778        0           1ID2Z    1.ASI440    48Z   1322  1-810
a/  For training drivers and earth moving and other heavy equipment operators.
occupational Safety  and Health  Institute.   Sam   500  would  be reached every year through
seminars. short courses and consultations. Capacity of all seminar. conference and classrooms
Is approwimately 120.
Doc 2122V. p59



- 52 -
Annex 7
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAM
FIRST rANPOIER OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Kannower SuRoRI and Oemand Estimates at Skilled
and Semi-Skilled Worker Levels
1981-85    1985 A/    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1986-90
A. SUPPLY (Output of VTC and ME Courses)
VTC--Existing Centers hi             5001. 1700        2-100    2.900  2.-00   2.900   2.900       13.700
Apprenticeship Courses             2.500   1.000       1.400    2.200  2.200   2.200   2.200       10.200
Short Courses                      3.000     700         700      700    700      700     700       3.500
VTC-Proiect Centers r/                 -        -          -      300    500   1-310   1.310       3.420
Apprenticeship                         -        -          -        -       -     487     487         974
Short Courses                                              -      300    o500    -Z     _23       2.446
Total VTC                          5-500   10          2.100    3.200  3.400   4.210   4.210       17.120
TOTAL HOE V                        3-500   1.300       1.600    1.900  2.200   2.500   2.900       11.100
TOTAL SUPPLY                       9.000   3.000       3.700    5.100  5.600   6.710   7.110       26.231
B.  DEMAND SI                     4230       .700     12.200   l, 12.50  2800  13.1001300          6.0
of which:
attrition replacement fl       31.100   6.400       6,500    6.700  6.800   7.000   7.100       34.100
employment growth              11.200   2.300       5.700    5.800  6.000   6.100   6.200       29.800
3/ Base year.
bI  Including one under construction in North Jordan Valley (first output in 1987)-
Sf Excludes output of Occupational Safety and Health Institute.
A/ HOE estimates.
/ DOemand is for Blue Collar Occupations (Categoriee 8-3. C-2 and 0-1). the euployment growth
component of which is drawn from Annex 2. The dema.nd figure does not take into account replacement
of non-Jordanian workers.
UI Attrition rate assumed was 2.5% per annun.
Doc 2122V. p60



53 -o&e a
1jFTo     2
Protect Base Cost by Jbb-Coceent
(55*.00 * 0.40 Di)ma)
Lati ted Costs
Co"e   zJtitution          xpendituw  Category       h  ooo         US$00
101 Aqaba (TIC)        Civil works                   371.0         927.5
Equip  nt                     150.0         375.0
Total                         521.0       1,302.5
1O2  rgbid (Tfc)       Civil Works                   315.0         787.5
Dquapeuc                      250.0         625.0
Total                         311,2
103 Cbor Al Safi       Civil Works                   342.0         855.0
('TC)           Equipment                      150.0         375.0
Total                         492.0       1,230.0
104 Zarki (TIC)       C_vil Works                    200.0         500.0
Equipnt                       188.0         470.0
Total                         385.0         970.0
105 Hashimyal-        Civil Works                    112.0         280.0
tenmsion (TIC) Equipment                        71.0         177.5
Total                                        37:3
106 Yajosa-           Civil Wbrks                     97.0         242.5
EBensioi  (TC) Equipment                       140.0         350.0
Technical Assistance           49.0         122.5
Total                         286.0
107 Marka (tO5)       Civil Works                   330.0          825.0
-quipment                     129.0         322.5
Technical Assistance           90.0         225.0
Total                         549.0       1,372.5
Subtotal VrC     Civil Works                  1,767.0       4.417.5
equip nt                    1,078.0       2,695.0
Technical Assistance          139.0         347.5
Total                       TI7b
201  EPmI             Civil Works                  1,534.0       3,835.0
Equipment                     321.0         802.5
Technical Assistance          260.0         650.0
Total                       2,115.0       5.257.5
301 JIPA              Equipunt                      200.0          500.0
Technical Assistance           80.0         200.0
Total                         280 .0T f
Total (Base)     Civil Works                 3,301.0       8,252.5
Equipeent                   L,599.0       3,997.5
Technical Assistance       ,479.          1 17. 5
Total                       ______       13.447.
Doc 2122V, p61



54 -                          Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
HASHSEMTE KNGDMO OF JORMA
FIRST MAMPUIER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Proieet Financina by SaL-Ccmcnents 1J
(US$' 050)
Fore1in Exchange              Lacal
Code      Institution     Category        World Bank   Goverrment          Government        Total
101    Aqaba TTC        Civil Works            585.9                          609.8       1.195.6
Equipment             472.0                           S2.5         525.5
Total              1058.B                           662.3        ,1.71.1
102    Irbid TTC        Civil Works            502.0                          522.5       1.024.6
Equipment             788.2                           87.6         873.8
Total                1.290.2                         610.1        1,900.3
103    Ghor Al Safi    Civil Works             540.1                          S62.1       1.102.2
TTC            Equipment              438.2                           48.7         486.9
Total                 97l.3                          6,10.8       1 58.1
104    Zarka TTC        Civil Works            337.5                          351.3         688.8
Equipment              592.7                          65.9          658.6
Total                                                &ILJ2 417.1  1.347.3
0os    Hashimiya TTC   Civil Wbrks             167.0                          173.8         340.8
(Extension)    Equipment              201.1                           22.3         223.4
Total                  361.0                          156.2        Z6Z2
106    Yajouz TTC       Civil Works            144.6                         1l0.5          295.2
(Extension)    Equiprent              396.4                           44.0         440.5
Technical Asst.           -          162.0             18.0         179.9
Total                  541.0         lf2,l            212.6        !l5.6
107    Marka            Civil Wbrks            513.9          -               534.9       1.048.8
OSIII          Equipment                            411.6              7.1         418.7
Technical Asst.          -           318.2             35.4         353.6
Total                  S13_          7Z0.8            577.4       1-B21.1
Sub-total VTC   Civil Works          2,791.0           -            2904.9       5.696.0
Equipment            2.889.5        411.6             328.1       3.629.2
Technical Asst.          --         480.2              53.4         533.4
Total                S36902L 891.8                  3,286.4       ,BL5.7
201    EPmTi            Civil Works          2.594.1                        2.699.9        5,294.0
Equipment            1.079.6                          120.0       1.199.S
Technical Asst.        100.0         755.0             95.0         9SO.0
Total               ,3Z7727          70SL.          ZL14.         7.44362
300    JIPA             Equipment              588.8           -               65.4          654.2
Technical Asst.          -           273.9             30.4         305.3
Total                  s8a.8         Z7.9              c,           9
1/ Includes physical and price contingencies.
OTE: Suns of Individual items  ay not equal totals due to rounding.
Doc 2122V. p61



- 55 -
Annex 9
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Area and Capital Cost per Trainee/Student Place a/
Cost (in USO) Per Student
Gross Area (m2)                     Furnit.
Training              Per      Civil c/  and
Places   Total b/   Place     Works      Equip.    Total
Trade Training Centers
(TTC)                   768 d/   9,553     12.4      4,680     3,090    7,770
Nursing/Paramedical
Intagrated Training
Institute (NPITI)       700      4,309      6.2      5,480     1,150    6,630
a/ Costs are net of physical and price contingency allowances.
b/ Teaching and communal only.
c/ Including site development and professional fees.
al Excluding Occupational Safety and Health Institute (OSHI).
Doc. 2122V, p. 66



- 56 -
Pegs 1 of 2
NASH8NTI KINGDOM OF ID*
FIRST MANPBER OElOPtENT PRUUEC
STAFF   arAt  REPORT
Lca^l Cninetitive Biddina Proeedures
Category U1:  Provisions Emlrinn Snciaal  bnitormno
Clarifications and/or understanding will be sought an procedures to be followed for procursent af Bank-financed
contracts with respect to the following provisiors.
Ocuent *A'-Tnstracti ns for Governmnt Works ,qUkdib
Procedures to be Included
Page No-   Article                     Issue                        co-cnt                         In Documentation
12      8-(O)            Adequate time for Tender       Better understanding as to    Tenders to be advertised with
annoencent and submission   Stat Is considered adequate   adequate time for bid prepae-
of Bids                       and wbat publicity Is given   tin (3. G. 2.1 and Part III
to Tender.                    3.3).
13      8(G-1-2)         One or two-envelope bid        The one-envelope systm Is    SAR  nd Loan documentation.
£ IS                        subeission.                   perceived to be omre           if necessary, to specify that
efficient, faster and fairer Where the two envelopes ne
than the two-envelope         used, both envelopes shall
systa because all relevant  be egned at the same session
data Is read In public at     (B. G. 2.45).
the sae time. It offers
confidence In the system.
14      IOtA-3)          Alternate bid permitted if    Alternative bids are            Where alternate bids are to be
original bid Is submitted     acceptable providing that      invited, tender document must
in conformity with the        the method of cep aring        clearly state how alternates
bidding requiremnts.          the alternative bids are       wlll be evaluated, otherwise
speclfied In the bid          alternate bid can oly be
docurents.                    consid red tr o  lamest respon-
sive bidder for original
Tender (C. G. 2.49).
14       10(l-6)         Foreign bidders shall          Clarification is required      Bidder should be allowed to
mention local representative, on whether local represen-    nae local representative
tation is a condition for     after he Is declared success-
bidding.                      ful bidder.
18      13(A)            Tender to be awarded to best  Ensure that comparisons and   Contract to be awarded to
offer by virtue of Article    evaluation criteria in         lowest responsive evaluated
6 of the Regulations.         6 of the Regulations will      bidder (3. G6  2.58).
be applied in a manner
consistent with the Bank
Guidelines.
la      13(C)             Couittee may re-invite        Rebidding should not be        Rebidding decisions should
Tenders if quoted prices      rebid on same specifications  not be automatically applied.
are found to exceed sub-      solely to obtain lower         except (1) there there Is
stantially the prevailing     price (B. G. 2.60).            evidence of Inadequate compe-
prices or If it receives                                     tition. and (2) wSare tender
less than 3 bids.                                            requirements should be changed
to reduce price.
Dcc 2122V. p79
.



- 57 -
Anx    1 0
Page 2 of 2
FXRST MANPOER DEWLOE3cfT rRUOECT
STAFF APPUAISAL REPD
Local Cmtitive Bidding Procedures
Category II: Provisions Romi1ring SnRcial Monitorino
Clarifications and/or understanding will be sought an procedures to be followed for procurement of Bank-financed
contracts with respect to the follating provisios.
Doa, t '3'-Geveviist Ibrks R gulation s
Procedures to be Included
Page ft.   Article                   ls5e                       Comment                       In Docuentation
4      6(D)            Awards to local suppliers    Factors must be quantified    Factors ior evaluation to be
- Wre feasible. Co parison   for coarison or blds.       specified In Tender and
of local and foreign to be   No local preference for LCB  quantified for comparison.
_nde wtth due consideration   (B. G. 3.1).                No local preference for LCD
to taxes and opportunities                               (B. G. 3.1).
engendered for local eoploy-
mint and national capabilities.
l      16              Contracts for murks can be   SAR to Identify if any works Works to be performed under
executed by negotiation In   fall Into this category.    negotiated contracts will Oe
specified cases.                                          Id ntified 1n SAR and Loan
documentation. if necessary
(B. G. 2.60).
11      17              If prices re not reasonable. Modiftcation of Tender       Careful review of Tender
or bids are condttional or   documnts and re-bidding      requirements sy be necessary
nuer of bidders lacking    is Wreferred. Sank approval  if lack of bidders or high
approval to negotiate can    required to negotiate        prices are received. Sank
be obtained.                contract.                    approval required to negotiate
contract for works
(a. G. 2.60).
14      21-A            Only registered bidders can  Review or registration       Eligible bidders should be
obtain contracts for works.  requiratens should disclose  given opportunity to submit
if any restrictions are     bids (B. G. 1.7).
present.
16      21-0-1          Minister can form cimittee   Eligibility criteria should   Eligible bidders should be
to examine eligibility of.   be ascertained,             given opportunity to submit
non-Jordanian consultants                                 bids (B. G. 1.7).
and contractors.
Soamuit C and 8-Classificatzin of Contractors in Categor1es I and L
Registration, union mber-   The above documents were      The appraisal mission should
ship. professional licensing. renaned and they provide for inquire whether any restric-
registration of contractors  tive criteria other than
on the basis of qualifica-   technical. finaincal and pro-
tions. experience and        fessional are Involved which
equipment available,         would limit copetition or
deny access or opportunity to
compete within their technical
competence. and qualification.
Ooc 2122V. p10



-58 -                                                            Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
TURN   =    co     11,M    M                        C11                                                      RAM-    1 VW         
M  Co        a,                       0)         CO)      mn                 (93,      cm0        Cs"        cm2       Cs"3   (363
16.063379  6.3.     14.4~U                            s__       N6         n3                   a         n         a,     Mn."
ROSIN r6    11 61.2  12.=0       46          V.AN       W  -   -       966      we4    10         -        -           li                  -       32.36
DO  4*&  M0."'    7*           3.1       U    5 33  33     6      0       110       to       33.3         O         2        U3      3240
mm 35~      a    3.26  *.1g6    3.37        DA3W4  37  3    U            b      M9      &W        26        &           O 33.4is                   23g.I
69 .3  2.309    VA           110.2      33  10  30    "          "M6      M         SIP      g.g         a          "M       "M    ijjpl
snag=            OA0.    1W      1AL.                  3  U6   ...  3W         42       66        40       61.0         Go        go       Al09
326        12   32~~~~~.66    ji6o   2.3   3110        43  23  U       33       62                62       39.3         933       16      4U        GAS
ama        -    3~~~~~~1.66   430    3.35   36.36      631s -          466    133        M        36       14.4         10        a0       U        -
1MNN.            e2     344    420    3.3         36.6I      9  la  U        336     ILSE     all       6         OA         44.        21      2n        lie
mm~~~Ca      77~T    6.3    333    44'        26          33 3 30. s29 I  1      94b5    33         830       6*         is         34       23      3.16b7
at    4gab   n33o   2.           IA3 114      034 3         20      42       23        63        so8        ii          L       as       5.46
PiA 3          03     340  3.I370   4.3          6*0      46  36   1    so         6         72       23       1334       UM          So        n       BAD
mm          3~~~~~~3 sib6   30    2.7        243        72  36  32    376        16       62        48        3.0        tit         7       34      046
UIin.3.U    ~~~79   a0*3.17         .         2AM10 3424 36335303,  -            -        -         23       --                      -        -      -
WZ6i            11I    6.3     we      3.3        10.3      166 44  46   so           ask6    so        2116      g.g6       w6         336      n3       3*
1W          I~~~~~so  i     SN A9*6  0614, 633 ...   32                          SIGN     M         36        34         44         36       34      ..
smmvAm      13    *.36    96ao     3*6       20.6       St  36  33    63b        33       30        33       33.0        40         2        In      3*6
74106514   -    38~~9.1    no    S          37.4       41  go  to    76         966      By       43       11.0         196        S        me4    **
3244    306b   -           36.1'    23 36   b  Zve,  46       36       61        36       -           37          3       23      0."
ZAMasi    nib6  21ab   747                   26.        -  -10          366,    76        33        30      23*          40         to       U       2*6
10    3.16    s66    6.35        11.3      AN  23 23        "6      V3        W        40       13.0        39         36       n3       1.0
ml    7.10    1066   3.3         19.3      62  32   6    644        l        33        39       U*.         as         Is       r.       D."
19    366b  3226    6.3         330        As  23    I   jib        at       30,       66       34          10         3I       43       SAW
53            na3b6  Lz'         21.1      63  29  U9    9           1o      23        37       24.3        36          3       36      GAS
7  .2    390    2.97         BOAS7    335 438 2Us  -             W4      633       SW       [3ip        3341       347      U        3.-0
CA.6.            39  2.2  160   3457   2)4W                              -   -                          6351   -             -          -        -       91057
CUM              16    6.A    in0    2405         21*6      -   -    -    33          229               77       -           -           VW7    n3       Gaff
1W               76    3.3    610    9.10101    27.41,-                                                 3467     --                              4331,   4.3001
cain        ~~~ ~~77    0.63.410   3467       6.47       - -            -         -        -         67                       -              3967    ZAP'1
CI.6        77~~~~T    0.A  MI    233w        Gib0    46  35  45    b             6?19    so        267"    64.4         60         336SF   gty
1Wm              76   13.3    403    4.AY         15s3      -   - -         -         73657   -         276`7    -           -          366.7,  23
19    S.3    230    4A43        -          "3a us 2no   M           36       M0        10      20.00        as         to      U9       1.30
cow mi         t    6.26  1.00   WA.           630        33  46  U2   106        40       56,       62       26A         41         13W    26         343
"a    I.9    3210   6.           194       43  23  26    30          2       32        33       20.4        76         32       an      Z."0
vAu        .8   740    ago    6.35           23498      U   21  l3o1             U        60        66        3          63          3      I3 a     Opaw
"Mulim          is    gA6    3266k  3.2          36.9       1  3 .z        176       32      ea        64       3.0         U0          9       25      0-.3
3W          ~~~ ~~~76    3.2    100    L.25r  3647       W3  a"5  so   a          7        W6       &141    31345        40          Z      266      G.20r
31W.6       1~~~~7 62.     910    6.37,       9.                        -                  -                              -         3low    43       0.175
M.    77    1.3   6GU       3*0       233        46  36  U    3W          3546      -         37                  anU        30       23      2.1069
31W Low          Ty    2.4    330    6.046        16.061    -    -    -    336       3WE                33       nip~    ea             3-       23      pGAO
76    24      403    d.-W        26.341    no 30  3*   to           74       40        54?    23*.          32         32brr   4*6      I.4AG"
2.210  24      1~~~~0.9  435)1 a"31931,           NO       32        £7       -7                     33        6      23*.6
&Nunn       ye    0. 2  .770    3.1          19.1       M36 10 II        b       9W       97        36      -            91         73      39      -
semsmm      7s    0.2  2.660    JI-S"7       23.35      435  Die  1ds  9ob      30W       934      275      39.14       9"a         "W7     3       -
.K2916L          86    34      310    6.3 -W      20.25        -       -   0         767                207      -                      a5       -       32.g07
10am.             9 36.3  3.7          DA         6.2       31   - 1        76       7357               VW35                             Dow65  35  345    33.26
Cl=         76    0.9  S. we    3.26?        13*6,      -    -   -      -       386       -         3667     -            -         335     ao47    12.90b
M 36.0b  9.jSd6   3.2         23.0      33  a0  10   Bab         is       10        32        6.6         -         6        20     33437
1WM 1::C         IS    2.36  3.031,   5           31.        Q, 37  33   so          93       77        33        3.3        P7         as       27     36*614
DbUBlm ari.   06    3.3  3.010    2.9            .3.0        UI2   2    666          US       31"       39ab      3Z                    30      I.3     36.00Am
96    i 9.4   1.110    6490     7d6        63  33  36   ml         30s       -         36       33*         90                 'S 3     "9.s
ILMII NG6149      7    6.      640    34A67       23.36?    44,  a   9    a2         3365    32         39       -low205    21?    7.6067
CulauMA          70    648  1.310      1.757      32.66     -    -                     9S  36                                 9          35      3[OF    3i3
76    3*      326    3.307      36.367    626  335  lam   M         "9W5    305       6367    12.63         434       2157     39       aim5
343660      96~~~s    2.1  3.110    6.3      13.3       31  413  U6   90         1         0       6         2.3         93         3       22       RAO
"0   63.3   145       4.7        11.34     66  10  I3   62          OS       3                   .3         446       36       37      30.10
5103356      73~~P    346    gob    340w     3440       -    -    -    y66       '565     Z6       321      -           -          low5     VA      -
pW               To    3.66, 3.3366    1.36wr    21.07    634  135  13   336         "36y    -          3367    33.6         063        301y    2767   W0AlS'
806.264          "9    3.   3.4        3.5-       16.1      62  37  U    6           83       32        26        3.3r       le         23       It      8
PMn              Go   16.4  S.am3        6        3.3       13  Li  to   96          5         6        39       9            9         29       2        6
TU263g a 0       77    3.3  3.910         Dr6      j.66     as  32   W    IS         So       91        30       0.3?.ST6                        26 
76    3.9  2.93m    2.3         0'*6         -       -              ..11ug6  -         36                              "km640  -       174A4'
1 4              76   36.4  3.40       S.37       33.91,    -    -    -    62       t06h                2 - Zs                          3565     17     23.1c0r



-59 -
- 0(                                                             Annex I1
S:1 xenn-A                                                                                                                                        Page 2 of 2
czwam0W64!2   hionKIIA
cm IA.mc                        mmmin         IA0u.T     Pto    MESIE    Uam           rNIT FWITmAn92
TMPIJ.(am)   OlYwIm ID  co          T     FZ  Sv   o        (22    RAJIO   Cc=          IPU       As42  co  sPU4Rm    LaTo           NW         #AAZO
(29793 (1679)   inaC7Tm    ZPMZTu                (23       (12263   CZ)         (Z)     12#A      c/C4             (22        CZ)    hTRAC1R       CZ)
I  CA)       (2)      (3)           (6C)           (33)        (63 I  CY)          (3C)       (9C)      (10I)      ICis)   A (12)           C13)    (16 I
clmap  3*pM.0b    3mG6    3.3.                           74         31   40   22      77b       7?       62         23         6.06                     3s        Sr       6.40
~~1A          33~~E   130.56    320    241          6.3       70   26    6       336      is        61         37        13.0          74          27       21        3.70
Kom"               32    39.3b  j*63&b    7.73          20.6        36   34   31      96        99A                 43        19.0          96         9*        33       21.10
PF.6ATSA           OIL     32b  1.6V706    3.           22.7       39W  64?  t7w    706         973      97         26        13.-'         90          72       22        6.00
12A0* N.C.         33      J.0"    62o      3.6        39.0        40   17   22       -         30       730        31'       13.0                     DAN1    27'         1.00
PKIZIP33ANIS       79    42J36    igO6    2.3           16.0       66   36   -        736      as        63         33         7J           39         is        36       21.00
SL]rA0             s0      2.A4 6462        2.?          6.7        39   G0   16      63        92       32         31         6.6          96          33       22        SAO
30LW~ III.         32      0.31    "60      SAM7        19.6       at   36   20       IS        73       so         27        10.3          40         20        to       21.30
30     7.36     Ms4   3.6           20.9        S9   13   1.3     6b        is       -           17        9.3          39           9        22       6.00
uw.aoau      ~~79    923b3    90       1.10        10-LAY     33   Sy   20       231      63        -          33         3.6                     to1       23        1.63
sou             1.2   so  3.6    I1010                                              1 -    -    -                                - 1  -  -  -
1101*r 7 63946                     210      2.97        9J-7                          2 6      7?        -          61        -                        IV9                 636
"VAL               62    13.06,   t306    L.&6               -                        19       70        -          U         -      -                 21        23        3.700
PALiTaM            32    117.16    330    2.0            7.0       U8   20  26        2        30        41         30         349         36          21        is        3.00
~~6pZSTaU ~ 71    13.3         -_      1.7          3.7        A1   L9   L3      12        316?     69         376       -             62          6        3367      1.007
612a         ~~~~71    36.3   1.770    J3.M        12.3       30A  26' 21'   33           337       463        37         7.0?        33'         297       Z6        3.707
NMI1               32    63.2'   634'   0.&W            7.9        21' 33' 266    66            73       Ron        360        9.66        33          630       390      17.00
76     9.3   6.14O      2.90        30.56       37   26   22                9767     -          296        6.2?         -           ?96      271w    17.606?
zaa                79    36.9      -       5.701       a&.:?1      -    -    -       30       101        -          320      -             -           466*      26'      6.9031
rIbo               79    324A  2.710       44'?w        6.9'?         -    -      -           IoUr       -          23       -             -           63'       296       O.Ave7
tmoAm         St      j.46  64640      64'?7       1 3.3-7    -     -     -      SO       93        96         29        -            we          1I        16a      11.00,
20NA2              a3      2.2b  L..2*b    6.90         36,4        19   66   La      lob      1066      3s         32         7.2         93          41 2                M
Lg3Z1m             T9   Z.  24AS -   - 13*0                                           -        9GIK   -             19       -             -            W6    -          21.60.7
-1011030             394      74Q      6.0         17.3'       36        20      22        36'?     33         39        1.7           40         23'       23        &J36
amp                32      0.963S.9206    2.3w          12.7*                         33367     Tin      65         25                     as6         It        16
P027~~~6L     79      9.56  2*0        3.6        .2 -Z       so   2s   1I       73       67        W0         36d       12.          a"3         6'        I7 Ye     a
301U31A            76    22.3   2.100       2.967       6.27       -    -    -        OR      lo06s3     -          z3b      -             16           *6       226      W0.606
SraI=              'I    37.0   6.920       2.L7       16.837      -    -    -        -        9667      -          260             -                  6767      -       24.1067
S12IA              721    6.6   14170       6.69       104         39M  25   26       36       87b?      so         331      -             46          6167      216      13.401
IINLIZA     79      6~~~~.4   1.130  7.0         3.0         62   39    O1    631       Low       so         39         2.6          30         30'      3In4
?uTu               93      47.3  3.230      3.3        36.2        so   22   24       736     130        77t                   6.0         33          26        33       6.00
TRAERA-.           UW      OA      620      S.O1        32.0       96    7    7       21b      37        320i       3W       67.0          as           3        20        1.10
?Um  143            2      2.06    6206    7.4          9.7        63' 16'  me    53           O3        36         23        22.10e       46          IT        20       21
ON~  .4 CWoq3rSo:                       616             93       70   A9   67      la        92        63        W3        6             73          91       as       03
1A.rn                                   (1.6.          C (3.J-  (23-  (3-  (3-    (6       (121-     (32.       fly-      (1.6--        (10     -       (3      - (   (0.03-
10.0)         36.33  64)   66)  33)    99)        119S)      9         77)       67.0)         1003        66l     466)      26.0)
06.nh1.ao. 00moor                         3.6          21.7      33   36   23       RI       96         o2        63       30            47          67        26      I1.0
MAZ1DA.                       6.0           36.3     63   261  39       33       43        63         33        13           63          as        22        3.7
L....,                        3.0          1I.0       3  22     1 L3    25       40        33         22                     40          36        19        1.
Osortl.  LoIcI.                            .3            3..    6.3  7.3  64.   Z11.       19.81    22.i         7.0      3.4          23.3        16.4       3.3        3.0
%--                            &~~~~~~.6     17.2      46   Z6   In      33        74       S9         36        16            62         33        13        6.9
53Ca.38d 3e-tcljom                        1.9            6.1     12   t0    7       269      27        26         It       13            27          22         7       1.6
3.81..:                                   6.0          34.3       6326s19           53       63        63         33        13           is          26        22       3.7
OEM13  OV8962L46L                                            A - 00923 P6201 To82  5361 TM                           - 9f(2tyw 61 ECL1IOU  (POP)  .XT
061T6 O02S1-.)2A.                                          N - WWrMt3r PIIc-                                    U - PIU.2C  WzIIm u2 0on"
0  1Nu.0s p637-115W  210013                                 P * GOP                                               Z - ±602032 OVEN-&=3 3111016
7 -33130 SORCIES
Co1ale I Md 2: WovId 66 ALA ...'.a=33 e1e0o.
CO1DAM A C. 36.  too3 010.d06. co.r.~.o   .oosm  .631.  376so  13.31.10.66 10.166..
COM.te.j.. a16c.31a, D.C. Ar. aofe. 1I. 36.~act   AtJ.e         -VI      Gmi..C caclm  Ov.cooe  -a. .uLYAAl, De r.LotI  *cm= of       us.meI"o  do..loin.3  b63..w 00110.
CV"Ocr10.      r- . o. ch. b-ob  .4 166 OrMAIMC 4.. Croo.-swo.aL  wm.rI.om, .beZ   be 03,g9.36.   &c36 av*o3 3c0gCe.  C."6 awr.s.t    1. cII. .66W. c0b10 66.
base 3.3.2m33.  Lre.1r W7 3o. at-lo". fro. jg...iwA3 .633.6  cow rooslodo  or. 366ff e.ioo3@or data frAw g..ses.  117032  be.. boo.~ o4e co weasdrdis,
40316631.0.   8. 463610 LISt.. co Ch606 C60 AcCW.y  J` Cho d0c..  Vueortboe.os. ooc  dogA or. st1ll tamerec t3.ow ral. reod.c? od "6  0.04M 1. 6.06166 co
b.m.W-  tbm Pr.hloool..17 Oa36 the    001   of Ito O,.,ugonLm  66rk.  Is16   .o,A .2 a' 00 m     "e. e1. fuLIowin  .q.o11f1ea33.meo.ebmd be save to .14d0:
CA3   Z8o.C.C1eo     d.flod Ic Ch  36. taLsIC1.Id.  .11 ..bsc"gb     WMn  CmIA1016. Boca (off.1  "0 now-fooCoI.
(23   ftboo.'   e.c.egz..mr.f. co odoctlo.  C c 6  frotm  Le..1  "e  o-c.odorf .dcsco. roto   to .1L omm.eoCbo at ch. eoeo.A.ey 1 A.L r.e.mri1.oo oe 3Po
(e... SANDOVL. lC§66lcml. ogvlftnIZzo1.
(3)  -Ur1cmcv ree.0- (-1. 0) am. ef ou 69016.d 1 Eo cromcr, coos.m...  to m.w comr1.. t69 are owir o.,rmat"boo.a a.d8t3 to 4oo0366. Chat e'? D,lt.r
4.`1U1.21. oC _11C.MCoc b. b~ feolo.6d Cnam,ISooCly.
(6)   1m6ueu axpe.dttur. La odocotb.e  (Coloa. a' mm 53  reform co all 3*333.2 *63 3.360100t 04p.0813.3e ..ot.*36  10616u*eld0 by poblitc od *-I  Ur6L1
,aec1o0.
(33   26r.J.loo.. tct31o.  (c3.1. 7. 12 ..d 243 rofor C. och..L y.r o63        ~ the 6  1rcwWAWo.4 at.13161b. Chfilire. ..r.11d fuLI-l- ..  Cho16  ftmumrlc.3  ocf".3
mbL&1c .ed wclyobo %v L.-Il.  -b.ey ore .  too 6.01.   3o0  .10 .00111of..  rr 3636 ch. WIov100 30.031160  -ta  t0  MT.0110104  16 366 03WIcV*f %1.1C
date (I-... 03.-detif ic mrs.loeIo  .0d ..r.1l20se. .  £Wr.1ZQt f1dures freewootly  mr S.1or 366.36.--W   of661@   .t6't occ~..l11  t. Dchao..  O..r.eed
.3doog.66..m 1.31.01   1. 163133.  by foo3.ocoo Al" coo, 1640316  1.310.



- P 
- 60 -
Annex 12
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FIRST MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT      --
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Proiect File
A. Reports and Studies Relating to Education and Training
1. '"he Statistical Education Yearbook, 1982183," MOE Directorate of
Education Planning.
2. "Survey Study on Training and Job Opportunities for Women in Jordan,"
M. Masri, December 1981.
3. '"he Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan: Education and Training for Manpower
Development," Unesco, July 1980.
4. "Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan: Vocational/Professional Education and
Training," World Bank, March 1984.
5. "Linking Training and Employment," USAID, 1984.
5. "Administrative Development - in Jordan," by Richard Greene and
Clare-Marie Wheatley, December 1984.
B.  Documents Relating to the Project
1. "Fi're-Year Plan for Economic and Social Development, 1981-85,"
National Planning Council.
2. "Jordan-Health Sector Review," World Bank, May 25, 1984.
3. "Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan-Health Project, Staff Appraisal Report,"
January 1985.
4. VTC, Draft Five-Year Development Plan (1986-98).
C.  Documents on Economic and Manpower Situation
1. "Special Economic Report, Jordan Review of the Five-Year Plan
(1981-85)." Yellow Cover World Bank Report, September 1982.
2. '"Manpower Development in Jordan," World Bank, June 1984.
D.  The Proiect Working Papers
Vol I - The Project
Vol II - The VTC Component
Vol III - The MOB Component
Vol IV - The JIPA Component
Vol V - Notes
Doc 2122V, p82



IBRD 18945
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AD
JORDAN
MANPOWE  TRAINING I PROJECT
jA _  <    5 J                          v          CF 
I(J 1                                                0                 M,MM MNIGm
N:ATIONAt CAPITAL
C CITIES TOWNS AND VILLAGES
NdATIONAL "IGIWAYS
'  - -    - ---        SECOND CLASS ROADS
-               -    ~~~~~~~~~OT.EIE  ROADS
'.5            - ,- -_    X   ,   RAILWAYS
\  1   i  t- S -  i =  , II"UDEFLATS
\ - .  ' i  _ R IVERS
)                                                               O j   H- -  PIxS    EO TERRITORIES
oo  !    R"za IY/ '   ,  5@~~~~~~~~~~~~~- --- --                       ' % --   -S 
S-d..
a          19850  -
E. SN.d.~~~~~~*   /v               Afd, ,c.n  e    *
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UE18



